                                               Document o f
                                             The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                 ReportNo: 33893-ID




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                                 FORA


PROPOSEDMULTI-DONORTRUST FUNDFOR ACEH AND NORTH SUMATRA GRANT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$17.96 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                  FORA


COMMUNITY RECOVERY PROJECTTHROUGH THE URBAN POVERTY PROGRAM IN
                          EARTHQUAKE-TSUNAMIAFFECTED AREAS
                OF NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAMAND NORTH SUMATRA



                                             August 18,2005




UrbanDevelopment Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



This document has arestricteddistribution and maybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective May 25,2005)


                         Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
                              IDR1,OOO = US$O.105
                                  US$ 1 = IDR9,500

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    - December31



                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




DHWS         Directorate o f Housing, Water, Sanitation
DIPA         Dafter IsianProyek Pusat (Approval for Release o f Funds)
EIA          Environmental Imnact Assessment
~~    ~


FMR          FinancialMonitoring Report
GAM          Free Aceh Movement
GO1          Govemment o f Indonesia




K S M        Community self-help group I kelompokswadaya masyarakat
LCS        IILeast Cost Selection
Lurah        Urban village head
MDTFANS      Multi-Donor Trust Fundfor Aceh and North Sumatra
MOF          Ministrvo fFinance

                                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




M P W         Ministryof Public Works
NAD         IINanaaroe Aceh Darussalam
                  ""
NBF           Not Bank Financed
N C B         National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Government Organization
N M C         National Management Consultant
N S           National Shaming




                       Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                    Country Director:      Andrew Steer, EACIF
                       Sector Director:    Keshav Varma, EASUR
                  Task Team Leaders:       George Soraya, EASUR




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

Executive Summary..............................................................................................       1

Technical Report.................................................................................................. 4

Part I Background................................................................................................. 4

Part I1 Detailed Project Description.............................................................................    5

Part I11 Project Costs............................................................................................. 15

Part IV Implementation Arrangements ......................................................................          15

Part V Project Monitoring and Evaluation.................................................................. 16

Part VI Procurement Arrangements ...........................................................................         16

Part VI1Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements ................................                       ....17

Part VI11Environmental and Social Safeguard Arrangements .......................................                .....19

Part IX Complaints Handling and Anti-Corruption Strategy......................................               ..... .20
                                                                                                                   *


Part X Schedule o f Key Project Activities ............................................................         ....23


ANNEXES

Annex 1: Implementation Structure.,.............................................................                .....24
Annex 2: List of Project Targets Locations.....................................................
                             .                                                                                  .....25
Annex 3: Possible IssuedRisks andMitigationMeasures..................................................                26
Annex 4: Relationship o fProject to other activities carried out by the World Bank and other
         agencies inNanggroe Aceh DarussalamandNias, North Sumatra............................                       27
Annex 5: Strategy to EnsureGender Mainstreaming and Equality.........................................                28



MAP
IBRD33420


                                       INDONESIA

   A COMMUNITY RECOVERY PROJECT THROUGH THE URBANPOVERTY PROGRAM
                      INEARTHQUAKE-TSUNAMI AFFECTED AREAS OF
                  NANGGROEACEH DARUSSALAMAND NORTH SUMATRA

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

                                         EASUR

Date: August 18, 2005                        Team Leader: George Soraya
Country Director: Andrew D.Steer             Sectors: General water, sanitation and flood
Sector ManagedDirector: Keshav Varma         protection sector (50%); Sub-national
                                             government administration (50%)
                                             Themes: Access to urban services and housing
                                             (P);Participation and civic engagement (P);
                                            Natural disaster management (S)
Project ID: PO96647                          Environmental screening category: Partial
                                             Assessment
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery       Safeguard screening category: Requires
(MTDF Grant)                                 frameworks




                   Source                    Local             Foreign            Total
BORROWER                                        0.00                0.00               0.00
SPECIAL FINANCING (MTDF)                       16.16                1.so              17.96
Total:                                         16.16                1.so              17.96




Responsible Agency:
Ministry o f Public Works
MPW, JLPattimura No.20, Kebayoran Baru
Jakarta Selatan 12110
Indonesia
Tel: 62-21-72796155/58     Fax: 62-21-72796155

Expected effectiveness date: October 30,2005
ExDected closing: date: December 31.2009

Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?           [ ]Yes [X ] No
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                              [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                             [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                             [ ]Yes [ IN0
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?               [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?            [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective: The objective o f this project i s to provide support for reconstruction
and rehabilitation to urban communities impacted by the earthquake and tsunami. The project will
provide block grants to 402 kelurahan and technical assistance to 402 urban communities. The block
grants will be used to: (i)establish and support o f representativeand accountable community
organizations that are able to increase the voice.of the disaster victims and vulnerable households in
public decision making; (ii)make local governments more responsive to the needs o f the disaster
victims and vulnerable households through increased cooperation with community organizations; and
(iii)ensure provisionoffundstransparentlytocommunitybasedorganizationsandlocal
governments to provide services to the urban community victims of the disaster.
Re$ PAD, Technical Report Part 11
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component]
Component A: Community Development
Component B: Kelurahan Grants
Component C: Strengtheningthe Capacities and Role o f Local Government
Component D: Implementation Management Support
Re$ PAD, TechnicalReport Part 11
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any?
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP4.11)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Indigenous Peoples (OD4.20, being revised as OP4.10)
Refi PAD,Part VIII. Environmental and Social Safeguard Arrangements.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD Executive Summary
Board presentation: None
Loadcredit effectiveness:
     0  First year budget allocation (DIPA) finalized, which satisfies Project requirements;
     0  DG Treasury Circular letter for funds disbursement drafted and agreed upon, which satisfies
        Project requirements.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
     0  Project Operational Manual completed and issued by Executing Agency, which satisfies
        Project requirements.

                                          EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


On December 26,2004 the largest earthquake to strike Indonesia since 1964 caused a devastating tsunami
that has killed over 300,000 people in South and Southeast Asia. The 9.0 magnitude quake occurred offthe
Sumatra coast, triggering tsunamis that caused massive flooding, damage and loss o f life inthe coastal
communities o f the region. Hardest hit were the Indonesianprovinces o f Aceh and North Sumatra, where
an estimated 230,000 people were killed or are missing,over 700,000 were displaced, and currently live in
temporary camps. Critical basic infrastructure, telecommunications, and power utilitieswere left in either
complete ruin or were damaged. Over two-thirds o f the local governments have been affected by the
disaster and over half are non-functioning according to Indonesia's Ministry o f Home Affairs. Damage
assessments estimate that some 4,000 villages and urban communities have been affected and 280,000
houses have been either completely destroyed or partially damaged. Preliminary estimate o f damage and
loss in Aceh and North Sumatra inthe housing sector alone is Rp.13.4 trillion (US$1.4 billion).

Four months after the deadly disaster, the affected areas are completing emergency relief activities, debris
removal, establishment o f temporary barracks, and are now entering into preparation efforts to enable
transition to the reconstruction phase. The Go1has completed a Blueprintfor Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction in Aceh andNias,which guides the coordination and implementationo f all recovery
programs being introduced in Aceh. The massive scale o f reconstruction required to restore communities to
their previous status before the disasters is unprecedented inAceh. Bappenas will coordinate the inputs of
the line ministries and agencies.

ProjectRationale. The level o f death, destruction, displacement, and disorder that the earthquake-tsunami
left inNAD-Nias will require a virtual reorganization o f communities, including former communities, and
new communities. For rehabilitation and reconstruction purposes, as well as psychological reasons,
communities need to be organized and empowered to begin a process o f participating and undertaking this
massive task, determining for themselves what their needs and priorities are, and how they want to
reconstruct notjust their community infrastructure, but rebuild their communities. The Bank has significant
experience in implementing a strategy o f community mobilization, training, organization, and
empowerment, with new and effective community organizations and local institutions. The Urban Poverty
Project (UPP), together with its is rural counterpart Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) are currently
operating (and expanding) in NAD and Nias. This experience has shown that the rehabilitation and
reconstruction effort, as tested and demonstrated by UPP and K D P in Aceh in the post earthquake-tsunami
period, can be implemented with participatory principles on a large scale and that community driven
projects can meet quality and accountability standards. This proposed project is a special supplemental part
of the national UPP3, designed to more appropriately address the special needs inNAD and Nias inthe
immediate and medium-term post disaster recovery and reconstruction period.

The ProposedProject. The objective o fthis project is to provide support for reconstruction and
rehabilitationto urban communities impactedby the earthquake and tsunami. The project will provide block
grants to 402 kelurahan and technical assistance to 402 urban communities. The block grants will be used
to: (i)establish and support of representative and accountable community organizations that are able to
increase the voice o f the disaster victims and vulnerable households in public decision making; (ii)make
local governments more responsive to the needs o f the disaster victims and vulnerable households through
increased cooperation with community organizations; and (iii)ensure provision o f funds transparently to
community based organizations and local governments to provide services to the urban community victims
o f the disaster.




                                                       1

Project Components. The proposed project consists of 4 components, namely (1) Community
Development, (2) Kelurahan Grants, (3) Strengthening o f the Role and Capacity o f Local Governments,
and (4) Implementation Support. These are described in more detail below.

   a. Community Development(US$4.11 m). This component: (i) raise awareness intarget
                                                                        will
   communities on how the project can assist the communities address community reconstruction,
   (ii) communitiesconductaCommunitySelfSurvey(CSS), (iii)
        assist                                                              establish democratic,
   representative, transparent, and accountable community organizations (CTC), (iv) prepare a community
   reconstructionplan, (v) assist groups o f community members (KSM) prepare and submit proposals to
   utilize project resources and implement priority reconstruction programs, and (vi) assist the CTCs to
   partner with other community development programs provided through Go1agencies and donors. This
   component will involve a guided socialization process where facilitators will be trained to work directly
   with communities inthe kelurahan. This socialization process is expected to take about 2 months and
   will begin after the project becomes effective.

    b. Kelurahan Grants (USU1.73 m). Each participatingkelurahanwill be allocated a grant o f Rp.300
   million (US$35,325), to finance specific sub-projects. Sub-projects have to be in accordance with a
    community rehabilitation and reconstruction plan (CRRP), and will cover a range o f rehabilitation and
    reconstruction activities with a short negative list. Inyear one, there will be a limited open menu for
   community infrastructure and social relief grant activities. As communities become prepared, a fully
    open menu will be utilized. There will be different rules and regulations regardingthe use o f funds
    depending on the type o f activity being financed. It is expected that C W s will generally include
    small-scale community infrastructure and social grants to the most vulnerable.

    c. Strengthening the Capacitiesand Role of LocalGovernment(US$1 m). Strengthening the
    Capacities and Role o f Local Government, in general, consists o f activities oriented towards efforts to
    strengthen local government capacities inrelief and recovery from community disaster, specifically
    community infrastructure and support infrastructure through rehabilitation and reconstruction o f
    community settlements based on community values. Provincial governments will be encouraged to be
    active in arrangingworkshops and seminars at the provincial level, as well as facilitating project
    coordination, monitoring and supervision, while city and district governments in principle serve as the
    catalyst for implementation o f UPP earthquake-tsunami disaster settlement rehabilitation and
    reconstruction intheir respective constituencies and districts together with oversight consultants.
    Activities financed under this component will include workshops, training, field studies, and project
    field supervision missions.

    d. ImplementationSupport(US$1.12 m). The project will be managedby the existing Project
    Management Unit established at the Ministryo f Public Works for UPP, and will be assisted by an
    administrative unit (PMU-Aceh) and representative, located in Aceh. The P M U will hire consultants
    and facilitators to assist in project implementation. Technical assistance will be provided through
    existingUPP National ManagementConsultants (NMC) at the central level; three new Oversight
    Consultant (OC) Teams at provincial levels, with district offices in the participating cities; and
    facilitators and community cadres (volunteers) at the kelurahan level. This component will finance the
    cost o f the consultants and facilitators. The cost o f government operating expenditures will be covered
    through counterpart funds.

Gender equality. To ensure women's participation inthe community development a gender strategy has
been developed under this project which will systematically address gender mainstreamingand equality
issues.

Termsand conditionsof the grant. The following measures have been taken to ensure that
implementation can and will begin immediately upon project effectiveness:



                                                         2

Project readiness. The current Project P M U from UPP is established and preparedto oversee and
supervise the project. A project management unit (PMU-Aceh) has been established, as has an NAD
representative, and an office established inNAD.The current National Management Consultants from
UPP2 have been assigned to participate in this project, The PMU, utilizing UPP2 funds, has recruited and
mobilized the first oversight consultant, to begin preparations for year 1 o f project implementation in Banda
Aceh and Aceh Besar kotalkabupaten. Project awareness raising and socialization i s currently being tested
in 35 target villages, and CTC community organizations are currently being formed. The UPP3 short-list o f
N M C and OC consultants has been approved and the selection process i s underway. Training modules and
socialization strategies have been prepared, based on UPP, and modified for NAD and Nias. Project
implementation manuals have been prepared and adopted, as have been terms-of-reference (TOR) for senior
facilitators and facilitators. To further expedite the implementation, retroactive financing o f US$2.5 million
i s included inthe project.

Grant effectiveness conditions.
      o Firstyear budget allocation(DIPA) finalized, which satisfies Project requirements.
      o DGTreasury Circular letter for funds disbursement drafted and agreed upon, which satisfies Project
         requirements.

Disbursement Conditions for KelurahanGrants.
      o Project Operational Manual completed and issued by ExecutingAgency', which satisfies Project
         requirements.

Riskmitigationfor possiblecommunityconflicts. There is an external risko f security and conflict in
Aceh to the project. The risk will be mitigated by working in areas where conflict does not occur and by
carrying out the activities closely with the Aceh communities. The project will operate in urban areas where
the risk o f conflict is low. The participatory and inclusive nature o f the project is such that it will promote
unity and resolutiono fcommunity conflicts. The core training o f facilitators and socialization include
conflict resolution materials. Ifadjustments to the guidelines are requiredto enhance and adapt the specific
conflict resolution mechanisms and a strategy to deal with the specific conflict, it will be done with the
approval o f P M U and the Bank.




' A revised version of the UPP3 Project Operational Manual


                                                         3

                                       TECHNICAL REPORT

PART I- BACKGROUND

OnDecember 26,2004 the largest earthquake to strike Indonesia since 1964 caused a devastating
tsunami that has killed over 300,000 people in South and Southeast Asia. The 9.0 magnitude
quake occurred off the Sumatra coast, triggering tsunamis that caused massive flooding, damage
and loss o f life inthe coastal communities o f the region. Hardest hitwere the Indonesian
provinces o f Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam (NAD) and Nias, North Sumatra, where an estimated
230,000 people were killed or are missing, over 700,000 were displaced, and currently live in
temporary camps. Critical basic infrastructure, telecommunications, and power utilities were left
in either complete ruinor were damaged. Over two-thirds ofthe local governments have been
affected by the disaster and over half are non-functioning according to Indonesia's Ministry o f
Home Affairs.

According to damage assessments, it is estimated that some 4,000 villages and urban
communities have been affected and 280,000 houses have been either completely destroyed or
partially damaged, as well as streets, bridges, culverts, drainage and irrigation canals, power
installations, villages offices, schools, and clinics. The preliminary estimate o f damages and
losses inNAD and North Sumatra is Rp.13.4 trillion (US$1.4 billion).

Four months after the deadly disaster, the affected areas are completing emergency relief
activities, debris removal, establishment o f temporary barracks, and are now entering into
preparation efforts to enable transition to the reconstruction phase. The Go1has completed a
Master Plan for the Rehabilitation and Reconstruction o fNAD and Nias (RencanaInduk
Rehabilitasi dun Rekonstruksidi NAD dan Nias), which guides the coordination and
implementation of all recovery programs being introduced inthe area. The master plan lays out
the broad principles guidingthe reconstruction efforts, and maps out, in consultation with the
relevant line ministries and agencies, individual sectoral strategies. The master plan strategy for
the rehabilitation and recovery period in Aceh comprises all sectors. The massive scale o f
reconstruction requiredto restore communities to their previous status before the disasters is
unprecedented in Aceh. The master plan emphasizes a process for broad consultations with
stakeholders in the affected communities as one o f the most important inputs into the strategy.

Project Rationale. The level o f death, destruction, displacement, and disorder that the
earthquake-tsunami left inNAD-Nias will require a virtual reorganization o f communities,
including former communities, and new communities. The required approach for this will include
a series of discussions and reflections with communities on the disaster, its impact on
communities, and the communities' role inbeginningthe process o f rebuilding. For rehabilitation
and reconstruction purposes, as well as psychologicalreasons, communities need to be organized
and empowered to begin a process o f participating and undertakingthis massive task, determining
for themselves what their needs and priorities are, and how they want to reconstruct notjust their
community infrastructure, but rebuild their communities.

The GoI, through its experience with 3 Kecamatan Development Projects and 2 Urban Poverty
Projects supported by the World Bank, has considerable experience in implementing a strategy o f
community mobilization, training, organization, and empowerment, with new and effective
community organizations and local institutions. UPP, together with its rural counterpart
Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) are currently operating (and expanding) inNAD and
Nias. This experience has shown that the rehabilitation and reconstruction effort, as tested and
demonstrated by UPP and K D P inAceh in the post earthquake-tsunami period, can be
implemented with participatory principles on a large scale and that community driven projects
can meet quality and accountability standards.


                                                    4

PART I1 DETAILEDPROJECT DESCRIPTION
           -
The proposed project i s a modification o f the third in a series o f Urban Poverty Projects (UPP) to
address disaster recovery, rehabilitation and reconstruction through a community-driven
development approach inNAD-Nias. While maintaining the design features o f UPP's community
empowerment principles, changes have been made to suit the requirements o f speedy
implementation of rehabilitation and reconstruction inurban communities inNAD and Nias.
These include an increased number o f facilitators, an accelerated socialization program, a limited
open menu o f kelurahan grants in year one and two focusing on community infrastructure and
social relief grants, as well as the ability to channel other donors reconstruction and development
funds to communities, such as housing rehabilitationand reconstruction assistance and funds
from the NAD-Nias Settlement Housing Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Strategy program. In
year two or three, depending on progress, UPP NAD-Nias will rejoin the regular UPP 3 national
program, including access to kelurahan grants for micro-credit, revolving funds, and the Poverty
Alleviation Partnership Grant.

The objective o f this project is to provide support for reconstruction and rehabilitationto urban
communities impacted by the earthquake and tsunami. The project will provide technical
assistance and support to 402 urban communities to:
    (i)    establish and support o f representative and accountable community organizations that
           are able to increase the voice o f the disaster victims and the community in public
           decision making;
    (ii) makelocalgovernmentsmoreresponsivetotheneedsofdisastervictimsthrough
           increased cooperation with community organizations; and
    (iii)ensureprovisionoffundstransparentlytocommunitybasedorganizationsandlocal
           governments to provide services to the urban community disaster victims.

The project will address the needs o f communities and community members affected by the
disaster, while placing all decision-making and resource allocation at the community level. The
project will anchor the government's human settlement and resettlement efforts by providing
community organizations and local management as a platform for settlement housing
rehabilitation and reconstruction, and developing supporting infrastructure.

Outcomeindicators

1. 75% o f disaster victim households inthe targeted kelurahanreceive benefits and improved
    services from the project.
2. More than 70% o fthe Community Trustee Committees (CTC) [komite rehabilitasi dan
    rekonstruksikelurahan, KERAP] that have been formed are representative, effective, and
    operate in a participatory manner.
3.  50% o f CTC/KERAP committees are able to channel other donor reconstruction funds to their
    communities.

Outuut indicators

4. 90% o f Community Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plans are implemented.
5.  30% o f kelurahan adults vote in CTCIKERAP committee leadership election.
6. 50% o f kelurahan households utilize reconstructedhehabilitated community infrastructure,
7. The poorest 10% o f household disaster victims receive social service assistance grants from
    CTCIKERAP committees.




                                                    5

Description of each component and the specific activitiedinputs

Ten local governments (kotdkabupaten) inthe project area have been identified and selected to
participate in the project. The project consists o f four components, including Community
Development, Kelurahan Grants, Capacity Strengthening o f Local Government, and
Implementation Support. Project implementation will follow a process cycle o f 2 months
socialization and preparation, followed by a 10 month implementation phase, which is described
in Figure 1.



                 Figure 1: Process of Community Facilitation in UPP Aceh-Nias




Components are described indetail below.




                                                    6

Project Component 1. US$4.11million
                          -
CommunityDevelopment

Duringimplementation, the project will aim for: (i)an awareness inthe wider community about
the project and its rules (target awareness 70% o f the adult population o f the kelurahan); (ii)well
functioning kelurahan organizations that are democratically elected and accountable to people;
and, (iii)well functioning community groups that participate in planning for community
rehabilitation andreconstruction and use the kelurahan funds for productive purposes.
The community development component will include the following activities:
    an extended awareness raising or socialization process that will encourage communities to
    discuss the nature o fthe disaster intheir kelurahan and how it should be addressed;
    assistance to the community to carry out a Community Self Survey (CSS) on disaster victims
    and community reconstruction and rehabilitationneeds (utilizing previous community
    surveys conducted in the post-earthquakeksunami period, where available);
    the formation/confirmation of an elected body ofrepresentatives into a Community Trustee
    Committee for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation(CTC / KERAP) that is accountable to the
    community at large and which will act on behalf o f the community for reconstruction,
    rehabilitation and recovery;
    the formulation o f a disaster recovery, rehabilitation, and reconstruction-oriented Community
    Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plan (CRRP) for the kelurahan using a participatory
    process;
    organizing and assisting community groups (Kelompok Swadaya Masyarakat or KSM) who
    will submit proposals to the CTCIKERAP committees to utilize project resources and
    implement the programs identified inthe CRRP; and
    assistance to CTC / KERAP committees to partner with, and be a vehicle for all types o f
    donor and Go1reconstruction and development assistance to the community, such as water
    supply and sanitation, food distribution, scholarships, health clinics, micro-credit and
    revolving funds. (See Figure2.)

Socinlization, social intermediation and formalization of the CTC/KERAP

Socialization. Socialization, or awareness raising, will be in two forms-socialization     to the
community about the disaster and the need for a community organizationto address disaster
relief, recovery, and reconstruction; and socialization to all stakeholders (community, central &
local government) about the project concept, goals, values, and the rules o f the game. Easy and
dependable access to information regardingthe goals and rules o f the project is critical to any
community based development initiative. There will be a separate budget for socialization and
dedicated staff inthe consultant teams (NMC and OCs) who will be in charge o f socialization.
Socialization will take place through a variety o f means-the    media (radio shows, TV shows,
newspapers/magazines, press conferences), through publications (posters, pamphlets and
brochures), and through presentations about the project at workshops, meetings, and focus group
discussions at all levels of the community and government. A recent study under UPPl Phase 2
has demonstrated that the most effective socialization strategy is face to face interactions, and the
use o f existing community communication mechanisms. Socialization activities will therefore be
targeted mainly at the community level, particularly booklets and brochures, and monthly
newsletters which will be distributedwidely.




                                                  7

Figure2: The Role of the CTCIKERAPin AccessingNon-ProjectReconstruction and
                  DevelopmentFunds(Channeling) from ExternalSources




                                     .............................................................................................
                                                                                                                   /I-.                                                         Food programs,
                                                                                                                                                                                Education,
                                                                                                                                   .............................                Health services and
                                                                                                                                                                                medicine,
                                                                                                                                                                    .......
                                                                                                                                                                           .O,,,Household assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                'hlw,,
                       ............                                              Program Channelling for
                                                                                          Welfare Assistance                                                                    Psychbiqgical therapy
                   ....
                                                                                              c - - - - - - - - -




                                             I/                                                                                                                              \

                                          /                                                                                                                                     \
                                        /                                                                                                                                        \
                                    III                                                                                                                                           \
                                                                                                                                                                                   \
                                                                                                                                                                                    \

                                   I                                                                                                                                                \

                                   I                                                                                                                                                 \
                                                                                                                                                                                     \
                                  II                                                                                            11n
                                                                                                                               tee             \                                      I

                                  I                                                                                                                                                   I

                                  I
                                   \
                                   \
                                    \
Program Channelling                  \                                                                                                                                                 rogram Channylling
for settlement                                                                                                                                                                       for Ecc)nomic  ;
Assistance                                    \                                                                                                                                  /   Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                              1.
                                                 \                                                                                                                             /
                                                                                           Chanelling Program                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                          /
                                                                                                                                                                  r 0 0


   Settlement                                                                                                                                                4                     Micro credit, banking
   Infrastructure Program                                                             -.                                                                        0/


                                                                                                                                                                                   chanelling
                                                                                                                                                                                   SME, Cooperative
  Water Supply                                                                                                                                                                     Credit
   Infrastructure,                                                                                                                                                                 Training for skills
   Housing Rehabilitation,                                                                                                                                                         development,
   reconstruction,                                                                                                                                                                 entreprenuershb
   Public facilities;                                                                                                                                                              Technical guidance
   Sanitation infrastructure                                                                                                                                                       for SME.
   repair                                                                                      Settlement Grants
   NUSSP,                                                                                        as Seed Funding
                                                                                                      for community
   Appropriate community
   spatial plans                                                                                           action dans
                                                                                                                                                                                  Manpower,Industry, Trade,
   other                                                                                         I                       TTPP                   I                                  Banking, NGOs, Donors


  Dept. PublicWorks, Public
  Housine.NGOs.Donors




                                                                                                             8

Facilitation. Facilitatorswill be the key to socialization and raising awareness inthe
communities about disaster relief, recovery, reconstruction and rehabilitation, and the project.
With over 400 kelurahan targeted, there will be about 330 facilitators hired by the project. Most
will be required to have some experience or background in community development, and will
also be trained extensively through the project. A key goal o f the socialization process will be to
create greater accountability. Through socialization activities, facilitators will assist
communities, KERAP committees, and local governments to clearly lay out their respective roles
and responsibilities. An important factor inthese discussions will be ensuring that each knows
the role it plays in ensuring accountability o f the KERAP committees to communities

Strengthening the organizational capacity of the community. The social intermediation process
leading up to the election o f members to the community trustee committee CTCIKERAP is
expected to take two (2) months. In general, this will include: (i)public campaign, including use
                                                                     a
of the TV, radio, pamphlets, posters, etc; (ii)orientation workshops at the provincial level; (iii)
workshops at the city level; (iv) a series o f "reflections" on the nature o f the disaster, relief,
recovery, rehabilitation, and reconstruction, and leadership at the kelurahan level (see below); (v)
Community Self Surveys; and (vi) identification and training o f volunteers who would be willing
to work with project staff in implementing the project. Facilitators will work inteams (at least
four kelurahan facilitator for 5 kelurahan) and with other project staff and government officials at
various levels in organizing and facilitating these events.

While experiences from KDP and UPP advise not to rushthis socialization process, the situation
inNAD andNias requires an accelerated process, with modified socialization andtraining
approaches, Furthermore, field visits and discussion with NAD victims indicates their high
motivation, preparedness, as well as impatience to get reconstruction underway. Currently in
Banda Aceh, this modified socialization process is beingconducted in 35 communities, with
indications that a 2-month period is sufficient.

Experience from UPP has demonstrated the value to the communities o f item (iv) above-a             series
of "reflections", which give communities an opportunity to gather together to discuss issues that
are common to all, and alternative ways to address them. Inparticular, two types o f "reflections"
will be organized-reflections    on the disaster and reflections on the structure o f community level
institutionsthat can address the problems.

         Refections on the disaster. The project will facilitate a guided process o f discussions
         through which communities will discuss the nature disaster and impact on their
         communities, identify existing resources in the community, and build consensus on how
         to strengthen community capacity to recover and rebuild. Once these are agreed, groups
         o f volunteers will carry out a Community Self Survey to identify the poor intheir
         community (in UPP1 Phase 2, there has been tremendous enthusiasm for this activity
         with over 18,000 volunteers participating).

         Refections on community institutions. These reflections will focus on assisting
         communities to decide whether they wish to build a new community organization or
         work with existing community organizations. Communities will be assisted in assessing
         the capacity and ownership o f existing institutions and their suitability for implementing
         UPP. Ifcommunities choose to create a new organization, facilitators together with
         trained volunteers, will guide the community on how to elect a kelurahan committee
         (KERAP) that i s democratic, participatory and inclusive. This will be followed by the
         notarizationo f the KERAP as a formal entity. Ifcommunities choose to work through
         existing organizations, project staff will assist the communities to determine whether that
         organization was elected democratically and in a participatory manner, and determine if
         some positions may need to be re-elected or the structure o f the organization modified or


                                                     9

         strengthened(hereafter, use ofthe wordKERAPwill refer to either newly elected
         organizationsor existingones that have beenconfirmedby communities).Inevaluating
         the kind of institutionsthat will be best ableto address disaster reliefandrecovery,
         communitieswill be invitedto discussthe kindof qualitiesthey would like to see inthese
         organizations.

Establishment of community trustee committees (CTCIKERAP). Inorder to ensure that
CTCIKERAP committee memberswill practiceparticipatorydecision makingand be accountable
to communities, facilitators will pay particularattention to assistingthe communityto develop
bylaws for the CTCIKERAP. The bylaws will be developedthrough focus group discussionsat
the community level,which will, inturn, raise the awarenessofthe communityabout the legal
status, rightsandresponsibilityof the CTCIKERAP. The by-lawswill includemechanismssuch
as publicizingof audits, inter-kelurahanmonitoring(where one kelurahanorganizationvisits and
reportson others), mechanisms for recall andre-electionof non-performingmembers, and other
forms of reportingand accountingto communities.Eachnotarized CTCIKERAPwill opena bank
account in its name, to which funds will be depositedto finance communityinfrastructure,
housingrehabilitationheconstruction,or grant assistanceactivitiesto disaster victims or
vulnerable persons, accordingto a CommunityRehabilitationandReconstructionPlan.

This methodhas beensuccessfullytested in35 kelurahaninKotaBandaAceh, NAD, operating
since March2005.

Preparation of a Communi@Rehabilitation and ReconstructionPlan

The first task of the CTCIKERAPwill beto formulate a disaster recovery, rehabilitation,
reconstruction-orientedCommunity RehabilitationandReconstructionPlan(CRRP) for the
kelurahan.The CRRP will initially be a one-year plan, to be updatedin follow-upplans, andwill
includea range of activities,dependingon the needsand prioritiesofthe community-from
rehabilitationor reconstructionof communityinfrastructure,to social servicesfor disaster victims
and vulnerable communitymembers(maximum of 15% of annual CTCIKERAPgrant), to
housingrehabilitationandreconstruction(channeledfrom housingrehabilitationand
reconstructionprogram), or other innovativeideasthat the communitymay have, which may be
funded from outside sources.

Basedonthe results of CommunitySelf Survey, as well as any other surveys conductedinthe
communityduringthe post earthquake-tsunamiperiod, the CTCIKERAPwill embark on a
participatoryplanningprocessto develop the CRRP for the kelurahan.The CRRP documentwill
serve as a platformfor other non-government,government and donor-fundedprograms that are
on-goingand plannedat the kelurahan level, and identify activitiesthat couldbe financedwith
the resourcesallocatedto the kelurahanunderthe project(incases where kelurahanalready have
developmentplans, the CTCIKERAPand communitymemberswould eitherre-validateor amend
these and presentthese for fundingsuchthat new plans wouldnot haveto be developed from
scratch in every kelurahan). Ownership ofthe programby the community is the keyto the
success of the CRRP.

The CRRP is expectedto be a frameworkdocument, a rolling planoutliningthe basic goals and
specific directionthat communities want to take in addressingdisaster recovery, rehabilitation
andreconstruction. For example, the participatoryplanningprocessand community self-survey
may identifydifferent types of victims andvulnerable communitymemberswithin the
community, which would then requirea range of solutions.The menuof activitiesthat may be
proposedunderthe CRRP will betotally open. However,from KelurahanGrants, activitieswill
be limitedto community infrastructureand social services inyear one, and fully open inyear 3
and onward.Proposedactivitiesfor funding from outside sources (other donors, local


                                                   10

government) will be encouraged. (See Component Two, Kelurahan Grants, for details on
activities eligible for financing under the project).

When complete, the C         W will be reviewedby senior project staff at the kota level (Oversight
Consultants). The CRRP will be reviewed for the content, as well as for the process used in its
formulation and its focus on community disaster recovery, rehabilitation, and reconstruction.
Inputfrom facilitators andvolunteers about the CRRP process intheir kelurahan will also be
sought.

Cauacih)building for communities

Capacity building will focus on two types o f activities-training    for project staff as well as
communities; and assistance in the formation and strengthening o f federations o f KERAPs at the
city level (CTCIKERAP Forum; year 2 onward).

Training. Training will be key to effective implementation. The following lessons have been
learned on how to best manage training under UPP: (i)training should be designed to support
particular components or project objectives; (ii)training should be provided on a continuous basis
(e.g. refresher courses) throughout the life o f the project; (iii)
                                                                  the training program should have
sufficient flexibility to address needs arising duringimplementation, rather than being pre-
identified; (iv) sufficient budget needs to be allocated for training; and (v) training events geared
for communities should be organized on location (within the kelurahan) for efficiency and to
optimize the coverage of participants. It is expected that formal classroom training with lectures
will be minimized, usinginsteadteaching methods such as `hands-on' practicals, question and
answer, field trips, discussion, and learning-by-doing. The budget for training o f communities
will be allocated to the facilitator teams.

The training strategy and program has been designed to support each project component. Seven
types o f training will be carried out as laid out inthe table below. Some o f these will be offered as
a one time training course, some will be repeated, and for some, advanced refresher courses
provided. A general description o ftraining activities is shown below.

       Type of Training              Training Provider                     Target Audience
1. Training of Trainers            Project Preparation       NMC and OC (for training stakeholders
                                   Team                      aboutthe project) and SpecialTraining
                                                             Group (for training communities about
                                                             leadership)
2. Awarenessraising (about         NMC, OC, facilitators     Community at large and all stakeholders
    disasterrecovery,                                        (government, consultants, etc.)
    rehabilitation, reconstruction
    & aboutthe project)
3 , Training in leadership         Special Training Group/   KERAP and community cadres
                                   outsourcingto experts
4. Project cycle training          NMC, OC, facilitators     KERAP, KSM,UPK, PjOK, Community
                                                             Cadres
                                                              - .~.-
5. Specific skills training        Outsourcing to experts    KERAP, KSM, UPK, PjOK, Community
                                                             Cadres, facilitators
6. Reflections on best             NMC, OCs                  KERAP, KSM, UPK, PjOK, Community
   practices(every 3-4                                       Cadres, facilitators
   months)
7. Specific training based on      OCs                       Local government and city stakeholders,
   field experiences                                         KPK




                                                    11

The majority of the training modules have already been prepared for this project by the Project
Preparation Team of the P M U (same team for both UPP2 and UPP3). Most o f these have been
tested in Banda Aceh, NAD, since April, 2005, and it i s clear these modules are effective. The
N M C will train the 3 Oversight Consultant teams (OCs). The OCs, with assistance o f the above
mentioned trainers, will train the facilitators based on standardized training modules prepared by
the Preparation Team. Thus, the N M C and OCs will directly carry out training regarding project
implementation and the project cycle; the Special Training Group will carry out the training on
leadership; and the N M C and OC will hire experts from NGOs, academic institutions, and the
private sector to implement specific skills training. A series o f audio-visual products o f best
performing community-based organizations have been developed under UPP1 and 2, including a
documentary video o f the various steps under the project have been prepared to help improve the
quality o f training.

Project Component 2. US$11.73 million
                           -
Kelurahan Grants

Funding allocations

Each participating kelurahan will be allocated a grant, with a standard value o f Rp. 300 million
per kelurahan, which will serve as "seed" money for the community. This will be used to finance
various activities as defined inthe Community Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plans (CRRPs),
including rehabilitationheconstruction o f community infrastructure, and grants to disaster victims
and other vulnerable households.

Once the KERAP has been formalized (notarized with the legal status o f an association), and the
Community Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plan has been approved, the KERAP will sign a
Grant Implementation Agreement with the government (PjOK kecamatan) which will lay out the
respective roles and responsibilities o f the two parties, the terms o f disbursement, as well as the
expectations regarding the use o f funds beyond the project life.

Communih,Rehabilitationand Reconstruction Plan and eligibleactivities

For each participating kelurahan, this component will finance specific sub-projects. Funds can be
used accordingto the Community Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plan (CRRP), and will cover
a range o f disaster recovery, rehabilitation, and reconstruction activities with a limited open menu
inyear 1, and a fully open menu inyear 3 onward, joining the regular UPP3 national program.
There would be a simple negative list o f items that cannot be funded including: a) expenditures
intended for a military or paramilitary purpose; b) civil works for government administration or
religious purposes; c) activities that relate to the manufacture or use o f environmentally harmful
products (including pesticides, ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products,
materials containing asbestos, activities producing liquid or gaseous effluents or emissions at
harmful levels, arms and drugs); d) activities using, producing, storing or transporting hazardous
materials and wastes; e) activities related to logging; f ) activities inprotected areas; g) activities
related to fisheries that are not in accordance with standards set by the Borrower's Fishery
Service Agency; and h) the financing o f government salaries.

The cost o f activities to be financed under the CRRP does not have to be limitedto the project
allocation for the kelurahan. Ifcommunities wish to carry out more activities, they will be
facilitated to contribute their own funds to supplement the allocation or leverage additional funds
from other donor, local government, or community sources. As part o f the annual, rolling CRRP,
the KERAP will identify an investment plan for the first 40% tranche o f funds that would be
funded partially (or completely) through the KERAP allocation from the project. Communities
would have freedom to choose whether they want to use their allocation to finance social service


                                                    12

assistance for the disaster victims and vulnerable households or use part o f the allocation to
provide community infrastructure rehabilitationor reconstruction.

It is expected that CRRPs will generally include the following types o factivities.
     (i)Pre-identifiedspecificinvestmentsthatareacommunityprioritybyconsensus(these
         could be a bridge, a road, school repair, health facility repair or others).
     (ii)Activitiesthatcommunitygroupscancompetefor(anyrangeofphysicalinfrastructureto
          services sub-projects-the    CRRP should indicate clearly what are the priority sectors or
          priority groups for that community that are likely to be financed).
     (iii) assistancetothepoorestormostvulnerableindividuals(thiscouldinclude
          Grant
          scholarships, home improvements, health care, etc. to specific individuals identified by
          communities as beingmost needy).

The CRRP can identify activities from all four categories or just one category, depending on the
communities' circumstances and needs. Category (iii)(grant assistance to individuals), will be
limited to 15% of the kelurahan grant allocation, while activities under categories (i), and(ii), (iii)
are expected to be provided as grants.

     (iv) Other reconstruction and development funds which may be channeled through KERAP
         community committees for community planning and implementation, such as grant funds
          from the Indonesian Aceh and Nias, North Sumatra Earthquake/Tsunami Rehabilitation
         and Reconstruction Strategy for housingand community infrastructure reconstruction and
         rehabilitation.

Implementation of kelurahan grants

Specific investments. Ifspecific sub-projects are identified by communities as a priority for the
overall community, the KERAP will appoint a team from the community to implement this
activity, The following implementationprocess will be followed:
     e    Team fills out a standard form, with the assistance o f facilitators, outlining a description
          o f the sub-project, including technical planning (use of consultant or contractor),
         materials, procurement method, costs, beneficiaries, operations and maintenance
          arrangements (where applicable), compliance with any applicable safeguards,
          implementation arrangements, the amount o f self financing, etc.
          Review by OC for feasibility, technical soundness, and compliance with safeguards
          (specifically environmental impacts, land acquisitionhesettlement, impact on indigenous
          people and on cultural property).
     e    Signing o f Implementation Agreement between implementingteam and KERAP.
     e    Disbursement to team for implementation costs.
     e    Sub-project implementation according to procurement guidelines with supervision by
          KERAP and OC/facilitator.
     e    Completion certificate by OC/facilitator.

Competitivegrantproposals. The CRRP may provide an allocation o f funds to finance proposals
by community groups. Inthis case, the CRRP will lay out clearly what the priority areas / sectors
/ groups are for this allocation. Examples o f different types o f activities that groups could propose
for funding include basic infrastructure services; programs for children and youth; family
planning education, etc. Community groups will identify sub-projects they want financed, and fill
out proposal forms (same as the ones above) with the help o f facilitators where necessary. These
will be reviewedby OCs for feasibility, technical soundness and compliance. OCs will
specifically screen proposals for environmental impacts, land acquisitionhesettlement, impact on
indigenous people and on cultural property, and ensure that adequate mitigation measures are
taken. The CTCIKERAP will meet to review the proposals first when at least 5 proposals have

                                                    13

been submitted, and regularly thereafter. The selection o f proposals by the KERAP will be made
ina meeting publicized inadvance and open to the public. Selection will be based on priorities
by clearly rankingproposals and having an open vote. Implementationwill follow the same
arrangement as above.

Grant assistance to thepoorest disaster victims or most vulnerable individuals. Direct
assistance may be provided to individuals if identified duringthe participatory process and
included inthe CRRP. These will be accounted for clearly inthe KERAP accounts, and
disbursements made ina transparent manner. A maximum o f 15% o f the allocation to the KERAP
can be used to finance activities that fall under this category. Facilitators and OCs will verify use
o f these funds.

Disbursement of Kelurahan Grants

Fundswill be released to kelurahan organizations intwo tranches to ensure proper fund use and
management, and encourage better KERAP performance. The first tranche (40%) will be paid
upon review o f the CRRP by project staff. The second tranche (60%) will be based on proof o f
adequate utilization o f funds for implementation o f sub-projects according to the CRRP, and
proper fund management, and will be released at least four months after the disbursement o f the
first tranche. This is to provide enough time to see implementationonthe ground prior to
disbursement o f additional funds.

ProjectComponent 3. US$l.O million
                           -
Strengtheningthe Role and Capacity of LocalGovernment

Strengthening the Capacities and Role o f Local Government, in general, consists o f activities
oriented towards efforts of strengthening local government capacities in working with community
organizations to address disaster relief, recovery, community infrastructure rehabilitation and
reconstruction, based on community values.

Provincial governments will be encouragedto be active in arranging workshops and seminars at
the provincial level, as well as facilitating project coordination, monitoring and supervision, while
city and district governments inprinciple serve as the catalyst for implementation o f UPP
earthquake-tsunami disaster settlement rehabilitation and reconstruction intheir respective
constituencies and districts, together with oversight consultants.

Sub components include arranging such activities as:
     0   workshops,
     0   training,
     0    field studies,
     0   project field supervision,
      0   institutional strengthening, and
     0   technical guidance and facilitation by local government to communities, especially for
          integrating community planning with regional development planning.

Strengthening the capacities and role o f local government in this project will begin with basic
training o f local government officials and staff, cityldistrict settlement committee members and
local public interest groups. The city/district settlement committees, established with the
assistance of the OC, hopefully will play an important role o f resource body and facilitator, both
inlocal workshops and seminars, as well as inother socializationand information activities,




                                                   14

Project Component 4. US$1.12million
                          -
ImplementationManagement Support

The project will be managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU) assisted by an
administrative unit (PIMPRO),with a designated representative located inAceh, who reports
regularly to BRR on project progress for coordination purposes. The P M Uwill hire consultants
and facilitators to assist inproject implementation, particularly since this type o f a community
driven project will require extensive presence inthe field at the kelurahan and kotakabupaten
levels, Technical assistance will be providedthrough the existing UPP National Management
Consultants at the central level, 3 Oversight Consultant Teams at the province level, with offices
in the participating kotadkabupatens inNADand Nias; and facilitators and community cadres at
the kelurahan level. This component will finance the cost ofthe consultants; the cost of
government operating expenses will be covered through counterpart funds.

Project Locations

The project will cover the December 26, 2004 earthquake and tsunami-affected areas of
Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam (NAD) and Nias, North Sumatra provinces, including 10
cities/districts, 23 sub-districts (kecamatan), and 402 urban wards (kelurahan). The coverage
within the provinces is listed inAppendix VI.

PART IIIPROJECT COSTS
             -

The financial plan detailing costs o f each component and the financing arrangements, including
any co-financing to meet the costs is seen below:




        gov't
4       Implementation            0.22     0.22         0.22              0.22          0.22     1.12
        support
Total                             6.19     8.64         1.25              0.99          0.99     17.96


PART I V IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS
             -

The project will be managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU) assisted by an
administrative unit (PIMPRO),with a designated representative located in Aceh, who reports
regularly to BRR on project progress for coordination purposes. The P M U will hire consultants
and facilitators to assist in project implementation, particularly since this type of a community
driven project will require extensive presence inthe field at the kelurahan and kotakabupaten

                                                  15

levels. Technical assistance will be provided through the existing UPP National Management
Consultants at the central level, 3 newly contracted Oversight Consultant Teams at the province
level, with offices in the participatingkotadkabupatens in NAD and Nias; and facilitators and
community cadres at the kelurahan level.

PARTV PROJECTMONITORINGAND EVALUATION
           -
Project monitoring will be undertaken in two ways: internal monitoring and external monitoring,
Internal monitoring will consist of:

    0   a computerized M I S that is updated bi-monthly, covering planning progress, works
        progress, beneficiaries, participation, complaints, and resolution,
    0   a web site with current information from project implementation(community, facilitator,
        oversight consultant); website information is updated daily; communication between
        central and local levels is facilitated through the web site and MIS,
    0   a complaint handling unit (CHU) where communities, local governments, project
         implementers, participants, and the general public can direct questions and complaints,
        utilizing postal boxes and web site,
    0    financial monitoring, conducted by national and oversight consultants, as well as Bank
         financial specialists; the monitoring consists o f site supervision, on-the-job training,
         clinics, and training to enhance the quality o f communities' bookkeeping and accounting
         systems, and
    0    regular supervision by national consultants as well as Bank personnel.

External monitoring will consist of:

    0    community participatory monitoring includes a series o f required meetings on activity
         planning and implementation, attended by community members; the KERAP committee
         reports to the communities through annual accountability meetings; the KERAP
         committee also reports to the communities through information boards and periodic
         meetings, and
    0    independent monitoring by inviting local media and NGO's to monitor project
         implementation and progress. This will be carry out together with similar activities under
         MTDFANS funded Community-Based Settlement Rehabilitation and reconstruction
         Project for Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam and Nias).

PARTV I PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS
            -
This project is a special, supplemental addition o fboth on-going UPP 2 and 3 projects, designed
to address the special needs o f NAD-Nias in the post disaster recovery period. The overall
procurement arrangements consist entirely of: (a) Selection o f consultants, and (b) Community
ParticipationProcedures for sub-projects and grants. N o N C B or ICB is envisaged under the
project. The main challenge inthe selection o f consultants i s to select qualified consultants from
the current pool and keep the costs low. Therefore, the selection procedures will follow LCS. The
approach and methodology for the assignment is fixed by the project manual and thus the
consultant is required only to provide the proper staffing. Cost estimates will be based on the
 average costs from previous assignments under UPP 1 and UPP 2. The National Management
 Consultant (NMC) for UPP 3 will serve as the N M C for NAD-Nias, under the direction o f the
UPP3 P M U and Pimpro. 3 Oversightconsultants (OCs) will be contracted under this project, and
will also serve as OCs for the national UPP3 program.

For procurement involving the community, the main challenge i s to have a "contract" with the
 community for the delivery o f certain outputs/products based on the agreed ceiling amounts and


                                                   16

technicalspecificationswith a controlmechanism.The controlmechanismfrom within the
community for procurementprocesses(as currentlyappliedunderUPP 1and 2) will be included
inthe project manuals.

Forthis project,the procurementarrangementsfollow those of UPP3 as describedindetail in
Annex 8 of the UPP 3 PAD.The shortlistfor candidate OCs has beencompleted, and is inthe
processof consultant selection.

PART VI1 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENTAND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
            -

Summary of the FinancialManagement Assessment. This project is an expansionscope of
existingUrbanPoverty Project(UPP2 and 3) to Aceh andNias areas. Therefore, the projectwill
use the same financialmanagementsystem as the one usedinthe existingUrbanPovertyProjects
(UPP2 and 3). The existingprojectshave satisfiedthe Bank's minimumfinancial management
requirement as stipulated inOP/BP 10.02. However,this projecthas a higherrisk due to different
environment conditioninbothlocations.

Accounting and Reporting. This projectwill follow the same accounting andreporting
proceduresfor UPP2/3. An existingPMUfor UPP2/3 will preparea projectfinancialreportand
use the same format of the existingproject.The consolidatedreportwill include a separate special
account statement and disbursement statusfor the trust fund.Invillage/Kelurahanlevel,the
communitygroup will maintainseparatebooks andprepare a projectfinancial statementfor
relevant moneythey received. The projectoperationmanualfor UPP2/3 will be usedfor this
project.

Audit Arrangements. The audit for this projectfinancialstatementwill be carriedout by the
same auditor ofUPP2/3. BPKPwill audit the projectannually.The annual audit reportswill be
furnished to the Bank no later than six monthsafter the end o fthe government fiscal year. The
audit assignment will includea sampling on a reviewof expenditures which spent by the
communitygroup. The projectwill also undertakesupplemental audits by other independent
auditors. Independentaudits will be commissionedby the KERAPcommittee with local auditors.

Flow of Funds. The flow of fund will follow an existingUPP2/3 mechanismwhere PjOK will
submit paymentrequests(SPM) to the nearestMOFTreasury Office (KPPN). KPPNwill issue
payment remittanceorders (SP2D)to the operational bank whichwill transfer the moneyto the
intendedbeneficiaries(communitygroup account) and debitthe project specialaccount.




                                              17

             C I            *
             I
                    Wh-FMR                           I
             I




                                                     4
            i                           1  report    debit note




District               Irtaw




                                                       transfer
                                                       kefgrants




                                progress reftarfl




DLN
KPKN      Tr
FfMU
NMC
oc
WA FMR

Special Account. GO1will establisha SpecialAccount (SA) at Bank Indonesiaor Government
Owned CommercialBank denominated inUSdollars.The SA will be underthe nameofthe
DirectorateGeneral of Treasury (DGTreasury), Ministryof Finance. The DGTreasury shall
provide copies of the weekly bank statementsofthe SA to the PMUof which will reconcile the
transaction with the financialrecord. SpecialAccount withdrawalprocedureswill be followedthe
governments' procedureswhich have acceptedto the Bank.The projectwill follow FMR-based
disbursement procedures.The WithdrawalApplication(W/A) will be submittedto the Bank on
quarterlybasis and supported by quarterly FMRand cashforecast for the next six months.

Allocation of Grant Proceeds


                Category                            Amount                    YOof Expenditures
                                             (in US Million Dollar)             to be Financed
 1. KelurahanGrants                                  11.73                            100
 2. ConsultingServices and Goods for
 Community dev't, strengtheningrole
 o f local gov't and implementation
 support                                             4.11                             100
 3. Goods and Services under Parts C
 andD                                                2.12                             100
 Total Grant                                         17.96                             100


PART VI11 ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD ARRANGEMENTS
              -

Environmentand Safeguardarrangementsare identicalto those ofthe 31dUrbanPovertyProject,
includingenvironmentalissues, landacquisition,involuntaryresettlement,and indigenous
peoples.Refer to Annex 10, UPP 3 PAD.

Environment. The ceilingfor sub-projectsunderthe investmentcomponents (kelurahan grants)
are low (US$35,325). This combinedwith the natureofthe investments (mostlytertiary level
infrastructure)meansthat the activitiesfinanced are not likely to have any large scale, significant
or irreversibleimpacts. Under UPP PhaseI,most of the infrastructureinvestmentsconsisted of
minorroad/bridge repairs, footpaths, tertiary drainage, and sanitatiodpublictoilets, whichhave
contributedto improvingenvironmentalconditionsinmostcases. Any adverse environmental
impacts underthis projectare therefore expectedto be limitedand highly localized, andthese can
be readilymitigatedthroughthe project's negativelist or throughstandardoperatingprocedures
and guidelines. EnvironmentalGuidelineshavebeenagreedwith the government and includedin
the Draft Project ImplementationManual.Duringimplementation,consultantsand facilitators
will betrainedinthe understandingand applicationofthese guidelines andwill assistthe
communitygroups in preparingtheir sub-project proposalsto comply with the guidelines.

Social Safeguard Arrangements. Choicesaboutthe allocationof kelurahan grants are upto the
communitiesand CTCKERAPs.Communities will participateinthe formationof the
Community ReconstructionandRehabilitationPlan, and CTCKERAPswill evaluate proposals
for sub-project from communitygroups basedon the CRRP. Safeguardpolicieswill be
addressedinthe following manner:

      0   Sub-projectsthat are apriori knownto have an adverse impactonthe environment will
         not be financed and are includedin the negative list (e.g. protectedareas, logging).
         EnvironmentalGuidelineshave also beendeveloped to address minor environmental
          issuesthat may arise.
          Subprojects are not expectedto requireinvoluntary resettlement or acquisitionof
         significantamounts of land. Inthe event they do, however, a LandAcquisition and

                                                19

         Resettlement Policy Framework has been developed inaccordance with OP4.12 to ensure
         application o fthe appropriate safeguard policies.
    0    The highly participatory nature o f the project will ensure that communities would be able
         to identify ifany proposed sub-project will have an impact on culturalproperty and to
         ensure that these activities do not adversely affect cultural property. Sub-project
         proposals will require the identification o f any such activities and require the group
         proposing the sub-project to specify adequate mitigation measures.
         Inareas where Indigenous People may be affected, a Framework for the Treatment o f
         Indigenous People will be applied. This will include a "situational analysis" prior to
         implementation to determine ifany changes would be required inthe project approach
         and design to ensure that Indigenous People are fully included inthe project. The TOR
         will be reviewed and approved by EASES before conductingthe study.

Genderequality. Women's participation inthe community development process is a key factor
in establishing organizations that truly represent all people inthe community. It is also important
for providing services that respond not only to the community at large, but also to specific needs
that women may have. A gender strategy has been developed under this project which will
systematically address gender mainstreaming and equality issues. This strategy includes
systematic recruitment o f local female facilitators, targeting 33% (but no quota), 33% women
consultants, targeting a 30% participationrate among women in the CTCKERAP elections,
targeting 30% women community cadre/volunteers, encouragement of community women leaders
to participate as CTCKERAP trustees, and socialization and focus group discussion activities
targeted specifically to women's groups to discuss community and project issues.

The above guidelines and frameworks will be made available to the public through the Bank`s
Project Information Centers inJakarta and Washington, will be publishedinthe project manuals
and be made available to the community organizations/dinases preparingproposals. Kelurahan
facilitators and other project staff (OCs) will be trained in the application o f the guidelines.
CTCKERAPs will be trained in how to apply the safeguards intheir selection process.
Communities will be in charge o f deciding all implementation and procurement arrangements,
and follow-up on guidelines and approved proposals will be monitoredby kelurahan facilitators
and OCs. On the environment, an experienced environmental consultant will be requiredto
summarize progress, monitor and measure the impact o f the project on the environment.


PART IX COMPLAINTSHANDLING AND ANTI-CORRUPTION STRATEGY
            -
The Project will utilize the existing UPP Complaints Handling and Anti-Corruption Strategy, as
described in detail in Annex 18 of the UPP3 PAD. The strategy i s intwo parts, namely: (i)
corruption mapping of potential risks; and (ii)an action plan o f activities to address these risks,
The strategy components are described below:

CorruptionMapping: A matrix which identifies some potential risks o f corruption and
specifies some appropriate mitigation measures that have been agreed to by Ministry o f Public
Works. The mapping exercise is repeatedduringthe lifetime o f the project to incorporate
innovations and lessons learned.

The Action Plan. The strategy of anti corruption has been developed for two separate entities,
i.e. one at the central level (involving the Executing Agency), and one at the community level (as
the beneficiaries of the Project as well as the implementing units o f the sub projects). Community
level participationand empowerment are crucial to the success o f the project. Together, these
factors will inspire greater accountability and better governance. This Project empowers the
community (the beneficiary o f this Project) to officially manage the sub projects and be


                                                   20

responsible for the technical quality o f deliveries and output at the Kelurahan level. The design o f
the project incorporates careful socialization and transparent management techniques that enable
the necessary participationand empowerment. Active participationfrom within the members o f
the community is required inplanning and developing sub projects. Inaddition, the Program
provides funds channeled directly to the community, i.e. to the CTCIKERAP account for
Kelurahan Grants. Once the beneficiaries fulfill the draw down conditions, the funds are remitted
from the Special Account within a few days. Simple, standard formats are used for recording and
reporting the use o f funds. This simplification reduces the need for special skills whilst making
the system more transparent and accountable. Through active participation, there is a greater
likelihood o f communitiesto demand services o f the urban local governments and ensure that
resources earmarked for effective management and to improve their livelihoods are transparently
accounted for.

Some o f the most important aspects o f the anti corruption action plan can be summarized into the
five key elements that follow. Underpinningeach o f these elements i s the careful consultative
process that ensures participationand empowerment.

    A. Enhanced DisclosureProvisions and Transparency. The program will take the Bank's
        new disclosure provisions one step further by simplifying disclosed material and making
        them readily available through public information centers. Salient information will be
        made readily available to communities by a range o f other means, including public
        meetings and notice boards. Specific disclosure measures will include, but not be limited
        to:
              Public disclosure o f annual procurement plans and schedules (and their updates),
              biddingdocuments and requests for proposals.
              Disclosureto all bidders o f the summary o f the evaluation and comparison o f bids,
              proposals, offers, and quotations, after the successful bidder i s notified.
              Disclosure o f audit reports.

    B. Civil Society Oversight. The program recognizes that greater oversight by civil society
        i s likely to reduce the risk o f corruption and misuse o f power. The program involves a
        highdegree o fformal participation by community groups withinthe areas o f
        beneficiaries, the private sector, and traditionalladat and religious leaders, through the
        monitoring o f the projectslend results, memberships o fthe tender committee, and the
        evaluation o f the quality o f delivery procured services/products.

        ExistingNGOs and other civil society organizations will be involved in a variety o f
        ways, inter alia: (i)through participation in the regional workshops; (ii)     as key resource
        persons for the development o f CRRPs where possible; (iii)     as evaluators on an ad-hoc
        basis; and (iv) as training providers inparticular skill areas.

    C. MitigatingCollusion, Fraud & Nepotism. Opportunity for collusion and fraud exist in
        any project. However, since the central theme o f this project i s improved and more
        responsive governance, many o f the possible risks are mitigated as a result o f the design.
        Transparent and well-advertised procurement under the program with appropriate
        oversight will reduce this form o f corruption. Additional auditing and procurement
        procedures are proposed, such as oversight by technical assistance and capacity building
        TA procurement and financial management specialists mappedto each region. At the
        central level, there will be a committee to be formed to regularly evaluate the
        performance o f the consultants who are hired under the Project, and make the results
        circulated to the relevant technical parties. Cases o f collusion, fraud and nepotism will be
        reported directly to the authorized agency mandatedunder the Indonesian law, which i s
        the attorney general office. Inthe case o f collusion, fraud and nepotism within the


                                                    21

  community, the cases will first be reported, discussed, and decided at the community
  meeting (Rembug Wurga)prior to their submission to the attorney general office.
  Experience in other CDD projects indicates that many risks can be mitigated by the threat
  and use o f community-based sanctions such as those used under UPP.

D. ComplaintsHandlingMechanism. Complaint handling procedures as currently defined
   inthe Presidential Decree (Keppres)no. 80/2003 will be strictly followed by also
   assigning authorized officials to be responsible for maintaining a database o f complaints
  and the follow up actions. While the program i s designed to encourage local complaint
   resolution through formal channel, as well as the pressure from public, in some cases
   local elites might misuse power and program activities. For these cases, an alternative
   system has been establishedthrough a feedback mechanism at the national level. A
   special unit designated for handling o f complaints will be made available inthe NMC and
   OCs. The complaint handling unit will investigate and facilitate the resolution o f
  complaints and problems. The database o f complaints, follow-up actions being taken,
  and sanctions applied will be publicized to increase participants' involvement and to
   increase the likelihood o f their lodging protests, thereby raising the social costs o f misuse
   o f funds. This mechanism handles complaints brought to their attention. These
   complaints will be acted upon in a professional and timely fashion, and without risk o f
   reprisalto 'whistleblowers' inthe public. The complaint handling mechanism developed
  under the Project also provides wider access for the community for raising and
  monitoring the complaint through the establishment o f an address to mail complaints,
  which will be posted in kelurahan signboards.

E. Sanctions & Remedies. Clear sanctions and remedies are important final steps inthe
   effort to fight corruption. As already exercised inUPP, this program has a low tolerance
   for corruption. Communities are encouragedto impose reasonable sanctions on citizens
   who abuse the power that has been entrusted to them. There i s an increasing wealth o f
   anecdotal evidence suggesting that such sanctions can be more easily applied and more
   effective than protracted legal proceedings, especially in smaller cases o f corruption. The
   project does not endorse vigilantism or extreme community sanctions, but inmany cases
   the communities can reach amicable resolutions without resortingto the slow and over-
   burdened legal system. That said, formal sanctions may also be applied. For example, any
   official (government or non-government), community members, or private sector entity
   participating in the project can be prosecuted if sufficient evidence i s available. In all
   procurement contracts, evidence o f corruption, collusion or nepotism will result in
   termination o fthe relevant contract, possibly with additional penalties imposed (such as
   fines, blacklisting, etc.) in accordance with Bank and Government regulations. Draw
   down o f funds from the project Special Account to CTCKERAPs will be suspended in
   cases where significant misuse o f funds is suspected. At a larger scale, entire kota(s) may
   be excluded from participation inthe subsequent phase ifmisuse o f funds is suspected to
   occur widely in the respective kota(s). Information regarding successful cases, where
   lessons are learned and funds are retrieved, will be widely disseminated.




                                             22

PARTX SCHEDULE OF KEY PROJECTACTIVITIES
         -



1. Community
development          CTC'sI KERAP's


                     Preparation of
                     CRRP'S                  two                     facilitators
2. Kelurahan grants  Grants funded to         352 inyear one and     PMU, Pimpro, PjOK,
                     CTC's for community     two                    IOC, facilitators
                     infrastructure, social
                     services assistance
3. Local capacity    Project Socialization I  10 kota / kabupaten in Oversight consultants
development          staff training of       year one and year two
                     Pemdakota I
                     kabupaten
                     Project Socialization I  352 kelurahan onyear   OCs, facilitators
                     training of kelurahan    one and eartwo
                     Establishment of         March 2005             EA Ministryof Public
                     PMU, appt. of Pimpro                            Works
                     and rep., NAD office
                     set-up
                     Recruitment,             FirstOC, March         PMU and Pimpro
                     mobilization of          2005, OC 2 and 3,
                     oversight consultants    June 2005
                     Recruitment, training,   FirstSWK, April,       Oversight consultants
                     mobilization of          May 2005; S w K 2
                     facilitator teams       .      Phasing:          Responsibleentity:




                                                                     consultants,




4. Implementation
Management Support




                                              and 3. June. Julv 2005




                                            23

  Annex 1: ImplementationStructure

                            PROJECT                                                                             COMMUNITY                                                              GOVERNMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                          piGiGl
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALLEVIATION COMMITEE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I




                                           I                                                                                                                                                               I                                                                   I
                                           I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                           I                                                                                                                                                        MINISTRY of PUBLIC WORKS
                                           I
            I                                                                    d                                                                                                                                                                                             I

                                  E        PMU              E                    4                                                                                                                          DG Settlement
                                                                                                                                                                                                              andHousing

                                           NMC                                                                                                                                                               I
                                               .................................................................                                                                                 ...............I............................................................. ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                            central jevel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I


                                      oc                                 .-._._._._._._._.                        BRR-ANS ._._._._._.                                                                 PROVINCIAL

                           I I               I                          ...........                                    ...................................................................................   I                                   provincial jevel
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I..
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ................................................                 I




                                            oc                         -------------______--________________
                                  KOTACOORD                              -

                                     I
                                           ............................                                                .................................................................................. .................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                                       city level
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                            v                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I

                    TEAM OF FACILITATORS                                                                          r-----------..-------
                                                                                                - I -,    ~
                       in charge of 5 kelurahan                                 .1.   --.
                                                                                                            I     I
                                                                                                                  I                                                                      KELURAHAN GRANT
                                                                                                            I     I
                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                            I                                                                                                I
                                             I                                                                    I                                                                                          I
                                                                                                            !     I                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                  I                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                  I                                                                                          I                               kecamatan level
   ........................................
                      I                      1I..................................................           I                               ...............................................................  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I.................................................................................

                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             I
                                             !I                        !
                                                                       I                                        I




-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                kelurahan level


                         line of control
-. -. + line of facilitation
_ _ _ _ _ -line of                         coordination




                                                                                                                       24

Annex 2: List of Project Target Locations


UPP target locations




                                          25

Annex 3: Possible Issues/Risks and Mitigation Measures

                  R i S k S                  RiskMitigation Measure           RiskRating
                                                                                 with
                                                                               Mitigation
To project development objectives
Government intervention in             Large investment in long, guided            N
establishment o f committees           socialization process at community
KERAPs and their operations            and government level
Ability o f committees to remain       Large investment in long, guided            M
immuneto being co-opted by local       socialization process
                                                                 ~


elite or politicians
Quality and realism of Community       Capacity building and implementation        N
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction      support
Plans
Ability o f committees to adequately   Capacity building and implementation        M
monitor use o f kelurahan grant funds  support; cancel subsequent tranches
Adequate use and maintenance of        Ensuringthat proposals are demand           N
infrastructure/services/activities     driven and communities/LGs
financed under project                 contribute to costs; screeningprocess
                                       that ensures O&M
To component results
Availability of capable local          Funds available to bring in                 M
consultants                            international training specialists if
                                       required
Availability of qualified kelurahan    Training programs                           M
facilitators
Availability of qualified trainers to  Funds available to bring in                 N
provide necessarytraining              international support ifnecessary
Willingness of local governments and Capacity building at community and             S
kelurahan organizations to work        local government level; large
together                               investment inlong, guided
                                       socialization process;
Overall RiskRating                                                                 M




                                               26

Annex 4: Relationship ofProjectto other activitiescarriedout by the World Bank and
           other agenciesinNanggroeAceh Darussalamand Nias,North Sumatra

Followingthe earthquake and tsunami disaster inAceh and Nias, virtually all donors, bilateral
and well as multi-lateral, NGO's, international and national, all UNagencies, and all GO1
departments were mobilized to participate in relief, recovery, and now, planning for
reconstruction o f the devastated areas. To deal with this unprecedentedlevel o f relief and
development assistance, the Go1has establishedthe Indonesian Earthquake-Tsunami
Rehabilitation and Recovery Agency, BRR, to provide leadership, oversight, and coordination to
this effort. None-the-less, the sheer scale ofthis effort indicates the distinct possibility o fmuch
activity overlap, geographic overlap, and contradiction and/or inconsistency between and among
different activities.

World Bank
Set within the recovery framework, this project will apply the community-driven development
(CDD) mechanisms to Aceh-Nias rehabilitation and reconstruction, through facilitated
community socialization, organization, empowerment, small-scale infrastructure planning,
rehabilitation and/or reconstruction, and grant assistance to the most vulnerable victims o f the
disaster inAceh and Nias urban communities. The Kecamatan Development Project, also funded
by the Bank, does virtually the same thing, has been operating, and will be expanding its
operations inAceh and Nias, inrural villages. Thus K D P is complimentary to UPP, as long as
urban communities and rural communities are differentiated.

The Settlement HousingRehabilitation and Reconstruction Strategy Program will be operating in
both KDP and UPP areas o f Aceh and Nias, and will utilize both projects for management and
monitoring the channeling housing cash grant disbursements to target beneficiaries. This project
will be complimentary to UPP.

The Reconstruction of Aceh Land Administration System project will provide a mechanismfor
issuinglandtitles through community engagement and GIS mappingactivities. Housing
reconstruction will move ahead in parallel with the land project as it carries out the process o f
community adjudication; the issuance o f land titles will occur upon completion o f settlement
reconstruction.

Other Donors
Other donor organizations working in Aceh include UN-Habitat's Aceh Settlement Support
Program and the Asian Development Bank's (ADB) Earthquake and Tsunami Emergency
Support Project, which will build 14,000 new houses and repair an additional 10,000, and USAID
i s implementing the Aceh Technical Assistance Recovery Project Several non-governmental
organizations (NGOs),such as the IndonesianRed Cross, Save the Children Foundation, and
Oxfam are also engaged inAceh-Nias rehabilitation and reconstruction.




                                                 27

Annex 5: Strategy to Ensure Gender Mainstreaming and Equality

Women's participation in the community development process is a key factor inestablishing
organizations that truly represent all people inthe community. It i s also important for providing
services that respond not only to the community at large, but also to specific needs that women
may have. The following gender strategy has been developed for this project to more
systematically address gender mainstreaming and equality.

                 Activities                                  Measuresto Ensure
                                                   Gender Mainstreaming and Equality
       Socialization and           0    Explainand discuss how important women's participation i s for
       dissemination at each            poverty reduction
       level (provincial to         0   Explain gender goals ofproject within its poverty strategy
       kelurahan)                  0    The communicationsstrategist is responsiblefor determining the
                                        best ways for ensuringthat women at all levels receivethe same
                                        information as the men, using whatever media and language is
                                        appropriate, for example; posters, plays, radio, leaflets
                                    0   Regular rapid evaluations by facilitators should identify the
                                        effectivenessofthe materialsused and also identify those that
                                        are not receiving information inthe villages so that new
                                        initiatives can be introduced
        Consultants and                 Advertisementsfor all new project staff should state that
        facilitators                    `women are strongly encouragedto apply `
                                    0    Ifthereare bothmaleandfemale eligible candidatesfor
                                        positions, females should get priority
                                    0    Target is set for 30% of consultantsand facilitators would be
                                        women
                                    0    Matemity leave will be accordingto the laws in force at the
                                        currenttime. Additional costs ofproviding maternity benefits
                                        should be included inthe social costs of the contractswith
                                        consultantsand facilitators should clarifv the txovisions.
   3    Training of consultants     0    Include gender-relatedissues (meeting techniques, timing,
        and facilitators                facilitation, specific culture local women identification, etc)
   4    Simple gender manual        0    Identify local specific and acceptableways to i)ensure women
                                        can participate inall aspects ofthe program; and ii)to
 -                                      disseminateinformationto women.
   5    Meeting for selection of    0    Targeting :30% ofparticipants should be women
        community cadre             0    Equal opportunity for women incadres' selection
 -                                  0    Targeting: 20% of selectedcommunity cadres should be women
   6    Community cadre training    0    Include gender-related issues (meeting techniques, timing,
                                        facilitation, specific cultural issues, local women identification,
                                        etc)
        Focus Group Discussion      0    Hold special focus group discussionsfor women (separately
        specially on poverty             from men)
        identification, and local   0    Ensurethat gender sensitive approaches/methodsare usedthat
        institutions analysis           match local conditions (place, timing, facilitation techniques,




                                                   28

               Activities                          Measuresto Ensure
-                                         Gender Mainstreaming and Equality
8  Participants selectionfor       ensure during socialization that 30% ofparticipants are
   community selfsurvey (Survey    women
   Swadaya) and participatory      At least one third of the Survey Swadaya members
   planning training               shouldbe women
9  DevelopingLembagaMasyarakat     Try and ensure that 30% ofthe meetingparticipants are
   (KERAP) process from            women
   RT/RW/Dusun to kelurahan        Ensurethrough socialization that communities are aware
                                   that women have equal opportunity to elect and to be
-                                  electedas KERAP members.
10 Selecting the UPK               Ifthere arebothmale and female candidates eligible,
                                   females should get priority
11 KSMproposalwriting              Ensure that women KSMproposals are written by
                                   themselves (with assistance from community
-                                  cadre/facilitator ifneeded)
12 Definingproposalspriority by    Ensurewomen KSMwho propose can come to meetings
   `Musyawarah masyarakat'         (Le. be careful with place and timing of meetingsto
   meeting                         allow women to participate given their local conditions)
                                   Give priority to women's proposal ifthey meet the
                                   criteria according to the verificationteam
13 Monitoring and evaluation       Ensureformats for monitoringandevaluationscollect
   formats                         information on women's participation in all aspects of
                                   the project, including meetings, women beneficiaries,
                                   etc. to improve performance if needed.
                                   Disaggregateregular MIS data by gender
                                   Strategies for ensuringtransparencymust ensure that
                                   women have easy access to the information and that they
                                   understandtheir responsibilities for monitoringthe use
                                   of the funds. Use participatory methods for monitoring
-                                  at village level.




                                     29

MAP

                95                      100                    105                     110                     115                  120                  125      This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                         the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                         World Bank. The boundaries,                    INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                         colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                         any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                         on this map do not imply, on                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                         the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                         legal status of any territory,
             15                                                                                                                                                         or any endorsement or                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                         a c c e p t a n c e       o f s u c h
                                            INDONESIA                                                                                                                    boundaries.                                          RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAIN ROADS
                    MYANMAR
                                                                             VIETNAM                                                          PHILIPPINES                                                                     RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

             10                                                                                                                                                                                          10                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                               THAILAND                                                                                                    Sulu
                                                                                                                                           Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             135                 140



              Banda Aceh
                                                                        L      A
             5                                                  A                      Y                   BRUNEI                                                                                                                                               5
                       1                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                           Talaud
                                    Medan                M                Natuna
                                                                           Besar                        I                                          Celebes                    Is.
                                                                                                                                 Tarakan                                                                      PACIFIC OCEAN
                      Pematangsiantar                                                                       A                                        Sea
              Simeulue                                                                                                                                        23
                                                                                                                                                                                           Morotai
                                       2
                                                               SINGAPORE                                                22                             Manado
                       Nias                         Pekanbaru     Tanjungpinang
                                                                                                                                                   24                Ternate              Halmahera
             0                                                                                        KALIMANTAN                                      Gorontalo                                           Waigeo
                            M                        3                       Pontianak
                                                                   Lingga                                                                   25                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                19
                             enta w a i                                                                                        Samarinda                                                                                  Manokwari
                                  Padang                                                                                                                               28                                                          Biak
                                                                                                                              Balikpapan   Palu                                                                Sorong
                                    Siberut    4         5    Jambi                                                                                       Peleng                      Obi
                                                                         Bangka                             20
                                                  SUMATERA               Pangkalpinang            Palangkaraya                        SULAWESI                 Sula Is.                                  Misool               Yapen                Jayapura
                                                                            9                                                                                                             Ceram
                                       I s .                                                                                           26                                                                                             IRIAN JAYA
                                                     6             Palembang       Belitung                          21                                                                            Amahai    Fakfak
                                                                   7                                   Bandjarmasin                             27    Kendari           Buru                                                           (PAPUA)
                                             Bengkulu                                                                                                                                                                           30
                                                                                                                                  Parepare                                  Ambon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Timika     Puncak Jaya
                                                                    8                                                                                                                                                                     (5030 m)
             5                                                                                                           Ujung Pandang                 Muna                                                        Kai
                                             Enggano         Bandar      11                    Java    Sea                                                                       B   a   n     d   a                Is.
                                                            Lampung         JAKARTA                                                                    Baubau                                         29
               0      200    400 Kilometers                      Serang                                                                                                               S   e   a                          Aru                                       GUINEA
                                                                             12Bandung                                                                                                                                   Is.
                                                                                          Semarang         Madura
                                                                   10                   13                                                                                                                                                                  APUAP
                                                                                                            Surabaya                                                   Wetar
               0    100   200     300       400 Miles                   JAWA                                                                                                                       Babar         Tanimbar
                                                                                 Yogyakarta                         16
                                                                                                           15                  Sumbawa                       Alor                  Moa                           Is.
                                                                                                                    BaliLombok
                                                                                                                                      Raba     Flores
                                                                                               14                                                                                                                                            Merauke                     NEW
                95                      100                    105                                         Denpasar   Mataram                  Ende                                                                Arafura Sea
                                                                                                                            17             18                          TIMOR-LESTE
             PROVINCES:                                                                                          10                Waingapu  Sumba            Timor                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                                                           Kupang
             1 NANGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM             11 D.K.I. JAKARTA               22 KALIMANTAN TIMUR
             2 SUMATERA UTARA                      12 JAWA BARAT                   23 SULAWESI UTARA
             3 RIAU                                13 JAWA TENGAH                  24 GORONTALO
             4 SUMATERA BARAT                      14 D.I. YOGYAKARTA              25 SULAWESI TENGAH                       I N D I A N O C E A N
             5 JAMBI                               15 JAWA TIMUR                   26 SULAWESI SELATAN
             6 BENGKULU                            16 BALI                         27 SULAWESI TENGGARA
JANUAR       7 SUMATERA SELATAN                    17 NUSA TENGGARA BARAT          28 MALUKU UTARA                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD
             8 LAMPUNG                             18 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR          29 MALUKU                     15                                                                                                                                        15
             9 BANGKA-BELITUNG                     19 KALIMANTAN BARAT             30 IRIAN JAYA (PAPUA)                                                                                                                                                                        33420
      Y
       2005 10 BANTEN                              20 KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                                                                                                             A U S T R A L I A
                                                   21 KALIMANTAN SELATAN                                           115                  120                  125                                 130                     135                 140

