                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001537



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-55626)



                                         ON A

   MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND FOR ACEH AND NORTH SUMATRA GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 17.96 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                         FOR A

    COMMUNITY RECOVERY PROJECT THROUGH THE URBAN POVERTY
        PROGRAM IN EARTHQUAKE-TSUNAMI AFFECTED AREAS
       OF NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM AND NORTH SUMATRA




                                 January 27, 2011




Indonesia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 23, 2010)

                                Currency Unit = Rupiah
                                  US$1 = IDR 9,085
                                 IDR 1,000 = US$0.11

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 – December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BKM     Badan Keswadayaan Masyarakat (Board of Community Trustees)
BRR     Badan Rekonstruksi dan Rehabilitasi (Board for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDD     community-driven development
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CRRP    Community Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plan
CSRRP   Community-Based Settlement Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project
CTC     Community Trustee Committee for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation (also known
        by its Indonesia acronym, KERAP)
GoI     Government of Indonesia
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDR     Indonesian Rupiah
ISR     Implementation Status Report
KDP     Kecamatan Development Project
KERAP   Komite Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi Kelurahan (Indonesian name for CTC)
KSM     Kelompok Swadaya Masyarakat (self-help community group)
MDF     Multi-Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias
M&E     monitoring and evaluation
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MPW     Ministry of Public Works
NMC     National Management Consultant
OC      oversight consultant
O&M     operations and maintenance
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     project development objective
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PNPM    Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat (National Community Empowerment
        Program)
PMU     Project Management Unit
Sec-MDF Secretariat of the Multi-Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias
TA      technical assistance
UPP     Urban Poverty Project
      Vice President: Mr. James W. Adams
    Country Director: Mr. Stefan G. Koeberle
     Sector Manager: Mr. Franz R. Drees-Gross
Project Team Leader: Mr. George Soraya
   ICR Team Leader: Mr. George Soraya
                          INDONESIA
     COMMUNITY RECOVERY PROJECT THROUGH THE URBAN POVERTY
        PROGRAM IN EARTHQUAKE-TSUNAMI AFFECTED AREAS



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Grantee Performance ........................................................ 12
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 15

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 23
  Annex 5. Summary of Grantee’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 25
  Annex 6. MDF Secretariat’s Comments on Draft ICR ................................................. 27
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 27
  Annex 8. Achievement of Project Development Objectives ........................................ 29

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Community Recovery
Country:               Indonesia               Project Name:             in Earthquake Affected
                                                                         Areas through UPP
Project ID:            P096647                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-55626
ICR Date:              02/13/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Grantee:
                                                                         INDONESIA
Original Total
                       USD 18.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 17.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 17.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Public Works
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process                Date         Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/10/2005   Effectiveness:             10/30/2005        11/21/2005
Appraisal:             08/02/2005   Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/24/2005   Mid-term Review:           12/15/2006        02/15/2007
                                    Closing:                   12/31/2009        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 50                  65
Sub-national government administration                                50                  35


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           33                  45
Urban services and housing for the poor                               67                  55

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Stefan G. Koeberle                   Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:            Franz R. Drees-Gross                 Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:       George Soraya                        George Soraya
ICR Team Leader:           George Soraya
ICR Primary Author:        Andre Oosterman


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To provide support for reconstruction and rehabilitation to urban communities impacted
by the earthquake and tsunami.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years
                % Disaster victim households in the targeted kelurahan receive benefits and
Indicator 1 :
                improved services from the projects
Value
quantitative or 0                           75%                               95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/25/2005                    08/25/2005                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % Community Trustee Committees (CTCs) formed under the project are
Indicator 2 :
                representative, effective and operate in a participatory manner
Value
quantitative or 0                           more than 70%                     90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/25/2005                    08/25/2005                        12/31/2009
                The value achieved at completion is a conservative estimate, based on data about
Comments
                success in CRRP implementation, voting rates in CTC elections, women's
(incl. %
                participation, complaint handling performance, cost of investments, and other
achievement)
                indicators.
                % CTCs are able to channel other donor reconstruction funds to their
Indicator 3 :
                communities
Value
quantitative or 0                           50%                               100
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/25/2005                    08/25/2005                        12/31/2009
                In all 402 kelurahan, the CTCs channeled funds from GoI's ongoing CDD
Comments
                program (UPP3 and PNPM) co-financed by the Bank; 49 kelurahan also
(incl. %
                obtained funds through the MDF-financed Community-Based Settlement
achievement)
                Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                           Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                             Revised
                                             approval                        Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   % Community rehabilitation and reconstruction plans are implemented
Value
(quantitative   0                           90%                              99.3%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/25/2005                    08/25/2005                       12/31/2009
Comments        Almost all of the specific investments identified in the Community Rehabilitation



                                               iii
(incl. %        and Reconstruction Plans were fully financed through the project's block grants.
achievement)    Only two of the eligible 273 kelurahan did not implement the full grant amounts
                planned.
Indicator 2 :   % of kelurahan adults vote in CTC leadership elections
Value
(quantitative   0                           30%                                30.2%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/25/2005                    08/25/2005                         12/31/2009
                In 2005 and 2006 the voting rate was only 19% because of difficulties in
Comments
                registering voters, as many residents had been killed and refugees were returning
(incl. %
                to the area. From 2007, registration was more complete, and attention to CTC
achievement)
                elections increased.
                % Kelurahan households utilize reconstructed/rehabilitated community
Indicator 3 :
                infrastructure
Value
(quantitative   0                           50%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/25/2005                    08/25/2005                         12/31/2009
                The extremely high utilization rate is explained by the fact that the Project
Comments
                mainly financed key infrastructure for common use (such as roads) in
(incl. %
                neighborhoods where most basic infrastructure had been destroyed by the
achievement)
                tsunami and earthquake.
                % Poorest household disaster victims receive social service assistance grants
Indicator 4 :
                from CTCs.
Value
(quantitative   0                           Poorest 10%                        48%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/25/2005                    08/25/2005                         12/31/2009
Comments        In retrospect, targeting the 10% "poorest" households was not deemed
(incl. %        appropriate because many residents in the targeted kelurahan had lost so much
achievement) that distinguishing the poorest 10% was not meaningful.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     03/26/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            17.90
  2     11/06/2007         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            17.90
  3     03/11/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   17.90


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
In December 2004, the province of Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam (better known as “Aceh?) was hit
by a tsunami and earthquake that claimed over 230,000 lives and destroyed countless schools,
houses, places of worship, and livelihoods. The level of death, destruction, displacement, and
disorder caused by these natural disasters required a virtual reorganization of communities in the
province. For rehabilitation and reconstruction purposes, as well as psychological reasons, there
was a distinct need to reorganize and empower communities to be central participants in this
massive task, determining for themselves what their needs and priorities would be, and how they
were to rebuild not only their community infrastructure, but the communities themselves.
In the immediate aftermath of the tragedy, the Government of Indonesia (GoI) requested that the
Bank lead an international team in preparing a comprehensive damage and loss assessment and,
shortly afterward, in implementing a strategy of community mobilization, training, organization,
and empowerment, with new and effective community organizations and local institutions.
Having the Bank assume this leadership role was based on its significant experience in carrying
out these types of activities, particularly in Indonesia. At the time of appraisal, the Third Urban
Poverty Project (UPP3) was being prepared, and its rural counterpart, the Kecamatan Develop-
ment Project (KDP), was already operating in Aceh. The proposed project (“the Project?) was a
special supplemental part of the national UPP3, designed to more appropriately address the
special needs in Aceh in the immediate and medium-term recovery and reconstruction period. It
was fully consistent with the Bank’s 2003-06 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia,
which the Bank updated in 2005 by introducing a new CAS pillar, called “Disaster Risk
Management?. As part of the updated strategy, the Bank committed itself, inter alia, to sustained
heavy engagement in Aceh and Nias throughout 2005-06 and beyond.
At the time of appraisal, it was anticipated that implementation of any reconstruction project in
Aceh would be extremely difficult, not only because the natural disasters had destroyed much of
the infrastructure, but also because civil unrest had plagued the province since the mid-1970s. On
the positive side, a large number of multilateral and bilateral donors had made significant
financial commitments in support of the planned reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts,
including contributions of over US$700 million to the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and
North Sumatra (MDF). The MDF provided a US$17.96 million grant to GoI to finance the full
cost of the project.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The PAD stated that “The objective of this project is to provide support for reconstruction and
rehabilitation to urban communities impacted by earthquakes and tsunami.? It went on specify
that “The project will provide block grants to 402 kelurahan and technical assistance to 402 urban
communities. The block grants will be used to: (i) establish and support representative and
accountable community organizations that are able to increase the voice of the disaster victims
and vulnerable households in public decision making; (ii) make local governments more
responsive to the needs of the disaster victims and vulnerable households through increased
cooperation with community organizations; and (iii) ensure provision of funds transparently to
community-based organizations and local governments to provide services to the urban
community victims of the disaster.?




                                                1
The key indicators in the PAD are:
Outcome indicators
1. 75% of disaster victim households in the targeted kelurahan receive benefits and improved
   services from the project.
2. More than 70% of the Community Trustee Committees (CTC) [komite rehabilitasi dan
   rekonstruksi kelurahan, KERAP] that have been formed are representative, effective, and
   operate in a participatory manner.
3. 50% of CTC/KERAP committees are able to channel other donor reconstruction funds to
   their communities.
Output indicators
1. 90% of Community Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plans are implemented.
2. 30% of kelurahan adults vote in CTC/KERAP committee leadership election.
3. 50% of kelurahan households utilize reconstructed/rehabilitated community infrastructure.
4. The poorest 10% of household disaster victims receive social service assistance grants from
   CTC/KERAP committees.
Although the PDO and key indicators stated in the grant agreement are slightly different from
those in the PAD, the differences are not substantive and do not affect their meaning or the
assessment of results. For example, the grant agreement with MDF uses the word “assist? rather
than “support? in its formulation of the PDO statement. The indicators in this agreement also
refer to a paragraph in the agreement that describes the social service assistance grants that are to
go to the 10% poorest households, and says that 90% of kelurahan will “implement sub-projects
in line with? their CRRPs rather than saying 90% of CRRPs will be implemented. Other
differences involve only minor editorial variations.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Not applicable.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The primary beneficiaries of the Project consisted of some 697,600 persons living in 402
kelurahan (urban neighborhoods) in Aceh1 that were thought to be most severely affected by the
tsunami and earthquake. The population of these kelurahan would benefit both directly and
indirectly from social service assistance grants and improved community infrastructure and
services, planned and implemented through a community-driven development (CDD) process.
Secondary beneficiaries would be (a) the Directorate of Buildings and Neighborhood
Development in the Ministry of Public Works (the implementing agency), which would benefit
from increased capacity, (b) village level facilitators and the staff of partner agencies providing
implementation support, who would benefit from technical assistance and enhanced coordination;
(c) the ten district governments in which the 402 kelurahan were located, who would benefit,


1
    All of these kelurahan were located in the province of Aceh, even though the term “Affected Area? in the
    Grant Agreement also encompassed the province of North Sumatra.


                                                      2
inter alia, from training, field studies, and institutional strengthening aimed at improving their
planning capabilities, and (d) the newly created CTCs themselves, which would benefit from TA
and advisory services in the process of establishing and strengthening their role in channeling
CDD funds to appropriate community activities and investments.
Shortly after approval of the Project, the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) undertook a rapid
survey of the Project area and concluded that only 273 kelurahan (in six of the ten participating
district governments), with a total population of approximately 465,700, were in immediate need
of improved community infrastructure as a result of severe impacts from the tsunami and
earthquake. GoI and the Bank therefore agreed to channel the Project’s block grants (under
Component B) only to these 273 kelurahan. All 402 kelurahan would remain eligible for
community development services under Component A, to enable them to tap into and better use
other sources of funding, which were initially provided through UPP3, and in a later stage also
through the Community-Based Settlement Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (CSRRP, a
recently completed project financed by MDF through the Bank.) and the National Program for
Community Empowerment (Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat or PNPM).
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project would be implemented in 402 kelurahan in ten district governments in the province
of Aceh. All activities would be financed 100 percent by the MDF, through the Bank. It consisted
of the following four components:
Component A: Community Development. Project Cost: US$4.11 million
This component consisted of the provision of technical advisory services to carry out community
development activities, including (a) raising awareness in target communities about the nature of
the disaster and how the project could help them address community reconstruction, (b)
assistance to communities in carrying out a community self-survey, (c) establishment of elected,
representative, transparent, and accountable community organizations known as Community
Trustee Committees for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation (CTC or KERAP) to act on behalf of
the community for purposes of rehabilitation and recovery, (d) formulation of a Community
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plan (CRRP) for each project kelurahan, using a transparent
and participatory process, (e) organization and assistance to community self-help groups on how
to prepare and submit proposals to utilize project resources and implement priority reconstruction
programs, and (f) assistance to the CTCs on how to partner with other community development
programs. This component involved a guided socialization process where facilitators were trained
to work directly with communities in the kelurahan.
Component B: Kelurahan Grants. Project Cost: US$11.73 million
This component would provide block grants to kelurahan to finance activities identified in the
CRRPs, including (a) specific high-priority infrastructure investments, (b) competitive proposals
from community groups consistent with the priorities in the CRRP, and (c) social safety net
programs for the benefit of the poorest and most vulnerable groups or individuals. The 402
participating kelurahan were to receive a block grant with a standard value of IDR 300 million to
finance investments in community infrastructure in accordance with their CRRPs.
Component C: Strengthening the Role and Capacity of Local Government. Project Cost:
US$1.00 million




                                                3
This component would provide technical assistance to strengthen the role and capacity of local
governments to work together with community organizations to address disaster relief, recovery,
community infrastructure rehabilitation and reconstruction, based on community values.
Component D: Implementation Management Support. Project Cost: US$1.12 million
The project would be managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU) assisted by an
administrative unit (PIMPRO), with a designated representative located in Aceh, who reports
regularly to BRR (Badan Rekonstruksi dan Rehabilitasi, a temporary government unit tasked
with the coordination of the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Aceh and Nias) on Project
progress for coordination purposes. The PMU would hire consultants and facilitators to assist in
project implementation. Technical assistance would be provided through the existing UPP
National Management Consultants at the central level, three Oversight Consultant Teams at the
province level, with OC offices in the participating district governments, and facilitators and
community cadres at the kelurahan level.
1.6 Revised Components
Not applicable.
1.7 Other significant changes
As explained in Section 1.4, the assessment of the scope of severe impact from the tsunami, and
thus the number of kelurahan eligible for block grants under Part B of the project, was more
accurately assessed after approval and prior to effectiveness. As a result, somewhat fewer
kelurahan participated in the block grant component of the project, and the size of the block
grants was somewhat greater (IDR 300-500 million) depending on the population, needs, and
reconstruction plans of each kelurahan.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The quality of the project at entry was high and contributed to its successful outcomes. It
benefited from being part of an overall MDF-financed program for reconstruction in Aceh, and
particularly from essentially being an extension of existing urban poverty projects that were either
already in implementation (UPP1 and UPP2) or soon to begin implementation (UPP3).
Soundness of background analysis. The background analysis was strong in large part because
the government of Indonesia had already prepared a Master Plan for the Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction of Aceh and Nias that was intended to guide and coordinate all recovery programs,
as attention shifted from emergency relief efforts to the reconstruction phase.
Lessons learned from previous Bank-assisted projects. The Project was an expansion of urban
poverty projects (UPP1 and UPP2) that were being implemented in Indonesia at the time of
appraisal. The design of the Project was therefore based on the same principles, the most impor-
tant of which were to (a) establish participatory processes for planning and managing investments
in community infrastructure; (b) build local government ownership of the program while
retaining key features of simplicity and direct transfers; (c) institutionalize transparency and
democracy from the bottom-up to complement the ongoing program of decentralization to
districts; (d) establish a system of checks and balances to encourage transparency by taking into
account both financial flows and flows of authority, and (e) promote local-level social inclusion,
with particular attention to women.



                                                 4
Assessment of project design. As mentioned previously, the objectives were critical and highly
relevant, and corresponded to the government’s own plans and priorities. The components and
implementation arrangements were well designed, realistic, and not overly complex, having been
largely adapted from proven approaches from other projects already under implementation, with
specific modifications for the post-disaster environment in Aceh. The MDF, which provided the
project financing, was an effective way of marshalling and coordinating the funds flowing in
from many sources to help ensure that they were used in an effective and coherent manner.
Although the geographic scope for the infrastructure reconstruction grants was initially too large,
this was because of the emergency nature of the program, and the government proactively carried
out a more detailed field assessment before the project activities began to ensure that investments
were targeted to the communities most in need. Another facet of the project that was
underestimated at the design stage was the difficulty of recruiting and retaining qualified
facilitators to work in the affected areas (described in more detail in section 2.2). Despite the
rapid project preparation, safeguard assessments and arrangements were robust. Appropriate
oversight arrangements were put in place, most investments were expected to be small in scale
and limited to reconstruction of existing infrastructure, and a negative list of subprojects not
eligible for financing was created, along with standard operating procedures and guidelines to
help minimize or address any localized impacts. Although gender participation met the targets set
in the project design, this was insufficient to ensure that the quality of the participation was high
(a problem that was addressed further during implementation). Complaint handling mechanisms
ultimately resulted in resolution of all but a handful of complaints.
Government commitment, stakeholder involvement, and participatory processes. The
Government of Indonesia played a central role in helping to set up the MDF, created its own
temporary coordination entity (BRR) for the overall disaster reconstruction program, prepared a
reconstruction master plan to guide the project, and carried out an additional field impact survey
to better target investments before they began. In terms of the project’s design and imple-
mentation arrangements, stakeholder involvement, participatory processes, and community-
driven development were the centerpiece and underlying concept of the entire project.
Assessment of risks. The PAD rated the project as having “moderate? overall risk with
mitigation, but did not include risk ratings without mitigation. The risk matrix in Annex 8
includes the team’s assessment of risk ratings without mitigation (substantial risk overall), which
were inadvertently omitted from the PAD. A notable cross-cutting risk discussed in the PAD, but
not listed separately in the risk matrix, was that operating in the province of Aceh generally was
seen as involving some inherent risks because it was a post-disaster environment in a province
that had been plagued by civil unrest for decades. However, since the Project was designed to
work closely and directly with communities and was located in urban areas where the incidence
of civil conflict was lower, these risks were not considered substantial. Several risks related to
local capacity, cooperation, and coordination issues were considered to be substantial or high
without mitigation. But with the mitigation measures included in project design, most of the
identified risks to project objectives and outcomes were rated negligible or moderate. The one
exception was the willingness of local government and kelurahan organizations to work together,
which was rated substantial even with the mitigation measures of building capacity at the
community and local government level, and carrying out socialization efforts to guide community
understanding of the nature of the disaster and the role of and opportunities presented by the
project. (Refer to Annex 8 for an overview of risks and associated mitigation measures). As
reflected in Section 2.2, the risk assessment and mitigation measures were generally on target,
and while some were more successfully mitigated than others, there were no unanticipated risks
or missed opportunities for mitigation that seriously limited achievement of project outcomes.



                                                 5
2.2 Implementation
Factors outside the control of the government or the implementation agency. The project was
designed with the aim of rehabilitation and reconstruction of community infrastructure that was
destroyed by the December 2004 tsunami and subsequent earthquake. Because most of the infra-
structure in the project area was destroyed, logistical problems were much more severe than for
other community-driven development projects. At the start of implementation, all but the most
basic infrastructure was lacking and a large number of persons in Aceh were still living in tempo-
rary camps. In addition, many kelurahan served by the project were very difficult to access, lar-
gely because a major portion of the transport infrastructure was destroyed by the natural disasters.
Factors subject to the control of the government or the implementation agency
Positive factors
   Strong political commitment and support. The Project was able to secure support at the
    highest levels of government. GoI’s commitment to disaster relief in the Project area was
    highlighted by the establishment of a temporary government unit (BRR) dedicated to
    coordinating the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Aceh and Nias. The Project was funded
    entirely from Aceh reconstruction grants made available through the MDF. These funds were
    directed to the Grantee’s overall assistance program and linked to UPP community planning
    and subproject implementation. To jump-start the implementation of the Project, GoI
    approved the utilization of US$2.5 million from other resources (which was reimbursed
    when MDF funds became available).
   Long-term integration with nationwide community-driven development programs. Even
    though the Project was aimed at restoring basic community infrastructure on short notice, it
    was designed from the outset to be integrated with GoI’s CDD projects that were being
    developed at the time of appraisal. To speed up implementation, in the first year of the
    project (2006) the CRRPs were prepared by the community trustee committees (CTCs) set
    up by the project, but beginning in 2007 responsibility for preparing these plans migrated to
    the more highly structured and formal Badan Keswadayaan Masyarakat (BKM) committees,
    based on a nationwide model that already existed at the time the Project was prepared.
   Flexibility. From the start of the project, the implementing agency and the Bank were willing
    to adapt certain aspects of project implementation in response to changing information and
    circumstances, to ensure that the project would achieve its objectives and have the greatest
    impact. As mentioned before, based on the results of a rapid survey, it was decided to
    allocate block grants only to those kelurahan (273 of the 402 kelurahan covered by the
    Project) where the tsunami and earthquake had devastated basic infrastructure facilities.
    Secondly, to improve the quality of women’s participation in the Project, the Bank and MPW
    agreed in 2007 to earmark US$2.35 million of the block grant funds to projects that were
    identified and chosen by community women’s groups as part of a “women’s empowerment
    program? carried out under the project. The CDD design of the block grant component and
    flexibility in its implementation also allowed the communities to put the available funds
    where it mattered most to them, which put an even greater emphasis than expected on the
    specific priority investments in the CRRPs rather than the competitive proposals or
    household grant assistance.
Negative factors
   Improper financial management. Financial management (FM) of block grants was less than
    satisfactory throughout the Project implementation period, as communities were often unable


                                                 6
    to comply with FM guidelines, especially those related to the safekeeping of cash and the
    dissemination of financial reports. These problems were most pressing in the early part of
    Project implementation, when it was difficult to find qualified facilitators willing to work in
    a conflict area. During the second half of the Project implementation period, the FM rating
    improved from “moderately unsatisfactory? to “moderately satisfactory?, but shortcomings
    in a broad range of accountability and transparency issues continued to exist. However, these
    FM shortcomings did not lead to any known misuse of funds or unresolved complaints about
    use of funds.
   Delays in appointment of key staff and fund flow delays. Some training was provided late
    due to delays in disbursement of fixed-cost funds for training of facilitator teams. Facilitator
    performance, a vital factor in project success, was hampered by a high rate of turnover as the
    oversight consultants tended to rotate facilitators in order to cover vacant positions. The
    Bank felt reluctant to increase facilitator salaries under the Project (which were already
    higher than in other provinces) for fear that this would start increases in facilitator wages
    throughout Aceh. This, in turn, would negatively affect the operational budgets of other
    donor agencies and NGOs working in the province, many of which also relied extensively on
    facilitators.
   Limited effectiveness of social marketing programs. Socialization was much improved com-
    pared to previous UPPs. Printed materials were distributed for communities and displayed on
    information boards, serial meetings were conducted at the neighborhood level and mass
    socialization was carried out during strategic events. However, socialization was not optimal,
    as communities did not always clearly understand the main message of the materials, partly
    because these did not always sufficiently address the local context. Socialization was also
    negatively affected by the initial difficulty in finding facilitators who had a proper under-
    standing of the local context and were willing to work in a post-disaster environment.
   Poor quality of some infrastructure projects. Roads and box culverts were usually
    constructed to MPW standards, but there were some problems related to improper (and non-
    standard) planning, especially for investments in drainage. The main reasons for this were
    (a) high-level infrastructure, such as primary and secondary drainage, was largely absent at
    first, thereby hampering the effectiveness of small-scale drainage systems, (b) communities
    generally do not properly maintain the infrastructure financed by the Project, even though
    most participating kelurahan have formally set up O&M groups, and (c) incomplete designs;
    for example, the Project financed access roads without needed drains, or drains without
    screens or frames to avoid becoming blocked by debris.
   Quality of participation of women. Initially, the quality of female participation in preparing
    CRRPs was poor, even though the Project met its target of ensuring that at least 30 percent
    of the participants in planning sessions were women. Because of the cultural context in Aceh,
    during both preparation and implementation, special efforts were made to include the voices
    and priorities of women. A notable adjustment during implementation was to reserve
    US$2.35 million of the block grants for subprojects developed through a women’s
    empowerment program that was highly successful in improving women’s participation and
    financing activities proposed by women.
Mid-Term Review. The Bank has undertaken an unusually large number of supervision missions,
as reflected by the considerable volume of aide-memoires and technical notes to the
implementing agency. Modification of technical guidelines and manuals had to be made in
response to these missions. As such, MTR objectives were carried out as part of these regular




                                                7
missions. (Section 5.1 refers to the results of a mid-term review by the MDF of the entire Aceh
program, including the Project.)
Effectiveness of risk mitigation. As anticipated, the risk due to the history of civil conflict in the
province was not significant, though this was not so much a result of confining the Project to non-
conflict areas, but rather because in the aftermath of the tsunami, GoI and the Free Aceh
Movement renewed reconciliation efforts and negotiated an agreement that effectively put an end
to active conflict. Mitigation of other risks was good, but mixed. The specific risks related to (a)
government intervention in the CTCs or lack of cooperation between different stakeholders or
levels of government, (b) politicization or misuse of funds by the CTCs, and (c) the capacity of
the communities to develop realistic and good quality CRRPs were either modest or were well
mitigated during implementation. However, as described above, risks related to (a) adequate
maintenance of the community infrastructure, (b) financial management practices, and (c)
availability of qualified facilitators were not mitigated as successfully as expected, though the
shortcomings did not fundamentally undermine achievement of the project outputs or outcomes.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
a)   M&E design. At the beginning of implementation, the Bank established a comprehensive
     management information system, to help monitor and evaluate the Project. The information
     provided by the M&E system is generally considered to be of very high quality compared to
     most other development projects undertaken in Aceh. It is extremely comprehensive
     (providing, for example, the number of beneficiaries for each activity financed by the Project,
     with timely information provided on a monthly basis) and readily accessible by the public. In
     spite of these obvious advantages, the system could have been further improved by explicitly
     linking it to monitoring and evaluation of the Project’s performance indicators, some which
     were either recorded by other systems (“% Project kelurahan implement subprojects in line
     with Community Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plans? and “% Project kelurahan
     households utilize reconstructed/rehabilitated community infrastructure?) or had to be
     inferred from intermediate indicators (such as “% Disaster victim households in the targeted
     kelurahan received benefits and improved services of the project? and “Poorest household
     disaster victims receive social service assistance grants from CTC/KERAP committees?).
b)   M&E implementation. The M&E system was set up early in the Project, except for the
     system for the women’s empowerment program (which was developed during
     implementation to more narrowly target part of the grant component and thereby enhance
     women’s participation in community development activities). Data generated by the system
     are publicly available on the PNPM website (http://www.p2kp.org) in the form of
     downloadable MS-Excel files, which are updated on a monthly basis. However, it is not easy
     to understand the contents of the downloadable files (partly because the definitions of some
     data labels are missing).
c)   M&E utilization. The data collected was useful in ensuring that the CTCs were representa-
     tive and that the CRRPs were of good quality and realistic. Since the data confirmed that
     women’s participation targets were being met in percentage terms, it influenced the Bank
     and MPW efforts to improve the voice of women through qualitative approaches and by
     introducing new subproject selection strategies rather than merely increasing participation
     rates. The data also showed that although about 48% of households in the eligible kelurahan
     received social service assistance grants, it was not realistic or relevant to identify, much less
     target, the “poorest 10%? of the population for this household grant assistance, and
     ultimately it was not as high a priority for the communities as anticipated. It also provided




                                                  8
     data with which to adjust the block grant amounts for some villages based on both need and
     effectiveness of utilization.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The block grants were implemented by community groups in Kelurahan (KSM), and each of
them managed a subproject which typically did not exceed US$2,000 equivalent. Given the small
size the subprojects financed by the Project, it was a priori expected that any adverse social and
environmental impacts of such subprojects would be small or negligible. This expectation was
confirmed by the Project’s many supervision missions. Indeed, the Project generated substantial
social and environmental benefits by providing key infrastructure in locations where most basic
infrastructure was devastated by the natural disasters. Investments in drainage, water supply and
sanitation generated direct environmental benefits. No cultural property, involuntary resettlement
and indigenous people related issues we encountered during project implementation.
As to fiduciary compliance, the Project encountered problems with financial management
throughout implementation, primarily because communities were often unable to comply with
FM guidelines, especially those related to safekeeping (community treasurers were not supposed
to keep cash balances of more than IDR 1 million for more than 48 hours from receipt) and the
dissemination of financial reports (which should be displayed in at least five strategic locations
within a kelurahan). These problems were exacerbated by difficulties in finding qualified
facilitators willing to work in a conflict area. The complexity of the arrangements was not
considered inappropriate nor a primary factor in the FM shortcomings. It also should be
emphasized that the fiduciary problems were related to difficulties in making communities
comply with proper FM procedures. In case of poor FM performance by a certain kelurahan,
block grants to that kelurahan were suspended until acceptable performance was reached. In 2006,
2007, 2008, and 2009, the Project received an unqualified opinion from BPKP, the state auditor.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
a)   Transition arrangements. The Project was implemented to assist with the rehabilitation and
     reconstruction of community-based infrastructure. While only 273 kelurahan received grants
     to finance specific investments and subprojects, all 402 kelurahan received assistance to
     prepare CRRPs, and became eligible to finance investments identified in these plans from
     funds provided by UPP3 and the National Community Empowerment Program (PNPM). For
     both recipients of block grants as well as the capacity building and TA-only recipients,
     transition was an integral design element of the project since the CRRPs were intended to be
     the plan, or least the platform, for longer term investment strategies that could and are being
     financed by other projects or sources, including the provincial government of Aceh. In
     addition, there has been a transition from CTCs to more structured and formal BKM
     committees, based on a pre-existing nationwide model.
b)   Follow-up projects. None (Project kelurahan migrated to UPP3 and PNPM; see above).
c)   Future impact evaluation. A study on the qualitative impact of similar UPP3-financed sub-
     projects was carried out. However, the study area did not include Aceh.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
In 2005, GoI completed a Blueprint for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction in Aceh and Nias,
which guided the coordination and implementation of all recovery programs being introduced in
Aceh. The Project complemented the Government’s efforts to restore communities to their former


                                                 9
state before the tsunami and the subsequent earthquake, while at the same time pursuing its
ongoing strategy of community-driven development (CDD) projects. GoI has recently confirmed
its commitment to such projects, and has repeatedly stated that it will continue to implement its
national CDD program (known as PNPM) until at least 2015. At the same time, the Project
directly addressed three of the four pillars in the Bank’s 2004–08 CAS for Indonesia: Disaster
Risk Management, Governance, and Service Delivery to the Poor.
The CCD approach is also a key component of the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
2009-12, which emphasizes engagements with government counterparts and other stakeholders
who are committed to addressing critical governance and institutional challenges. In addition the
Project was directly relevant to three of the five thematic areas that the CPS envisions as forming
the core of the Bank’s engagement: (a) Infrastructure, (b) Community Development and Social
Protection, and (c) Environmental Sustainability and Disaster Mitigation.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project was successful in achieving its objective, “to provide support for reconstruction and
rehabilitation to urban communities impacted by the earthquake and tsunami,? as reflected in the
three key indicators linked to that PDO:
    at least 75% of disaster victim households in the targeted kelurahan receive benefits and
     improved services from the Project,
    at least 70% of CTC/KERAP that have been formed are representative, effective, and operate
     in a participatory manner, and
    at least 50% of CTC/KERAP are able to channel other donor reconstruction funds to their
     communities.
i.   Disaster victim households in targeted kelurahan receive benefits and improved services
     The Project allocated grants for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of community infrastruc-
     ture to the 273 kelurahan determined to be most in need of such support. At the same time, it
     made sure that all 402 kelurahan received facilitator support to help them access other
     sources of finance for activities identified in their CRRPs. As a result, virtually all residents
     of the 402 kelurahan, who were severely impoverished by the impact of the tsunami, received
     benefits and improved services from the Project. As of December 31, 2009, the largest share
     of Project-financed block grants for community infrastructure was allocated to roads and
     bridges, drainage, and water. Over 38,843 households (about 48 percent of the population in
     the 273 kelurahan selected to receive block grants) received social assistance grants. (See
     Annex 2 for details.)
ii. CTC/KERAP formed under the project are representative, effective and operate in a
    participatory manner
     The Project supported the establishment of a model—which was successfully implemented
     elsewhere in Indonesia—for participatory planning and financing in 402 kelurahan across the
     province where communities participated in a democratic, participatory process of planning
     and decision-making regarding the allocation of public development funds. The vast majority
     of the CTCs established by the Project were deemed representative, effective and
     participatory, based on their composition, voting rates, women’s participation, complaint
     handling, and their success in identifying infrastructure priorities, creating community
     reconstruction plans, and carrying out the needed investments (see Annex 2 for details).




                                                 10
iii. CTCs are able to channel other donor reconstruction funds to their communities.
    The Project was highly successful in assisting communities in all 402 participating kelurahan
    to prepare the CRRPs required to mobilize additional funding from other CDD-type programs
    (UPP3 and PNPM), as well as from CSRRP and a UN-Habitat housing project.
3.3 Efficiency
Given the low cost of the subprojects financed by the Project and the substantial economic
benefits of infrastructure investments in a location where infrastructure was largely absent in the
aftermath of the tsunami, it was not deemed useful to estimate indicators such as NPVs or EIRRs
or FIRRs. Efficiency was therefore gauged by unit rate norms, which are highly favorable for
community-executed infrastructure projects (see Annex 3 for details).
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
Relevance. The PDOs and design remained relevant throughout the implementation period. The
Project was not only central in efforts to support reconstruction and rehabilitation for disaster-
affected communities, but was also designed to enable a smooth transition from special post-
disaster assistance to the government’s ongoing nationwide CDD program, using the same com-
munity planning approach and mechanisms. Modeling the Project on implementation arrange-
ments used in past, current, and planned CCD projects helped ensure the relevance of its design.
Achievement of PDOs. The Project exceeded the targets set for the three primary indicators
measuring achievement of the PDO (percent of population benefiting, establishment of effective
and participatory CTCs, and ability of the CTCs to channel funds from other sources or programs.
It is noteworthy that it financed the construction of community infrastructure at very high speed
(with 78% of funds disbursed before half of the Project implementation period had elapsed, faster
than anticipated by the PAD) in an extremely difficult working environment, where most basic
infrastructure was destroyed by the December 2004 tsunami and, to a lesser extent, by the
earthquake. (Refer to Annex 9 for a detailed overview of PDO achievement.)
Efficiency. As described above, the cost of subprojects financed by CDD programs tends to be
significantly lower than similar subprojects financed by local governments. It should be noted,
however, that these cost savings are, to some extent, offset by other factors, including: (i)
technical quality (which was relatively low in the early part of implementation), (ii) limited
capacity for O&M, and (iii) relatively high supervision costs (compared to other Bank-financed
community-driven development projects elsewhere in Indonesia).
In spite of some caveats in terms of the efficiency of the Project, the achievement of the targets
for the three key PDO indicators, coupled with the high relevance of the project objectives, justify
a rating of “satisfactory? for the overall outcome of the Project.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
The Project had three unintended outcomes that benefited other programs:
a. The Project’s design was used to prepare two projects that provided emergency
   reconstruction assistance in rebuilding community infrastructure destroyed by earthquakes in
   and around Yogyakarta and Padang.
b. The women’s empowerment program, which was developed by the Project in 2007 and



                                                11
    successfully implemented in 2008, will become an integral part of PNPM.
c. The provincial government of Aceh is now financing implementation of the village CRRPs
   from its own financial resources after the Project’s kelurahan grants were disbursed in full
   instead of relying on central government or donor support.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The “Risk to Development Outcome? defined as the risk that the development outcomes of the
Project—at the time this ICR was prepared—will not be sustained, is moderate. As described in
Section 3.4, the central reconstruction objective of the project remained highly relevant, and
despite some shortcomings in operations and maintenance arrangements, the project outcomes
contributed to the higher level impact of restoring community well-being, security, and economic
activity in the wake of the disaster, even if better long-term infrastructure maintenance is still
needed. Furthermore, though emergency post-tsunami reconstruction needs have eased, in the
process of achieving these shorter term objectives the Project also helped establish effective,
participatory and representative community committees that can mobilize funds through the
preparation of CRRPs, and linked these mechanisms to more permanent programs and to ongoing,
non-emergency community development plans and goals. Both central and local governments
have indicated a strong and long-term commitment to the financing of such plans. If the central
and local governments were to withdraw their support for community-driven development plans,
a major portion of the Project’s investment in capacity building will have been wasted. Although
the impact of such as withdrawal would be significant, the likelihood of this happening in the
near future is considered only moderate given GoI’s long-term commitment to CDD-type
programs. For this reason, the risk to development outcome is rated as “moderate.?
5. Assessment of Bank and Grantee Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the Project was consi-
dered “Satisfactory?. A mid-term review of the entire MDF portfolio, which was conducted by
an independent consultant in 2008 at the request of the donors to the MDF also had given a
satisfactory rating. The main reasons for this rating were the Project’s robust M&E system, the
limited number of outcome indicators, a very good complaints handling system, the fact that it
was based on the design of UPP2, and was prepared in only 3.5 months. The ICR preparation
team believes that the Bank’s performance in Project design deserves to be rated as
“Satisfactory,? especially because it has become GoI’s standard model for reconstruction and
rehabilitation of community infrastructure throughout the country. A rating of “Highly
Satisfactory? was not deemed appropriate because of minor shortcomings, mainly in financial
management and in unanticipated difficulties in recruiting well-qualified facilitators which
adversely affected project implementation in the initial stages. The strengths of the design can be
summarized as follows:



                                                12
   Nationwide applicability. GoI considers the design of the Project as a general model for
    disaster relief programs, and has already used it for the preparation of community-
    development programs in the aftermath of earthquakes in Yogyakarta and Padang (the latter
    project was fully financed from the Government’s own budgetary resources).
   Relevance. The design of the Project incorporated from the start a transition from “disaster
    recovery? to “community development?, and was directly linked to GoI’s development
    policies and three of the four pillars in the Bank’s CAS. More specifically, the Project’s
    objective was consistent with the government’s development priorities for the reconstruction
    of Aceh and the Bank’s strategy for Disaster Risk Management (see the Bank’s updated CAS
    for Indonesia, covering the period 2004-2008).
   Flexibility. The grant agreement for the financing of the Project only stipulated general
    principles, but did not provide detail about its implementation, which was based on a project
    manual prepared by the Bank. This provided GoI and the Bank with much-needed flexibility
    to modify implementation arrangements in response to changing circumstances.
   Sustainability. The design of the Project did not only encompass disaster reconstruction, but
    also sought to ensure its long-term sustainability by linking it to GoI’s ongoing CDD
    program. A decision was made to base the design of the Project on a tried and tested model
    (the successful UPP and KDP series of projects), to enable the preparation of a disaster-
    response at short notice time, whilst maintaining proper quality at entry.
   Supportive of anti-corruption policies. Tackling corruption required a good understanding of
    the incentives that drive it, creativity in designing counter-incentives, and commitment to go
    into cases of fraud. The Bank worked closely with MPW (the implementing agency) to apply
    the M&E system and a complaints handling mechanism for UPP1/2 to the Project (refer to
    Annex for details).
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank mobilized a multi-disciplinary supervision team with expertise in project management,
financial management, procurement, monitoring, and safeguards. The Jakarta-based UPP task
team was moved to Aceh at short notice, and assisted the Government during initial stage of
Project implementation. Several team members were based in Aceh for two years to assist with
resolving various coordination issues. This arrangement allowed for more frequent site visits and
more sustained follow-up than for other UPP projects, and was undertaken at a relatively low cost,
which was shared with other reconstruction projects. It should be noted, however, that in spite of
intensive supervision, the Project continued to be plagued by less than satisfactory financial
management issues, especially in the early part of the implementation period.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the Bank’s performance during Project preparation and supervision, overall perfor-
mance is rated as Satisfactory. The Project was prepared quickly, at low cost, and with only minor
shortcomings. Supervision was intensive, especially because of very limited capabilities of
communities and local government institutions in the first two years following the tsunami and
earthquake. This enabled the Bank to identify and proactively address key issues adversely
affecting achievement of the PDOs at an early stage, notably problems with delays in budget
approval, facilitator recruitment, ineffective socialization campaigns, and limited compliance with


                                                13
financial management procedures. Because of these supervision efforts, performance in these
areas improved over time (as described in detail in the ISRs).
5.2 Grantee Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
GoI strongly supported the Project from the start, and the Ministry of Finance cooperated swiftly
to reallocate $2.5 million from other Bank-financed projects to jump-start implementation (these
funds were later reimbursed from the first disbursements to the Project). Supported by the imple-
menting agency, the Project was prepared within 3.5 months (the concept was developed in May
2005, and the grant was approved in August 2005), one of the shortest preparation times for any
GoI project of this type. The Government also took steps that helped to end decades of civil
unrest in the Province, which greatly facilitated the implementation of the Project.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
From the outset, the implementing agency supported a bottom-up, community-driven approach to
disaster management. It strongly supported the establishment of a comprehensive M&E system to
maintain a high level of transparency of the outcomes of the Project. It also took steps to modify
implementation arrangements where needed, and responded to complaints or suspicions about the
misuse of funds with great vigor. There were, however, several avoidable problems that stronger
management might have been able to correct, such as poor compliance with FM procedures, and
limited sustainability of part of the capacity building investments financed by the Project. In
addition, as the Project progressed, the implementing agency gradually shifted its attention to the
development of other projects. However, by that time the main issues affecting implementation
and outcomes had been addressed and it was not entirely inappropriate to refocus priorities on
other active or proposed projects with more pressing needs.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Grantee Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
In light of the satisfactory ratings for the performance of both the Government and the
implementing agency, the overall performance of the Grantee is rated “satisfactory.?
6. Lessons Learned
   CDD-type projects can be effective and can be set up on short notice to mitigate the impacts
    of natural disasters. This was demonstrated by using the design of the Project to prepare two
    other disaster relief projects on short notice (to rebuild community infrastructure destroyed
    by earthquakes that hit Yogyakarta in 2006 and Padang in 2009, respectively). Moreover, the
    Project did not only support much-needed investments, but also contributed to the
    psychological recovery of the victims by involving them in the decision-making processes.
   Earmarked funding can be effective to increase participation of targeted segments of
    community groups. The validity of this lesson was demonstrated by the successful
    implementation of the women’s empowerment program.
   Flexibility in design and implementation arrangements are essential for disaster recovery
    projects. Because of a high level of uncertainty during preparation, the Project design should


                                                14
    allow the Bank and the Grantee to adapt to changing circumstances during implementation
    when more information becomes available.
   Efficient use of funds for disaster relief programs requires coordination with long-term
    development plans. Such coordination is needed to ensure appropriate levels of rehabilitation
    for infrastructure that will be reconstructed at a large scale in a later stage, whilst at the same
    time considering the benefits of short-term rehabilitation to get communities “back on their
    feet? and develop productive activities.
   On-budget financing helps create institutional capacity and fosters long-term sustainability.
    Unlike many other foreign-financed disaster relief projects in Aceh, GoI and the Bank both
    elected to channel Project funds through GoI’s regular budgeting system (“on-budget?)
    instead of financing expenditures directly from foreign bank accounts, with subsequent
    reporting of these expenditures (“off-budget?). The Project demonstrated that on-budget
    financing does not need to lead to delays, and builds commitment to the Project at the
    various layers of government involved in preparation and utilization of budgets.
   Block grants to villages should initially be modest and applicable to all villages, and
    gradually increase based on performance and absorption capacity. Based on previous UPP
    experience, the Project provided at first a block grant of US$30,000 to US$50,000
    (equivalent) to each village, with subsequent additional grants based on their progress and
    performance. This avoided wastage of funds in areas where capacity is low, and allowed for
    faster disbursement of funds.
   A national CDD program helps to maintain a corps of facilitators who can be mobilized at
    short notice in case of a disaster. For a disaster-prone country such as Indonesia, it is
    important to have an on-going national CDD program that maintains such a corps. The
    Project significantly benefited from existing UPP facilitators who were voluntarily mobilized
    from all over the country to start up the project.
All lessons (with the possible exception of the one on on-budget financing) have general
applicability for similar operations in Indonesia and comparable countries. In addition, several
products were developed during Project implementation, which were later used in modified form
by UPP3 and PNPM. These innovations included: (i) a uniform financial management system, (ii)
a more appropriate composition of facilitator teams (with enhanced use of municipal engineers),
and (iii) a manual for the design of a small-scale infrastructure projects.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
The Government rates the process and the outcome of the preparation of the Project as “highly
satisfactory,? partly because it was prepared at very short notice, but especially because of the
design, which GoI considers a model for providing support to communities affected by natural
disasters. GoI also considers the project implementation as “highly satisfactory? in delivering
much-needed basic infrastructure and social support in a short period of time to kelurahan where
this was most needed. At the same time, the Government feels that the World Bank: (i) could have
provided better coordination of the disaster relief effort in Aceh, and (ii) that overtly detailed
Bank supervision was sometimes counterproductive to the smooth implementation of the Project.
(See Annex 5 for detailed comments of GoI on this ICR; the Grant Agreement did not require and
the Executing Agency did not prepare its own completion report for the Project).




                                                 15
The Bank concurs with the first comment, and has already responded to this by creating a “single
window? for donor assistance to the financing of relief and recovery efforts in the aftermath of
the Yogyakarta earthquake in 2005. Although the Bank concedes that supervision was tight and
sometimes detailed, it should be pointed out that disaster recovery programs required a difficult
balance between speed and quality/accountability. The Project required more intense supervision
than ordinary Bank-financed projects, because the tsunami and earthquake had severely reduced
institutional capacity at the community and local government level.
(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
The Secretariat of the MDF (Sec-MDF) considers the CDD projects in its portfolio, including
UPP-Aceh, as highly successful. They have demonstrated that (i) a CDD approach can be used
successfully to provide communities with a role and voice in their own recovery and reconstruc-
tion in a post-disaster context, and (ii) using existing mechanisms (such as scaling up on-going
national-level projects) to deliver post-disaster recovery and reconstruction programs is an
effective strategy, especially because the open-menu approach offered flexibility to reach the
tsunami-affected population and addressed a variety of needs ranging from rebuilding roads,
bridges, town halls to social funds and providing cash grants in the immediate aftermath of the
disaster. Other comments of Sec-MDF on the draft ICR can be summarized as follows (refer to
Annex 6 for details).
i.    It is important to build on this model by examining what worked well, aspects that were
      challenging, so future project design can be shaped drawing from this experience to benefit
      future post disaster reconstruction. Specific areas of concern for the Sec-MDF related to
      sustainability and quality include inadequate arrangements for O&M.
ii.   The Bank and MDF can provide lessons for the Bank, GoI and other partners in supporting
      community recovery in future disasters.
iii. UPP offers opportunities for lessons learned for reconstruction efforts in Indonesia and the
     world. At present, there is little documentation of what specific aspects of CDD projects
     work or do not work well in a post-disaster context and why.
The Bank concurs with Sec-MDF that O&M of village infrastructure remains a concern, and has
supported the Government in addressing this problem in the design of PNPM.
Section 6 mentions five lessons learned, two of which are unrelated to disaster relief (earmarked
funding for under-represented groups, and on-budget financing). This section also mentions
several products developed during Project implementation that were “used in modified form by
UPP3 and PNPM.? These are examples of specific aspects that do work well in a post-disaster
context.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
No issues were raised by partners and stakeholders other than GoI (such as provincial government
agencies, NGOs, and village organizations).




                                                16
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
           Components                                           Estimate
                                        (US$ million)                                  Appraisal
                                                              (US$ million)
Community Development                          4.11                    4.17                 101
Kelurahan Grants                              11.73                  11.13                   95
Strengthening the Role and Capacity
                                               1.00                    1.02                 102
    of Local Government
Implementation Management
                                               1.12                    1.13                 101
    Support
                Total Baseline Cost           17.96                  17.45                   97
Physical Contingencies                         0.00                    0.00
Price Contingencies                            0.00                    0.00
                Total Project Costs           17.96                  17.45                   97
Project Preparation Costs                      0.00                    0.00


         Total Financing Required             17.96                  17.45                   97



b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                             Type of       Estimate         Estimate    Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing      (USD             (USD        Appraisal
                                                           millions)        millions)
Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and
                                                             17.96            17.45               97
   Nias (MDF)
                         Total Financing                     17.96            17.45               97




                                                 17
                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Community Development
Rating: Satisfactory
This component was implemented in all 402 kelurahan that were identified in the PAD. It
consisted of providing technical advisory services through teams of kelurahan facilitators
(“faskel?) to help communities formulate a Community Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plan
(CRRP) using a transparent and participatory process. This, in turn, required assistance to:
    carry out a community self-survey,
    organize the election of a transparent, representative and accountable committee (initially
     CTCs, later replaced with BKM, a more elaborate structure),
    prepare and submit proposals to utilize project resources and implement priority
     reconstruction programs, and
    obtain access to funds for community development programs.
The outputs of Component A were the following:
   Establishment of representative, effective and participatory community self-help groups. The
    Project supported the establishment of a model—which was successfully implemented
    elsewhere in Indonesia—for participatory planning and financing in 402 kelurahan across
    the province where communities participated in a democratic, participatory process of
    planning and decision-making regarding the allocation of public development funds. The
    Bank estimates that the vast majority of the CTCs established by the Project are
    representative, effective and participatory based on their composition, voting rates, average
    women’s participation, complaint handling, and their success in identifying infrastructure
    priorities, creating community reconstruction plans, and carrying out the needed investments.
    Over 30% of total population, of which 36.6% were women, participated in the CTC election
    process. The significance of this achievement should not be underestimated, given that prior
    to the tsunami and earthquake there were no community-driven development programs being
    undertaken in the Project area. (Indeed, the CTCs were the first democratically-elected
    institutions in Aceh after the tsunami).
   Transparency and accountability in fund utilization. The Project established an elaborate
    complaints handling system. As of January, 31 2009, 285 complaints were registered, of
    which only 17 (6 percent) were related to the alleged misuse of funds. The funds involved
    totaled only IDR 263.4 million, or 0.31 percent of total kelurahan grants financed by the
    Project. Thirteen of the 17 cases, involving 97 percent of these funds, were resolved, leaving
    less than 0.01 percent of the grants under allegations of misuse. Facilitators actively
    encouraged community members to report misuse of funds, and explained the options for
    doing so (anonymous reporting to Project authorities by SMS, phone, email or in writing). It
    should be emphasized that the complaints handling was set up as a “third line? of defense
    against misuse of funds. Strict financial management guidelines and continuous supervision
    of compliance with these guidelines were the first and second line of defense, respectively.
   Adequate participation of women and poor in CTCs. In the early stages of the Project, the
    quality of women’s participation in the community committees and reconstruction planning
    and decision-making was poorer than expected, even though the target of having women
    account for 30 percent of the participants in planning sessions was achieved. However, as




                                               18
     mentioned before, this problem was successfully addressed during implementation by
     introducing a women’s empowerment program.
    Access by CTCs to funds for other community development programs. The Project was
     highly successful in assisting communities in all 402 participating kelurahan to prepare the
     CRRPs required to mobilize additional funding from other CDD programs (UPP3 and
     PNPM), as well as CSRRP and a housing project in Banda Aceh co-financed by UN-Habitat.


Component B: Kelurahan Grants
Rating: Satisfactory
This component provided block grants to kelurahan to finance grant proposals selected according
to priorities identified in the CRRP for: (i) specific high-priority infrastructure investments, (ii)
competitive proposals from community groups consistent with the priorities in the CRRP, and
(iii) social safety programs for the benefit of the poorest and most vulnerable groups or
individuals.
Block grant allocations. Based on the results of a rapid survey undertaken in mid-2005, 273 of
402 kelurahan were prioritized for the allocation of block grants. Of these, 249 received IDR 300
million. It was agreed to increase the allocation of the block grant for kelurahan with populations
substantially above the average. For this reason, 13 kelurahan received a block grant of IDR 400
million, and nine kelurahan a block grant of IDR 500 million. Two of the 273 kelurahan did not
receive the full block grant amount of IDR 300 million, because of misuse of funds.
In 2007, the Bank and MPW agreed to earmark US$2.35 million of the block grant funds, which
remained unallocated due to a reduction in the number of beneficiary villages (from 402 to 273),
to a women’s empowerment program. In 2008, 50 of the best-performing of the 273 kelurahan
each received a block grant of IDR 100 million to finance community infrastructure projects
exclusively selected by women. In 2009, these 50 kelurahan—plus the next best 50 kelurahan—
were allocated another IDR 150 million each in block grants (of these, 98 prepared a plan of
sufficient quality to become eligible to absorb the funds).
About IDR 74.5 billion, or 91% of the total amount available for block grants, was used for
community infrastructure. As shown in the table overleaf, over 70% of these infrastructure grants
were used to finance investments in roads and drainage. Clean water, public toilets and village
halls accounted for most of the remainder. The other 9% of the block grant funds (IDR 7.8
billion) were disbursed as direct social service assistance to specific individuals or households.
This largely consisted of small cash grants, averaging about $21 or $22, to the poorest kelurahan
residents to pay for training (such as sewing or typing courses), minor home improvement or
repair, health care and medical expenses, or other urgent needs.
The project was supposed to ensure that the poorest 10 percent of households received these
social service grants, but it became clear that distinguishing the poorest 10 percent was not
feasible or even relevant considering how large a percentage of the population was left with
nothing after the disasters. The CTCs chose to both distribute this social assistance more broadly
and to use a smaller share of the total block grant than expected (the original limit was 15%). In
addition, the participatory and transparent mechanism created to allocate the grants helped ensure
that they were awarded on the basis of merit and need. Ultimately, at least 38,843 households
(about 48 percent of the population in the target kelurahan) received social assistance grants.




                                                 19
Technical quality. As reported in various aides-memoire, the technical quality of the community
infrastructure was generally good and gradually improved over time as additional technical
facilitators were mobilized. In general, the quality of the construction of roads and bridges was
considered higher than the quality of drainage subprojects. Construction quality was lowest in
2005 and 2006, the first years of Project implementation, when human resources and capacity
were still being developed and the most urgent reconstruction needs were being addressed. The
construction of some local roads, bridges, drainage and other community infrastructure also
suffered from the absence of higher level infrastructure, especially in the early part of the
implementation period (for example, reconstructed tertiary drains that were connected to still-
damaged or destroyed secondary drains).


         Community Infrastructure Subprojects (a)
                                                                      Grant financing
                                                                      IDR
                Type of infrastructure               Total output              % of total
                                                                    (billion)
         Access road                                   231.4 km       29.2         39.2
         Drainage                                      176.3 km       23.6         31.7
         Clean water                                  4,915 units       5.7         7.7
         Public toilet                                 405 units        5.2         6.9
         Village hall                                  120 units        4.5         6.1
         Bridge                                      1,382 meters       3.1         4.1
         Sluices                                        92 units        0.8         1.1
         Health post                                    29 units        0.8         1.1
         Electricity generation unit                   877 units        0.6         0.8
         School building (rehabilitation)              159 units        0.6         0.8
         Waste disposal units                          806 units        0.3         0.4
             All Types                                                74.5       100.0
        a. Includes 91% of the block grants under Component B.
        Source: Project M&E system.

Sustainability. Operations and maintenance (O&M) is a major concern for village infrastructure,
not only in Project kelurahan but throughout Indonesia. For all infrastructure constructed, the
Project required the establishment of an O&M committee at the village level, with members from
the beneficiary families as well as others selected by the community, as a means to instill a sense
of ownership for the infrastructure financed by the Project. Although this is considered a useful
step towards improved sustainability of village infrastructure, it is uncertain, and in many cases
unlikely, that formation of these committees will provide the commitment and resources needed.
The Bank recognizes that long-term engagement is needed to resolve the long-standing problem
of inadequate O&M (not only in Aceh but throughout Indonesia), and has supported the
Government to address this problem in the design of its nationwide CDD program (PNPM).
It should also be noted that some basic infrastructure financed by the Project was replaced by
higher level infrastructure. For example, BRR has widened many small access roads financed by
the Project in the immediate aftermath of the tsunami and earthquake. In the latter case, it should
be recognized that the Project was designed to provide immediate support to communities to
rehabilitate and reconstruct infrastructure that was destroyed by a natural disaster.




                                                     20
Component C: Strengthening the Role and Capacity of Local Government
Rating: Satisfactory
Through this component, 736 person-months of consultant services were provided to strengthen
the role and capacity of local governments to work together with community organizations to
address disaster relief, recovery, community infrastructure rehabilitation and reconstruction,
based on community values. The Project helped provincial and district governments in improving
village development planning and budgeting process and in allocating their own funds through
402community development plans developed under the project.
Component D: Implementation Management Support
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
This activity was managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU) in the Ministry of Public Works,
with technical assistance provided through the existing UPP National Management Consultants at
the central level, three Oversight Consultant Teams at the provincial level, with offices in the
participating district governments, and facilitators at the kelurahan level. This component
financed consultants (935 person-months) and facilitators (1,448 person-months) to assist in
various aspects of Project implementation. The outcome was the provision of the technical
assistance needed to properly manage the project and the extensive field presence of facilitators at
the local level that is required to successfully implement this type of community driven project.
The main shortcoming in this component was the delay and difficulty in hiring the local
facilitators, which in turn effected early implementation progress as well as the quality of
compliance with FM requirements.




                                                21
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Given the low cost of the subprojects financed by the Project and the substantial economic
benefits of infrastructure investments in a location where infrastructure was largely absent in the
aftermath of a tsunami, it was not deemed useful to estimate indicators such as NPVs or EIRRs
(FIRRs were rarely applicable, given that the Project almost exclusively financed non-revenue
generating subprojects). Efficiency was therefore gauged by unit rate norms, which are highly
favorable for community-executed infrastructure projects. For example, a 2005 study by the
National Planning Board (BAPPENAS), Finding of Post Construction Economic Impact Analysis
Study for CDD Programs, found that the average construction cost of CDD projects was 40
percent lower than those done by contractors of local governments. The cost savings were mainly
attributed to the high level of voluntary labor contributed by residents in community-driven
development projects.

A more recent study2, which was undertaken in 2009 at the request of the Ministry of Public
Works, arrived at similar conclusions. The study, which covered six cities throughout Indonesia,
found that community groups are normally able to construct small-scale infrastructure at a far
lower cost than government contractors, the main reasons being: (i) lower labor costs, (ii)
substantially lower prices of construction materials, and (iii) an exemption from VAT. Based on a
analysis of 4,270 infrastructure activities, the study found that the cost of community-driven
infrastructure development was, on average, about 47 percent lower than similar government-
financed infrastructure. There was substantial variation in cost savings across sub-sectors,
however. For example, the cost of paving-block roads and drainage was over 40 percent lower,
whereas community-constructed concrete pathways were about 20 percent less expensive.




2
    PNPM-P2KP Community-Driven Infrastructure Development Activities (draft), PT. Shiddaq Sarana
    Mulya, Jakarta, March 2010



                                                  22
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
                Names                        Title                Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
George Soraya               Lead Municipal Engineer              EASIS Task Team Leader
Yogana Prasta               Senior Disbursement Officer          EACIF Operations Adviser
Supervision/ICR
George Soraya               Lead Municipal Engineer               EASIS Task Team Leader
Yogana Prasta               Senior Disbursement Officer           EACIF Operations Adviser
Indira Dharmapatni          Senior Operations Officer             EASIS Senior Safeguards
                                                                        Specialist
Christina I. Donna          Financial Management Analyst         EAPFM Financial
                                                                        Management
Manoah Koletty              Consultant                            EASIS Local Government
                                                                        Development
Beni Oktopiansah            Consultant                            EASIS Infrastructure
                                                                        Specialist
Purwanto                    E T Consultant                        EACIF Financial
                                                                        Management
Rizal H. Rivai              Senior Procurement Specialist        EAPPR Procurement
Kumala Sari                 Operations Analyst                    EASIS Training &
                                                                        Socialization
Andrew Daniel Sembel        Environmental Spec.                   EASIS Environmental
                                                                        Safeguards
Muhammad Saleh Siregar      Operations Analyst                    EASIS Infrastructure
                                                                        Specialist
Lilis Suharti               Consultant                            EASIS Financial
                                                                        Management
Unggul Suprayitno           Sr Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM Financial
                                                                        Management
Andry Utama Thamrin         Finance Analyst                      CTRDM Disbursement
Jana Halida Uno             Operations Analyst                    EASIS M&E
Yuli Safitri Widyawati      E T Consultant                        EASIS MIS & Website
André Oosterman             Consultant                            EASIS ICR
Patricia Sonata             Consultant                            EASIS Financial
                                                                        Management
Djumadi Achmad              Consultant                            EASIS Financial
                                                                        Management
Marina Soemarjono           Program Assistant                     EASIS Program Assistant
Amelia Hapsari              Team Assistant                        EASIS Team Assistant




                                                 23
    (b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                              USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending*                                             25                          55
                               Total:
Supervision/ICR
 FY06                                                 8                                 5
 FY07                                                33                                50
 FY08                                                33                                50
 FY09                                                33                                50
 FY10                                                50                                75
                                Total                156                               230
* The number of staff time and cost are estimates. In response to the emergency, other resources were used
  for project preparation.




                                                   24
Annex 5. Summary of Grantee’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              25
26
Annex 6. MDF Secretariat’s Comments on Draft ICR




                      27
                    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Appraisal Document.
   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.
   Project Progress Reports.
   Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia (Report No. 27108-IND). EAP, World Bank.
    October 2003.
   Finding of Post Construction Economic Impact Analysis Study for CDD Programs.
    BAPPENAS. 2005.
   Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for Indonesia (Report No. 36856-IND).
    EAP, World Bank. September 2006.
   Project Restructuring Paper: Indonesia Tsunami Emergency Recovery Support Package:
    Proposed Restructuring of three ongoing Projects in Response to the Late-2004 Natural
    Disasters. World Bank Response to the Tsunami Disaster (SecM2005-0035), January 28,
    2005.
   Strengthening World Bank Group Engagement on Governance and Anticorruption.
    World Bank. March 2007.
   Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias (MDF): Mid Term Review, MDF. August 2009.




                                         28
                  Annex 8. Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project aimed at disbursing most of its block grants for urgent disaster reconstruction needs
in the first two years of implementation, and to focus on community development and less urgent
investment needs in the second two years. By June 2007, about 18 months after effectiveness,
almost all of the kelurahan investment block grants had been disbursed (not including the funds
earmarked for the new women’s development program). During the following two and a half
years, the Project focused on block grants under the women’s empowerment program and on
continuation of the community development and local government strengthening activities.
The Project exceeded the targets set for the three primary indicators measuring achievement of
the PDO (percent of population benefiting, establishment of effective and participatory CTCs,
and ability of the CTCs to channel funds from other sources or programs).
The target for percentage of affected population 3 that benefited from assistance or improved
services under the Project was 75%, but the result achieved was 95% in the 273 kelurahan that
were selected to receive block grants. In part this is because although the communities were
allowed to spend up to 15% of the block grants on individual or household social service
assistance, ultimately they chose to spend most of the block grants (91%) on priority
infrastructure needs that provided benefits more broadly.
The other two key indicators measuring achievement of the PDO were related to establishing
CTC, helping their function, and increasing their capacity of the CTCs. These indicators were
related not only to the immediate reconstruction goals, but also to the longer-term sustainability
of community organizations and investments, including access to financing from the
government’s CDD program and other sources. About 90% of the CTCs formed under the Project
were representative, effective, and operated in a participatory manner (against a target of 70%).
This outcome is based on data on participation, CTC composition, voting rates, compliance with
financial management procedures, complaints handling, and ability to create and implement
reconstruction plans in all 402 kelurahan participating in the Project. The target for CTCs capable
of channeling funds from other sources was 50%, and the outcome achieved was 100% (including
the ongoing government CDD projects as other sources).
In short, the benefits and services provided by the Project helped restore normalcy to the area and
create an enabling environment for longer-term development investments, while the participatory
community structures and strengthened capacity allow the communities to set investment
priorities, plan development strategies, and more effectively tap into and use funds provided by
PNPM and other programs.




3
    The affected population in a kelurahan was defined as the number of persons living in or near infra-
    structure financed by the Project as a percentage of the total population in that kelurahan.



                                                   29
                    95°                            100°                         105°                            110°                         115°                       120°                        125°          This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  legal status of any territory,
              15°                                                                                                                                                                                                 or any endorsement or                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such
                                                        INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                 boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                          MYANMAR
                                                                                                   VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                               PHILIPPINES                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
              10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10°                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                         THAILAND                                                                                                                         Sulu
                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      135°                    140°


               Banda Aceh
                                                                                           L          A        Y
              5°                                                               A                                          S        BRUNEI                                                                                                                                                                  5°
                            1
                                              Medan                     M                       Natuna
                                                                                                                               I                                                    Celebes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Talaud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Is.

                           Pematangsiantar
                                                                                                 Besar
                                                                                                                                                              Tarakan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea                                                      PACI F I C                 OCE AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    24




                                                                                                                                   A
               Simeulue
                                                                                                 19                                                                                                                             Morotai
                                                2                                                                                                                                           Manado
                                                                               SINGAPORE                                                            23
                                Nias                                              Tanjungpinang                                                                                                             Ternate           Halmahera
                                                               Pekanbaru                                                                                                             25
              0°                                                   3                              Pontianak                           AN TAN
                                                                                                                              K AL IM ANTAN                                26              Gorontalo                                         Waigeo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0°
                                                                                      Lingga                          20                                  Samarinda                                                                                     Manokwari
                                       Me




                                              Padang                                                                                                                                                            30                                                             Biak
                                                                                                                                                         Balikpapan
                                                                                                                                                                          Palu                                                                     Sorong
                                                          4             5                                                                                                                      Peleng                      Obi
                                         nt




                                              Siberut                         Jambi        Bangka                                   21
                                         aw




                                                                                               Pangkalpinang                                                       SULAWESI                                                                 Misool     32              Yapen                   Jayapura
                                                              SUMATERA                                                    Palangkaraya
                                                                                                                                                         Mamuju
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sula Is.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ceram
                                              ai




                                                                                                 9                                              22
                                                                   6               Palembang              Belitung
                                                                                                                                                                 27                                                                Amahai Fakfak
                                                                                                                                                                         28
                                                  Is




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Buru
                                                                                   7                                          Bandjarmasin                                        29      Kendari                                                                              33     PAPUA
                                                    .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW GUINEA
                                                         Bengkulu                                                                                             Parepare                                                 Ambon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Timika        Puncak Jaya
                                                                                      8                                                                                                      Muna                                                                                     (5030 m)
              5°                                                             Bandar                                  Java Sea                             Makassar                                                                                     Kai




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAPUA
                                                        Enggano
                                                                            Lampung
                                                                                        11                                                                                                 Baubau                        Banda 31                      Is.
                                                                                          JAKARTA
                   0       200         400 Kilometers                            Serang                                                                                                                                   Sea                                   Aru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Is.
                                                                                           12Bandung Semarang                      Madura
                                                                                      10                       13                                                                                               Wetar
                                                                                                                                   Surabaya                                                                                        Babar             Tanimbar
                   0      100      200      300        400 Miles                           JAWA          Yogyakarta
                                                                                                                                               16          Sumbawa                                  Alor                  Moa                        Is.
                                                                                                                                   15          Bali Lombok       Raba            Flores
                                                                                                                     14                                                                                                                                                                  Merauke
                    95°                            100°                         105°                                                 Denpasar       Mataram                         Ende                                                                    Arafura Sea
                                                                                                                                                                           18                                   TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                         17
               PROVINCES:                                                                                                                10°                     Waingapu Sumba                      Timor                                                                                                10°
                                                                                                                                                                                               Kupang
               1   NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM                    12      JAWA BARAT                         23   KALIMANTAN TIMUR
               2   SUMATERA UTARA                              13      JAWA TENGAH                        24   SULAWESI UTARA
               3   RIAU                                        14      D.I. YOGYAKARTA                    25   GORONTALO
               4
               5
                   SUMATERA BARAT
                   JAMBI
                                                               15
                                                               16
                                                                       JAWA TIMUR
                                                                       BALI
                                                                                                          26
                                                                                                          27
                                                                                                               SULAWESI TENGAH
                                                                                                               SULAWESI BARAT
                                                                                                                                                         INDIAN OCEAN
               6   BENGKULU                                    17      NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                28   SULAWESI SELATAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33420R2
               7   SUMATERA SELATAN                            18      NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR                29   SULAWESI TENGGARA
AUGUST 2008




               8   LAMPUNG                                     19      RIAU KEPULAUAN                     30   MALUKU UTARA              15°                                                                                                                                                              15°
               9   BANGKA-BELITUNG                             20      KALIMANTAN BARAT                   31   MALUKU
              10   BANTEN                                      21      KALIMANTAN TENGAH                  32   PAPUA BARAT                                                                                                            AUSTRALIA
              11   D.K.I. JAKARTA                              22      KALIMANTAN SELATAN                 33   PAPUA                         115°                       120°                        125°                              130°                            135°                    140°
