Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22867
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26860)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 40 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PROJECT
September 30, 2001
Human Development 1
Country Department 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Appraisal June 1994
Project Closing June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling (Ksh)
at Appraisal 44.6 Ksh = US$ 1
at Project Closing 75 Ksh    = US$ I
US$ .0224 =  1 Ksh at Appraisal
US$ .0133   = 1 Ksh at Project Closing
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS              Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
AIE               Authority to Incur Expenditures
CACC              Constituency AIDS Control Committee
CBO               Community Based Organization
CGS               Chief of General Staff
CHAK              Catholic Health Associations in Kenya
CIDA              Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA            Danish Intemational Development Agency
DARE              Decentralized HIVIAIDS and Reproductive Health Project
DASCO             District AIDS and STI Coordinator
DffD              Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
DIAC              District Intersectoral AIDS Committee
GoK               Govermment of Kenya
GTZ               Deutsche Gesellschaft fGr Technische Zusamnuenarteit
(German Technical Cooperation)
HAPAC             HI//AIDS Prevention and Care Project
HIV/AIDS          Human Immunodeficiency Virus / Acquired nimwunodefciency Syndrone
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               Intemational Development Association
IEC               Information, Education and CommunicatiQn
JICA              Japan lntemational Cooperation Agency
KADRE             Kenya AIDS Disaster Response Project
KDHS              Kenya Demographic Health Survey
KfW               Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (German Development Bank)
Ksh               Kenya Shillings
M&E               Monitoring & Evaluation System
MAP               Multi-country AIDS Program
MOH               Ministry of Health
MOU               Memorandum of Understanding
NACC              National AIDS Control Committee
r                                Vice President:    Callisto Madavo (AFRVP)
Country Manager/Director:    Harold E. Wackman (AFCO5)
Sector Manager/Director:    Dzingai Mutumbuka (AETHI)
Task Team Leader/Primary Author:    Andrew C. Follmer / Muhamnid Ali Pate (AFIH1)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NASCOP             National AIDS and STD Control Program
NGO                Non-governmental Organization
NLTBP              National Leprosy and Tuberculosis Program
PA                 Payment Application
PMR                Project Management Report based Accounting System
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
STD                Sexually Transmitted Disease
STI                Sexually Transmitted Infection
TB                 Tuberculosis
UNAIDS             United Nations Program for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
VCT                Voluntary Counseling & Testing
WHO                World Health Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    l
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             15
6. Sustainability                                                                 17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                2 1
9. Partner Comments                                                               23
10. Additional Information                                                        29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             39
Annex 8. Final Borrowers Project Evaluation Report                                40






Project ID: P001I333                                      Project Name: SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED
Team Leader: Andrew C. Follmer                            TL Unit: AFTHI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: September 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-26860
Country/Department: KENYA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HS - Specific Diseases, including Malaria, TB,
Others
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/23/93                                Effective: 08/07/95           08/07/95
Appraisal:  05/27/94                                  MTR: 06/30/97             07/27/98
Approval:  03/14/95                                Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Republic of Kenya/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners:  DFID (United Kingdom), KfW (Germany), DANIDA (Denmark), UNAIDS
(United Nations), USAID (United States), DGIS (Netherlands), Belgium
Development Cooperation, CIDA (Canada)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Harold E. Wacknan                         Francis X. Colaco
Sector Manager:      Dzingai Mutumbuka                         Jacob van Lutsenburg Maas
Team Leader at ICR:   Andrew FoDlmer                           Vulimiri Jagdish
ICR Primary Author:   Muhammad Ali Pate
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance. S
Borrower Performance. S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Kenya Medium Term Plan (II) on HIV/AIDS 1992-96, developed by the Ministry of Health in close
collaboration with other Ministries, identified the major strategies for the Government of Kenya (GoK) to
address the HIV/AIDS epidemic. These were to: (a) prevent the sexual transmission of HIV; (b) prevent its
transmission through blood and blood products; (c) mitigate the socioeconomic impact; (d) enhance
epidemiology and surveillance; and (e) coordinate research and manage a multi-sectoral AIDS control
program. These strategic priorities formed the basis of the Sexually Transmitted Infections
(STI)/HIV/AIDS project's original objectives. The original objectives of the STIVHIV/AIDS project, as
stated in the appraisal report, were to: (a) strengthen the institutional capacity at the national and district
levels to design, implement, monitor and evaluate interventions; (b) promote preventive measures to reduce
the risks of STI/HIV transmission; and (c) enhance both health sector and community provisions of
physical and psychological care and to develop strategies to mitigate the socioeconomic consequences.
These project objectives were a direct response to the challenges posed by the STJIHIV/AIDS epidemic in
Kenya. The STI/HIV/AIDS epidemic was rapidly spreading and had the potential to adversely impact the
Kenyan people by affecting many of its youth in the prime of their productive lives. The external donor
finding to Kenya was declining, despite the increasing STI/HIV/AIDS epidemic in the country. GoK
appropriately identified the threat posed by the epidemic and approached the World Bank for a credit to
finance its efforts to tackle the STI/HIV/AIDS situation. The project's objectives and design were
consistent with GoK's Health Sector Strategy which emphasized decentralization of the decision making
and budgetary processes for health services to the district level. The National AIDS and STD Control
Program (NASCOP) was well positioned to plan and coordinate the overall national strategy on
STI/HIV/AIDS and also to support the districts in implementation.
The performance of the project in terms of achieving its development objectives was originally cast into the
key targets to be achieved by the end of project implementation. These targets were to: (a) achieve ability
of 75 percent of the target population to cite at least two acceptable ways of protecting themselves from
IRV by the end of the project; (b) increase by 30 percent reported condom use among the target population;
(c) decrease by 20% reported sexual partners; and (d) increase in appropriate sexually transmitted diseases
(STD) case management to 70 percent of those individuals seeking STD care. These key targets have not
been revised during the course of project implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of the project were not formally revised during implementation. At the mid-term
review, the social, economic and biological determinants of the risks and consequences of HIV transmission
were given more consideration in the project. The importance of political leadership in creating an enabling
environment for STI/HIV/AIDS control was also recognized. After the mid-term review, the project
increased focus on gender, adolescent and poverty issues which represent some of the underlying
vulnerability factors for STI/HIV/AIDS transmission. In addition, more efforts were directed to the
decentralization of financial management, improvement in coordination of the various donor efforts and the
creation of an enabling environment for Kenya's response to the challenge of the STI/HIV/AIDS epidemic.
The project has played a key role in transforming the operating environment in Kenya being more
conducive towards HIV/AIDS prevention and impact mitigation.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
In accordance with its stated objectives, the project had the following three components:
Component (1) aimed to strengthen the institutional capacity at the national and district levels to design,
implement and evaluate interventions (US$ 13.9 million) through the following seven sub-components, by
supporting and strengthening (a) the national capacity to provide adequate policy, planning, coordination,
supervision and technical support related to STIs; (b) the district capacity to plan, coordinate, implement
and evaluate integrated multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS activities; (c) the national and district STD surveillance
systems; (d) the provision of research grants to improve interventions supported by the project; (e) the
monitoring and evaluation of the degree to which the project's objectives are being met; (f) support for
innovative non-governmental (NGO) and community-based (CBO) organization programs; and (g) project
management.
Component (2) aimed to promote preventive measures to reduce the risks of STI transmission (US$ 26.7
million) through the following sub-components: (a) the provision of accessible, acceptable and effective
clinical management of STDs; (b) the development and implementation of Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) activities; and (c) the supply and distribution of condoms to districts, municipalities,
NGOs, and to those providing health services to the military, police and security services as well as to
refugees.
Component (3) aimed to enhance both the health sector and the community provision ofphysical and
psychological care, and to develop strategies to mitigate the socioeconomic consequences (US$ 19.4
million) through the: (a) support of measures to control Tuberculosis (TB); (b) treatment of opportunistic
infections; (c) support of District-based NGO/CBO, home-based care and counseling for people with
HIV/AIDS; and (d) promotion of occupational safety activities and minimization of risk exposure to health
workers.
The components were directly supportive of the STI project's objectives. The project had a district-focus
which involved both fiscal as well as management decentralization of responsibilities to the districts at a
time when the appropriate capacity and authority were not established. The project was designed with an
urgency to cope with the evolution of the STD/HIV/AIDS/ situation in Kenya. At the time of the project's
design, there were no similar Bank projects that had been completed or formally evaluated that could offer
guidance on best practices. However, there were a number of the Bank's health projects which had STD
control and AIDS components which provided useful lessons.
The project's district focus, coupled with the increasing AIDS burden, may have placed a management and
budgetary strain beyond the district's capacity to cope. However, the same district focus helped to move
the front-line for dealing with the AIDS epidemic to the grass-roots, and facilitated faster capacity building
within the districts.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project concept, objectives and approach. As the STI/HIV/AIDS epidemic intensified in Kenya, donor
support declined. A free standing STI/HIV/AIDS project became necessary in order to mitigate the impact
of the epidemic. The project was inscribed in an acceptable framework regarding HIV/AIDS/STI policy,
which included the adoption of a district health planning approach and the development of a policy on
home-based care. Although a project approach was designed, the clarity of that approach relative to the
Government's national program was not made explicitly clear. The preparation of the project followed a
- 3 -



participatory approach whereby key stakeholders were involved. The stakeholders involved in the STI
project preparation included Government departments, NGOs, CBOs and the donor community. A
stakeholder workshop was organized and conducted by the MOH in April 1993. This degree of stakeholder
participation is impressive, relative to the prevailing practice in the sector at that time.
Technical and economic aspects. The project was designed with a decentralized implementation
mechanism which was appropriate to contain the rapidly spreading HIV/AfDS epidemic. The project
pursued the strategic priorities of controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic through evidence-based,
cost-effective STI prevention and treatment interventions. Despite the technical soundness of the project
design, sufficient attention was not given to ensure that the proposed indicators for the project were
monitorable or that the necessary baseline studies were done shortly after effectiveness. There was
insufficient attention given to the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation plan. As a result,
monitoring and evaluation has been weak throughout project implementation.
Poverty and social aspects. The HIVtAIDS epidemic posed a huge threat to the economic, social, political
and health sectors of the Kenyan nation. By preventing HIV transmission, and providing treatment and
support to people already infected, the project would reduce the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on
poverty in Kenya. At the time of project entry, appropriate attention was given to the high risk groups to
be targeted by the project. The high risk groups identified include youth, single men and married men
living away from home, truck drivers, pregnant women, and conmmercial sex workers. A pre-project study
found significant gender differences in perception of risk for HIV infection, with the women being the most
vulnerable. Women were more vulnerable to STI and HIV transmission, yet inadequate attention was given
to their specific needs in the project design. To its credit, the project design explicitly set out to address
male gender issues within the context of STI prevention by targeting the men.
Financial management The project had a significant thrust towards decentralized implementation at the
district level. The established government financial management system was deemed adequate to provide a
steady flow of funds to the implementers at the district level. However, soon after the beginning of project
implementation, a significant problem with the flow of funds to the implementing districts became obvious.
In the first two years of project implementation, the financial management problems with delays in the
issuance of authority to incur expenditures to the districts, the accounting for the expended resources and
low budgetary ceilings in the districts, all contributed to the slowing of the flow of funds. These problems
could have been mitigated if a qualified financial management specialist was in place very early during
implementation.
Institutional capacity analysis. The donor community did express concerns about the existing capacity at
the national and district levels as well as the sustainability of some of the project's components. These
concems were discussed at the various donor meetings with Bank staff, and were reflected in the appraisal
report and also during the negotiation process. Donor concerns related to the size of the project which was
considered too large relative to the existing capacity.
Readiness for implementation. In terms of the project's readiness for implementation, within the context
of a rapidly evolving HIV/AIDS epidemic and the time constraint therein, the project was ready for
implementation at the time of entry. The anticipated inadequacies within the project design were left to be
evaluated and addressed during the supervision mission and mid-term review. The appointment of a
procurement agent was agreed upon in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and during negotiations between
the GoK and the IDA. However, a subsequent delay in appointing the procurement agent contributed to the
very slow disbursement in the first two years of the project.
- 4 -



Risk assessment and sustainability. The possibility of the HIV/AIDS epidemic rapidly growing to
overwhelm the efforts was considered. This was addressed by the rapid response in project preparation and
appraisal, all completed within a nine month period. The decision to move the project forward despite a
few imperfections was also based on the time considerations. The HIV/AIDS epidemic was spreading
rapidly and needed to be controlled effectively.
The lack of sufficient capacity to implement the project effectively was recognized. The training of health
care workers in management of the STD syndrome was an integral part of the STI/HIV prevention
activities and was done with assistance from the Belgian Development Cooperation and the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA). Specific funding commitments were made by the project to
train staff in other skills relevant to STI/HIV/AIDS control. When the initially allotted training funds were
deemed inadequate, reallocations were promptly done to increase the amounts to be expended on staff
training.
The risk that the Government's support might fail to materialize was considered small at the time of
appraisal. This assessment was not borne out later because the problem of translating stated government
commitment into concrete action became a significant issue in the early years of project implementation. In
addition, this risk being considered small was not in keeping with the experiences of preceding Bank
projects in Kenya. The reform process from a centralized to a decentralized structure and implementation
is often very slow, and not as optimistically expected at the beginning of the project.
A provision for appointing a qualified Project Coordinator throughout the project implementation was made
in order to mitigate any potential weaknesses in project coordination. This became a significant success in
helping with project implementation because of the continuity and availability of a competent project
coordinator.
The limitation of the project in achieving the behavioral changes necessary to prevent STI/HIV
transmission was appropriately recognized. Increased condom supply may not necessarily translate into
increased usage. Increased usage involves behavioral changes, which the project had little influence on
beyond the provision of appropriate IEC. After the mid-term review, the project increased attention on
creating an enabling environment for behavioral change to occur through the design of culturally
appropriate materials, involvement of community leaders and de-stigmatizing HIV.
The project was not designed with any form of cost sharing or alternative financing for the STD drugs and
condoms. Thus, the sustainability of the relevant activities was not assured. The prevention of
STD/HIV/AIDS is a mixed public private good. The public side of preventing and mitigating adverse
impacts of STD/HIV/AIDS on the society could warrant the lack of any potentially restrictive cost sharing
arrangements.
Overall, the project's quality at entry is considered Satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The key outcome targets for the project, as stated in the SAR, were to achieve the following:
(a)  Ability of 75 percent of the target population (sexually active adults) to cite at least two
acceptable ways of protecting themselves from HIV;
(b)  Increase by 30 percent the self-reported condom use among the target population;
(c)  Achieve an increase in appropriate STI case management to 70 percent of those individuals
seeking care; and
-5 -



(d)  Achieve a decrease by 20 percent reported non-regular sexual partners by the completion of the
project.
These key targets were chosen at the beginning of the project and reflected commonly used indicators in
other countries. However, none of these targets had an established baseline. There were multiple studies in
Kenya being conducted by various donor agency partners, but the main outcome indicators for the STI
project were not based on the available data. The 1993 Kenya Demographic Health Survey (KDHS) was
mostly focused on demographic and household data and not STI/HIV/AIDS.
The 1998 KDHS indicated the following:
(a)  Only 38.6 percent of the surveyed people aged 15-49 years were able to cite at least two ways
of protecting themselves from HIV.
(b)  The self-reported use of condoms at last sexual encounter was 6 percent and 21 percent for
females and males, respectively.
(c)  The use of condoms with non-regular sexual partners was 43 percent and 15 percent for males
and females, respectively.
As a result of the lack of systematically collected data on the outcome indicators for the project at the time
of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR), a combined STI project completion and a baseline study
for the follow-up Decentralized HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health (DARE) project was undertaken to
measure the project's performance relative to its stated outcome targets. The completion survey attempted
to provide inforrnation on the key project outcomes and was conducted by researchers at the Epidemiology
Unit in the University of Nairobi. There are some methodological issues to suggest caution in comparing
the results of the completion survey and the indicators in the KDHS. The survey report indicates the
following results relevant to the STI project's performance:
(a)  About 93.4 percent of individual respondents in the survey were able to cite at least two
acceptable ways of protecting themselves from HIV in 2001.
(b)  The self-reported use of condom at last sexual encounter was 44 percent for both sexes.
(c)  The use of condoms was reported to be 53.8 percent among respondents with casual sex
partners and 100 percent among respondents with commercial sex partners.
(d)  About 23 percent of respondents reportedly had sex with a non-regular partner.
(e)  The proportion of appropriately diagnosed STI cases at the time of project completion was
reported to be 88 percent.
Despite the above limitation with regard to the comparability of the project completion data and the KDHS
indicators, there is confidence that the results of the completion survey are not too far removed from the
reality. The STI project has significantly contributed towards the achievement of those key outcome
targets, together with the other donor partners and the Kenyan Government.
In addition to the achievement of its key outcome targets, the STI project also achieved other targets which
were added during implementation, and which directly support the Government's objectives as outlined in
the Medium Term Plan II on HIV/AIDS. The transmission of HIV infection through blood transfusion has
been reduced by ensuring that 99-100 percent of the blood transfused is screened. The sentinel surveillance
results in Kenya for 1993 showed an adult national HIV seroprevalence of 11.7 percent. The prevalence of
HIV among people aged 15 years and above was 14.9 percent by 1999, which is within the target of
keeping the prevalence below 15 percent. This is a significant achievement when viewed relative to
neighboring countries in the sub-region which had seroprevalence of more than 20 percent by 1999. The
prevalence of STI (syphilis) among pregnant women at the sentinel screening sites has been reduced from
7.1 percent in 1995 to 5 percent by 2000. Although the STI project did not directly supply condoms, the
paid condom sales in Kenya have increased from approximately 2 million in 1995 to 15 million by 1998.
- 6 -



The estimated total condom distribution has reached 80 million in 1999. The slowing of the rise in HIV
prevalence, the decline in STI (syphilis) prevalence, and the increase in paid condom sales, are consistent
with a behavior change occurring among the target population leading to a reduction in STI/HIV/AIDS
transmission. The STI project has significantly contributed to the achievement of these changes through its
activities under the various components.
Although the project did not explicitly set out to deal with the social and political environment relative to
HIV/AIDS prevention efforts, it has ultimately significantly changed the political and social environments
in Kenya to being more conducive to the HIV/AIDS prevention efforts. As has been shown elsewhere (for
example, Uganda and Thailand), high level political commitmnent contributes to effective HIV/AIDS
control. The STI project was instrumental in bringing together all the Parliamentarians and the President
into the core fold of HIV/AIDS prevention and activities. The increased HIV/AIDS awareness at the
higher levels of Government in Kenya and also within the general society could easily have prevented an
unforeseen, inestimable number of new AIDS cases with all the negative social impacts. The issue of
HIV/AIDS is prominently featured in the Government's agenda. The political as well as cultural
environments within which Kenya is responding to the HIV/AIDS epidemic has been enhanced.
Despite the weakness of the project monitoring and evaluation system during implementation, the
convergence of the KDHS 1998 data, the results of the project completion survey, and the project's
documentation of the additional targets set during implementation, all point towards the project having
achieved its overall development objective. Thus, the rating for the achievement of the outcome objectives
is deemed as Satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Strengthening institutional capacity. The overall rating for this component is
Satisfactory. This rating is based on the very satisfactory performance of the project in the two largest
sub-components i.e. strengthening the institutional capacity at the national and district levels. The
performance with regard to the smaller sub-components of surveillance, operational research and project
management are all considered marginally satisfactory. With regard to the monitoring and evaluation
sub-component, the performance is considered unsatisfactory. On balance, the satisfactory project
performance under the sub-components of national and district capacity strengthening outweigh the
weakness identified in the monitoring and evaluation, and the overall component rating is justifiably
considered as satisfactory. The activities under each sub-component are as follows:
(a)  National capacity. The STI project has significantly improved Kenya's capacity to respond to the
STI/HIV/AIDS epidemic. During the initial period of project implementation, the context within which the
country was trying to address the epidemic was constrained by a lack of high level visibility of the
HIV/AIDS issue on the Government's agenda. With the support of the STI project, the political
environment in Kenya has now improved to being more facilitatory to the various efforts at controlling the
epidemic. A specific national HIV/AIDS policy was finalized, and the Parliamentary Sessional Paper on
HIV/AIDS was approved in 1997. The Sessional Paper reflected the long term objectives and strategies of
the Government on HIV/AIDS and was developed with broad participation of internal and external
stakeholders. A multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS workshop was conducted in 1998, as a follow-up to which the
MOH through NASCOP developed a mid-term National Strategic Plan on AIDS for the years 1998-2003.
Furthermore, the STI project contributed to the formation of the National AIDS Control Council (NACC)
which will enhance the multi-sectoral AIDS prevention efforts and implement the Government's strategy.
The formation of Constituency AIDS Control Committees (CACCs) at all districts has significantly
increased the community participation necessary for the success of the multi-sector AIDS program and has
led to Kenya being among the first beneficiaries of the Bank's multi-country HIV/AIDS program (MAP),
-7 -



with the Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response (KADRE) Project.
The project supported the training of staff at the national level on public health, project management and
finance. A total of thirteen people were sponsored for graduate education in the areas relevant to
HIV/AIDS control. Out of these, six are still employed by the Government of Kenya. The majority of
those trained, and who have now been lost from the system, are working with the private sector within the
country. Thus, human resource capacity has been built through training of the staff. The project also
supported technical training workshops through the NASCOP.
The national coordinating body for STI/HIV/AIDS control, NASCOP, which implemented the STI project,
has been able to develop and disseminate policies on technical norms regarding HIV/AIDS and STI control
in Kenya. An HIV/AIDS technical working group was coordinated through the STI project, and the group
provided annual technical reviews. NASCOP has also provided guidance and coordination to a broad
range of STI sub-projects under the national program. It has produced and distributed the "AIDS in
Kenya" booklets annually since 1997. These documents provide an overview of the HIV/AIDS situation in
Kenya and disseminate aspects of the Government's policy.
NASCOP played a key role in the coordination of other STI projects which were conducted by bilateral
donors like CIDA/University of Nairobi and the Belgium Cooperation. Other donors within the STI project
channelled their resources separately. One of the project partners, DfID, supported the establishment of
Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) centers through its the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care
(HAPAC) project. These centers provided trained counselors, technicians and follow-up care for those
diagnosed with HIV. The Dutch Government supported the project's activities through parallel funding for
Tuberculosis control by the National Leprosy and Tuberculosis Program (NLTBP). The STI project has
succeeded in advocating changes in the establishment of a curriculum in reproductive health and its
adoption for all schools. This was an effort to increase the awareness of HV/AIDS and STI prevention
among the youth and school children who are vulnerable to being infected.
The performance with regard to this sub-component is deemed satisfactorv.
(b) District capacity. The project started initially with 15 pilot districts in 1995. Subsequently, project
activities were scaled up to involve all the 69 districts in the country by 1997. The selection of the pilot
districts was based on areas with higher HIV prevalence, neglecting the areas of lower prevalence. This
approach may have resulted in significant time being lost in the control STI/HIV/AIDS in the areas of
lower prevalence. When the project rolled out to the remaining districts, adequate logistical arrangements
were not made in the non-pilot areas which produced additional lag time in those areas. In retrospect, a
phased approach with triggers and opportunities for lessons to be learned at each stage would have been
more useful. The inclusion of both the areas with higher and lower HIV prevalence may have been more
equitable as well as have provided useful lessons as the project evolved.
The district capacity to implement STI/HIV/AIDS related activities has been substantially strengthened as
a result of the project. The decentralization of planning and financial authority has been accomplished in
all districts, with significant positive implication for other projects within the Kenya health portfolio.
However, the actual project expenditures that occurred at the districts were only about 10% of the credit
resources, half of what was originally planned.
Despite the financial constraints, the districts have been able to implement a substantial portion of the
project's activities. More than 492 chiefs, sub-chiefs and local leaders have been trained in HIV prevention
and care. The District Intersectoral HIV/AIDS Committees (DIACs) have collaborated with more than 20
- 8 -



NGO/CBOs in implementing the project. Such collaborations included technical assistance, training and
IEC activities. School and youth programs have been conducted in all the districts. Forty-eight secondary
schools have been visited by the various DIACs and more than 2,516 secondary school students have been
exposed to the message of HIV prevention through such contacts. Also, in one district alone, more than
800 primary school pupils have been reached. In terms of IEC activities, 23 video shows were conducted
and local dramas were also supported. School teachers have been specifically trained on HIV prevention
and care. All districts have been provided with means of transportation by bicycles, 76 motorbikes, 20
four-wheel drive vehicles and two motor boats.
All the districts have personnel trained in the syndromic management of STIs. The assessment of whether
such training resulted in increased capacity for quality care to STI/HIV patients has not been conducted
through the project's monitoring and evaluation system. The results from the project completion survey
indicate that 88 percent of STI clinic attendees were appropriately diagnosed.
The ICR mission undertook an excursion to visit Thika district. The Thika district was not among the
initial pilot districts in the project and currently has the highest HIV prevalence among pregnant women in
the country. During the visit, the mission found that, as an example of district under-funding, the health
center received only Kenya shillings (Ksh) 200,000 for a budgeted work plan of about Ksh 2 million.
Despite this inadequate fumding, the district was able to implement almost 70 percent of their work plan.
The district activities were funded also from other sources not linked directly to the STI project. In the
district, behavior change teams have been formed, home based care training was being conducted,
awareness campaigns in churches, schools, Barazas, estates, community forums, prison and for
Commercial Sex Workers were taking place. In terms of condom distribution, all dispensaries, health
centers, and the hospitals had condoms available. The supporting laboratory services were fully
operational, including the Voluntary Testing and Counseling center provided through the DfID sponsored
HAPAC project. The DIAC was meeting regularly. The issues deliberated on by the DIAC included
community club activities, supporting a study on orphans, and obtaining a loudspeaker system on the STI
vehicle. The DIAC identified the need for the supply of IEC materials. There were also concerns at the
district about inadequate access to the STI project vehicle by the District AIDS and STI Coordinator
(DASCO), and this adversely affected the ability of DASCO to supervise the health center STI project
activities.
Overall, the performance with regard to the implementation of this sub-component is deemed satisfactory.
(c)  Surveillance. NASCOP conducted HIV/AIDS case surveillance and HIV seroprevalence sentinel
surveillance. All public sector and private hospitals were required to report the number of AIDS cases to
the Provincial Medical Officers. NASCOP received monthly summaries which were consolidated for
dissemination. The STI project provided supervision at the district and sub-district levels, trained health
workers and laboratory technicians, compiled and analyzed the surveillance information. With the help of
the STI project, data collection instruments were developed and sentinel surveillance sites were expanded to
include some rural sites. The HIV surveillance activities were conducted at 13 sentinel sites. The TB
surveillance activities were not funded through the STI project. USAID and UNAIDS provided additional
technical and financial support for the surveillance activities. The performance with regard to the
implementation of this sub-component is considered marzinally satisfactory in view of the fact that other
donors were able to carry out surveillance activities complementing the STI project's efforts.
(d)  Research. The project started out with clear plans to support operational research relevant to
STIVHIV/AIDS prevention. By the time of project completion, there was no evidence of any research
studies sponsored by the project. A proposal for a clinical study on cryptococcal meningitis was objected
-9-



to by the Bank, after peer review by an external technical expert. The objection to that particular study
was based on its very broad scope. Alternative or additional research studies were not proposed
subsequently. It is notable that there have been several qualitative and quantitative STI/HIV/AIDS
research activities conducted in Kenya by various donor partners, which may have de-emphasized support
of similar activities among the project's priorities. In addition, the lack of research activity within the STI
project may have resulted from the impact of a large research consultancy under the Population IV project
which was going on in Kenya in the early years of the STI project. As a result of the lack of
implementation of research activities within the project, the performnance with regards to this
sub-component is considered unsatisfactory.
(e) Monitoring and evaluation. The project performance with regard to monitoring and evaluation is
unsatisfactorv. The NASCOP did not have a monitoring and evaluation unit. The project activity and
outcome indicators adopted at the beginning of the project were not formulated based on systematically
collected baseline data. A logical framework was developed and retrofitted for the project at mid-term, but
insufficient measures were taken to utilize the framework as a tool for project monitoring during
supervision. The indicators that were chosen for the logframe were not measured or monitored during
implementation. The input/output data that was collected was not analyzed in a coherent manner relative to
the project's performance towards achieving its target. For example, the data on training, workshops, IEC,
and NGO activities was not aggregated at the time of the ICR to permit an accurate and fair look of project
activities, inputs and outputs. Similarly, the financial data was not kept in an easily retrievable manner
which made it difficult to track project expenditures by component. The number and periodicity of
supervisory visits undertaken by the NASCOP to the districts to monitor STI project activities could also
not be ascertained from available records.
(f) Innovative NGO/CBO programs. A memorandum of understanding (MOU) was developed for work
with the NGOs, but was never actually implemented. At the national level, there have been undue delays in
cooperating with the NGO/CBOs. In the last year of the project, a tender for the provision of services by
NGOs was finalized but the project's time frame did not allow for the contracts to be substantially
completed before project closing. It has now been agreed with the GoK that these contracts would now be
financed and implemented under the follow-up DARE project.
Several activities were conducted by the districts through the NGO/CBOs using imprests drawn by the
district and MOH staff from the project funds. The project succeeded in involving many NGO and CBOs
in its activities. However, their involvement was constrained by the limited flow of funds to the districts.
An additional constraint for NGO/CBO involvement at the district level was the Government's insistence
upon a Bank guarantee before NGO/CBOs could access financial support. The ability of the districts to
engage NGOs in contracts less than US$ 5,000 was improved by waiving the requirement for no objection
letters from IDA, but at the same time, an accounting mechanism did not exist to indicate exactly how
much or on what specific activities such funds were spent.
The STI project did support NGO and Mission health facilities through the supply of drugs, HIV test kits
and equipment. Other donor partners like USAID and the DFID-fmanced HAPAC project also
complemented the STI project's support to the NGOs through their own parallel activities.
Overall, the perfonnance with regard to the implementation of this sub-component is considered marginally
satisfactorv.
(g) Project management. At the beginning of the STI project, the different units under NASCOP were
housed separately, and there was inadequate coordination and exchange of information between them. The
- 10-



STI project's cofinancing partner, DfID, financed the construction of a new NASCOP office to house all
the units, and the proceeds from the Credit were used to provide furniture. The financial management
system in NASCOP has recently improved with the help of a seconded consultant from PriceWaterhouse
Coopers sponsored by DfID, the implementation of a detailed financial management action plan and the use
of a payment application (PA) tracking system. The PA tracking system has improved the payment
processing schedule and introduced more transparency into the accounting system. The project
management has been weak in terms of the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the
project. The performance with regard to this sub-component is deemed mar2inallv satisfactorv.
Component 2: Promote preventive measures. The overall rating for this component is considered
Satisfactorv. The sub-component activities involved the following:
(a) The provision of accessible, acceptable and effective clinical management of STDs. The clinical
management of STDs constituted the largest sub-component on which the STI project funds were
expended. The performance under this sub-component is deemed satisfactorv. Of the project's total
procurement tendered through International and National Competitive Bidding (ICB/NCB), close to US$
15 million of the funds (75% of the total) were for drug supplies. The majority of the drugs supplied were
for syndromic STD management. At the time of the ICR mission, all the 69 districts have been provided
with STD treatment kits which would last until June, 2001. More than 2,450 health facilities have received
STI drugs and equipment through the STI project. The syndromic approach to treatment of STDs has been
successfully extended to cover close to 4,000 health facilities nationwide according to the project reports.
The STI project completion survey found that 94.4 % of surveyed health facilities received STD drug kits
from the project. The majority of the facilities did not experience any drug stock-outs during the last year
of project irnplementation. In some of the districts, the drugs provided through the STI project are the only
drugs consistently available to them, even when the essential drugs were not in stock.
One problem that was highlighted during the ICR mission in connection with the clinical management of
the STDs, is that the organizational structure to establish and maintain a storage system that responds to a
demand based stock-keeping was lacking. Although the STI drug supplies were generally found to be
adequate, there were significant variations in the way in which the individual components of the drug kits
were utilized. Some of the drugs were not used as frequently as others, and there was a lack of accurate
data on which to base the assessment and determination of the actual requirements for the drugs within
each of the provincial and district level health facilities.
All the districts health facilities have staff trained on the syndromic STD management approach. On
average, 120,000 cases of STD were being treated every month through these health facilities. The quality
of the STD treatment received through the STD clinics has also increased as a result of the STI project. As
mentioned earlier, 88 percent of STD clinic attendees were appropriately diagnosed by the end of the STI
project. It is known that the appropriate treatment of STDs reduces HIV transmission. Therefore, the STI
project has significantly contributed to reducing HIV in Kenya through the provision of appropriate STD
treatment under this sub-component.
(b)  The development and implementation of information, education and communication activities. The
project initiated strong advocacy and behavior change campaigns to prevent STIHIV/AIDS transmission.
A successful symposium was financed in 1999 at Mombasa during which 98% of the Parliamentarians and
the President of the Republic of Kenya attended. Such high level involvement and participation of the
leadership significantly impacted on the social environment in which HIV/AIDS prevention activities were
being undertaken.
- 11 -



The STI project also financed the production of 16 mm AIDS films, video films, and radio shows in more
than 11 major vernacular languages including English and Kiswahili. These programs have been distributed
nation wide, and have assisted in raising awareness and promoted STD care seeking behavior and condom
use. According to the project files, the STI project produced the "AIDS in Kenya" booklets annually since
1997 and has financed the serialization of the booklet in the most popular English and Kiswahili
newspapers. There was a particular focus within the project towards cultural appropriateness of the IEC
materials developed. In addition, the World AIDS day celebrations are being routinely conducted in all the
districts. In Kenya, the planned activities span week- long and climax on the World AIDS Day. The
activities conducted include lectures, health talks, awareness campaigns, drama etc. and involve the
participation of district commissioners, senior Ministry of Health staff and the Minister of Health. Because
of the intense demand for IEC materials stimulated through various channels, the STI project has not been
able to keep up with the supplies. The finalization and central procurement of IEC materials worth
$400,000 towards the end of the project could not be done.
(c)  The supply and distribution of condoms to districts, NGOs, and to those providing health services
to the military, police and refugees. The STI project was initially planned to supply and distribute
condoms. However, early during project implementation it was clear that other donors were willing to
provide condom supplies, and additional supplies could be provided through the then - existing Population
IV project. As a result, condom supplies were not provided by the STI project. Instead, the project
focused on complementing the other efforts to promote behavior change and the need for STD care and
prevention. The ICR mission was informed that activities targeting the security agencies have been
conducted during the project implementation. Seminars were conducted for the security services focusing
on condom promotion, peer education, STD treatment, HIV counseling and testing and a strong advocacy
element. In the Kenyan Military, a management team is headed by the Chief of General Staff (CGS), and
basic knowledge of HIV/AIDS, as well as condom use, have been made commnand instruction. According to
the Project Coordinator, these activities have not been documented in the project files because of concerns
about the sensitive nature of the HIV/AIDS situation of the military.
Component 3: Enhance both health sector and countryprovision of physical andpsychological care,
and develop strategies to mitigate the socioeconomic consequences. The overall performance with
regard to this component is Unsatisfactorv. The rating for this component is supported by the fact that
project financial records showed that only about two percent of the total project funds were spent on
activities for this component. The argument has been made that the TB control program was well funded
by the Netherlands Government. The TB epidemic in Kenya continued to increase during this project's
implementation, and repeated requests from the TB project for anti-TB drugs were not responded to by
NASCOP. The flexibility shown by the project in the reallocation of funds to other areas away from TB
control may have been justified if the National TB Program was well supplied with drugs.
(a)  TB treatment. A total of US$ 200,000 was spent on TB control through a one-time support of
supplying anti-TB drugs to NLTBP. An assessment of any impact made by the specific contribution of the
STI project is not feasible, because NLTBP was funded from different sources.
(b)  Opportunistic Infections (OI). Drugs for the treatment of opportunistic infections have been
procured and supplied to all the districts through the essential drugs distribution system with support from
the project. This system was different from that for the distribution of the STI drugs in that the OI drugs
were not distributed together with the STD drug kits. It is not possible to determine the extent to which
these drugs were adequately distributed.
A quick look at the 01 drug list shows Diflucan vials, Diflucan tablets, Fluconazole tablets, Oral
- 12-



Ketoconazole, Miconazole gel and Clotrimazole which are all azole drugs, belonging to the same class and
are effective against the same narrow range of fungal Ols. Yet, substantial funds were devoted solely to
their supplies. The input from the MOH technical committee in the procurement of these drugs is unclear.
(c) District NGO/CBO activities. An MOU was developed with the NGOs/CBOs to guide on the
interaction between the districts and the NGO/CBOs. However, there is no evidence that the MOU was
actually used by the districts. Instead, the prevailing practice was for the district staff to engage the NGOs
and support them by drawing on imprests from the project accounts for their activities. This raises a
serious issue of accountability and limits an assessment of the effectiveness of the process. There were no
formal guidelines for home based care developed at one of the districts visited. The ICR mission was
informed that the main thrust of the STI project's activities for the orphans and home based care was
limited to advocacy. The STI project created an improved environment for the NGOs through its advocacy
efforts. The NGOs have also received some IEC materials including flow charts and the AIDS in Kenya
brochure/leaflets.
The decentralization process pursued through the STI project enhanced the role of the NGOs in HIV
prevention by making funds available at the district level. The project provided opportunity for various
stakeholder groupings to enter into dialogue on issues surrounding HIV prevention. However, the
perception of lack of transparency in terms of communication and information sharing was highlighted as
an area that needs improvement.
With regard to the private sector involvement in the STI project, an estimated forty percent of non-public
sector hospitals in Kenya are run by religious organizations and CBOs. Seventy percent of these
non-public sector hospitals are run by the Catholic Health Associations in Kenya (CHAK). The STI
project did not include the CHAK in project implementation. This is reflective of the low participation by
the private sector in the STI project's activities. Similarly, the private pharmacies which provide significant
services for STI patients were not directly or indirectly involved during the course of this project's
implementation.
(d)  Occupational safety. The project's activities with regard to occupational safety of health care staff is
limited to provision of gloves and antiseptics. There has been no record of specific training or infection
control policies implemented.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a substantial institutional development impact in Kenya, as indicated by the following
activities:
The Formation of the National AIDS Control Council (NACC). The extensive dialogue by the Bank
mission teams during the latter part of the project with regard to improving the political climate and
providing an enabling environment necessary for an adequate response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, paid off
at the end. The involvement of the Parliamentarians in an AIDS workshop in Mombasa, and the
President's declaration of AIDS as a national disaster at Kisumu in 1998, enhanced the enviromnent for
implementing the National Sessional Paper on AIDS. The formation of the NACC was directly attributable
- 13 -



to the increased visibility of HIV/AIDS in the Government's policy agenda and to the resulting
implementation of the sessional paper. All these led to Kenya being among the first countries to benefit
from the Bank's Multi-country AIDS Program (MAP) operation. The structure of NACC supported by the
Consituency AIDS Control Committees (CACCs) would facilitate the multisector approach to HIV
prevention and care in Kenya. The placement of the NACC in the Office of the President has given the
Council the high level prominence and clout necessary to succeed in carrying out its mandate.
The Decentralization of the Health Sector. The thrust of the STI project towards decentralization of
fiscal as well as management responsibilities to the districts achieved a significant change from what was a
highly centralized health sector to a more decentralized one. There is evidence from elsewhere which shows
that fiscal decentralization is associated with improved health outcomes when there is good governance.
Despite possible issues with governance in the Kenyan health sector, the decentralization achieved through
the STI project, if sustained, can have wide ranging impact beyond STI/HIV/AIDS.
NASCOP Building. Immediately after the beginning of project implementation, it became clear that there
were problems with coordination of NASCOP activities. DfID's support for building a new NASCOP
office and the Bank's support with furnishings have provided a physical structure that will facilitate
NASCOP in conducting its mandated activities.
Training. The STI project has improved the Government of Kenya's capability to address the challenge of
the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The human resource capacity in the MOHINASCOP and the districts has been
increased through the training of thirteen staff in public health, epidemiology and other related fields. The
retention rate of about 45 percent for the trained staff is still a significant contribution of the project to the
institutional development of the MOH.
Financial management. At inception and during implementation, the project faced several financial
management problems that included a low flow of funds to the districts, and an accounting structure that
did not allow flexibility in project reporting. The problem of flow of funds to finance STI activities in the
districts and the financial management system in general have adversely affected the project's
implementation. Budgetary decentralization did not go hand-in-hand with decentralization in the
accounting system, thereby contributing to unnecessary delays in accounting for the STI project funds, and
also delays in the issuance of the Authority to Issue Expenditures (AIEs). In February 1998, after a Bank
supervision mission recognized the problem regarding the flow of funds to finance STI activities in the
districts, the GoK and the Bank agreed to appoint a special task force, led by the Ministry of Finance, to
identify the constraints in the flow of funds.
Subsequent to the extensive work and recommendations of the task force, and with the help of
DflD-sponsored financial consultancies, the key financial management issues were identified. There were
delays and inadequacies in issuance of AIEs, delays in accounting for STI project funds and low levels of
project activity at the districts. The low budgetary ceilings for the districts also limited their ability to
access the credit funds for project activities.
In order to address the low flow of funds to the districts, a time-bound financial management action plan
was developed and implemented. Additional account clerks were transferred from the MOH to the STI
project, and a Financial Management Consultant from PriceWaterhouse was seconded to the project.
Treasury Circulars were issued to allow, among other things, the operation of project accounts at the
district level, enabling easier access for project activities at the districts. To improve the effectiveness in
collecting information and producing project accounts by the donors, the STI project implemented an
accounting software for project accounting and reporting, which will enable the MOH to operate a Project
- 14 -



Management Reports (PMR)-based accounting system and will ease the problem caused by the previous
slower accounting system. The project accounting software is also expected to be used for financial
management of projects under the NACC and for the DARE project. The STI Project has helped lead the
MOH towards addressing the financial management issues that have plagued IDA-financed projects, as
well as other GoK financed activities.
Procurement agent. The project's use of a private procurement agent has improved the efficiency in the
pharmaceutical and supplies procurement system for the project. In the first two years of the project, when
the private procurement agent was not on board, minimal procurement was done and this slowed the
project's disbursement. The situation changed with the arrival of the procurement agent. However, the
experience gained in using a private procurement agent has not been successfully transferred to the larger
MOH system. When the private procurement agent leaves at the end of the project, the procurement
system may not be sustained because only low level staff were seconded to work with the agent.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Weather changes. Kenya experienced low rainfall in the first half of 1997, and also suffered after the
worst floods in decades which were associated with the worldwide El Nifio phenomenon. Partly as a result
of these external factors, the country's agricultural output was adversely affected. This contributed to the
low liquidity situation in the country, and in the Government's coffers. The low liquidity situation as a
result of this may have contributed to the low flow of funds to the districts for STI project related activities
as explained below.
Declining donor support. As a result of the raging HIV/AIDS epidemic in other parts of the region which
competed for the limited donor funds, and partly because of dissatisfaction with some of the Government's
policies, the support enjoyed by the GoK among the donor community gradually decreased over the years
preceding, and during the early years of the project's implementation. Specifically, donor funds for AIDS
through the WHO declined from US$ 3 million in 1989 to about US$ 700,000 in 1994. Although the
World Health Organization (WHO) is not a major donor in numerical terms, the decline trend was similar
to that of other donors. The overall decline in donor aid for HIV/AIDS control contributed to the slower
and weaker response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya until the STI project began.
5.2 Factors generally sub/ect to government control:
Economic constraints. During the implementation of the STI project, Kenya enjoyed a fairly stable
external political and economic environment. However, as a result of internal political and governance
issues, the national economic growth slowed down throughout the 1990s. The real Gross Domestic
Product per capita declined by 10 percent from 1991 to 1998. According to the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy for Kenya, the weak performance of the economy in the 1990s was due to poor economic
governance by the Government of Kenya. The GoK faced significant liquidity constraints. The
Government's low liquidity situation contributed to the poor flow of funds to the districts for STI
project-related activities throughout project implementation. Even though the project had access to the
Special Account for this purpose, the Kenyan system allowed these funds to be used only to reimburse
GoK funds that had already been spent, thus low GoK liquidity posed a constraint. The strict cash
management system introduced by the Government required rninistries to calculate expenditure projections
before starting to issue AlEs. The MOH delayed the preparation of its cash requirements.
Sector policy on decentralization. The STI project was the first IDA-funded health sector project to be
- 15-



implemented by the GoK in a decentralized manner. The STI project required a shift in responsibility
through both management and budgetary decentralization from the centrally placed MOH to the district
level. The ability and commitment to pursue such decentralization, as well as the extent of it, depended
heavily on the Government's commitment. By the mid-term review, stated political commnitments had not
translated into concrete actions. Specifically, the progress in decentralization of fiscal responsibility to the
districts was deemed as inadequate. As a result, the implementation of project activities in the districts was
slowed. The resistance to fiscal decentralization from the GoK bureaucracy thus contributed to the lack of
much progress in project implementation during the early years.
Financial management. The financial management of the project suffered from lack of proper
coordination between the MOH and the Treasury. There were delays in the preparation of statements of
expenditures (SOEs) by the MOH, which were the basis for reimbursement of claims by the External
Resource Department in the Treasury. The Financial Management Task Force in May, 1998 found that
since the project was declared effective, the MOH did not attempt to prepare any SOEs. This further
impeded the flow of funds for project implementation.
Counterpart funds. The payment of counterpart funds by the GoK was satisfactory through most of the
project's implementation period.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project management. During the period of project implementation, there was relative continuity in project
leadership in that the Project Coordinator remained the same for most of the project's life. The project
management provided timely reports on the project activities. However, during the last year of project
implementation, there was a significant decline in the quality of project management after the initial project
coordinator left NASCOP. Since then, reports were delayed and agreed actions were not implemented on
time.
Monitoring and evaluation. The project monitoring and evaluation system was weak. The weakness in
the system impeded an adequate and accurate assessment of all the inputs/outputs and outcome of the
project implementation at completion. There was no evidence that purposeful efforts were made to develop
and track the key indicators for the project during the implementation period.
Donor coordination. During the STI project's implementation, the degree of donor participation in Kenya
changed from a low level to one of high participation. This occurred partly because of increasing
confidence on the part of the donors, and also because of the global surge in interest to helping with the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. The problem changed from that of donor scarcity to that of donor coordination. The
implementing agency cooperated with the other donors in their respective parallel projects outside the STI
project's implementation. Examples of such projects include the CIDAlUniversity of Nairobi STI project
and the Belgian Development Co-operation. Similarly, USAID and UNAIDS provided assistance with the
surveillance system. All these donor activities would have been better coordinated if common work plans
with the STI program within a national program framework were utilized.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total estimated cost of the STI project at the time of appraisal was Ksh 2.9 billion, which was the
equivalent of about US$ 65.5 million. The IDA credit was estimated to cover 61 percent of the total
project cost at US$ 40 million. The anticipated cofinancing from the various donors amounted to about
US$ 21.5 million, while the GoK counterpart financing was estimated at US$ 4 million. The total actual
cost of the project at completion, as obtained from the implementing agency records, is not very reliable
- 16-



because it includes cofinancing contributions while the donor funding was in the form of parallel financing
unconnected to the STI project work plans. The records were not kept according to the project components
and categories.
As of the time of the ICR, the STI project has disbursed US$ 37.1 million of the IDA credit and has an
uncommitted, undisbursed balance of US$ 0.74 million which will be cancelled. The difference between
the appraisal estimate of the IDA credit amount and the actual disbursements can be accounted for by
foreign exchange variation. During the course of the project, the Kenya shilling depreciated from 44.6 Ksh
to about 75 Ksh equivalent to US$ 1. The expenditures were kept in a Kenya shillings account and were
tallied and converted to the US dollar during the ICR mission, based on the periodic exchange rates. The
US dollar also appreciated against the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) during the project period, reducing
the US dollar equivalent amount of the Credit from US$ 40 million to US$ 37.06 million.
It appears from the records provided on donor contributions that more than 90 percent of the pledged donor
contributions have materialized through parallel financing. More than ninety percent of the initial US$
21.5 rnillion planned as cofuiancing by other donors materialized during project implementation. The
accuracy of the donor contribution amounts is uncertain since common work plans were not used and
accounting systems differed. The key donor partners in the implementation of the STI/HIV/AIDS project
include DfID through the HAPAC project, the Netherlands Government through sponsorship of the NLTB
program and KfW (German Development Bank). The project also worked in partnership with other
HIV/AIDS/STD projects supported by JICA, USAID, CIDA, Belgium Development Cooperation,
European Union, GTZ, WHO, UNDP, UNICEF and UNAIDS.
Throughout the implementation period, the GoK counterpart funding has been kept up to date. There are
no outstanding audit issues related to the credit.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the STI project component to strengthen the institutional capacity is considered likely.
The budgetary as well as management experience gained by the districts in managing HIV/AIDS control
activities will prove to be useful to any subsequent interventions related to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The
new NACC has been formed and has merited a specific budget line from the Government, implying
significant Government comrnmitment and financial support to the fight against HIV/AIDS. Although exact
data is lacking on the number and present location of the staff trained, significant investments have been
made through training and technical assistance which will continue to have a positive impact if retained in
the system. The follow-on DARE project is expected to build on what has been achieved through the STI
project with regard to strengthening of the institutional capacity at the decentralized levels. The umbrella
project, KADRE project will also build on the increased capacity at the district level with the increased role
for the CACCs. It is therefore likely that the strengthened institutional capacity as result of the STI project
will be sustainable in the medium term.
The sustainability of the STD prevention and treatment activities under the STI project is also considered
likely if donor assistance continues as is expected. The STI drug supplies in Kenya were entirely dependent
on the project, and by the time of the ICR mission, the future provisions of the STD drugs had not been
completely secured. Commodities, including drugs, constituted the largest chunk of the STI project
expenditures in numerical terms. The syndromic approach to STI management, which relies on the STD
drugs, can be easily jeopardized unless adequate drug supplies are maintained. The benefits derived from
STI treatment in terms of HIV prevention are reversible when STD control programs become complacent
- 17 -



or run out of resources. During the preparation of the MAP and DARE projects, both of which follow the
STI project, firm understandings were reached with the donors and the GoK on who would provide which
commodities related to STII-IIV/AIDS prevention and treatment. As a result of that understanding, neither
the KADRE (MAP) nor DARE projects have made specific provisions in their design to continue with the
supply of the STD drugs. However, there is sufficient flexibility allowed in the design of the two projects
to accommodate the need for STD drugs if the other donors fail to commit the resources. There is an still
on-going discussion between the donors and the GoK on the modalities for ultimately securing the
commodities. As far as condom supply is concerned, the follow-on DARE project has already made
available US$ 9.9 million over the next four years. The short fall, from the expected US$ 12 million for
condom supplies in Kenya during the four year period, is expected to be met by the other donors. On
balance, the sustainability of the STD prevention and treatment component of the project is also considered
to be likely in the medium term.
Thus, the overall sustainability of the STI project is considered as Likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The institutional arrangements for project management and the strengthened financial management system
that have resulted from the STI project will directly support the DARE project. Within DARE, the
decentralized structure achieved by the STI project will continue to be strengthened. The CACCs formed
under this project will also continue to provide implementation channels for the community responses to
HIV/AIDS under the KADRE project. The project's focus on the use of the existing Government structure
at the national and district levels has paid off in the end because such strengthened institutions will continue
to carry on the STD/HIV/AIDS prevention activities for a longer time.
There is less certainty with regard to the specific operations of the STI project management after
completion. With the departure of the initial project coordinator from NASCOP, virtually all activities
related to the project slowed down, and all interest shifted to the following DARE project. In the transition,
the tempo for STI prevention and control activities may face the risk of decline unless purposeful actions
are taken by the DARE project team to continue with the momentum.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification and preparation of the STI project is considered
Satisfactory. The Bank had sufficient experience in the Kenya health sector from the then on-going
Population III and IV projects, and the Health Rehabilitation project. The GoK appropriately identified the
threat posed to its people by the HIV/AIDS/STI epidemic and approached the Bank for assistance. The
project identification, preparation and appraisal were completed within a nine month period in response to
the urgency of the HIV/AIDS/STI situation. The project was prepared by the MOH jointly with the Bank
staff. The Bank staff engaged various donor organizations in consultation regarding the project. Several
donor meetings were held prior to project appraisal, and donor concerns regarding implementation capacity
and sustainability were given due consideration. The project did not contravene any of the Bank's
safeguard policies.
At appraisal, the Bank's performance is considered Marginally Satisfactor . The project peer reviewers
comments, as well as those of some in the donor community, indicated concerns about the lack of
implementation capacity as well as the sustainability of the proposed project activities after the project is
completed. A phased implementation approach was adopted initially in fifteen pilot districts based on the
- 18-



areas with highest STI/HIV prevalence, later expanded to involve all districts. Procurement issues were
considered in light of previous experience with procurement in the Kenyan health sector. The contracting
of a private procurement agent was felt to be necessary because of the anticipated difficulties.
Subsequently, the arrangements for the procurement agent's engagement were faced with significant delays,
and it took almost two years for the procurement agent to be contracted. These delays affected
disbursement of the credit significantly, as such only about US$ l million was disbursed in the first year of
the project and, although not unusual, only 38 percent of total credit was disbursed by the mid-term. The
lapses in financial management capacity and how those will affect the project implementation were not
accurately appreciated at the time of appraisal. The result was a project plagued by delays and
inefficiencies in the financial management system through most of its implementation.
On the technical side, specific gender considerations related to women did not feature in the project design
until around the mid-term. This was in spite of the findings of a pre-project survey indicating substantial
decline in the proportion of women feeling at-risk of getting infected with HIV/AIDS from 59 to 31 percent
over a two year period. However, the focus given to the male gender is also considered appropriate.
At a time when 40 percent of hospital beds were occupied by AIDS cases, and the numbers rising, support
for home based care and orphans was not given a high priority. Another study found that almost 80
percent of Kenyans with symptomatic STIs relied on the private sector for care, and this pattern was
consistent both in the urban as well as in the rural areas. The thrust of the STI project on the other hand
was mostly directed through the public sector at the district level. Thus, a key stakeholder group in the
form of the private care providers were left out in the project design and subsequent implementation. A
much wider group of beneficiaries would have been reached if the private sector providers were engaged
and involved in a significant part of the project. The involvement of private STI care providers would have
opened a window for the consideration of cost sharing mechanisms.
The appraisal report included a long list of project activity and impact indicators, which were not well
focused on the specific activities of the project nor easily measurable without specifically designed studies.
The project monitoring and evaluation system was weak. As a result, by the time of project completion, an
adequate assessment of the outputs/outcomes achieved by the project activities could not be easily done.
The appraisal report also contained an implementation matrix, but there was no firm baseline data in place
on which to base subsequent program evaluation. A logical framework (LogFrame) matrix was not
designed for the project until the mid-term, after which it was retrofitted according to Bank guidelines. The
performance indicators chosen for the project were broad, ambitious and difficult to track.
Although the project had a significant district focus, the training needs at the districts were underestimated
as evidenced by the funds allotted to training initially. The incremental costs of operations were also not
considered in the project costing during appraisal, and this affected the financing of district activities in the
early part of the project.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance with regard to supervision was Satisfactorv. There were a total of ten adequately
spaced supervision missions, over the period of project implementation. The supervision missions were
staffed with appropriate the skills mix which provided useful inputs into the project implementation
process. In situations where the Bank team did not include a technical expert, the use of consultancy
services from WHO was made. The Banlk's supervision performed commendably in trying to address the
financial management problems faced by the project through the initiation, participation and support of the
financial management task force. The recommendations of the task force were framed into a time-bound
- 19-



financial management action plan that was gradually implemented.
The Bank's supervision missions were considered weak in not addressing the lack of implementation of the
M&E system for the project at the very beginning. Appropriate baselines could have been established at
the beginning of the project, and the indicators chosen could have been monitored more closely later.
However, the supervision mission did perform creditably, during the mid-term, when they retrofitted the
project's logical framework. Subsequent to the mid-term review, the then available data from KDHS were
used as pointers towards achievement of project development objective. The supervision missions also
attempted to rectify the weak M&E system by combining the ICR mission with the project's last
supervision mission and initiating the completion survey to take place just before project closing.
Overall, the successful completion of the project earlier than originally anticipated in the SAR gives
credence to the effective and participatory relationship that existed between the Bank's staff and the
implementing agency in the latter years of project implementation, and provides a firm basis for a
successful rating of the supervision.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank Performance is considered Satisfactorv.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance with regards to preparation is deemed Satisfactory. The project was
prepared by the GoK with the assistance of an outside consultant. A nationwide AIDS workshop was
organized in April 1993, to bring together all the different stakeholders in project preparation. The
contributions of the stakeholders were incorporated into the project design, as confirmed by the NGOs
during the ICR mission. It is notable that up to the mid-term, organized "condom burning" activities were
being carried out and widely reported by the media. Such activities were limited to a Catholic church
organization in Kenya and were no longer prominent towards the end of the project. The private care
providers to whom the majority of Kenyans with symptomatic STI's, both in rural and urban areas, turn to
for care were not given sufficient attention during the project design. In particular, the pharmacy shops
which provided significant care for STI cases, and the church-based organizations, could have been
brought on board right from the beginning.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the NASCOP contrasts with that of the core central GoK. The performance of the
central GoK during project implementation is considered Unsatisfactorv, in contrast to NASCOP which
performed satisfactorily until the last year of the project. The pace of fiscal as well as budgetary
decentralization to the districts was much slower than anticipated despite stated political commitments to
pursue the policy. There was a lack of political commitment to the decentralization efforts which delayed
the process. The slow flow of funds to the districts, which has remained a major problem during project
implementation, is to a substantial degree secondary to the inherent problems within the GoK system. The
implementers of the STI activities at the district level suffered from delays in the issuance of the AlEs, low
budgetary ceiling which limited access to credit funds, lack of funds by the district treasuries, and
inadequate support from district administrative leadership.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is, for the most part, considered Mar2inally Satisfactorv. The
- 20 -



annual project progress reports and audit reports were prepared and submitted on time. The advocacy
efforts pursued actively by NASCOP yielded fruits by bringing on board a wide range of political leaders,
religious leaders and civil society in the national effort to control the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The project
coordination team worked well with other partners in the control of STI/HIV/AIDS. A "sea change"
ultimately occurred as a result of the advocacy efforts, from totally ignoring the HIV/AIDS problem within
the Government to recognizing the urgency and importance of addressing it in a comprehensive manner.
A weakness in project management by the implementing agency has been the lack of good monitoring and
record keeping for evaluation. The project financial and procurement data were not easily available or
retrievable from the format in which they were kept. As such, the accuracy of the information on inputs
and expenditures is not assured.
During the last year of project implementation, the performance of the implementing agency deteriorated.
The coordination, implementation and communication of agreed upon actions related to project completion
slowed down significantly after the change in Project Coordinator.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is considered Satisfactorv.
8. Lessons Learned
The STI project was among the early World Bank projects in the sector to specifically tackle
STI/HIV/AIDS. At the time of project preparation, there were very few similar Bank projects completed
and evaluated to provide useful lessons for the design. As a result, the project started with ambitious
objectives, and without a strong monitoring and evaluation system in place. During the mid-term review,
an assessment of the project was done which provided lessons to guide further project implementation.
Now at the end of project implementation, a more comprehensive evaluation of the project has highlighted
important lessons to be learnt, as follows:
Project objectives and design
Appraisal of the project should be clear about "the program " as well as about the "IDA project'"
especially when achievement of the stated Development Objectives of the IDA lending operation depend on
implementation of a broad program, and not merely on the IDA-financed activities. The project should
then design appropriate program monitoring and project monitoring activities, and describe arrangements
for joint review of the program by cooperating partners. In the STI project appraisal document, there was
insufficient clarity on the Government's program relative to the IDA project. As a result of this confusion,
the STI project outweighed the other possible components of the Government's program under NASCOP.
A strong project monitoring and evaluation system requires clear, easily measurable indicators that are
collected systematically over time. The STI project started out with a very broad range of indicators that
were not easily measurable or monitorable, and with no specifically designed studies. As a result, during
project implementation, monitoring and evaluation was based on scanty data. By the time of completion,
even though project activities had been concluded, objectively verifiable data was not available to perm-it a
fair assessment of the project's performance. The format in which the data was collected should have fit
the way it was used for evaluation.
Addressing the STI/HI V/AIDS epidemic requires a paradigm shift from the narrow biomedical paradigm
to a development one. Underlying the biological transmission of lilV and STI is a huge issue of social
- 21 -



vulnerability. A programmatic approach is better suited to consolidate the various efforts, which aim to
reduce STI/HIV/AIDS and mitigate impact, with a focus on the underlying vulnerability issues.
Involvement of the private sector which provides service to the population may reduce overall burden to
the public sector as well as improve capacity in the private sector. In addition, such collaboration could
provide avenues for introducing some degree of formalized cost sharing since those who can afford the care
are willing to pay for STI services in the private sector anyway. STI treatment is a mixed public-private
good, because it has both private as well as public good benefits. The public-private collaboration in
STI/HIV/AIDS efforts could also lead to the large corporations to institutionalize the prevention and share
the costs.
The promotion of an enabling sociopolitical environment is critical for successful implementation
regardless of the technical soundness and design of the project. The considerable delays experienced in the
STI project prior to the mid-term review contrast with the improvements achieved after the review. The
successfal implementation of the project owes to the increased attention given to the creation of an enabling
sociopolitical environment.
Decentralizedproject implementation
Decentralized project implementation requires strong political commitment and the decentralization of
fiscal responsibility should be matched with authority. At the same time, it is important to match
responsibility with both authority and accountability in decentralized project implementation. During the
STI project implementation, issuance of AlEs to the districts took time to materialize and contributed to the
problem of a low flow of funds to the districts as well as to that of slower project implementation. In a
project that starts out on a highly decentralized frame, it is important to ensure that an adequate financial
accounting system exists in the districts or is speedily built during implementation. The delays in
accounting for funds spent at the districts could slow down disbursement for further activities.
Capacity building can, and should, go hand in hand with decentralization. The institutional capacity at
the district levels should be carefully considered before embarking on decentralization of project activities
to the districts. If the institutional capacity is lacking, concerted efforts will be needed to build the capacity
during the project implementation.
A strong distribution system and logistics management needs to be carefully considered in a
supply-intensive project.
Financial management
The competition for limited Government funds available from the district treasuries. As the liquidity
problem increased due to macroeconomic issues in the country, it became increasingly difficult for the
project to access funds in most districts due to GoK regulations prohibiting the Special Account from being
used to advance funds to the districts. After protracted negotiations, among MOH, Treasury and other
donor partners, the districts were eventually allowed to open project sub-accounts in the district treasuries
for the project, and to have funds disbursed directly from the IDA project funds with the Treasury. This
helped in resolving the liquidity issue in the districts substantially, and facilitated a more timely project
implementation in the districts. However, the timeliness of financial flow to the projects at national and
more so at district level continues to be of concem and any future program should aim at deepening the
success achieved in this project. It will be important that financial management systems are strengthened
concurrent to the establishment of project sub-accounts at district levels.
- 22-



There is need to develop modalities offinancing the NGO/CBO sector in IDA-financed projects. The
STI project had envisaged disbursing a substantial amount of resources to the NGO sector (up to 20
percent of credit resources) at both the national and district levels. The disbursement system of the
Government did not allow this to happen, and the MOU that was developed at an early stage of project
implementation proved ineffective. The NGOs had to contend with supplies and equipment, and to a very
small extent, cash based on staff initiative at the district.
There is needfor agreement to be reached early on the points of audit, to have the position known by all
the project implementers and to have it adhered to. There is also need to develop the necessary capacity to
do effective accounting and auditing at the district level. While this project improved substantially in the
timely submission of audit reports compared to those from the previous projects in the sector, some delays
were still experienced. This was more so in regard to the districts expenditures. This delay was
exaggerated by the inconsistency of instructions pertaining to the district audits, i.e. whether they would be
done at the district level or at headquarters.
There is need to harmonize the financial accounts record keeping system with the reporting requirements
of the IDA credit. The STI project accounts did not classify expenditures according to the categories listed
in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) until the last year of project implementation. This posed
some difficulties at the time of compilation of financial data for the end of project evaluation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerlimplementing agency:
-23 -



22  AUG ?OOi
Wh" .M"*"fpt"Vx4                                 0 wPMgTMtNr CW' VUlAfD ANPD
Mdt 0ie                                           I. .  *SWt0^ Krr|t~
MINISTRY OF HEl:TH
August 21, 2OI                                           A
e*-. k J1
Dr. Bert Voetberg
Hwlth Temn leader
The World Bo Lnk'
RE. Lc,R $EFOgm STI    na        Zfi  -IK
Refem to the Draft Implementation Completion Report for the Sexually
Transmitted Infections Project (IDA - 26860). The M nLstry has the fotlowing
comments reprding the report -
_. 3pvotV>
The report is accurate, reflects the implementatfon progress overv;#w of the
STI Project.
2. Vehicles
Page 10 paragraph 1 last sentence should read. 'AU Districts have been
provided with means of transpotation by 500 bicycles, 150 mtoorbikes, 55
four-wheel drive vehle. and two niotor bits".
3. k
Page 9 Iasl pgraph. Isst sentence to read:
HIowever, the ectual project expenditurs that occurred at the ditricts is 10%
of IDA credit resources which is half of what was ordginaly papnrwe.
*iowever. COK and Cownuunity finwncing (user fees) of s-ri aetYites was
substanttial (estlmated ar US$10 million) over the project period Centrally
procured ciommodfdes e.g. vehides, drus IBC materials wrec used to
Support impletenttirn at the district level
- 24 -



4  Suport toNGOu/Mieaxon to1th Servkces
2040% of all drugs, HIV tests kiht and equipment and MEC naterials were
distributed to NCO/Misaion heath facilites mostly throuh the Mission of
ltoentfal Dru3 supplies (MEDS - a Church Logistics agency). Ths was a
more cost effective metlhod to support implementation of NGOs activities
under the projemt.
During the project period, NON contracts close to U$9 million were
implemwnted ough th pasralli - n-   finafced HAPAC.Projst 
cpementVl Project activties The maibeneficiaries mre AMRE,
CARE -KIeiya, Family Health InternationAl, ACIE CommuAictions amnXg
others.
USAI 0 and other partners contributed close to US$15 millton NGO contrats
for S=l activities over the same period in Kenya.
The Si Iroimt coordinatcd resources &om b1ilatral donor. trough the
HIV/AIDS working group for NGOs/C80S including support to
orjgmnizations of people living with HIV/AIDS. This contrg;ution was very
important and needs to be highlighted a lesson wher 8ark Project stimulate$
bilateral and multilateral donor fanding co,ordinated by Government
(PARThIBt,P.
5. Stren9fthnIng of- Naftion Health Svstewipt
The pro4ect substantially contributed to strengthening of National Health
syseem Performance through the follow g; -
(a) Provided veicles to strengthen monitoring and evaluation of health care
ht*iiies at All lovel. Availabilty Of trmnsport had positive spinwoff
etfects on all other heAlth activities.
(b) Stngthened the capacity of Distict Health Managnt Tesrns to o-
ordinate health sector activities through training& computerization and
provision of Office supplies and fumitume telaphone and fax faciities to 50
lDisicts and seven ProvinesM.
(c) Introuced te use of Letteres of Credit which was eventually expanded to
all Mnisties by the Ministry of Finance After successful pilot in STI
(d) DASCO co-ordinated all ITV/ AIMS activities ui Public, Private and NCOs
Mlsaon Sect.
-25 -



(e) The proess of opening district based project Accounts has now been
adopted by the Coverrunent Minitty of Finnc ha released a cigauaar
authorwing all M*stries to operate Sector specifc aouni thus
abolidhing the olld Systewm of pooIirg of distict excheqw.
6. OpppotUnistic Inf etion Drugu (OI)
Page 14; 4d Paragraph
*  The 01 drugs weie supplied to alE hositals in the Public Sector, 20%
of the drugs distributed by MEDS to NGOs/ Mission hospitals.
*  Tberange of drugs included Anti-blotics for ttment of Pneumonia,
(eg. Zinnat) supplied by Glaxo WellcotnPe Antidlarrhoeals eg
Imodium and Ami osidime Sulphate, anti-fungals (Flucnazd e and
Ketaconazolef  lconlazole Sol and Arti-TB (as provided by NLTBP
Ltst), Infection Control Supplies anid Arti-Hetpes. 01 drug ist was
the one approved by the finist  Technical Cotnitte hired by
the Disedor of Medicl SMvimes. Minutes to that effet are available.
The project focused Investment an the mot oummon 0t killers in
Kenya which were:
(i) Tuberculosis,
(if) Punpi nfections,
and to a lesser degree Herpes tnfection.
Please review the inpression created by the paraph which is not correct.
)iflucan and Pluconazole are the sme product Clotnmaxole was in the STi
Second line kit for Syndromic Management of SIs. ft is not in the 01 drug
list. tAs than 10% of credit was spent on ol drup and supplies.
Guideline and. trtining for 01 mnagment was provided to all health
facilities tiAde the project Infection control training integrated into ot
ma-agement training at distrt l*el.
7. UU9nae CoMponen
Revise unsatisfactory to marginaly satsfacty or satisacktoy because the
project design only pruvited fr provwsion of drugs and related supplies for
infection control. This was DONE. This area wzs not well understood in 1993
and even at MTR it was seen to be an expensive component for which the
project could not edequately addre  thu Ule advoccy Approach. Private
Sector perticipatiori page 15 paraTaph Z PlMal review tfs paragraph In the
light of additional nformation provided. Cl-AyX AND CRS fully
partiCipae  They only failed to Set CASH from the ST1 Project but all other
support was providd.
-26-



8. hgtjagkf
CImnge the rating to High  Sage 20 paragVaph 3) in view of inpact of the
pmnct on th sodal and political environment in K*nya, the capaity
developed at distrIct and community and the strengthening of National
H.,Ith system respond to all and diseases.
9. LMIIM
The major handicap to ihplementAtto of the STI Project during the first 2
yesrs was the lack of funds for operadcms atid maintenance It was not until
this category was introduced and together with the Procurement Agent in
place that dt  speed of implementation picked up (Thanks to the sympathetc
ear of Me. Wacuks Iku, and her Intervention with the Bank Management),
The presence of thi symrpathetic ear sutdwfially eontlbuted to efficiency
and effectivenes in the implementation of the lroect.
Yours sincerely
Dr. Tom~;ya Okeyo
(b) Cofinanciers:
fc) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 27 -



/    KENYA EPISCOPAL CONFERENCE
CATHOLIC SECRETARIAT
ffi    *   j-                         WAUMINI hOUE.* WESTLND
5fx.43473
WI-&    ift  ~~~~~rT# 443415,,. daSuMMIW
04,Rf US>                                               3 *
Yw Ref.,
9b Febuary, 2001
Wachuka Ikus                           j                *
Opertions Officer                                     .*         5
World Bank, Country Office                               14'/D
P.O. Box 30577
NAIROBI                                   '.
Dear Wachuka.
E: FOLLOW UF PON KENYA ST ICE
The folbowing are our *ommeats on the worW Ban funded STI proect.
1. Thc objectives ofthis projwct ee very important. The project eould have done a
gre  deal to reduce moridity and mortality among S5 sufferes, especiaily in
this er of MV1/AIDS. W.weva, in ow opinmn the prJeet had limitd inmpt
because of: .
(a) The distnbution of STl drugs to nttment units was wanting. Many treatent
units did not know how to access tse drugs. Thosc who knew fkmd it very
cxpsinsw  to proure and rsport the drU3.
(b) The tmining hor sy9 rtWic nunmmntu of STs had limited covepage.
() The suprvision of th implementation ofthe project was almost non-existent.
Critical stake holders should have bcen involved af along-project conepion
plaiiing, 4hiemeti, evalduatin. To thit resd out Churh whih
manages a criticat proportini of hcalth carm in the country, dki not fcatu
prominently during the Sll prjects planning   pkmentation and lessons
learnt.
- 28 -



2 In our view, the project organisational structure should have included
advocacy/lEC, prement and distribution and impkmenwtion wmmilte with
membership from erticr l stakehodms to ensure sucoessfull implementation.
3. The distribution of drugs to Church managed treatment units should have been
channelcd tbrough IEDS-which has developed an efficient distribution network
tiroughout the county. A financial component of the project should have been
identified to cater for distribution.
4. For the Church managed health units, the Training for Syndromic man ement of
STI should have bee left for MEDS to handle. MEDS is a major provider of drugs
to the Catholic and Prtestants Church Hospitals and Hospitals run by not-fr~
profit NO0s.
S. We feel that the STl project is extremely importan and should be continued. The
wvy forward is to incorporate the lessons leant in formulation of the next phase of
STI ptject
6. The Kenya Catholic Secretiat and its Health Services infiastructure countrywide
is always willing and ready to be in partnenhip with those who care to reduce
suffering of our peopic.
Yours sincerely,
Fr. Michael Charo Ruwa
SECEETARY GENERAL
10. Additional Information
- 29 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Ability of 75% of the target population to cite  75% of target population to be able to name  93.4% of respondents in the project
at least two acceptable ways of protecting    at least two ways of preventing HIV  completion survey cited at least two
themselves from HIV                   transmission                          acceptable ways of preventing HIV infection
in 2001.
Increase by 30% of reported condom use    30% Increase in reported condom use.  44% reported condom use among
among the target populaton.           Increase in paid condom sales from 2.4  respondents in 2001 an increase from 6%
million in 1995.                      and 21 % for females and males respectively
(KDHS '9B). The KDHS data is not
sufficiently comparable.
Increase in appropriate STD case      appropriate STD case management to 70%   88% of aHtendees at STD clinics were
management to 70% of those individuals    of those individuals seeking STD care.  appropriately diagnosed. There is no data on
seeking STD care.                                                           "appropriate" STD case management. 80%
of health centers report uninterrupted supply
of STD drugs in the last three months. 94.4%
of clinics of sampled facilities received STD
drugs. All districts have trained personnel on
Syndromic STD management.
Decrease by 20% of reported non-regular    No baseline data                 23% reported non-regular sexual
sexual partners                                                              partnerships among respondents in the
completion survey 2001.
HIV Prevalence among people aged 15 years HIV prevalence among people aged 15 years Adult HIV Prevalence 14.9% in 1999
and aboveto remain below 15% bytheyear  and abovewas7.5% in 1995
2000
STD (syphilis) Prevalence among women    VORL positive women attending antenatal   VDRL positive women attending antenatal
attending antenatal clinics 7.1% in 1995  clinics 7.5% in 1997               clinics 5% in 2000
HIV Prevalence among STD Patients (?)    HIV Prevalence among STD patients 40% in HIV Prevalence among STD Patients 20% in
27% in 1995                           1997                                   2000
100% safe national blood supply       100% of the Kenyan blood supply is    99-100% of blood transfused screened for
screened for HIV                      HIV. uninterrupted supply of HIV testing
reagents. HIV positivity among blood donors
stable at 6% (1998)
- 30 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                  ActuallLatest Estimate
Financing of District Plans in all districts  District plans in all districts financed through Achieved decentralization of planning and
Against Workplans                      implementation of GoK Treasury Circular on  financial authority to district level in all
pre-financing of district-level activities.  districts. However, most districts receive
finance for less than half of their budgeted
work plans
Ensuring safety of blood supply through  Ensure that all 78 hospitals have supply of   50 New EUSA machines maintained. 3.9
provision of STI/HIV test kits.        testing machines and test kits to meet needs million HIV ELISA Rapid test kits procured.
through 2000. Provisions made for sustained
supply after close of project.
Support provision of care to STI and   Project-financed procurement meets needs  STD drug kits distrbuted to all public, local
HIV/AIDS patients through the provision of  through for 1998-2000. Provisions made for Govemment and Mission health facilities. Up
STI/Opportunistic Infections drugs and  sustained supply after end of project.  to 80% of facilities have trained manpower.
supplies.                                                                      All districts have people trained in syndromic
management of STDs.
Use of IEC Materials to increase awareness  IEC Materials in broad dissemination and use AIDS films produced, radio shows hosted,
about HIV and its prevention.          in all 68 districts, with sustainable provision  AIDS in Kenya booklets, Worid AIDS Day
of supplies ensured by end of project.  celebrations annually, posters distributed.
Still shortage of IEC Materials
Increased GoK/IDA-financed participation of Increased collaboration between NASCOP   MOU produced but not implemented.
NGOs in implementation of STI/HIVIAIDS    and NGOs as evidenced in the completion of Progress in contracting National NGOs
activities.                            the NGO contracts and plans for future  slow.
meaningful collaboration.
Districts providing continuum of care  20 districts providing continuum of care at   50 out of 65 districts providing continuum of
the end of 1997 (NASCOP)               care
Condoms sold                           8 million condoms sold in 1997 (NASCOP)  30 million condoms sold in 1999
End of project
- 31 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    ActuallLatest:  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      iAppraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million:
A. Strengthening Institutional Capacity             13.89          20.93            150
B. Prevention of Sexually Transmitted Infections    26.65          30.87            116
C. Social Economic Consequences                     19.00           3.15             16
Total Baseline Cost                                 59.54          54.95
Physical Contingencies                                             0.58
Price Contingencies                                 5.97    ___
Total Project Costs            65.51           55.53
Total Financing Required             65.51          55.53
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB u         ther2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                    26.90          1.00         1.70         13.10       42.70
(26.90)      (1.00)        (1.70)       (0.00)      (29.60)
3. Services                  8.30         0.00          0.00         4.00        12.30
IEC Materials               (8.30)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (8.30)
4. Training and Technical    0.00         0.00          0.60         2.00         2.60
Assistance
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.60)       (0.00)       (0.60)
5. Research and              0.00         0.00          1.50         1.40         2.90
Monitoring                  (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.50)       (0.00)       (1.50)
6. Recurrent Costs           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.50         0.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     35.20         1.00         3.80         21.00        61.00
(35.20)      (1.00)        (3.80)       (0.00)      (40.00)
Vehicles costs included under goods procured
- 32 -



Project Costs by Procurem   nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB             NCB           Other2         N.B.F,      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
________ __  (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         19.06           0.58           4.10           0.00          23.74
(19.06)         (0.58)         (4.10)         (0.00)        (23.74)
3. Services                      0.00            5.42           1.61           0.00           7.03
IEC Materials                    (0.00)         (5.42)         (1.61)         (0.00)         (7.03)
4. Training and Technical        0.00            1.26           3.45           0.00           4.71
Assistance
(0.00)         (1.26)         (3.45)         (0.00)         (4.71)
5. Research and                  0.00            0.00           0.70           0.00           0.70
Monitoring                       (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.70)         (0.00)         (0.70)
6. Recurrent Costs               0.00            0.00           0.76           0.00           0.76
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.76)         (0.00)         (0.76)
Total                         19.06           7.26           10.62          0.00          36.94
....1   (19.06)        (7.26)         (10.62)        (0.00)        (36.94)
This table shows IDA Contribution only.
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermment units.
Project Financing by E penditure Category (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Expenditure Category        Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate     P
IDA       Govt.     CoF.       IDA        Govt.     CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Drugs and Equipment       16.60      1.10      6.00      22.18       1.17      6.57    133.6  106.4  109.5
Supplies                  11.90                5.20       0.00                          0.0            0.0
IEC Materials             8.30       2.00      2.00       7.03       0.78               84.7   39.0   0.0
Local Training                                 4.50       1.85      0.21                               0.0
Overseas Training         0.10                 0.50       0.25      0.00               250.0           0.0
Technical Assistance      0.50                 1.50       2.61       0.29      0.20    522.0           13.3
Research and Monitoring   1.50       0.40      1.00       0.70      0.08                46.7   20.0   0.0
Vehicles                  1.10                 0.80       1.56      0.03               141.8           0.0
Reccurrent Costs                     0.50                            0.58                      116.0
(DflD Expenditures)                                                           12.60
Miscelaneous Op costs                                     0.76      0.13
Total                     40.00      4.00     21.50      36.94      3.27      19.37    92.4   81.8   90.1
- 33-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
8/xxl93                      xx   Unavailable
3/xxl94                      xx   Unavailable
Appraisal/Negotiation
Jun 20-28, 1994               4   1 medical doctor/ public
health spec, I operations
officer, I financial
management specialist, I
division chief
Nov 9-21, 1994               10   I division chief, 2 operations
officer, I medical doctor ! public
health spec, 1 operations officer,
I population spec, I HIV/AIDS
spec, 1 resident representative, 2
consultants
Jan 17-23, 1995              xx
Supervision
Sept 25-Oct 6,                4   3 operations officers, I WHO          S             S
1995                              consultant
Feb 12-23, 1996               6   3 operations officers, 2 technical    S             S
consultants (WHOlDflD), I
financial management specialist
Sept 23-Oct 10,              11   4 operations officers, I financial    S             S
1996                              management specialist, I social
development specialist, I
statistician, 2 procurement
specialists, I architectural
consultant, I WHO consultant
May 29-Jun 12,                8   3 operations officers, I medical      S             S
1997                              doctor / public health specialist, I
economist, I financial analyst, I
NGO specialist, 2 consultants
Feb 2-19, 1998                7   1 medical doctor ! public health      S             S
specialist, I operations analyst, I
operations officer, I financial
management specialist, I
economist, I NGO specialist, I
gender specialist
Jul 27-Aug 7, 1998            9   1 senior population health            S             S
(MTR)                              specialist, 2 operations officers, I
medical doctor / public health
specialist, I operations analyst, I
operations officer, I economist, I
financial management specialist,
I social development specialist, I
- 35 -



NGO specialist
Feb 2-12, 1999                 5   1 medical doctor / senior public       S              S
health specialist, I medical
doctor / public health specialist,l
economist, I operations officer, I
financial management specialist
Jul 26 - xx, 1999              5   I medical doctor / public health       S              S
specialist, I senior population
specialist, I operations officer, I
financial management specialist,
I procurement specialist
Mar 27- xx, 2000               5   1 medical doctor / senior public       S              S
health specialist, I operations
analyst, I operations officer, I
financial management specialist,
I procurement auditor
From 10/7/00 to                5   1 operations analyst, I operations
10/13/00                           officer, I procurement specialist,
I financial management
specialist, I public health
specialist,
ICR
Oct 16-27, 2000                2    1 public health specialist, I
operations officer
<b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  36.0                          108.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                       15.5                           74.3
Supervision                               210.48                         620.4
ICR                                        28.02                           72.0
Total                                      290.0                          874.7
- 36 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial. M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                             O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                            OH  * SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                   O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Financial                                  O H OSUOM O N * NA
Z Institutional Development                  O H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
O Environmental                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Gender                              O H O SUO M * N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
HI V/AIDS prevention
O Private sector development                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
EJ Public sector management                  O H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                    O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Component                   Cost (Appraisal)       Cost (Actual)       Rating
US$ million          US$ million
A. Strengthening institutional capacity                            20.93               S
(i)  National Capacity                      2.31
(ii) District Capacity                      3.14
(iii) Surveillance                          1.01
(iv) Operational research                   1.18
(v) Monitoring/Evaluation                   0.96
(vi) Innovative NGO/CBO activities          5.03
(vii) Project Management                    0.27
Sub-total                                    13.90
B. Promote preventive measures                                     30.87               S
(i)  STD                                    12.30
(ii) IEC                                     7.54
(iii) Condoms distribution                   6.80
Sub-total                                      26.64
C. Health sector & community provision                              3.15               U
(i)  TB                                      5.02
(ii) Opportunistic Infections                9.95
(iii) NGO/CBO activities                     2.73
(iv) Occupational Safety                     1.30
Sub-total                                     19.00
Price Contingency                              5.96                 0.58
TotaUOverall                                 65.5                  55.53              S
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  O U   O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
M Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
FS Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Kenya Sexually Transmitted Infections Project Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
2. Kenya Demographic and Health Survey of 1998
3. Report of the Second National HIV/AIDS/STD Conference 28-30 October 1998, Nairobi, Kenya
4. AIDS in Kenya, Fifth edition, 1999 produced by NASCOP
5. Baseline Study for the Decentralized HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health (DARE) Project and STI
Completion Survey produced by the Clinical Epidemiology Unit, College of Health Sciences,
University of Nairobi June 2001
6. National Leprosy Tuberculosis Programme Annual Report, 1999.
7. Sexually Transmitted Infections Project Mid-Term Review report
8  Implementation Supervision Mission Aide Memoirs and Project Status Reports
- 39 -



Annex 8. Final Borrower's Project Evaluation Report
FINAL BORROWERS EVALUATION REPORT.
Sexuallut Transmitted Infections (STIJ Project: 1995-2000.
World Bank. IDA Credit 2686-KE.
March 2001.
Executive Summarvi:
1: Epidemiological and Demo-graphic Impact:
The HIV/AIDS epidemic is generalized and of high prevalence in Kenya. Since the
first case was reported in 1984, the virus has continued to spread rapidly into most
parts of the country despite preventive and control efforts taking place. At the end of
year 2000, 16 years later, over 98,000 cases of AIDS had been reported to the
Ministry of Health. The estimated number of AIDS cases is, however, 2- 3 times this
number since there is gross under-reporting. By the year 2005, the number of AIDS
cases is projected to reach 250,000.
The National AIDS and STDs Control Programme, (NASCOP) estimates that as at
June 2000, adult HIV prevalence had increased to 13.5 percent. [NASCOP, 2001] In
urban areas prevalence was estimated to be 17 to 18 percent. At the current
population, this means that there are about 470,000 HIV-infected adults in urban
areas. HIV prevalence in rural areas is increasing rapidly. In the year 2000, it was
estimated to be between 12 and 13 percent. This translates to about 1.5 million
HIV-infected adults living in rural areas at current population levels. Although
prevalence is higher in urban areas, the total number of people infected is larger in
rural areas where 80% of the population lives, and this rural infected pool is
equivalent to 72 % of all the infected adults in Kenya.
Without AIDS, and assuming a gradual decline in the death rates from other
causes, the annual number of deaths among young adults (ages 15 to 49) would
increase slowly (because of the growing population) from about 52,000 in year 2000
to 58,000 by year 2005. However, AIDS has dramatically increased that number,
more than quadrupling it to 214,000 a year in the year 2000 and this number is
estimated to increase to 270,000 by 2005. This rapid increase in young adult deaths
has serious consequences for economic and social development. AIDS is the leading
cause of adult mortality in Kenya today.
Child and infant morbidity and mortality has similarly increased due to HIV/AIDS.
AIDS has reversed the earlier gains made in reducing infant and child mortality.
Over 30% of deaths in infants and young children in Kenya are attributable to AIDS.
The Central Bureau of Statistics estimates that without AIDS, life expectancy at
birth (LEB) would currently be about 65 years. However, due to the large number of
AIDS deaths, it is 46 years and may decline to 45 years by 2010. Thus almost 20
years of LEB have already been lost due to AIDS.
2: Surveillance:
NASCOP conducts two forms of HIV/AIDS surveillance: AIDS case surveillance and
HIV seroprevalence sentinel surveillance.
All public sector, private and mission hospitals are required to report the number of
AIDS cases attended to in their facilities to the Provincial Medical Officers. NASCOP
receives monthly summaries, which are consolidated and included in the annual
"AIDS in Kenya" publication in addition to reporting to UNAIDS.
40



The STI Project support resulted in continuous quality HIV/AIDS surveillance consisting
of providing supervision at district and sub-district levels, training of health workers,
distribution of supplies and kits and the compilation, analysis and dissemination of
surveillance information. NASCOP developed data collection instruments and expanded
the number of sentinel surveillance sites to include rural sites.
Figure 1 below shows the projectedl numbre of people in Kenya infected with HIV
since the epidemic started up to year 2010 derived from figures obtained from the
sentinel surveillance sites spread across the country.
Is.K,irc 1: Pl  .jected h11umht'i  eL nI,re
Infected with I [IV in kcnv-
3.0                       -_                   _
2.5                   _         -                -
Ml 2.0--       --------- ---------           !
ns 1.5 - ___*
1.0-.       _      .                *      *     _
0.5 __                              * * 
1980  1985  1990  1995  2000  2005  2010
Source: NASCOP, 'AIDS in Kenya", 2000.
Figure 2 below shows the cumulative number of AIDS cases, by age and sex,
reported to NASCOP since 1986.
Figure 2: Age and Sex Distribution of
Reported AIDS Cases (1986 - 2000)
12000 
10000       - --
8000                 _   _                  -
6000   --- --     -                         --
6 4000      --    --                           ------
2000   - -  - -  --_
0
0-4   5-9  10-14 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 4044 45-49 50-54 55-59  60-
Source: NASCOP, 'AIDS in Kenya", 2000.
41



NASCOP planned activities were however, not fully implemented due to constraints
in financial flows. In addition, routine data collection and reporting was not
synchronized and standardized with that of the Health Information System (HIS).
The capacity of the districts was not fully developed to process and utilize the data
locally for planning, training, policy and decision-making.
The financial flow constraints have since been addressed through the Treasury
Circular 3 of 2000 outlining the flow mechanisms of pre-financed donor projects.
Districts have been prepared to implement the provisions of these revised financial
regulations and majority have opened accounts in commercial banks.
Monitoring the prevalence of STDs and HIV/AIDS needs to be strengthened further.
The HIS and NASCOP need to work more closely to develop standardized tools for
routine recording and reporting of STDs and AIDS.
In view of the complexity of the HIV epidemic and the need to develop and effect
appropriate responses and strategies, surveillance should be expanded
geographically and contextually to include a wider range of population groups, cover
behavioral trends and track opportunistic diseases and their responses to
treatment.
3: Blood Safetu:
Blood transfusion services are hospital based and are integrated into other health
care and laboratory services. Individual hospitals collect and use blood according to
their need. Currently screening for HIV, syphilis, hepatitis and malaria is routinely
carried out on all units of blood prior to transfusion. NASCOP supplies reagents and
equipment for HIV and syphilis screening while the rest are provided either through
the National Public Health Laboratories Services (NPHLS) or direct purchase by
these hospitals.
Based on the quality standards developed by the Ministry of Health in 1994, a
number of laboratory staff have been trained in HIV screening. New laboratory
equipment for HIV screening was procured and installed in 50 public hospitals: 10
fully automatic and 40 semi-automatics. HIV and syphilis testing reagents and kits
were similarly procured and supplied to most health facilities in Kenya under the
STI project; 20% of these supplies were issued to non-government hospitals.
The blood donor and transfusion service has not functioned well. This has been due
to lack of trained personnel, space, consumable supplies and a quality assurance
mechanism. At the district level, there are no organizational and management
policies to guide the operations of such a service. The existing guidelines on the
appropriate use of blood and blood bank services are not adequately promoted and
applied by the end-users.
Support for the safe blood and blood bank services needs to be urgently increased.
The Laboratory and Blood Safety Committee of NASCOP needs to be enabled to
carry out quality control and implement its planned activities. These include the
regular review of technical guidelines on blood testing, blood donor policy and to
oversee the establishment and operations of the regional blood donor centers. Thus
far, the Committee has been constrained by inadequate and irregular flow of funds.
42



4: Clinical. Counselina and Care Continuum Services:
1. Clinical and Care Continuum Services:
The Government of Kenya policy on clinical management and nursing care is that
these activities should be integrated into ongoing health promotive, preventive and
curative programmes. Health workers are to be trained on HIV/AIDS and related
diseases and be provided with resources to enable them deal with HIV/AIDS and
related problems. Because of the close association of STDs and AIDS, the
Government recognized the need for early diagnosis and appropriate treatment of
STDs as an important strategy in the control of AIDS.
The algorithm to treat and manage STDs was developed and distributed to all health
institutions. A revision was done in 1996. All districts have conducted training of
clinical staff in STD syndromic management. STD drug kits, TB drugs and drugs to
manage opportunistic infections were procured and distributed through the Family
Planning Logistics Management Unit (FPLM) and the National Leprosy and
Tuberculosis Programme (NLTP) to all the districts.
Clinical Manuals and Guidelines in the management of HIV/AIDS and the
opportunistic infections in all clinical settings have not been developed. Some
guidelines have been developed in specific areas: these have not been widely
distributed or their use monitored. The adaptation for local use and dissemination
of the WHO AIDS series on Nursing Care, Guidelines on Sterilization and
Disinfection methods effective against HIV and for the Nursing Management of
PWAs has not been done. In addition, essentials supplies for the care of patients
infected with HIV/AIDS is lacking in the majority of health facilities and are not
accessible to the vast majority of cases who would benefit from facility-based care.
Care Continuum involving a comprehensive range of services from the home
through referral networks to health facility referral systems have not been fully
developed. Few sites exist in the country where the Care Continuum is well
functional.
National Guidelines on Community home based care were developed and distributed
in 1993. These Guidelines are currently undergoing revision by a team led by
NASCOP. In addition, 45 facilitators in home-based care and 27 trainers were
trained. Over 500 CHWs have subsequently been trained in more than 4 districts.
Due to poor monitoring and supervision, the numbers active are not known. Patient
Care Centers have been established at the Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) and 5
Provincial Hospitals.
Home based care was not given priority in the STI Project implementation. This has
led to low recognition of the vital role it plays in the care continuum. Discharge
planning coupled to referral systems is not widely practiced. In addition, support
systems for PWAs are not well developed in the communities.
It is essential to prioritize facility-based quality care of patients with HIV/AIDS. To
enhance this, standards should be developed and disseminated as
guidelines/manuals for clinical management and nursing care. Infection Control
policies should be developed for universal application across all health facilities.
Minimal care packages should form the basis of quality care. Training of health
workers to manage cases appropriately and to observe infection control measures
needs to be scaled up.
Advocacy for home-based care and the establishment of support systems for PWAs
that are community focused are is essential. The Kenya AIDS Disaster Response
Project, a sister World Bank supported project undertaken through the National
43



AIDS Control Council (NACC) is designed to address this aspect of HIV/AIDS
control.
2. Counseling:
The Govemment of Kenya policy statements on AIDS counseling is that health
workers need to be given available and current information on HIV/AIDS and other
related infections and the necessary resources to deal with AIDS and the associated
problems; counseling services be developed at all health delivery points, community
level; HIV positive and negative pregnant women need education and counseling to
enable them make decisions on present and subsequent pregnancies. Voluntary
Counseling and Testing (VCT) is the strategy that the would be employed to promote
and sustain behavior change as well as an entry to various essential services that
are necessary for the well being of the HIV infected and affected.
Training of health workers in the public sector was to be undertaken to enable the
Government offer integrated services in the context of primary health care.
Counseling Guidelines were developed in 1988. These have been continuously
revised and currently, National Guidelines on Voluntary Counseling and Testing
have been finalized. Counselors Training curriculum was developed and continues
to be revised; currently this is being undertaken to take into account VCT. Trainers
were trained on Counseling and Homebased Care; 3 at provincial level and 5 at each
district level for the initial 15 districts. Between 1992 and 1994, 72 facilitators were
trained for counseling and home-based care.
Standard training curriculum was not followed in the initial training of counselors.
This has now been addressed through the curriculum that is in its final phases of
development. The level of activity of the trained facilitators and counselors cannot
be ascertained properly due to high staff turnover and low acceptance of institutions
of counseling activities. In addition, in the public sector, the lack of a career
structure for counselors means that there is little motivation to provide counseling
services in a field that does not provide for career advancement. These health cadres
who have undergone training in counseling, for varying reasons, are also not
available to provide the service in the facilities.
It is essential that counseling is supported more vigorously and the provision of
quality VCT services spread to as wide coverage as possible. Partnerships are
essential in initiating these vital services while their integration in the services in
the public sector will depend on the identification and training of counselors whose
jobs are well defined, responsibilities clearly outlined and resources provided for
these activities to take place.
5. Sexual Behavior Change and HIV/AIDS:
1) Behavior Change:
Policies and strategies to promote behavior change have been clearly spelt out by
the Government. Key areas to be addressed include: delay in the onset of sexual
activity, reduction of sexual partners, condom use and the promotion of
treatment seeking behavior for STDs.
The Project has, in collaboration with other stakeholders, undertaken the
development, dissemination and use of advocacy and Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) materials in various programmes and projects in all the above
key areas.
44



Many planned activities of the IEC component were implemented. They include
formation of a multisectoral technical sub-committee and five Task Forces on
various subject areas to deal with HIV/AIDS. In addition, monthly meetings of the
sub-committees took place to monitor activities.
The outputs of these activities included educational materials that were produced
and disseminated, musical and educational videos, TV spots, training of and
assisting District Health Management Teams (DHMTs) to conduct KAP surveys, co-
ordination of and supporting Agricultural Society of Kenya (ASK) shows,
collaboration with other agencies to produce and disseminate educational materials
and carry out educational programmes.
Whereas general awareness of HIV/AIDS is reported to be high, the quality of the
information on AIDS shown by the KDHS of 1998 is still low. An average of only
38.6% Kenyans can cite 2 acceptable ways of preventing transmission. This figure
may, however, have changed significantly in the last couple of years as efforts have
been further intensified. The Baseline Survey for the DARE Project which has just
been started (April 2001) will provide additional information on the current levels of
awareness.
The IEC materials produced so far have not been adequate in number and/or not
sufficiently disseminated. The quality of the materials produced has not been
subject to any quality assessment. The content and range of subjects covered has
largely been determined by the agenda of those providing the funding for its
production and use.
There is need to increase support for the key interventions that promote behavior
change. IEC materials should be produced in a co-ordinated well planned
systematic and sustained approach. A Quality Assurance mechanism should be in-
built in this process.
Advocacy activities that are gender sensitive and are modeled on the recognition of
the power relationships, actively involving men, should be adopted to complement
peer education activities. The KADRE Project, in collaboration with other partners,
is well positioned to undertake these activities.
A Communication Strategy for the promotion and sustenance of behavior change in
target groups is necessary and should be urgently developed, adopted by all
stakeholders and implemented.
2) Condom proerammine:
Condom promotion, distribution and correct use are an indispensable component of
an effective National HIV Control Programme.
In 1998, close to 90 million condoms were distributed by the public sector and the
social marketing of Trust condoms. This represents a dramatic rise in the
distribution and use of condoms in Kenya. However, the actual quantities of
condoms required and the number used is not precisely known but is estimated to
be high and rising. The demand for condoms, however, is low compared to the need
for their use. Condom use in Kenya is very low. On average, in 1998, 43% males
and 15% females used condoms during their last sexual intercourse with a non-
regular partner.
Donors have continued to provide the highest proportion of funding for the
procurement and distribution of condoms. Logistics management is provided by
FPLM, (now DELIVER), while funding is from USAID. This funding has been fickle
and has made the availability of condoms subject to stock-outs at any time.
45



NASCOP, the Division of Primary Health Care and the Logistics Working Group and
other stakeholders have worked closely in developing the Condom Strategy which is
yet to be adopted. This strategy outlines clear and effective policies for the
sustainable supply of condoms in Kenya.
There is an urgent need to operationalise the National Condom Strategy. Funding
sources for procurement of condoms need to be pre-determined, social marketing
expanded further and distribution strategies that ensure constant uninterrupted
availability to all who require, whenever they need, are effected.
Advocacy for condom use should also be stepped up. The Ministry of Health should
continue to guarantee the availability of condoms to those disadvantaged groups
who may not be able to afford buying condoms through the social marketing and
other outlets that attract a minimal charge.
6. Socio-economic Impact Evaluation and Mitication:
The NASCOP Mid-Term Plan II (MTPII) spelled out two broad policy areas. The
Government was to organize and mobilize appropriate resources to support
individuals, families and communities cope with the physical, social, emotional and
material needs aggravated by the epidemic. Secondly, the Government was to review
laws and policies concerning orphans and vulnerable children (OVC) with a view to
ensuring their continued well-being.
A needs assessment of children orphaned by AIDS was carried out in 1994 with
funds provided by UNICEF. Family Health International published the results in a
book: "AIDS in Kenya: Socio-economic impact and policy implications'. The other
output of NASCOP supported activities was the development of the computerized
AIDS impact model, which presents analyzed and illustrated impacts. This followed
the deliberations of the Task Force on development of strategies for advocacy for the
protection of vulnerable persons due to HIV/AIDS.
The extent of the OVC burden in Kenya has not been ascertained. Activities directed
towards mitigating the effects of the epidemic to these OVC and widows are even
less well understood. There is no resource mobilization by the Government for OVC
and widow support. No policy guidelines have been developed and implemented for
support of the OVCs and widows.
The workplace policies currently implemented that promote HIV/AIDS prevention
and control need to be expanded and scaled up. Employer contribution towards
impact mitigation should be increased. In addition, further research is necessary to
evaluate the impact on all levels of the economic activities from the individuals,
families, and communities to macro economic analysis.
UNICEF has provided funding to a NASCOP-led effort to develop National Guidelines
to guide Programming on the Support to OVCs. This needs to be expanded to
involve widows/widowers, legislative framework for the protection of all those
persons rendered vulnerable and advocacy for all these efforts.
7. Protect Management and Implementation:
1) Financial and SuDplies Management:
The main financier for the STI Project was the IDA. Parallel financing arrangements
with bilateral and multilateral donors also supported Project activities. In Addition,
the Project worked in partnership with other HIV/AIDS/STD Projects supported by
JICA, USAID, CIDA, Belgium Development Co-operation, EU, GTZ, WHO, UNDP,
UNICEF and UNAIDS.
46



Tables 1 below shows the Total STI Project financing by expenditure category, and
the appraisal and actual expenditure todate while Table 2 shows the Project
financing by expenditure categories, GOK/IDA.
Table 1: Total STI Project financing by expenditure category and appraisal and actual expenditure
todate.
STI Project, 1995-2001.
Project financing by expenditure category, (US $ 000,000).
Category of expenditure Appraisal Estimates                 Actual expenditure
IDA     GoK        CoF     TOTAL    IDA  I  GoK          CoF      TOTAL
1   Drugs Supplies    28.50       1.10    11.20     40.80   22.18       1.17     5.07      28.42
and Equipment
3   IEC material       8.30       2.00     2.00      12.30    7.03      0.78     2.71      10.52
4   Local training                         4.50      4.50     1.85      0.21        0       2.06
5   Overseas training    0.10              0.50      0.60    0.25       0.00        0       0.25
6   Technical          0.50                1.50      2.00    2.61       0.29     4.52       7.42
assistance
7   Research and       1.50       0.40     1.00      2.90    0.70       0.08     2.48       3.26
Monitoring
8   Vehicles           1.10                0.80      1.90    1.56       0.03     0.25       1.84
9   Misc Op costs         0         0         0      0.00    0.76       0.13        0       0.89
9   Recurrent costs               0.50               0.50               0.58                0.58
Total             40.00      4.00     21.50     65.50   36.94       3.27    1S.03     55.24
Cof: cofmaciers who include DFID, KfW and others.
Table 2: STI Project financing by expenditure category: GOK/ IDA
STI Project
Project financing by expenditure category: GOK/IDA, US $
Cat No   Category of                   GOK                 IDA                Total          Rounded
expenditure                                                                         (mill)
1        Drugs supplies and            1,167,517.12      22,182,825.35      23,350,342,47        23.35
Equipment
3        IEC materials                  781,151.35        7,030,362,11       7,811,513.45         7.81
4        Local training                  205,955.40       1,853,598.62       2,059,554.02         2.06
5        Overseas Training                    0.00          248,389.55         248,389.55         0.25
6        Tech Assistance                 290,517.90       2,614,661.06       2,905,178.96         2.91
7        Research & Mon                   77,669.81     699,028.31             776,698.12         0.78
8        Vehicles                         31,806.96       1,558,540.83       1,590,347.79         1.59
9        Misc. Op expenses               134,831.58         764,045.61         898,877.19         0.90
9        Recurrent costs                 584,450.93                            584,450.93         0.58
Total costs                  3,273,901.04      36,951,451.44      40,225,352.48         40.23
Misc. operating expenses introduced as Cat 7 during last 2 years of the project implementation.
Table 3 below shows the breakdown of the IDA Project costs by procurement arrangements.
STI Project, Project costs by procurement arrangements: IDA contribution only
Cat of exp    Appraisal estUamte                      Actual ex enditure
ICB       NCB       Other    Total    ICB         NCB       Other    Total
1    Works         0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00
2    Goods          26.90     1.00      1.70      29.60     19.06     0.58      4.10      23.74
3    Services, IEC   8.30     0.00      0.00      8.30      0.00      5.42      1.61      7.03
materials
4    Training and    0.00     0.00      0.60      0.60      0.00      1.26      3.45      4.71
TA                                ______   I
5    Res & Mon      0.00      0.00      1.50      1.50      0.00      0.00      0.70      0.70
6    Recc costs    0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      19.06     7.26      10.62     36.94
=___  TOTAL         35.20     1.00      3.80      40.00     19.06     7.26      10.62     36.94
Table 4 below shows the Total Project costs by Components: these were the main areas where the
objectives were categorized.
47



STI Project
Project costs by components: IDA/GOK/CoF
Cat  Category    IDA/GOK        KfW          OFID |        GoN     DANIDA              TOTAL  Rounded
j 1    Strengthen   15,856,359.42    222,222.00 1  4,852 749.27  0          0      20,931,330.69   20.93
Institution 
capacity               _       __                                -  _  _   i_
2    Prevention of  23,388,130.15   2,611,111 00      9,74446.98  0       0      30,873,688.13    30.87
STis                                -._                                     _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
3    S-E conseq.     396,408.98          0    2,752,504.35      0         0       3,148,913.33     3.15
TOTAL        39,640,898.55   2,833,333.00   12,479,700.60  0         0      54,953,932.15    54.95
Recurrent           0.58
expenditure
Budgeted     44,000,000.00   4,000,000.00   12,500,000.00    4miII  Imill   65,500,000.00
Unspent       4,359,101.45   1,166,667.00  20,299.40    4mill     imill     10,546,067.85
GoN- Government of Netherlands
Further analysis of the Project costs by component and the actual costs (in millions of
US dollars) compared to the appraisal amounts is shown below:
Component                    Appraisal fUS$)        Actual (US$) %of appraisal
-  Strengthen Ins Capacity           13.89                  20.93          150.7
*  Prevention of STIs                26.64                  30.87          115.9
-  S-E consequences                  19.00                  3.15           16.6
Total baseline costs _               59.93                  54.95
Contingencies                 5,97
Recurrent expenditure                               0.58
Total Project costs          __    65.5Q0                   55.53        __ -
Shortfall                                                   9.97
Total                                                       65.50
The difference between the appraisal est'male of UDS65.5 anc actua. JS$ 55.53 is due
to the following:
Financier             Amount LS$             Comments
IDA/GOK                       3.78           Unspent and exchange differences
KfW                           1.17           Unspent
DflD                          0.02           Unspent
Netherlands                   4              Unspent
DANIDA                        1              Unspent
Total                         9.97
During the Project implementation, financing for the activities was constrained by
delays and inadequacies in issuance of Authority to incur expenditure (AlEs), delays in
accounting for STI Project funds, low level of STI activities in the districts, low liquidity
in GOK finances, non-correspondence between the GOK estimates and expenditure
categories as provided in the DCA, difficulties encountered by the districts in
collaborating with NGOs/CBOs and a low district capacity to implement the STI Project.
Measures were taken to address these constraints. To streamline the flow of funds to
the districts and improve on the accounting for the these funds, revised guidelines
contained in Treasury Circular no. 3 of 2000 were issued which, amongst other things,
allowed the districts to set up and operate Project bank accounts. Training of district
personnel involved in Project implementation has been carried out and a computerized
48



accounting system installed that will improve on financial management and enable
analysis by Project components and categories.
Supervision, monitoring and establishment of support systems will enhance the
efficient implementation of project activities. In a decentralized setting, this
responsibility shall be largely borne by the Provincial and District Teams whose
capacities during the life of the Project have shown a lot of room for improvement.
8. Conclusion:
The STI Project objectives were broadly, to strengthen institutional capacity at both
national and district levels to design, implement, monitor and evaluate interventions;
promote preventive measures to reduce the risks of STI transmission and to enhance
the health sector and community provision of physical and psychosocial care and
develop strategies to mitigate the socio-economic consequences of HIV/AIDS.
150% of the appraisal budget was used to realize the first objective, which corresponds
to the first budgetary component. Training, both local and overseas, was conducted to
varying cadres of health care workers. Equipment and vehicles were provided and were
widely distributed. However, government liquidity constraints made it necessary to
introduce a support item to cover recurrent expenditures. The STI Project support to
the DHMTs proved to be critical to implementation of other district based activities.
115% of the appraisal budget was used for the second component; blood safety
activities, management of STIs and condom promotion and distribution. The realization
of the targets set for this component will be revealed from the Project completion survey
that is currently underway.
17% of the appraisal budget was used for the last component: this is consistent with
the lack of overall satisfactory performance in co-ordinating the non- government sector
response. The mechanisms provided for in the Project failed to operationalized.
The STI Project did respond to the challenges of a worsening HIV problem and lack of
an appropriate multisectoral collaborative effort by leading the process of increased
advocacy, the formulation of an enabling policy environment and the establishment of
the institutional framework in the National AIDS Control Council under the Office of the
President. These responses were not envisaged in the STI Project design. In addition,
the emphasis on focusing on the community responses to fight HIV/AIDS in the KADRE
Project was as a result of the non-implementation of the non-government component of
the STI Project and the increasing burden that the families and communities were
experiencing in the coping with those infected and affected amongst them.
49



