Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13385-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PROJECT
FEBRUARY 1, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department



THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Sexually Transmitted Infections Project
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                    = Kenya Shilling (Ksh)
US$ 1 00                          44.6 Ksh
1 Ksh                             US$ 0.022
US$ 1.00                         = SDR 0.6925
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Government Fiscal Year
July I - June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMREF           African Medical and Research Foundation
AIDS            Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CBO             Community Based Organizations
CI              Care Indicators
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
DALY            Disability Adjusted Life Year
DANIDA          Danish International Development Agency
DHMVB           District Health Management Board
DHMT            District Health Management Team
DIAC            District Intersectoral AIDS Committee
DMO             District Medical Officer
GOK             Government of Kenya
GPA             Global Program on AIDS
HIV             Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Association
IEC             Information, Education and Communications
IMNR            Infant Mortality Rate
KABP            Knowledge, Attitudes, Beliefs and Practices
KDHS            Kenya Demographic and Health Survey
MCH             Maternal and Child Health



MOF             Ministry of Finance
MOH             Ministry of Health
MOI             Ministry of Information
MOLG            Ministry of Local Government
MTP             Medium Term Plan
NACP            National AIDS Control Program
NASCP           National AIDS and STD Control Program
NCPD            National Council for Population and Development
NGO             Non Governmental Organization
NHIF            National Hospital Insurance Fund
NMS             National Medical Stores
NTLP            National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Program
NOP             National Operational Plan
ODA             Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OPD             Outpatient Department
PHC             Primary Health Care
PHMT            Provincial Health Management Team
PI              Prevention Indicators
PID             Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PS              Permanent Secretary
STD             Sexually Transmitted Diseases
STI             Sexually Transmitted Infections
TB              Tuberculosis
TFR             Total Fertility Rate
USMR            Under 5 Mortality Rate
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
WHO             World Health Organization
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission in March 1994, an
appraisal mission in June 1994 and a post-appraisal mission in November 1994 comprising
Messrs./Mmes. V. Jagdish (Sr. Public Health Specialist), B. Helbling (Operations Officer),
W. Roseberry (AIDS Specialist), L. Tabi (Staff Assistant), M. Mulusa (Operations
Officer), J. Nyaga (Accountant), Consultants S. Dube (PHN), S. Shankar (NGO
Specialist), M. Bailey (ODA), C. Jorgensen (AIDS Evaluation Specialist, CDC), R. Widy-
Wirsky (GPA/WHO), L. Lux (USAID). The peer reviewers are M. Porter and M. Azefor
and the lead advisor is S. Adeniyi-Jones (National Institutes of Health). Mr. J. Maas and
Mr. F. Colaco are the Division Chief and Department Director, respectively for the
operation.






THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Sexually Transmitted Infections Project
Table of Contents
BASIC DATA                                                                                            i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                                           ii
I. SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS IN KENYA                                                             1
A. THE HEALTH  SECTOR ..........................................1I
B. THE EPIDEMIC  OF STD/AIDS IN KENYA ...........................................4
C. THE NATIONAL RESPONSE TO  STI .                            ..........................................8
D. IDA  INVOLVEMENT IN THE HEALTH  SECTOR  .......................................... 10
E. ROLE OF OTHER MAJOR DONORS .............................1............. 1
F. LESSONS FROM  OTHER BANK  STI PROJECTS   .......................................... 14
II. THE PROJECT                                                                                         16
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..........................................                                        16
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS ..........................................                                        17
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                .......................................... 18
D. PROJECT ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGEMENT .......................................... 27
E. MONITORING  AND  EVALUATION                                        .......................................... 29
III. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS                                                                                    35
A. COSTS           .......................................... 35
B. FINANCING ..........................................                                                 39
C. PROCUREMENT ..........................................                                               39
D. DISBURSEMENT  .......................................... 42
E. ACCOUNT AND  AUDIT .......................................... 43
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                                                  44



V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION                                                                                                                47
TABLES
Table  1:  Summary  of Project Costs By  Component   ................................................. 36
Table 2: Summary of Project Costs by Expenditure Accounts    ... . ........................... 37
Table  3:  Assumed  Rates of Inflation  ....................                                  ...................................... 37
Table  4:  Financing  Plan ..........................................................                                                          39
Table  5:  Procurement Arrangements ................................................. .........                                                40
Table  6:  Allocation  and  Disbursement of the  IDA   Credit ............................................. 42
ANNEXES
Annex  1   Kenya's Health  Policy  Framework  - AIDS  Section  .............                                              ...................... 49
Annex  2:  Sexually  Transmitted  Diseases and  HIV   in  Kenya  ..........1......                                        ..................... 51
Annex 3: Monitoring the Impact of the Project on Sexual Behavior and
STD   Prevalence  through  Sentinel Surveillance ......................................... ... 62
Annex 4: HIV and AIDS Surveillance Data and Projections for Kenya to 2000  ........ 67
Annex 5: Tuberculosis and HIV in Kenya ........................................................... 68
Annex  6: List of Prevention  Indicators (PI) .....................                                   ..................................... 70
Annex  7:  Supervision  Strategy .......................................................... 72
Annex  8    Implementation  Monitoring  Matrix  ............... ........................................... 74
Annex  9: Procurement Plan  .......................................................... 79
Annex 10: Technical Assistance Provided by the Project Contractual Services ............. 80
Annex  I 1: Project Organization  and  Management  .................................................... 81
Annex  12: Terms of Reference  for Principal Accountant, Ministry  of Health ................ 82
Annex  13: Estimated  IDA   Disbursement Schedule ......... ......................... ................... 84
Annex  14: Procedures for NGO   Participation  in  the  STI Project ........                                             ........................ 85
Annex  15: Documents Available  in  Project File  ........................................................                                      91
MAP IBRD No. 26150



i
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Sexually Transmitted Infections Project
Basic Data
Country Data
Per Capita GDP (1992)                            US$310
Total Population                                 27.7m
Population Growth Rate                           3.3% p.a.
Population and Health Indicators
Infant Mortality Rate (1991)                     67/1000 births
Crude Death Rate                                 10.4/1000 deaths
Crude Birth Rate                                 46.3/1000 births
Total Fertility Rate (1994)                      5.4 children per woman
Life Expectancy at Birth (1991)                  59 years
Population per physician                         8,300
Population per Nurse                             1,250
Public Expenditures on Health
MOH share of total Government Budget             7.6%
MOH share of GDP (FY91)                          1.66%






ii
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Sexually Transmitted Infections Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Kenya
Implementing
Agencies:      Ministry of Health (MOH); Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs);
and Community Based Organizations (CBOs)
Beneficiaries:   Men and women at risk in their reproductive age groups, and their
dependents (approximately 5 million people)
Poverty:       Program of targeted interventions. The favorable impact of the project
will be felt more by the poor in terms of reducing income losses and
productivity due to illness and death.
Credit Amount: SDR 27.7 (US$ 40 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard, with 40 year maturity
Financing Plan: See Chapter 3, Table 4
Map:           IBRD No. 26150






I. SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS IN KENYA
A. THE HEALTH SECTOR
Health Conditions
1.1   Kenya's 27.7 million people suffer from a heavy burden of premature mortality and severe
ill-health, even though national health and mortality indicators are somewhat better than those of
other Sub-Saharan African nations and many other low-income countries. Life expectancy at
birth was estimated to be 59 years in 1991, up from 42 years at the time of independence in 1963.
The infant mortality rate (IMR) of 67 and under-five mortality rate (U5MR) of 105 reflect
substantial progress since 1963, when the IMR was estimated to be 120 and the U5MR 200. In
particular, the national U5MR is far better than the 177 deaths per thousand average for Sub-
Saharan Africa, and compares well with the 98 deaths per thousand average for all low-income
countries.
1.2   Despite these achievements, improvements can and need to be made in further reducing
excess mortality and morbidity. At present, not only are rates of mortality and sickness still high,
they also mask the particularly poor health conditions that persist in some regions. Most
alarming, the spread of Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus (HIV) threatens to reverse three
decades of hard-won progress. Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is likely to push
the U5MR back close to the 1960 estimate of 189 per thousand live births. Roughly 30,000
children are currently estimated to be seropositive. The leading causes of death are tuberculosis,
malaria and AIDS for adults; and malaria, acute respiratory infections and diarrhea in children. As
is the case in the majority of developing countries, the leading causes of sickness and mortality are
all essentially preventable.
1.3   The burden of ill-health on women is compounded by the high total fertility rate (TFR).
While the TFR has substantially decreased from a high of 7.9 in the late 1970s to 5.4 by 1994 and
the contraceptive prevalence rate has risen to 27%, Kenya's population grew at approximately
3.3% annually in the 1980s, still one of the highest rates in the world. The 1989 census showed
some evidence of a slowing in the rate of population growth, while preliminary results from the
Kenya Demographic and Health Survey (KDHS) 1993 suggest a sharp fall in the TFR. However,
according to current projections the country's population is still likely to swell to between 34-38
million in the next decade. Estimates of the dependency ratio suggest that about 47% of the
population is below 15 years of age and 43% in the economically productive age-group of 15-49
years.
The Health Care System: Organization and Quality
1.4   Kenya's health system has expanded rapidly since Independence thirty years ago.
Currently, Kenya has approximately 12 doctors, 80 nurses, and 140 hospital beds and cots per
100,000 population. The average for Sub-Saharan Africa is 4 doctors and 41 nurses per 100, 000
population. Roughly 67% of the country's hospital beds are operated by the public sector,



2
primarily by the Ministry of Health, with approximately 8% of the beds coming under a parastatal
that operates the national referral hospital, Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH). Many non-
governmental organizations work on providing both preventive and clinical services in Kenya, and
operate 22% of all hospital beds. Private-for-profit institutions largely provide curative health
care, operating 11% of the country's hospital beds. MOH employs one-fourth of all doctors, the
vast majority of clinical workers and about 85% of nurses.
1.5    Apart from its dominant role in providing health services and programs, MOH is also
responsible for national health policy. The Ministry consists of an administrative and a technical
wing. The former handles budgeting, planning and development. The technical wing is in charge
of hospitals, development of rural services, training, medical research, and maintaining standards
of care for both public and private providers.
1.6   The public sector health system is essentially three-tiered. At the apex is Kenyatta
National Hospital, followed by the provincial hospitals that deliver tertiary care and act as referral
points. At the secondary level, district and sub district hospitals provide both in-patient and out-
patient services, and act as referral points for primary-level rural and municipal health centers and
dispensaries. In some areas, services have been extended to the community level through the
deployment of village health workers.
1.7   Kenya is divided into 8 provinces and 55 districts. The apex health sector in a province is
the Provincial Health Management Team (PHMT), headed by the Provincial Medical Officer. The
Team is responsible for monitoring and evaluating health programs. The role of the PI-IMTs is
unclear. Within a decentralized set-up they should play a supportive role whereas at present they
are an additional layer of bureaucracy between the MOH and the districts. District services are
planned and implemented by the District Health Managerment Team (DHMT) headed by the
District Medical Officer. District Health Management Boards (DHMB) were established in 1991
to strengthen district services. Districts and municipalities are responsible for implementing the
national preventive programs. The experience with DHMBs in health care financing has been
good and there is scope to further increase district level responsibility for planning and
implementing health services.
1.8   The distribution of public sector medical personnel and facilities varies widely, with the
bulk of resources concentrated in urban areas. At present, over 75% of Kenyans live within a 6
km walk of a health facility. But this average masks vast inequities between regions and between
rural-urban areas. Key health personnel are also heavily concentrated in urban areas. Thus, the
major urban areas of Kenya, home to 12% of the population, have 375 health personnel per
100,000 people, while rural Kenyans have less than 90.
1.9   The Government health system has failed to keep pace with new strains resulting from the
HIV/AIDS epidemic and the influx of refugees from neighboring countries. Equally worrying,
budget allocations have fallen sharply over the past decade, while the public sector health system
has not been reformed. As a result, the quality of health services provided by the public sector
has deteriorated markedly. Coverage and quality of preventive health programs has fallen;
facilities often lack drug supplies; and maintenance of equipment, buildings and vehicles has



3
virtually stopped. Apart from declining budget allocations, other reasons for the decline in quality
include the severe shortfall in recurrent expenditures and a persisting bias towards capital
spending; inefficient management; and shortages of trained personnel, particularly in rural areas.
The poor quality of primary-level services has meant that utilization rates remain low, adversely
affecting the potential for communities to cost-share.
Health Expenditures and Financing
1.10   The share of the Government's total budget earmarked for the MOH and constant-unit
monetary allocations have fallen over the past decade. In 1980-81, the health sector received
9.45% of the general recurrent budget. This fell to 8.5% in 1991-92, and fell further to 7.65% in
1993-94. The decline is particularly apparent when seen in per capita terms. Thus, per capita
Government expenditures on health fell sharply in real terms from $9.5 in 1980-81 to $4.5 in
1991-92. Because of the large devaluation of the Kenya shilling in early 1993, Government health
expenditures are unlikely to rise above $3.50 per capita unless the economy makes a dramatic
recovery. Total health spending (public and private) in Kenya is estimated to be roughly $16 per
capita at the 1990 official exchange rate which is about adequate to provide a package of
"essential", highly cost-effective health services in low income countries.1'
1.11   MOH expenditures are distorted in several respects. Preventive, promotive and rural
health services are severely underfinanced -- though the share of the MOH recurrent budget going
to such services has risen from 15% in 1979-80 to 22% in 1992-93 -- while a disproportionate
share of funding goes to curative services, which have over the past decade consistently received
roughly 70% of recurrent expenditures. Within the recurrent budget, 55% of expenditures are
devoted to personnel costs, with the remainder going towards operations and maintenance. The
allocation is especially skewed when hospitals are considered in isolation: then, 73% of recurrent
expenditures goes to wages and salaries, leaving only 27% for operations. However, rural health
facilities perform better on this score, spending only 41% of their budgets on personnel.
1.12  In mid 1992 the Government introduced graduated outpatient treatment fees in public
health facilities. Charges are highest at tertiary facilities and lowest at health centers to help
deflect demand from more costly facilities by encouraging patients to attend cheaper lower level
facilities. Dispensary services remain free as are services for family planning and treatment of
STDs. An exemption mechanism to safeguard the condition of the genuinely poor and
disadvantaged members of society who continue to benefit from the provision of free health
services is in place. The cost-sharing program is managed at the Ministry of Health Headquarters
by the Health Care Financing Secretariat. The revenues generated from cost sharing have risen
dramatically over the last two years and the reimbursements from the National Hospital Insurance
Fund (NHIF) have risen several fold. All the revenues are kept within the District, 75% for
quality of care improvements at the facility which generates the funds and 25% for district primary
health care activities. In fiscal year 1992/93, the cost sharing revenues amounted to over Kshs. 70
million and the revenues for fiscal year 1993/94 have exceeded Kshs. 120 million. Kenya's cost
sharing program is considered to be the most successful user fee program in Sub-Saharan Africa
today.
I World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health, p. 117



4
Policy Framework for the Health Sector
1.13  A number of steps have been taken by the Ministry of Health to develop a comprehensive
policy framework for Kenya. Following the June 1993 World Development Report seminar in
Washington and the August 1993 Ministry of Health workshop in Nairobi, the Ministry of Health
has prepared a Health Policy Framework Paper (November 1994) which is available in the Project
files. This paper presents a strategic vision for the development of health services over the next
15 years. The main focus of this paper is increased resource mobilization and more efficient
resource utilization by:
a     decentralizing the decision-making and budgetary process for health
services to the district level;
*     providing an enabling environment for NGO private sector and community
involvement in health service provision and finance;
*     reducing demand for curative services thereby permitting increased
budgetary allocations for preventive/promotive services; and
*     restructuring the organization, training, management and deployment of
manpower to guarantee the provision of effective health services.
1.14  This Policy Framework Paper provides an excellent basis for the future development of
the health sector in Kenya and for the preparation of IDA's next health operation. However,
substantial institutional strengthening and well-directed financial assistance from donors will be
needed for the effective implementation of these policies.
B. THE EPIDEMIC OF STI/AIDS IN KENYA
HIV Prevalence
1.15 HIV has spread widely in Kenya. The Kenyan National AIDS Control Program (NACP)
estimates that about 900,000 adults were infected with HIV at the end of August 1994 -- one in
every 14. Additionally, it has been estimated that 50,000 children may be infected. The number
of HIV-infected persons is projected to increase to 1.7 million by 2000 and 2.2 million by 2010.
1.16  The major mode of HIV-transmission in Kenya is heterosexual and the epidemic primarily
affects the young, sexually active population, which at present includes over forty percent of the
population. A range of socio-economic, behavioral and health-care factors contribute to the
spread of HIV in Kenya.
(a)   The highest infection rates are found amongst men who have money and
mobility, and amongst young and poor women who are disadvantaged
socially and economically.
(b)   Women in Kenya -- as in much of Eastern Africa -- generally have little
control over sex in their relationships, which leaves them vulnerable to



5
infections acquired by their male partners. In particular, many Kenyan
women lack the education or skills needed to successfully work in either
the formal or informal sectors. As a result, many single women, including
adolescents, have resorted to commercial sex. A 1991 survey of women in
four antenatal clinics in the Korogocho and Kibera slums of Nairobi city
showed that 13% of the women reported exchanging sex for money in the
last three months. Married women are also at risk of transmission if their
partners travel away from home to work.
(c)   Condom use is still limited. Preliminary results from the KDHS 1993
indicate that only 7% of male and female respondents ever used a condom
for family planning. A study of sexual behavior by the University of
Nairobi estimates that in STD-clinic control groups ever-use of condoms
ranged from 17% to 28.5%.
(d)    Sexual activity among Kenyan adolescents is common, but only a small
minority use condoms. A 1991 study of sexual activity among 12-19 year
olds found that over 50% were sexually active, with the first intercourse
occurring at age 13 or 14, but that 89% of the sexually-active adolescents
had never used any form of contraception. A subsequent UNICEF study
estimated that over 40% of male students aged 14-18 years in the district
studied had multiple sexual partners; only 6.8% reported having used
condoms at every intercourse.
(e)    Condoms are in short supply, and are frequently unavailable in rural areas.
Thus, with approximately 40 million condoms being imported each year,
only 7 condoms are available for each adult male annually. An average of
150 condoms are needed to provide a year's protection to a Kenyan couple
according to estimates by the MOH and several donors.
(f)    Transmission via blood transfusions, contaminated medical instruments,
reuse of unsterile injections or instruments used for traditional practices
that involve bleeding, or from occupational exposure in health-care settings
(such as male and female circumcision), contribute a small -- but
preventable -- fraction of all cases.
(g)   Several traditional practices also enhance the risks of HIV-transmission,
including polygamy, concubinage and levirate marriage.
1.17  HIV sero-prevalence levels among pregnant women attending antenatal clinics at urban
and semi-urban sentinel sites have risen on average from 2% in 1985 to 14% in 1992, while
sentinel surveillance data from STD clinic attenders reveal an increase on average from 31% in
1989 to 44.7% in 1991. Sentinel surveillance data for 1993 gives a national average of 11.7%. A
retrospective analysis of serum collected in Nairobi between 1980 and 1986-87, indicated sero-



6
prevalence rising from 2.9% to over 24.8% in STD patients and from 7.1% to 87.8% among
fermale sex workers.
1.18  HIV prevalence is generally greater in urban areas. An analysis by the National Council
for Population and Development (NCPD) in 1992 estimated the relative number of urban and
rural HIV infections, based on the assumption that rural sero-prevalence is one-half to two-thirds
the urban levels. Urban prevalence was estimated at 9.6% (201,000 infected adults) and rural at
between 4.1% and 5.5% (428,300 to 565,400 infected adults). Precise information on the
rural:urban ratio in Kenya is not available as all HIV sentinel surveillance sites are located in urban
or semi-urban health facilities.
1.19  Geographic distribution of HIV is highly variable. The highest prevalence occurs in the
regions that border Tanzania, Uganda and Lake Victoria on the transportation route from
Rwanda, Burundi, eastern Zaire and Uganda. The next highest prevalence rates are in Nairobi
and along the same transportation route stretching to Mombasa on the Indian Ocean.
STD Prevalence
1.20  Other sexually-transmitted infections (classic STIs) are widespread in Kenya and
contribute significantly to adult and pediatric morbidity, as well as enhance the risks of HIV
transmission. Prevalence data on STDs is limited to special studies performed among facility
attenders. Gonorrhea is thought to be the most common STD in Kenya. Various studies of
pregnant women in antenatal clinics demonstrated a gonorrhea culture rate of 10% in rural clinics
and 7% in urban clinics. In several studies of commercial sex workers in Nairobi, 30% were
positive for chlamydia infections. In similar studies of truck drivers and assistants, 32% had
gonorrhea, 5% syphilis and 26% were positive for HIV. Of students examined 33% were positive
for gonorrhea. The prevalence of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) in Kenya is unknown,
although in the national hospital PID accounts for 30% of the admissions to the gynecology ward.
Chlamydia prevalence is expected to be high. In one study of HIV and syphilis the seroprevalence
of syphilis in pregnant women increased from 2.9% in 1989 to 5.3% in 1991. A review of records
of a blood screening program in the Nyanza Provincial Hospital showed donors had rates of
syphilis increasing from 2% in 1990 to 20% in 1993.
AIDS Reported Cases
1.21   AIDS case reporting is incomplete and believed to reflect only one-third of the true
number of cases. In 1993 the NACP reported over 31,000 cumulative AIDS cases. Yearly
AIDS-related deaths are estimated to increase from 20,000 in 1990 to 86,000 in 1996. Between
1992 and 2000, as many as I million adults could die from AIDS in Kenya. Reported AIDS cases
in Kenya have a male:female ratio of 1.38: 1. It is possible that this difference may be due to
higher male incomes and better access to health services. The rest may reflect a real difference
due, in part, to male predominance in urban areas. Females are infected at a younger age than
males, owing in part to the frequent age difference between partners.



7
STD Cases
1.22  Despite the weakness of coordinated surveillance, classic STIs are recognized to be
significant contributors to the burden of ill-health in Kenya. For example, with only half of the
treatment facilities reporting, roughly 600,000 cases of gonorrhea were reported in 1990. The
NACP has now designed an alternative surveillance system that requires designated public health
facilities to report monthly by syndrome, age group and reason for visit.
Tuberculosis
1.23  From a public health perspective, tuberculosis is one of the most serious HIV-related
opportunistic infections. Countries like Kenya are at particular risk because large numbers of
people suffer from active TB or have dormant infections. Individuals with dual infections of HIV
and TB have much higher rates of break-down from TB infection to clinical disease, fueling the
spread of this highly contagious disease. In 1990, the incidence of TB in Kenya was estimated to
be 72.3 per 100,000. One study estimates that by decade's-end there will be twice as many cases
of active TB than there would have been in the absence of HIV/AIDS. A recent study of Kenya
has also raised the concern that individuals with dual infections respond poorly to treatment with
thiacetazone, an inexpensive drug; if so, treatment costs are likely to escalate. Annexes 2, 3, 4
and 5 provide more detailed descriptions of HIV/AIDS, STDs and Tuberculosis in Kenya.
Demographic and Socio-Economic Consequences
1.24  The HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya is likely to have a significant impact on the
demography of the country, including infant and adult mortality, life expectancy, and population
growth rates. Demographic projections show that AIDS could potentially reverse gains made in
increasing child survival and life expectancy. Overall life expectancy could be reduced by AIDS
by up to 17 years by the year 2000. The impact on child survival will be severe. AIDS will affect
child survival both directly, through perinatal infection, and indirectly, through increasing the
number of orphans, resulting in severe stresses on communities. According to one analysis, the
number of orphans will increase from the 1990 estimate of 25,000 to roughly 600,000 by the year
2000. UNICEF estimates that by the end of the decade, AIDS is likely to push the under-five
mortality rate back close to the 1960 estimate of 189 per thousand live births.
1.25  An analysis carried out on the socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS in Kenya by Family
Health International/AIDSTECH using short-term projection models revealed the following
national economic consequences:
(a)  By the year 2000, the cost of caring for AIDS patients could consume the
MOH's entire recurrent budget unless appropriate alternative forms of health
care and health care financing are immediately promoted and adopted. In
fact, by 1991 the cost of caring for AIDS patients already consumed between
10% to 34% of the MOH recurrent budget, while more than 40% of all
hospitalized patients were HIV-infected.



8
(b) AIDS causes a large loss in potential productivity. In Kenya, 96% of the
estimated HIV positive cases fall in the age range 15-49, the most productive
years of life. Because AIDS strikes people during these years, it is estimated
on average that it causes the loss of three-fifths of an infected person's
productive life, or approximately 22 years;
(c) The prevalence of HIV among Kenyans working in the "modern" sector
(wage earners who work in companies employing more than 9 persons) is
estimated to be approximately twice as high as those working in the small
farm sector. The data suggest that those with a higher socioeconomic status
are more likely to be infected; and
(d) AIDS could substantially slow Kenya's economic growth. The total direct
and indirect costs of AIDS to the country could reach 15% of GDP by the
year 2000. In 1991, total costs were estimated at between 2% to 4% of
GDP.
1.26  Prevention remains the only way to reduce the spread and impact of STIs. In Kenya, two
major interventions must receive top priority:
The prevention of sexual transmission of STIs including HIV through
promotion of safer sexual behaviors, which may include abstinence,
faithfulness to one's partner, or the use of a condom, and
Prevention and treatment of the classic STIs.
C. THE NATIONAL RESPONSE TO STI
1.27  In response to the first diagnosed cases of AIDS in Kenya in 1984, the MOH established a
National AIDS Committee (NAC) in 1985 to advise on the control and prevention of HIV/AIDS.
The NAC began work on public awareness, setting up a sentinel surveillance system, and ensuring
a safe blood supply. It also published guidelines on testing, counseling, and on protective
measures for health workers. AIDS was added to the list of reportable communicable diseases in
1986.
1.28  In 1986, the GOK invited World Health Organization (WHO) to provide technical
assistance to develop a national control program and to mobilize funds from donors and
international organizations. This led to the creation of NACP, and, in April 1987, to the first five-
year medium term plan for controlling the epidemic.
1.29 Based on WHO's global AIDS strategy, the first five-year Medium Term Plan (MTP)
(1987-91) focused on developing a national public awareness campaign, publishing guidelines on
testing and counseling, strengthening sero-surveillance and laboratory services, and training health
care workers in case-management of AIDS patients.



9
1.30  The Government has repeatedly underscored that the prevention and control of
HIV/AIDS is a top national priority. Thus, the 7th National Development Plan, an important
report on national priorities, features a chapter on HIT' AIDS atd D)evelopment, which notes that
"Kenya is determined to take all practical measures to contain the HIV/AIDS epidemic." The
1994-1996 District Development Plans also required district administrators to draw up reports on
the Spread atnd Impact of HIV'AIDS, this planning exercise was managed by the Ministry of
Planning and the UNDP.
1.31   Despite this visible commitment and the establishing of the NACP, the national STI
prevention effort has until recently been of uneven quality. In essence, as the Government's
National Development Plan recognizes, verbal and written commitment was not been matched by
financial commitment nor by efforts to strengthen the powers of the NACP. Specifically, the
NACP was constrained by insufficient support at high levels of Government, limited involvement
of other key ministries, inadequate human resources, and a lack of meaningful coordination
between both internal and external organizations involved in Sexually Transmitted Infections
(STI) prevention and mitigation activities.
1.32  The Government has increasingly begun to pay attention to the growing problems of
AIDS. In August 1993 the President made a strong public statement about the probable impact
of the epidemic and called for a concerted plan of action. Subsequently, the Minister of Health
has been addressing this issue in several public fora. In March 1994, the Government took steps
to elevate the position of Director of the AIDS program to the rank of a Deputy Director of
Medical Services thereby vastly increasing the status and bureaucratic importance of the AIDS
program in the Ministry of Health. In addition, a number of steps to streamline, strengthen and
upgrade the program's Secretariat are underway. Moreover, the Ministry of Health participated
actively in a "Burden of Disease" analysis and workshop, with the collaboration of IDA. The
Government's strong commitment to this exercise which listed STD/AIDS as a major disease
burden has resulted in a revision of its policy paper on health. These steps have led to a renewed
donor interest in the health sector and AIDS in particular.
1.33   A positive development has been the work of non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
and religious groups on HIV/AIDS-related concerns. Religious groups have emphasized
awareness and prevention activities. NGOs have focused primarily on high-risk populations,
emphasizing IEC, condom distribution and training for community-based workers. For instance,
the African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF) has since 1989 targeted truck drivers
with health promotion and STD management, as well as worked with communities and schools
near truck-stop sites. NGOs are expanding their work to cover the general public -- particularly
youths in colleges and universities -- and they have also begun to develop home-based care and
support programs for those infected or otherwise affected In 1990, a large number of Kenyan
and international NGOs came together to form the NGO Consortium, which has facilitated the
sharing and disseminating of materials and experiences on HIV/AIDS concerns. Most national
NGOs and private volunteer organizations working on HIV/STI prevention receive their funding
from bilateral donors. The MOH strongly supports the key role of NGOs in the control and
prevention of STIs and will be increasing its financial support to them.



l0
1.34  The second five-year MTP (1992-96) identifies two major challenges: one, promoting
behavior change to stop the spread of HIV, and two, mitigating the personal and socio-economic
consequences that result from the large number of Kenyans developing AIDS. It was recognized
that behavior change, however, is far more complicated and difficult to achieve than raising
awareness and increasing knowledge about HIV/AJDS. In order for the NACP to succeed in
meeting this new challenge, ministries representing all sectors had to be committed to and
engaged in the nation's response to fighting further spread of the disease. A multi-sectoral
approach, making HIV/AIDS a priority concern throughout all sectors and facilitating a
coordinated national response, was proposed by the MTP evaluation team in 1992.
Recommendations included formation of a National Intersectoral AIDS Board, chaired by the
Office of the President with a secretariat at the MOH and membership drawn from other
government ministries, NGOs and private sector groups. The second five-year MTP forms the
broad policy basis for developing AIDS activities in the country. STD activities have been
integrated into the AIDS program and the NACP has been renamed the National AIDS and STD
Control Program (NASCP).
1.3 5 Program funding gaps in all areas, including program management, provision of condoms
and drugs for treatment of STDs combined with a centralized approach by the Ministry of Health
have resulted in crucial parts of the programs not being implemented at a rate necessary to
influence the evolution of the epidemic. The proposed decentralization of health services and
increased involvement with NGOs and CBOs will substantially improve implementation.
D. IDA INVOLVEMENT IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
1.36  IDA is financing an ongoing Health Rehabilitation Project which became effective in 1992.
This project supports the Government's program of health sector reform which has begun with
health financing. In particular, the project focuses on rehabilitating Kenyatta National Hospital,
the tertiary health care provider in Nairobi. By improving the hospital's efficiency levels through
well targeted investments, the hospital will set an important example for the rest of the curative
health care system, and permit an increase in funding for preventive and primary services.
Implementation of the policy part of this project, namely the health care financing is proceeding
well. Implementation of the investment part of the project is proceeding at a somewhat slower
pace than anticipated. Despite significant managerial improvements at Kenyatta National Hospital
it is impossible to decongest it without the development of secondary and primary services in the
city of Nairobi. A Mid-Term Review of this project was carried out in March 1994 and the
Government is now implementing the recommendations by contracting out Nairobi area health
services to NGOs and the private sector. IDA has also been involved in the populations sector for
close to two decades and is presently financing two Credits, Population III and IV. At the Mid-
Term Review for these projects, the Government requested that US$15 million be reprogrammed
from civil works to STD drug procurement and IEC activities. IDA has been closely involved in
the AIDS sector since 1991. In August 1993 IDA, jointly with ODA, led a mission to review the
AIDS situation in Kenya and to work with the Government on developing a national response to
the epidemic.



ii
1.37  The AIDS epidemic is already having a se, ere impact on the economy, especially since so
many of its victims are in the prime of their active economic lives. The Government is keen to
have the Bank play a key role. IDA is separately developing freestanding Nutrition and Health
projects which will provide support for other essential interventions. These three operations will
be closely linked and provide a unique opportunity for IDA to play a highly effective role in policy
discussions in the entire health/nutrition sector and to act as a catalyst to attract additional donor
funding. Donors have indicated a strong desire for IDA to take the lead in this area. Moreover,
expenditures needed for AIDS and STI interventions are substantial and it has been demonstrated
over the years that the Kenyan National AIDS Control Program has been severely under-funded.
1.38  It had been originally planned to include STI activities as part of the proposed second
health project. However, the second health project is becoming a policy reform operation and
major discussions are underway. A Letter of Sector Policy is being developed as part of the
preparation for that project. It is possible and indeed likely that preparation of the health project
will require considerable effort. Key issues under discussion are institutional development,
decentralization, sustainability and the role of the private sector. Policy changes and their
implementation take time and this in turn could significantly delay the health project. At the same
time, the HIV/AIDS epidemic is gathering strength, underscoring the need for a freestanding
operation. The proposed project has been inscribed in an acceptable framework regarding
AIDS/STD policy including, inter-alia, adoption of a district health planning approach and the
development of a policy on home-based care. The AIDS section of the policy framework,
attached as Annex 1, has been developed in consultation with WHO. The project is in conformity
with the recently approved Policy Framework Paper which calls for a shift from curative to
preventive health activities. The project also supports IDA's country strategy for Kenya which
emphasizes poverty alleviation. The preventive component will help the population avoid AIDS-
related poverty, while the treatment of infected persons component will assist those who are
afflicted. Policy conditionalities envisaged in this project are in complete conformity with the
Civil Service Reform Project as well as IDA's ongoing discussions in the health sector.
E. ROLE OF OTHER MAJOR DONORS
1.39  Despite the worsening of the HIV/AIDS problem in Kenya, funding from donors has
decreased. Funding from WHO/GPA to the NACP has dropped from $2.5 million in 1987 to
$800,000 in 1993, in large part because of the need to provide support to an expanding number of
countries. Other donors have in the past decreased or withheld funds because of dissatisfaction
with the performance of the NACP.
1.40  WHO/GPA, UNICEF, the European Union and USAID are currently the most important
donors in AIDS/STI prevention in Kenya:
(a)  WHO/GPA assisted in the development and implementation of the two
medium term plans (1987 and 1992) and continues to collaborate in the
management and coordination of the National AIDS Control Program. GPA
has provided resident advisors in the NACP since it was established, but this
support is being shifted towards short term consultants. In addition to



12
general administrative and technical support, GPA has provided technical
assistance with training workshops, educational materials, equipment,
reagents and vehicles.
(b)  UNICEF has sponsored community and school based AIDS education
programs in selected districts, training for service providers, support for the
Know AIDS Society (an organization for people with AIDS), and health
promotion material for youth, truck drivers and the general public. Its latest
five year plan includes support for two national programs that target youths
in schools and men in the armed services -- including security guards -- as
well as several smaller community based projects. Through Bamako
Initiative centers in Kenya, UNICEF is also rapidly expanding community
based outreach on counseling, providing home-based care, and facilitating
distribution of condoms, an approach that holds considerable potential.
(c)  The European Union is in the second year of a 5 year project to strengthen
STD services in Nairobi and Mombasa, laying particular attention to the
referral clinics in these cities. Eight PHC clinics will also receive limited
support. The effort is facility-based with little community prevention
activities, although all 134 IEC materials for STD patients in the country
have been reviewed with the objective of selecting the best for reproduction
and distribution. A syphilis screening effort will expand the work previously
performed under the Mothercare program from 10 facilities to 30.
Operations research is planned to validate vaginal syndromic diagnosis and a
variety of health systems approaches. University of Ghent and Nairobi are
implementing agents. Lastly, collaboration with the Universities of Nairobi
and Manitoba and shared financing with Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) will occur on a proposed regional training program, which is
described below in the section on CIDA.
(d)  USAID is a major contributor of condoms to Kenya, provides management
assistance through a long-term AIDSTECH/AIDSCAP resident advisor,
supports the sentinel surveillance system and specific IEC programs, and has
provided a blood bank data management system for the National Public
Health Laboratory Service and a project tracking system for the NACP. It
has funded a study of the socio-economic impact of AIDS and one on the
knowledge, attitudes and practices of Kenyan adolescents. A large-scale
AIDSCAP program is planned and will be implemented in three major urban
areas. Its primary target populations will be men and women in the
workplace, STD patients, family planning attenders, commercial sex
workers, college students and out-of-school youth. National level efforts to
support capacity building, mass media interventions, and behavioral and
operations research will continue.



13
1.41   Amongst the other UN agencies, UNDP has played a leading role in advocacy --
particularly through workshops for senior politicians, and national and district civil servants -- and
in working with the Ministry of Planning to develop chapters on HIV/AIDS in both the National
Development Plan and the District Development Plans. Kenya is also one of four sites where
assistance is being given to researching and analyzing the psychological, social and economic
determinants and consequences of HIV/AIDS in Africa. Important research topics include the
determinants of sexual activity among Kenyan girls, the socio-cultural determinants of HIV
transmission, and the role of church groups in prevention. UNFPA is conducting pilot programs
to integrate HIV/AIDS education in family planning settings.
1.42  Other important bilateral donors include CIDA, the Netherlands Government, DANIDA,
the Belgian Government, and ODA.
(a)  CIDA's Strengthening STD/AIDS Control in Kenya Project will be finishing
its first phase of five years in 1995. The project has focused on strengthening
STD control activities in 10 facilities (5 each in Nairobi and Nakuru), and on
improving referral services and national training in STD case management
with the SCU. The project has been implemented by the Universities of
Nairobi and Manitoba. Community activities have largely involved CSW,
CSCs and women of reproductive age to increase sexual and reproductive
health knowledge and practices and to raise women's ability to protect
themselves against STIs. Counseling efforts have been extensive. The
second phase will involve more concentration on prevention activities among
all community audiences surrounding the facilities and continued national
training. A top priority will be the regional training program, for which a
training needs assessment has just been completed among 8 of 22 countries
in eastern and southern Africa. The course is envisioned to include STD
program, clinic, laboratory and case management and community outreach
and interpersonal communication.
(b)  The Netherlands has directed its aid to IEC projects targeting adolescents, as
well as to supporting a rehabilitation project for commercial sex workers in 2
provinces and a training of trainers program in AIDS education and
counseling for social and case workers in 5 provinces. The Netherlands has
also provided support for the tuberculosis program.
(c)  DANIDA supports HIV prevention activities primarily in the area of
counseling, and provided technical assistance through helping fund the GPA
advisor to the NACP.
(d)  Belgium supports the STD Control Unit with a resident advisor and with
various tasks such as the development and printing of treatment guidelines.
Ten percent of their support goes to consumables such as STD diagnostic
reagents, safety equipment and drugs. It was instrumental in reinstating the
national policy on requiring prophylaxis for neonatal conjunctivitis. In the



14
future, emphasis will be placed on facilitating the integration of STD control
into primary health care.
(e)  ODA funds NACP through WHO/GPA, but this contribution has recently
been reduced. In future ODA will focus on assisting local NGOs expand
their work on providing STD treatment, distributing condoms, and
undertaking health promotion and home-based care programs. Technical
support to strengtheni the management of NASCP will also be provided.
(f)  Japan, through JICA, is in the process of implementing a needs assessment
for HIV/STI control and have expressed an interest in providing equipment
support in these areas.
1.43  Encouraged by the elevation of the bureaucratic status of the NACP in Kenya and the
Bank's involvement in the sector, donors have recently expressed renewed interest in providing
additional funds for AIDS activities. Despite these efforts, many organizations and projects
dealing with AIDS are small and have limited coverage and impact, leaving significant gaps in the
national response to the AIDS epidemic. This project will cover the gaps and amplify the
response to a level where an impact on the future evolution of the epidemic can be expected.
F. LESSONS FROM OTHER BANK STI PROJECTS
1.44  IDA financed STI/AIDS projects are limited to Zaire (1989), India (1991), Zimbabwe and
Brazil (1993) and Burkina Faso and Uganda (1994). A number of Bank health projects have had
STI control and AIDS components. Because these are relatively new projects, formal evaluations
have not yet been undertaken. Yet some lessons are already clear or can be anticipated from
experience in other health areas. Drawing on the experience to date, seven key elements for
success are suggested:
*     integrating the AIDS project with other health activities by strengthening
existing systems;
strengthening institutional capacity;
*     addressing STIs as well as AIDS;
*     using NGOs and the private sector for implementation;
*     social marketing of condoms;
*     collaborating with other donors;
*     investing in a safe blood supply.
1.45  There is little evidence from these Bank-supported projects on how best to design a cost-
effective STI/AIDS prevention program. There are no simple solutions to prevent the spread of
STIs since interventions must cope with a complex and personal aspect of human behavior.
Nonetheless, some interventions have been shown to influence sexual behavior and to increase
condom use. In particular targeting different segments of the population with specific messages
has proved effective. Lessons learned from AIDS programs worldwide show that effective and



is
sustained behavior change can be achieved only where the communities take responsibility for
addressing and changing unsafe sexual behaviors and maintaining safer sexual behaviors.
1.46   This project will address all the seven key elements listed above. In addition to these key
elements, one major focus of this project is to shift the responsibility of implementing activities
from the central to district and community levels.



II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1     The Medium Term Plan II (MTP II) on AIDS developed by the MOH in close
collaboration with other Government ministries identifies the following major strategies
and components for the 1994 to 1996 work-plan:
Prevention of sexual transmission of HIV
Prevention of transmission through blood and blood products
Mitigation of socioeconomic impact
Epidemiology and surveillance
Coordination of research
*     Management and coordination of a multi-sectoral AIDS control program.
2.2     The above strategies are encapsulated in the following pjroject objectives:
(a)   to strengthen the institutional capacity at the national and district levels to
design, implement, monitor and evaluate interventions,
(b)   to promote preventive measures to reduce the risks of STI transmission;
(c)   to enhance both health sector and community provision of physical and
psychological care and develop strategies to mitigate the socioeconomic
consequences.
2.3     Within these objectives, the following sub-objectives are priorities for this
project:
(a)   To strengthen the institutional capacity at the national and district levels to
design, implement, and evaluate interventions by:
strengthening the districts' capacity to plan, coordinate, implement, monitor
and evaluate integrated HIV and AIDS related activities;
strengthening national and provincial capacity to provide adequate policy,
planning, coordination, supervision and technical support on health issues
related to STIs;
conducting operational research on key socioeconomic and sociological
issues related to STIs.
(b)   To promote preventive measures to reduce the risks of STI transmission
by:



17
controlling STD's through syndromic case management and the provision
of standardized drug kits to primary health level and district referral levels.
promoting safer sexual behaviors of priority audiences (Strategy 1.1)
through IEC activities at the national and local level by supporting national
mass media campaigns and community based sexual health promotion.
providing and promoting condoms through primary level health facilities
and community based programs.
(c)   to enhance both health sector and community provision of physical and
psychological care and develop strategies to mitigate the socioeconomic
consequences by:
treatment of tuberculosis, providing drugs for opportunistic infections and
protective supplies for government and non-government district health
facilities, and training health provider staff.
supporting district-based NGO and CBO home-based health care and
counseling for people with HIV/AIDS and for others who have suffered
related costs and losses.
2.4     The achievement of these objectives will be evaluated by monitoring and
measurement of the indicators specified in Annex 8 of the SAR. In particular, the
following program targets have been established:
*     ability of 75% of the target population to cite at least two acceptable ways
of protecting themselves from HIV by the end of the project;
*     increase by 30% of reported condom use among the target population;
*     decrease by 20% of reported non-regular sexual partners; and;
*     increase in appropriate STD case management to 70% of those individuals
seeking STD care.
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS
2.5     Consistency with Government Health Sector Strategy. The structure of this
project reflects and supports the steps outlined in Kenya's Health Policy Framework Paper
which emphasizes decentralization of the decision-making and budgetary process for
health services to the district level and providing an enabling environment for NGO,
private sector and community involvement of health service provision and finance. The
role of the NASCP (central level) will be to plan and coordinate the national strategy on
STIs and to support district implementation by establishing guidelines, providing training,
technical and commodity support. The NASCP will work directly with donors and with
those providing health services to the military, police and security forces and to refugees
living in Kenya. The central level will also be responsible for overall awareness and mass
mobilization. HIV and STD surveillance will remain a national-level responsibility.
District-level capacity to undertake surveillance activities will be raised over the project
period and will feed into the national surveillance programs.



18
2.6     The proposed project has three main components as well as a number of sub-
components that correspond to the objectives and sub-objectives identified in the previous
section. The three components are to: strengthen the institutional capacity at the
national and district levels to design, implement, and evaluate interventions;
promote preventive measures to reduce the risks of STI transmission; enhance both
health sector and community provision of physical and psychological care, and
develop strategies to mitigate the socioeconomic consequences of the spread of
HIV/AIDS. Flexibility and innovation are emphasized in the design of this project so as
to encourage community initiatives, several of which are likely to be pilot in nature.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Part A: Strengthening of the Institutional Capacity to Design, Implement and
Evaluate Interventions (US$ 13.9 million)
2.7     Seven sub-components have been identified that are designed to support
institutional strengthening and capacity building:
*     National capacity
*     District capacity
*     Surveillance
*     Research
*     Monitoring and Evaluation
*     Innovative NGO and CBO programs
*     Project management
2.8     National Capacity (US$ 2.3 million). A primary objective of this sub-
component is to develop the capability of the NASCP to plan, monitor and evaluate STI
activities. While the status of the position of Director of NASCP has been elevated to the
rank of a Deputy Director of Medical Services thereby vastly increasing the visibility of
the AIDS program, the manpower resources of the NASCP need to be strengthened in
order to effectively carry out the above mentioned functions. The MOH has begun an
organization and manpower analysis of NASCP with a view to streamlining its functions.
An organizational and manpower analysis of the NASCP and a time-bound
implementation plan for the identified recommendations including local and overseas
training has been completed and will be implemented through the project.
2.9     The project will support training in program management and leadership for
NASCP staff, expansion of management and health information systems; strengthening of
evaluation strategy and systems; enhancement of capacity to develop policy and technical
guidelines through the revitalization of technical steering subcommittees, provision of
technical assistance, and improved systems for communication, printing, distribution, and
transport. The project will support short term expatriate and local technical assistance.
Long-term technical assistance is currently being provided outside the framework of this



19
project, by the WHO and some bilateral donor agencies and, is expected to continue. To
strengthen the NASCP, MOH have requested ODA to provide two long-term technical
assistance personnel, a management/institution development specialist and a training
specialist, as well as funds for short-term consultancies. In addition, DANIDA plans to
provide long-term technical assistance for the development of the MOH's NGO unit. The
NASCP will provide technical and programmatic guidance to districts on the best use of
assistance and resources that will be provided directly to districts. NASCP will also
coordinate preventive and coping interventions with the appropriate government ministries
and direct grants to NGOs working in areas of broad national relevance. Support of this
kind for the NASCP is essential to enable it to fulfill its responsibilities for leading,
organizing and coordinating the internal response. This sub-component will also finance
strengthening of the national capacity for intra- and inter- sectoral coordination and
provide technical support to district implementors. This support will include strengthening
of NASCP, especially its STD section and will comprise equipment, office supplies,
logistics, organization of training of trainers, facilitation of district training and technical
supervision.
2.10    District Capacity (US$ 3.1 million). The roles of provincial inspectorates,
District Health Management Boards (DHIMB) and District Health Management Teams
(DI-IMT) are unclear and need to be thoroughly reviewed. The Health Care Financing
Secretariat has a clear understanding of the current capacity of DHM11Bs to manage the
programming of cost-sharing funds at the district level. As part of preparation for the
proposed Health Sector Reform Project, the Health Care Financing Secretariat will play a
key role in defining provincial and district role and functions.
2.11    DHMBs were created in 1991. Their responsibilities include: managing and
programming district funds available for health services, overseeing the management of
hospital services, making recommendations to the Ministry of Health regarding user
charges under the cost sharing program, providing support for district wide public health
care programs, and recommending prioritization of district-wide promotive health plans,
and carrying them out once approved.
2.12    The essence of the health reform efforts planned by the Kenyan govemment is to
decentralize the decision-making and budgetary process for health services to the district
level. The STI project takes the first steps towards this goal by decentralization of STI
activities. The project facilitates the development of managerial and planning capabilities
at district level. This will be achieved through training and guidance in STI prevention and
impact mitigation for district personnel, coordinated by NASCP and the Division of Health
Planning. The ability of district health teams to plan, monitor and implement health
activities will be developed through training in resource allocation and management, as
well as financial support for the development and implementation of health promotion and
disease prevention activities. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
MOH disaggregate and publish budgets at least to district levels starting with the 1996/97
financial year (para. 5.1 (a)). A condition of effectiveness would be that the Ministry



20
of Health issue the provision of the authority to incur expenditures to the District
Medical Officer for district health activities starting with STIs (para. 5.2 (a)).
2.13    Support will also be provided for strengthening of transport and communications
infrastructure, and for operating costs. The district health teams would be expected to
support NGO and CBO initiatives in STI prevention and community-based care for those
affected by HIV and AIDS. The capacity to coordinate and supervise refers to all STD
and HIV related activities occurring in the district, regardless of sector. For example, the
district health team will need to be aware of AIDS education in the schools and of
activities being undertaken by other community organizations, the teams will need to
coordinate the interactions between these and health sector activities. This would be
accomplished by close coordination through the District Intersectoral AIDS Committee
(DIAC). During negotiations assurances were obtained that all annual district health plans
include earmarked funds for NGO and CBO activities (para. 5.1 (b)).
2.14    Surveillance (US$ 1.0 million). Close monitoring of the project will involve
collection and analysis of prevention indicators (Annex 6). In addition, the Care
Indicators which have been developed in collaboration with WHO, and which will soon be
field-tested, will provide another monitoring tool for the project. This sub-component is
key to institutional strengthening and provides basic information on the course of the
epidemic and program impact. This data will be critical for effective public health
decision-making. The project will strengthen existing national and district STD
surveillance systems, as well as monitoring of STI treatment interventions for efficacy
through short term technical assistance, equipment and supplies.
2.15    Operational Research (US$ 1.2 million). Grants will be provided for research
to improve interventions supported by the project. Existing institutions and private
consultants would be free to compete. These will be administered by a University or NGO
and successful proposals will be submitted to IDA for review. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the MOH would contract appropriate agencies for the
administration and implementation of research grants to a University or NGO by January
1, 1996 (para. 5.1 (c)). Grants will be provided for research to identify possible legal
issues raised by AIDS in the context of the workplace, and legal issues directly affecting
the status of women, e.g. property and inheritance rights. District-based operational
research will be needed in: (i) validation of the syndromic management of STDs and
periodic validation of the STD treatment algorithms and drug regimens; (ii) effectiveness
of selected behavioral and medical interventions; (iii) periodic assessment of the STD
surveillance system; (iv) assessment of models and evaluation of the cost- effectiveness of
home-based care; (v) improvement of the database for estimation and projections of STD
and HIV infections and AIDS cases; and (vi) validation of HIV related algorithms.
Research dealing with medical, legal issues surrounding public health, sociological and
behavioral aspects of HIV and other STDs will involve various departments of the
University of Nairobi, other academic and research institutions and private consultants.
Because of rapidly evolving knowledge and the possible impact on the STI project,
research dealing with period validation of STD syndromic diagnosis, treatment algorithms,



2]
drug regimens and surveillance systems will be undertaken by WHO in conjunction with
local institutions.
2.16    Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 1.0 million). The degree to which project
objectives are being met will be assessed in four ways: (i) assessment of project
implementation by tracking project activity indicators; (ii) assessment of project
effectiveness through beneficiary assessment; (iii) overall national response by tracking
program impact indicators and; (iv) operational research to answer key questions about
socioeconomic issues, as well as to answer questions about specific program impact. The
prevention indicators are adopted from WHO/GPA and have been extensively field-tested
in developing countries. Districts will report regularly on the project activity indicators to
the NASCP, which in turn will produce annual progress reports for IDA. Annual
supervisory reviews of the districts will be conducted by the NASCP and the provincial
inspectorates, which will also receive an annual performance review from each district and
municipality. Beneficiary and other operational research and evaluation studies will be
conducted as appropriate, but at least once a year during the project period. Program
reviews will be performed after the first year, midway into the project and at the end of the
project and will be submitted to IDA for review and comment. Given the MOH's
difficulties in the development information systems the monitoring and evaluation
component will be supported by WHO.
2.17    Innovative NGO Activities (US$ 5.1 million). NGOs and religious groups are
active in community-based responses to HIV/AIDS in Kenya. With small sums of money
they have developed effective new approaches. Many religious groups are providing
hospital and home-based care to those with HIV/AIDS and are helping communities to
respond to the needs of orphans and those who care for them. NGOs' health promotion
has focused primarily on priority populations, emphasizing IEC, condom distribution and
training for community based workers. NGOs are expanding their work to cover the
general public, particularly youth in colleges and universities. In 1990, a large number of
Kenyan and international NGOs came together to form the NGO Consortium, which has
facilitated the sharing and dissemination of materials and experiences on HIV and AIDS
concerns. Most national NGOs and private voluntary organizations working on HIV and
STD prevention receive their funding from bilateral donors. The STI project will support
both national and district level NGO initiatives. Priority will be given to NGOs
collaborating with DIACs and able to develop interventions for care and for prevention of
sexually transmitted infections for targeted populations, especially out-of-school youth,
rural women, commercial sex workers and their clients. The Government of Kenya has
accumulated considerable experience in working with NGOs particularly in the population
sector. Systems to identify and evaluate NGOs have been developed. Procedures for
NGO participation in the project have been developed and are attached as Annex 14.
Proposed activities would be included in the annual work plans for review and approval by
IDA. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the NASCP would develop
annual workplans and submit them to IDA for review and approval by March 31 of each
year (para. 5. 1 (d)).



22
2.18    Project Management (US$ 0.3 million). The project will support a project
coordinator in the NASCP. The project would utilize the services of existing staff from
the MOH Project for accounting and procurement. The Permanent Secretary (PS) will be
the Project Director. Two vehicles will be provided. Approximately US$ 200,000 will be
provided for the preparation of a subsequent project and US$ 50,000 for a project launch
workshop. A Project Coordinator whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to
IDA has been appointed. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Project
Coordinator be acceptable to IDA at all times during project implementation (para. 5.1
(e)).
Part B: Prevention of Sexually Transmitted Infections (US$ 26.7 million)
2.19    The Multi-Sectoral Workplan for the implementation of the Kenyan National
Medium Term Plan II identifies sexually transmitted diseases as an important public health
priority not only because of their severe complications and sequelae, but also because of
their relation to HIV infection. Because of the overlapping activities required for control
of HIV and for control of STD -- such as health education and awareness, promotion of
safer sexual behaviors and provision of condoms -- the two programs have been integrated
within the MOH.
2.20    Sexually Transmitted Disease (US$ 12.3 million). This component addresses
provision of accessible, acceptable and effective clinical management of STD and is thus
concerned principally with secondary prevention. The provision of STD clinical services
offers an opportunity for primary prevention of HIV and STD by promoting safer sexual
behaviors and by promoting and providing condoms. The project will facilitate provision
of syndromic treatment of STDs at primary health level in public sector and NGO
facilities. This will make effective and acceptable STD care services accessible to all who
require such care. Case management of patients will include the public health measures of
condom provision, health promotion, counseling and partner notification. Special
emphasis will be put on delivery of services to individuals at increased risk of STD
including HIV. (e.g. youth, single men and married men living away from home, long-
distance truck drivers, and male and female commercial sex workers).
2.21    At the national level the NASCP is responsible for developing and disseminating
policy, technical norms and technical guidance related to STD control for public and
private sector health providers including NGO's. NASCP will coordinate national STD-
related laboratory, clinical and epidemiological training. It will oversee supervision of
STD care provision and epidemiological surveillance, including sentinel surveillance in
MOH facilities in districts as well as in health facilities run by Municipal Councils
(MOLG). It will coordinate the various projects supported by external bilateral donors
(Belgium Cooperation, European Union, USAID, CIDA, Netherlands Cooperation) in the
area of STD control. Appropriate utilization of STD care services will be encouraged by
district level health promotion directed at encouraging sexual health seeking behavior.
People at risk of acquiring STD will be educated regarding the signs and symptoms of



23
STD, the possibility of being infected without being aware, the relationship of other STDs
to HIV and the need to seek care if there is a risk that an STD has been acquired.
2.22    In the country's fifty-five districts and seven municipalities local health planning
teams meeting in the local inter-sectoral AIDS committees will draw on the national
guidelines on case management to develop plans. This will strengthen the ability of all
health providers to treat or refer people with STDs when they see them. Government
health budget allocations to districts under the project will allow them to place priority on
STD service provision in urban areas if necessary. Project funds for the seven
municipalities will be channeled through the Medical Officer of the municipality. Districts
and municipalities will be expected to integrate STD services into first-level health care
which will make care accessible to an increased number of people, particularly women.
Local health plans should begin with the provision of training to staff of selected primary
health facilities in how to provide syndromic case management using standardized drug
kits. These plans will also define specific ways in which linkages to alternative financing
sources can be made, e.g. the Bamako initiative, financing of private practitioners and
subsidized commercial marketing. STD services will be integrated with Maternal and
Child Health and Family Planning programs to reduce STD incidence in asymptomatic
women (especially latent syphilis). This is a top priority as it will also prevent congenital
syphilis and facilitate treatment of opthalma neonatorum. It will not be practical for all
primary level health facilities to be included in the districts' planning process within the
time frame of the project. District planning teams will need to select key facilities to be
included in phases as Credit funds are disbursed to the districts. Planners will take into
account the needs of the populations served by their primary level facilities, the prevalence
of STI infections, and, the availability of trained staff when making their selection.
2.23    The district STI coordinators will supervise the primary level facilities by visiting
each strengthened STI facility at least once a month. At that time monthly progress
reports should be collected from the facility. The district STI coordinator will compile the
reports and prepare quarterly reports for submission to NASCP. A technical review of the
accumulated experience of using syndromic trea.ment for STDs in Kenya will be carried
out at the end of the first year by GPA/WHO. A full internal evaluation of the STI
component will be carried out in all districts in the third year and the findings submitted to
IDA. A selection of districts will also be externally evaluated at the same time. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that the reports for both the internal and external
program reviews would be made available to IDA within two months of completion (para.
5.1 (f)).
2.24    In Kenya, the military, police and security forces have independent health
systems. The project will enable the Government to allocate funds for the provision of
effective STD care and health promotion to the Uniformed Services through the Ministries
of Defense and Police Headquarters. The Health Departments of these outfits have
established AIDS and STD prevention activities and will be responsible for the planning
and implementation of these health services.



24
2.25    Kenya is host to a large number of refugee people from neighboring countries. If
HIV is to be effectively controlled and its spread minimized, these refugees are as much in
need of STI prevention and care as any other people living in Kenya. The Government
will be able to provide some resources for STD care based on syndromic case
management and health promotion through refugee health services by utilizing the
allocation earmarked for refugees in the project.
2.26    Information, Education and Communication (US$ 7.6 million). The project
will allocate US$ 5 million for the development and implementation of IEC activities,
including patient education materials, newspapers, magazines, and other print articles,
radio and television advertising and programming, as well as non-traditional media and the
development of in-school training materials. The first of the IEC projects to be funded
through the STI project will include the identification and testing of patient education
materials to be used in support of the STI activities described elsewhere in this project.
The project includes IEC activities for youth to increase their capacity to adopt safe sexual
behaviors. This will involve close collaboration with the Ministry of Education. Since
some IEC materials are currently being used and pretested by other donors (i.e., the EU),
the creation of new materials may not be necessary. If NASCP and IDA are satisfied by
pretesting results showing that these materials are suitable for widespread use, then the
NASCP will procure them in sufficient quantities to distribute to STD clinics (government,
NGO and private) throughout the country. If new or additional STD patient education
materials need to be developed, then the NASCP will procure professional services for
their development and implementation.
2.27    Experience in other East African countries indicates that TEC mass media
campaigns can be effective in achieving a number of objectives, including: raising
awareness; providing factual information about STIs, and publicizing treatment services.
When developed as IEC radio or television soap operas, such programs have been shown
to be effective in modeling preventive behaviors, such as how to negotiate condom usage.
Other donors (i.e., USAID) are already funding the use of radio shows to promote safer
sexual behavior. This project will allow the funding of additional IEC activities and
campaigns through the mass media. These materials can be used for national level
campaigns, as well as for supporting or supplementing districts' IEC activities. WHO will
provide technical assistance for the formulation of the IEC work plan which will cover all
the areas described in this STI. During negotiations assurances were obtained that (a) the
annual IEC plans would specify prevention interventions and approaches and (b) the
production of IEC materials would be undertaken through open competition (para. 5.1
(g))
2.28    Condoms Distribution (US$ 6.8 million). Condoms provide an effective
barrier to the sexual transmission of pathogens including HIV when used properly and
consistently. Health promotion, public awareness and increased availability and
accessibility of condoms have all helped to raise the number of condoms used in Kenya
over the past two years. At the national level a central logistics unit attached to the
division of family health has managed the procurement and distribution of 90 million



25
condoms in 1994. An anticipated 120 million will be distributed by them through public
and private sector health facilities including condom social marketing projects in 1995.
The project will enable the Government to take responsibility for procurement and for
distribution by the central logistics unit. Condoms will be supplied to districts,
municipalities, NGOs and to those providing health services to military, police and security
services and refugees. The project anticipates continued growth in condom distribution
and use throughout the project period to a targeted 150 million in 1999. This will then
represent 30 condoms per sexually active couple per year. Further increases could come
about through condom social marketing funded by bilateral donors. A proposed ODA
project has a target of distributing at least 150 million condoms by 1999. The
procurement of condoms will be undertaken by procurement agents to ensure consistent
delivery of quality products.
Part C: Social Economic Consequences (US$ 19.4 million)
2.29    Tuberculosis (US$ 5.0 million). HIV related cases of TB add significantly to
the level of TB exposure in the community and this poses a threat to public health. HIV
related immunodeficiency triggers latent TB at a rate of 10% per year amongst those with
both infections. In Kenya, TB is being combated through a vertical program that focuses
on case finding and treatment -- the Leprosy and Tuberculosis Control Program (LTCP).
This national program is supported by the Netherlands government, which covers most of
the budget for drugs. The number of new sputum positive cases has risen dramatically
with an anticipated 27,000 extra new sputum positive cases for 1994 and 1995. By 2000,
the final year of the project period, seven times as many new sputum positive cases will be
seen as would have been seen without HIV. The new cases have predominantly arisen in
the age groups most affected by HIV and appear to be the direct result of the HIV
epidemic. Standard TB treatment regimens that include thiacetazone are contraindicated
for people with HIV because of severe reactions to thiacetazone in immnuno compromised
people. Alternative regimens cost US$ 30 as opposed to US$ 8. Resources for extra
drugs and more expensive drugs have been provided by the government of the
Netherlands, the government of Kenya is unable to increase its allocation to the program.
A shortfall in drugs of 11,000 regimens is anticipated in 1994, and of 16,000 in 1995. The
project will provide additional support to the drug and commodity needs of the LTCP and
strengthening through the enhancement of procurement and supply mechanisms for health
commodities within Kenya.
2.30    Opportunistic Infection (US$ 10.3 million). HIV-related immunodeficiency
also leads to a range of opportunistic infections that cause respiratory and skin diseases,
diarrhea and wasting. Drugs and herbal medicines are needed to alleviate pain and
discomfort and to combat specific infections. The project will strengthen the evolution of
treatment and care policy and practice at the central and district levels. It will provide
essential drugs through the national essential drugs program and will allocate funds to the
district for the mobilization and support of community-based responses. The project will
be closely coordinated with other donor assistance designed to improve the MOH's ability



26
to procure and distribute pharmaceuticals in a way consistent with the Essential Drug
Policy.
2.31    District NGO/CBO Activities (US$ 2.7 million). The burden which the
HIV/AIDS pandemic has placed on the health services of sub-Saharan African countries
has been well documented. Half or more of hospital beds may be occupied by AIDS
patients, and resulting hospital stays are considerably longer than for uninfected persons.
Kenya has seen increasing number of admissions for HIV/AIDS-related illnesses. The
present situation will become worse in coming years as the HIV pandemic places greater
demands on the communities. The resources needed for the formal health sector to meet
needs for long-term or terminal care are unlikely to be forthcoming.
2.32    In sub-Saharan Africa, families have always provided care for the chronically ill
and the dying. The traditional resources which are for the disabled, chronically ill or the
dying are frequently stretched beyond capacity by the HIV pandemic. The limited
resources of the health system are unable to provide the needed assistance through the
long-term inpatient care. The community, and its households, remain, as they always
have, the principal resources for the disabled and the dying. To be effective, home care
programs for AIDS patients must not be seen primarily as a way for the community to
relieve pressure on the hospital system, but as something which strengthens the capacity of
the community to fulfill its traditional role. AIDS care is part of a comprehensive health
system (including government and NGO hospitals as well as health centres). It meets a
functioning referral system to help people use health facilities at the appropriate level, and
use community networks for social support. Focusing on home care alone will not answer
the needs for a continuum of care with basic acceptable quality.
2.33    From a cost basis, a World Bank study in Tanzania found that village-based
home care was 50 times less expensive than urban hospitalization for treatment of
opportunistic infection, despite a similar range of medications provided. In Zambia, the
home care program at Chikankata hospital reduced the average length of stay from 32 to
16 days. At the University Teaching Hospital in Lusaka, the home care program
prevented 109 hospital days over a five month period. Also in Zambia, the care at home
of AIDS patients was thought to be about 14% of the costs of inpatient hospitalization.
Transportation shortage for home care personnel was noted to be a major cause of
inefficiency in some programs. In the Kwa Zulu home care program, transportation costs
were the single leading expense to the program. However, home care is not cheap care.
Although annual per patient costs in Zambia dropped from $85 to $28, this still represents
an amount which is unsustainable through local resources. The provision of food,
clothing, supplies, emotional support, school fees for dependent children by some
programs have made them unsuitable models for country-wide or even district-wide
programs.
2.34    Counseling services have been established in a number of urban areas.
Counselors are often HIV positive persons and have been a great support to clients with
HIV/AIDS, their sexual partners and their families. Services are most frequently provided



27
in established centers, and sometimes may extend to the household. Post-test counseling
is a common type of service provided. Medical and nursing services may be provided by
some organizations, but is not a common component. The TASO services in Uganda tend
to have a larger clinical component than most other counseling services. Kenya Know
AIDS and Tapwak are examples of these organizations. Advocacy is commonly an
important function of these programs. Organizations which provide services to AIDS
patients in the household setting represent a second type of organization. Services include
clinical assistance to the client as well as training, HIV/AIDS education, and support to
the household. Owen House in Kenya has provided this type of service. Services with a
clinical component have been provided elsewhere in Kenya on a limited scale. Some
services have been provided by the Kenya Red Cross. Other programs of varying scope
have been carried out in Kisumu and Mombasa. A home care program was sponsored by
the Christian Hospital Association of Kenya (CHAK) in the area around Kendu Bay
hospital, some 100 km from Kisumu. This program which was run as a hospital outreach
project, was rated highly by outside evaluators, but was closed out due to lack of funds.
2.35    NGOs, CBOs and families will be identified in accordance with the procedures
for NGO participation (Annex 14) and supported through this project. The services
provided to AIDS patients would include at a minimum drugs for opportunistic infections,
supplies for AIDS care, counseling and provision of counselors and social support. A
condition of effectiveness would be for the Government to issue a set of guidelines
for NGOs, CBOs and families for community-based care (para. 5.2 (b)).
2.36    Occupational Safety (US$ 1.3 million). HIV is transmissible by blood and
other contaminated body fluids and poses both occupational and iatrogenic risks.
Although these risks are comparatively slight and their role in the dynamics of HIV
epidemic spread marginal, they cause considerable anxiety to many health workers and
home carers of people with HIV. This in turn can lead to problem with palliative home
care discrimination against those thought to be infected with HIV, to poor standards of
care and to difficulties in the recruitment and retention of health workers. The project will
facilitate the development and implementation of an occupational safety policy at central
and district levels and will provide commodities for occupational safety (e.g. protective
gloves) to health personnel.
D. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
2.37    The Ministry of Health will have responsibility for overall project coordination.
Within MOH, the PS will be the Project Director in charge of coordination and
implementation. The majority of project activities will be implemented at the district level
by the District Health Management Teams, district based organizations, community
groups and NGOs. The NASCP will provide national policy and technical support to the
districts. Technical aspects of the project will be the responsibility of the Director of the
NASCP.



28
2.38    A Project Steering Committee, to be operational throughout the life of the
project, chaired by the PS, MOH with representatives from the Office of the President,
Ministries of Health, Finance, Information, , Local Government, Planning and National
Development, Department of Defense, Universities of Nairobi, NASCP and WI-HO will be
established to act as an advisory body to the implementing parties. NGOs, other ministries
and specialized divisions within the MOH will be invited to participate in the Committee
whenever necessary. The Project Coordinator will be the Secretary to the Steering
Committee. A Project Steering Committee has been established and its composition is
listed in Annex 11. In addition, the Project Coordinator would call quarterly meetings
with interested donors to discuss progress of the project and to review other
developments in the STI sector.
2.39    At the district level, the District Medical Officer will be responsible for
coordinating project activities. He will work closely with NGOs active in the district as
well as with members of the District Health Management Team and community groups to
ensure that services are provided to the largest group of peoples within the district that
could play an active role in the control of STIs. Districts will receive support from the
newly created inspectorates at the provincial level. Supportive supervision and continuing
education will be emphasized by the provincial teams which will regularly visit all districts.
2.40    Project Coordination. A Project Coordinator, (a Kenyan national), has been
appointed by the PS, MOH and he is located in the NASCP. The Project Coordinator will
be remunerated in line with Government of Kenya pay scales. The role of the Project
Coordinator will be to: (a) facilitate the implementation of the project, including handling
the administrative requirements of IDA; and (b) work under the administrative and
technical guidance of the Program Manager of the NASCP and other technical units of the
MOH. Accountants, procurement specialists, and other support staff already in place
financed by the MOH as part of its recurrent budget for the two Population and the Health
Rehabilitation projects will support this project as needed, ODA financed long term
technical assistance, WHO and other donor short term consultants will also work closely
with the project staff Depending on the need, financing of these will be taken over by the
project when the three ongoing projects come to an end. Local and international
contracting will be utilized to the maximum extent for several implementation actions, e.g.
procurement of drugs and condoms. Short-term consultancies will be approved by IDA as
required on an ad hoc basis.
2.41    All project activities will be undertaken by existing units or offices of the health
system. No new Government office will be created. The expenditures in this project are
part of the development budget and will be controlled and accounted for by the PS, MOH.
All Government audit and accounting procedures apply. The DMOs will receive their
financial allocations from the PS, MOH and will be accountable to him for the proper
utilization of the same. The DMS and technical staff of the MOH will provide the
technical backstopping to the DMO as usual. A local staff member in the Bank's Resident
Mission in Nairobi will be responsible for support and facilitate day-to-day implementation
of the project.



29
2.42    Status of Project Preparation. The project was prepared by the Government
with assistance from an outside consultant. Its objectives and activities have been
formulated within the framework of the Medium Term Plan II. NGOs, CBOs and the
private sector were involved in the preparation and appraisal of this project. Their
contributions have provided very useful inputs in the design of the project. In this
connection, a nationwide AIDS workshop was organized in April 1993 to bring together
all the different stakeholders as part of project preparation. Several reports have
previously been written on the AIDS situation in Kenya (USAID AIDSCAP, Belgian
Government) and these were of great use in project preparation. A detailed procurement
plan has been drawn up and is included as Annex 9.
2.43    Implementation schedule. Project implementation is expected to take six
years, starting in July 1995. A condition of effectiveness would be that the
Government furnishes IDA with a final implementation manual for all project
components (para. 5.2 (c)). An implementation monitoring matrix is included as Annex
8. Implementation will follow a phased approach beginning with the seven municipalities
and ten districts in the first year, followed by twenty districts and twenty-five in the second
and third year respectively. This phased approach has been determined by the time
required to train staff in STI treatment and management and is designed to be
implemented in high risk areas (First, some activities, such as condom distribution and IEC
programs, will remain national in scope.) The STI project will be completed by December
31, 2000 and project accounts will be furnished by June 30, 2001.
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
2.44    Evaluation Framework. The success of the project will depend on four major
factors:
the utility of the operational research, and how well it shapes future STI
activities,
how well the specific objectives and activities of the STI project are
pursued,
the effectiveness of the interventions actually implemented, and
performance in implementing the overall STI effort, i.e. the sum of all STD
or HIV related activities regardless of their source of funding.
2.45    To assess these factors and the success of the project, the following monitoring
and evaluation activities are planned:
(a)   Research: Research to answer key questions about socioeconomic impact
and specific program impact.
(b)   Monitoring: (i) Monitoring of project implementation including auditing
of financial aspects; (ii) surveillance and monitoring of behavioral and



30
health outcome data and; (iii) assessment of selected intervention
effectiveness.
(c)    Evaluation: Assessment of overall program impact. Two sets of
indicators have been developed and are set out below, one for assessing
progress in performing project activities (Project Activity Indicators), the
other for assessing overall program impact (Program Impact Indicators).
These program impact indicators have been developed by WHO and have
been extensively field tested. Effectiveness, including cost effectiveness of
selected interventions, will be determined through special operational
research. It is anticipated that this research will be conducted by local
university researchers in collaboration with the NASCP. District as well as
the central management will be strengthened to use the lessons learned to
redirect and to manage STI activities.
2.46    Routine Reporting. As appropriate, monitoring and evaluation will be
incorporated into district activities in order to provide feedback to the district program
implementors, so that immediate adjustments can be made. The NASCP will have
responsibility for routine monitoring of quarterly indicator data reported by the DIACs.
The NASCP will collate this monitoring data in semi-annual progress reports, which will
be forwarded to IDA. These reports will form the basis for discussions of supervision
missions. During negotiations assurances were obtained that progress reports and
beneficiary assessment data will be consolidated by the NASCP and sent to IDA, through
the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, every six months (para. 5.1 (h)).
2.47    Supervisory Visits. In addition to routine reporting, annual routine supervisory
visits will be performed by IDA. At the end of the first year government and IDA will
perform an initial program review to assess the implementation in the initial districts.
During routine visits in subsequent years IDA will assess annual work plans and the
previous year's progress to enable the project to be responsive to the changing
environment.
2.48    Program Reviews. The Government and IDA, with the assistance of WHO,
will conduct a Mid-Term program review. This review will coincide with the review of
the end of the implementation period of MOH's Second Medium Term Plan. Toward the
end of the project a final review will be conducted to determine program success and plan
for future activities. The NASCP will prepare and make available to IDA its own
evaluation report on the project's execution and initial operation costs and benefits, IDA's
and the Government's performance of their respective obligations under the Credit
Agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the Credit were achieved. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that a Mid-Term evaluation of the project be held
in 1997 and that the implementation evaluation report be prepared by Government within
six months of the project closing date (para. 5.1 (i)).



31
2.49    NGOs and CBOs. A significant part of the project components will be
implemented by NGOs, CBOs and the private sector. It is therefore imperative that a
good system is in place to monitor the performance of these participating institutions. The
Government has undertaken to develop a monitoring system based on the Implementation
Manual.
2.50    Project Beneficiaries. The primary beneficiaries in this project will be sexually
active adults, and their dependents, colleagues and communities. The project will directly
benefit youth; individuals with sexually transmitted infections; pregnant women who
receive antenatal care; infants of pregnant women with a STI; individuals with HIV or
AIDS and their families; individuals with tuberculosis and their families and colleagues;
health care workers who are trained and who treat STIs and related infections. It is
important to monitor whether these beneficiaries are benefiting from the program
activities, and obtain feedback on program activities to help make any adjustments in
implementation.
2.51    Beneficiary Assessment. Qualitative and quantitative research techniques,
including surveys, focus groups, key informant interviews, and routine feedback will be
used to collect information from beneficiaries on program implementation and impact.
These beneficiary assessments will be done periodically by district staff and through
contract with local technical consultants. More in-depth, quantitative assessments of
beneficiaries of the project will be done through operational research by the NASCP and
the NCPD with consultant assistance as needed.
2.52    Project activity indicators are designed to monitor implementation performance
with respect to the project objectives and are listed in Annex 8. The district will play a
key role in assessing project success and using this information to make program
improvements. There are specific project activity indicators for each of the sub-objectives
of the STI project.
2.53    Program Impact Indicators. Most are standard indicators, developed and field
tested by WHO/GPA and are considered state of the art. Since overall success of the
national program is of major importance to the project, the attainment of these objectives
will be monitored closely by project management. If monitoring shows that progress is
not being made on the national program objectives, project funds may be reallocated to
help attain these broader program objectives.
2.54    Baseline information is necessary in order to set appropriate and reasonable
activity and impact targets. Some relevant information is already available through the
NASCP, although it does not appear to be used well. Analysis of available data, along
with the identification of needed information must be done in order to set specific targets.
This activity should be completed as soon as possible and appropriate annual targets
agreed upon by IDA and NASCP. For example, if baseline data show that only 50% of
the requests for STD drugs are currently being filled, then the end of project target might
be set as 70%.



32
2.55    For surveillance close monitoring of the STI project will require the collection
and analysis of appropriate demographic, behavioral, social and health outcome data from
national and sentinel levels. Such data will be analyzed at the national level, and where
possible, at the district or local level, and supplied to the district or local institution
participating in the surveillance. These surveillance activities are key to the evaluation of
this project at both the national and local levels, as they provide information essential to
basic program decision-making. Surveillance activities will be strengthened by the STI
project in the following areas:
*    HIV sentinel surveillance
*    STD surveillance
*    periodic TB surveillance
2.56    In addition special surveys will be conducted to determine:
(a)    Changes in attitudes towards safer sexual practices, in particular attitudes
towards condoms, men having extramarital sexual partners, older men
having sex with school girls and young women, the acceptability of men
buying sex or coercing women into providing sex in exchange for favors in
school, employment, receipt of community services, etc.
(b)    Changes in sexual behavior. This will include changes in age of penetrative
sexual debut, non-penetrative sexual activity, and the numbers of people
having multiple sexual partners.
(c)    Changes in reported condom use, including frequency and consistency of
condom use, condom purchasing behaviors and condom disposal
behaviors.
(d)    Changes in STI health-care seeking behaviors. This will concentrate on
what triggers sexual health-care seeking behavior, what determines where
treatment is sought and how much resource is allocated to cure and
prevention of further episodes. Attitudes to partner notification and
treatment will be a key focus.
(e)    Changes in the quality of STD care received, including user satisfaction and
treatment effectiveness as well as perceived staff attitudes and quality of
health promotion and information received. A gender analysis of service
provision is essential.
2.57    HIV sentinel surveillance will follow WHO recommendations for anonymous
unlinked (blind) testing in selected populations from whom blood is routinely drawn for
other reasons. Such surveillance is considered more useful and cost effective than
community-based HIV surveys. It allows officials to assess the extent to which HIV has



33
penetrated the population. HIV sentinel surveillance support will continue to be provided
by NASCP to the districts to strengthen the existing systems.
2.58    STD surveillance relies on regular reporting of diseases by participating clinics
and is currently sporadic and needs strengthening. Objectives, indicators and standard
methods for surveillance, including reporting forms and screening needs have been
developed, but have not been fully implemented in any district. Training manuals are
being produced, but have not been distributed to participating sentinel sites, district
hospitals, primary health centers, NGOs or private practitioners. In the seven
municipalities separate surveillance systems are nominally in place.
2.59    Surveillance for tuberculosis is carried out by the LTCP. New sputum positive
case finding efficiency is estimated to be 65 % and reporting in this program is regarded to
be of high quality. TB is the most serious infection associated with HIV from a public
health view point as it is highly infectious to otherwise healthy members of the population.
2.60    Strengthening of Surveillance Systems. The project will support the
strengthening of surveillance systems by providing supervision at the district level and
below. Support will also be provided to distribute supplies and kits, and to consult with
and train individuals.
2.61    Operational research will be essential for two reasons (i) to learn more about the
medical, public health and sociological aspects of STDs, HIV and AIDS and; (ii) to
determine the effectiveness of a selected number of activities supported by the STI
project. Little is known about the impact of effective STD treatment at the primary level
on disease prevalence; of the impact of the increased morbidity and mortality caused by
AIDS on the needs for home-based care, care and support of orphans, and the economic
impact of the epidemic. A selected number of operational research projects are proposed
in collaboration with NASCP, DIACs, and local university, or other appropriate,
researchers to examine the impact of the proposed activities on the target populations.
While DIACs are expected to report activity indicators, they are not expected to report
more thani a few program impact indicators. Additional operational research will allow
more in-depth examination of program activities. Examples might include: in depth
studies about adherence to STI or TB drug regimens, qualitative research on how best to
improve condom negotiation, participant observation studies of the effects of STI-related
training sessions. Support will be given to the NASCP, which will contract appropriate
university or other institutions. The MOH, with the assistance of WHO or other experts,
will solicit operational research proposals and obtain approval from IDA before carrying
them out.
2.62    Funding for HIV vaccine research is specifically excluded. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that all research proposals be reviewed by an independent
review panel (para. 5.1 (j)). The costs of establishing review panels will be borne by the
project. The composition of the panel would depend on the topic of the proposed
research proposal. Panel members would be appointed by the PS, MOH in consultation



34
with the Director of Medical Services within one month of the receipt of the proposal.
Before the panels are finalized, the names would be submitted to IDA for review and
comment. The administration of research grants would be similar to the procedures being
followed for NGOs.
2.63    It is essential that program planning and decision-making use information
obtained from surveillance, monitoring and evaluation activities. This includes the use of
data by individuals conducting activities at all levels: the community, health facility, district
and national levels. To ensure this, training in program planning and public health
decision-making will be conducted. The annual work plans should include a section on
how evaluation data has been used for program improvements.



III. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS
A. COSTS
3.1   The total cost of the project is Ksh. 2.9 billion or US$ 65.5 million equivalent.
Base costs are estimated at US$ 59.5 million equivalent (91%) and contingencies at US$
6.0 million equivalent (9%). Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$ 41.2 million or
64% of total project costs. Taxes and duties are negligible. All costs are based on
January 1995 prices. Project costs are summarized by component in Table 1.
3.2   Project costs by expenditure category are shown in Table 2. Drugs account for
39% of base costs, Supplies for 27%, Services for 18%; the remaining 16% are for
equipment, training, technical assistance and vehicles.
3.3   Sources of cost estimates. All costs are estimates and obviously subject to
change. The costs of condoms was based on information from staff at the NASCP and
World Bank staff knowledgeable about current international tender prices.
Pharmaceutical costs were estimated from the Kenya Government medical stores most
recent price list, data from the essential Drugs Program, and from WHO for drugs not
currently in use in Kenya. The prices for supplies (rubber gloves, syringes, disinfectant)
and small equipment (petri dishes, laboratory slides and covers, etc.) are based on
quotations from suppliers, and the UNICEF UNIPAK catalogue. Costs of diagnostic tests
were provided by WI-TO. Local training and service costs and operational and
maintenance expenses are based on current actual MOH costs.
3.4   Cost Contingencies and Exchange Rate. The total costs include an allowance of
US$ 6.0 million equivalent for contingencies which have been estimated using Bank
projections of international and domestic inflation, and assume the annual rates of increase
set out in Table 3. The exchange rate used for 1995 is Ksh. 44.6 = US$ 1. The nominal
exchange rate is assumed to adjust during the life of the project so as to maintain a
constant real exchange rate, given these projected inflation differentials.



Table 1. Component Project Cost Summary
(ksh'000)                                            (US$ 000)
Local       Foreign       Total        %      % Total   Local    Foreign     Total       %       % Total
Foreign    Base                                   Foreign    Base
Exchange   Costs                                  Exchange   Costs
A. Strengthening Institutional Capacity
National Capacity                                         38106.2      65004.5      103110.7        63       4      854.4    1457.5    2311.9         63        4
District Capacity                                         56914.1      83045.2      139959.3        59       5     1276.1    1862.0    3138.1         59        5
Surveillance                                                    -      44831.9       44831.9       100       2          -    1005.2    1005.2        100        2
Operational Research                                      33623 9       19004.1      52628.0        36       2      753.9     426.1    1180.0         36        2
Monitoring & Evaluation                                   23753.9       19004.1      42758.0        44       2      532.6     426.1      958.8        44        2
Innovative NGOs Activities                               224150.7            -      224150.7         -       8    5025.8          -    5025.8          -        8
Project Management                                         6725.7       5155.8       11881.5        43       -      150.8     115.6      266.4       43
Subtotal Strengthening Institutional Capacity            382274.5     236045.6      619320.1        38      23    8593.5    5292.4   13886.0          38       23
B. Prevention of Sexually Transmitted Infections
Sexually Transmitted Disease                             122592.0     425992.4      548584.4        78      21    2748.7    9551.4   12300.1          78       21
Information, Education and Communication                 168110.8     168110.8      336221 6        50      13    3769.3    3769.3    7538.7          50       13
Condoms Distribution                                            -     303462.9      303462.9       100      11          -    6804.1    6804.1        100       11
Subtotal Prevention of Sexually Transmitted Infections   290703.8     897566.1    1188268.9         76      45    6518.0   20124.8   26642.9          76       45  a
C. Social Economic Consequences
Tuberculosis                                              55937.3     167807.5      223744.8        75       8     1254.2    3762.5    5016.7        75         8
Opportunistic Infections                                 110915.7     332742.8      443658.5       75       17    2486.9    7460.6    9947.5         75        17
District NGO/CBO Activities                              121771.4            -      121771.4         -       5    2730.3          -    2730.3          -        5
Occupational Safety                                             -      58087.0       58087.0       100       2          -    1302.4    1302.4       100         2
Subtotal Social Economic Consequences                    288624.4     558637 3      847261.7        66      32    6471.4   12525.5   18996.9         66        32
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        962601.7    1692249.0    2654850.8        64     100   21582.9   37942.7   59525.8          64       100
Price Contingencies                                       82612.6     183881.3     266493.9        69        9     1852.3    4122.9    5975.2        69         9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        1082105.3    1839239.4    2921344.7        64     109   24262.4   41238.6   65501.0          64       109



37
Table 2. Project Costs by Expenditure Accounts
(ksh'000)                                          (US$ '000)
Local      Foreign      Total        %     % Total   Local    Foreign    Total      %       % Total
Foreign    Base                                Foreign    Base
Exchange  Costs                                Exchange   Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment               8630 1     25890.3     34520.4       75        1     193.5    580.5    774.0         75         1
B. Drugs                263710 9    768783.6   1032494.5        75      39    5912.8  17237.3  23150.1          75        39
C Supplies                     -    708453.2    708453.2       100      27              15884.6  15884.6       100        27
D. Services             477594 6            -    477594.6         -      18   10708.4        -  10708.4          -        18
E. Local Training        183 94.5           -    183194.5         -      8    4107.5         -   4107.5          -         7
F. Overseas Training           -      26898.3     26898.3      100        1         -    603.1    603.1        100         1
G Technical Assistance   44272.2      44272.2     88544 4       50       3      992.6    992.7   1985.3         50         3
H. Vehicles                    -      81060.5     81060.5      100       3         -    1817.5   1817.5        100         3
Total Investment Costs     977402.3   1655358 1   2632760 4       64       99   21914.8  37115.7  53030.5         64        99
II. Recurrent Costs
A Operational Costs       22090.4           -     22090.4         -       1     495.3        -    495.3                    1
Total Recurrent Costs       22090.4           -     22090.4         -       1     495.3        -    495.3
Total BASELINE COSTS       9994927    16553581    2654850.8       64      100   22410.1   37115.7  59525.8        64       100
Price Contingencies      82612.6    183881 3    266493.9        69       9    1852.3   4122.9   5975.2          69         9
1082105 3   1839239.4   2921344.7       64      109   24262.4  41238.6  65501.0         64       109
Total PROJECT COSTS
Table 3. Assumed Rates of Inflation
1995            1996           1997          1998         1999
Foreign               2.9              3.0            2.7           2.7          2.5
Local                 7.9              7.5            7.5           5.0          5.0
3.5     Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs of US$ 41.2 million are calculated on
the following basis: (a) equipment 75%; (b) drugs 75%; (c) supplies 100%; (d) overseas training
100%; (e) technical assistance 50%; and (f) vehicles 100%.
3.6     Recurrent Costs and Sustainability. The recurrent cost implications ofthe project are
small to the government budget. No new buildings are being constructed, and no additional staff
are likely to be hired. Government will finance the maintenance costs of new equipment purchase,
through the MOH budgetary allocation. These costs are estimated at 5% of purchase price
annually. The project will be managed by staff already in place except for a project coordinator,
secretary and driver.
3.7     Given that the health sector has been seriously underfunded over the past several years,
the MOH has been unable to finance the purchase of drugs. It is expected that Treasury
allocations for health will increase slightly. At the same time a number of cost recovery measures
have being introduced and revenues through the health care financing scheme are expected to
raise significantly, particularly since the Government is gradually removing exemptions under the
scheme. The annual cost of the project in the first year is equivalent to about 10% of the 1994/95
total MOH budget, which is Kshs. 8.4 billion (US$ 135.0 million equivalent).
3.8     On economic grounds, diseases with large externalities are unlikely to be adequately
controlled without full or partial public financing. Hence, expenditures on condoms and STD



38
drugs are substantial and likely to remain high over the medium term. Donor funding for these
commodities will be necessary for the foreseeable future. At the district level there will be
increased costs of travel for health staff following up STD and Tuberculosis cases. Currently, the
public sector does not charges for condoms and STD drugs. However, the NGOs and the private
sector have modest service charges and the Government encourages social marketing. Given the
strong and widely accepted public health rationale to maintain a ready supply of and access to
condoms and STD drugs, a change in public sector policy will take some time to be accepted. It
is therefore difficult to estimate the quantitative levels of the subsidy needed for the STI project.
3.9    Recurrent Cost Savings. Many of the consumable items being funded are investments in
human capital, and will restore good health or prevent illness. Condoms, drugs for TB treatment
and gloves for health workers are examples. Provision of these items reduces rather than incurs
recurrent costs in the health sector: every TB patient treated, or every HIV-infection averted,
reduces the number of future potential patients seeking health care.
3.10  Left unchecked, STD infections in men cause mild to severe genital or urinary tract
problems and can cause infertility. The consequences for women, who are often asymptomatic
and therefore unaware of the infection, include adverse outcomes of pregnancy for mothers and
newborns, infections in newborns and infants, infertility, cervical cancer, and in some cases death.
These impose vastly higher costs than STD treatment which is an extremely cost-effective health
intervention.
3.11   With HIV/AIDS, of course, the inevitable result for the patient is death. The result for the
health care system is that the patient suffers an average of nine episodes of HIV-related infections
during the roughly one year between the onset of full-blown AIDS and death. It is estimated
broadly that each case of AIDS in Kenya imposes direct costs of more than US$ 1,000. During
the project period the cost of hospitalization of half of all Kenya's projected AIDS cases is likely
to exceed US$ 100.0 million. Moreover, most people with AIDS are in the most economically
productive age group (15-45), and leave young and aged dependent survivors, with greater
attendant costs to the economy and society. The total indirect costs of one AIDS case have been
calculated in some countries as 20 times as great as the direct cost - perhaps as much as US$
19,000 per case in Kenya. The direct cost cf a year's supply of condoms for a sexually active
person in Kenya would be US$ 4.00.
3.12  During the past two years, the health share of the overall budget has remained at 5%,
reflecting GOK's commitment to protect social expenditures despite the very tight fiscal situation.
The Government's intention is that the share of ministerial expenditures going to health will
increase in the future. However, in view of the magnitude of the present gap between health
expenditures and needs it is not possible that at the end of the project, Government will be able to
take over and sustain the financing of condoms and all drug needs, particularly if the incidence of
HIV-related illnesses continues at current rates.
3.13  Without the inputs to be provided through the project, a much more serious sustainability
problem would arise. The large amounts of money spent on health facilities and the training and
wages of health workers are wasted if adequate drugs and other supplies are not available.
Therefore, the project is helping to ensure the sustainabdity and impact of past and existing large
investments in health care. Moreover, the project will prevent and cure illness and therefore



39
reduce spending on health care, and reduce potential productivity losses because of illness and
death and the loss of accumulated human capital of people who die young of AIDS.
B. FINANCING
3.14  The total project cost of US$ 65.5 million equivalent will be financed as follows: a
proposed IDA credit of US$ 40.0 million would cover 61% of total project cost and 56% of
foreign exchange costs. Co-financing contributions are anticipated from ODA (US$ 12.5 million
equivalent), KfW (US$ 4.0 million equivalent); DANIDA (US$ 1.0 million equivalent); and the
Government of the Netherlands (US$ 4.0 million equivalent). WHO/GPA will provide technical
support, including training to the implementation of the STI project within the framework of its
technical support to the National STD/AlDS Program. The Government would finance from its
annual budget the remaining costs of Kshs. 178 million (US$ 4.0 million equivalent) or 6% of the
total project costs, including all taxes and duties. To ensure that adequate counterpart funds will
be available, assurances were obtained during negotiations: (a) that the annual work plans will be
prepared in time for inclusion in the annual budget; (b) that adequate provisions be made in
accordance with relevant budget items to ensure adequate counterpart funding each year; and (c)
that the Government provide, on an annual basis, evidence that funds thus allocated in the
previous year's budget were used for the intended purpose (para. 5.1 (k)).
Table 4. Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Expenditure    IDA   KfW    ODA    DANIDA           The       Govt.   Total
Category                                        Netherlands
Drugs & Equipment   16.6    4.0                         2.0        1.1    23.7
Supplies            11.9           3.2                  2.0               17.1
IEC Materials       8.3            2.0                             2.0    12.3
Local Training                     4.5                                     4.5
Overseas Training   0.1            0.5                                     0.6
Technical Assistance    0.5        1.5                                     2.0
Research and         1.5                   1.0                     0.4     2.9
Monitoring
Vehicles             1.1           0.8                                     1.9
Recurrent Costs                                                    0.5     0.5
Total              40.0    4.0   12.5    1.0            4.0        4.0    65.5
C. PROCUREMENT
3.15  Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5. Items financed by IDA will be
procured as discrete procurements according to IBRD guidelines as outlined in the paras. below.



40
Table 5. Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)
(IDA contributions shown in brackets)
Project Element        ICB            LCB            Other          NBFa           Total
Drugs and Equipment        15.1                           1.5            7.1b          23.7
(15.1)                         (1.5)          (0.0)         (16.6)
Supplies                   10.7            1.0            0.2            5.2            17.1
(10.7)          (1.0)          (0.2)          (0.0)         (1 1.9)
IEC Materials               8.3                                          4.0            12.3
(8.3)                                        (0.0)          (8.3)
Local Training                                                           4.5            4.5
(0.0)          (0.0)
Overseas Training                                         0.1            0.5             0.6
(0. 1)         (0.0)          (0. 1)
Technical Assistance                                      0.5             1.5            2.0
(0.5)          (0.0)          (0.5)
Research/Monitoring                                       1.5             1.4           2.9
(1.5)          (0.0)          (1.5)
Vehicles                    1.1                                          0.8             1.9
(1.1)                                        (0.0)          (1.1)
Recurrent Costs                                                          0.5            0.5
(0.0)          (0.0)
Total                      35.2            1.0            3.8           25.5           65.5
(35.2)          (1.0)          (3.8)          (0.0)         (40.0)
a)    NBF: Not Bank Financed.
b)    Co-financed in parallel by KfW, ODA, DANIDA and the Government of the Netherlands,
procured in accordance with each agency's guidelines.
3.16   Drugs and Equipment (US$ 16.6 million) will be procured through ICB procedures
according to I3RD guidelines. These items, which include drugs for STDs, Tuberculosis and
HIV-related inifections will be grouped together wherever possible and procured on a semi-annual
basis based on projected requirements agreed to by IDA. Larger tenders are expected to be
placed twice each year. Should unforeseen needs or emergencies arise, international shopping
according to Bank guidelines will be used for goods valued at no more than US$ 250,000 per
package, up to a total of no more than US$ 1.5 million. Sample tender documents for STD drugs
have already been prepared under the population projects. The first tender is therefore ready to
be advertised as soon as the project becomes effective.



4'
3.17  Medical Equipment and Supplies (US$ 11.9 million). Medical and protective supplies
would be procured on the basis of procurement tables that take into account usage patterns.
These items would be grouped together wherever possible. Tenders in excess of US$ 0.3 million
would be procured through ICB according to Bank guidelines. To avoid stockouts, procurement
below this amount would be carried out through local competitive bidding procedures (LCB)
acceptable to IDA. LCB procurement should not exceed US$ I million and will only apply for
items such as syringes, needles and gloves which are available locally and for which there is
adequate competition. Procurement below US$ 50,000 would be procured through international
or local shopping requiring three quotations in accordance with Bank guidelines up to a total of
no more than US$ 0.2 million. Condoms will be procured through ICB procedures according to
IBRD guidelines. As some of the lowest producers may not be very reliable in making delivery
dates and produce unacceptably low quality condoms rigid post-qualification criteria including
testing of samples before deciding awards will be applied. Condom orders would be placed
annually with an agreed delivery schedule. Sample tender documents for condoms have already
been prepared under the population projects. The first tender is therefore ready to be advertised
as soon as the project becomes effective.
3.18  IEC Materials for TV, Radio, Printed Materials, Video, Newsprint and Vehicles
(US$ 9.4 million) will be procured through ICB procedures. These items will be procured on a
semi-annual basis based on projected requirements agreed to by IDA. Vehicles (US$ 1.1 million)
will be procured through ICB procedures according to IBRD guidelines.
3.19  Consultants' Services (Technical Assistance, Studies, Research and Monitoring)
(US$ 2.0 million). International and local consultants' services would be procured according to
the IBRD guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Consultants contracts estimated to cost less than
US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals do not require prior Bank approval. All
consultant terms of reference, qualifications, experience and conditions of employment will be
satisfactory to IDA and subject to review before an agreement (or contract) is negotiated and
signed. An) proposals for single source selection of a consultant will be examined by the Bank.
Details of the technical assistance requirements are contained in Annex 12.
3.20  Training (US$ 0.1 million). Training needs will be identified and included in the annual
workplans for IDA's review. Overseas training will be recommended only for high priority
training needs which are not locally available. Allowances for overseas training will be based on
guidelines provided by training institutions and will not exceed UNDP rates.
3.21  Tender Documentation Format. IBRDs standard bidding documents will be used in all
ICB procurements under this project. (Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the IBRD, documents based on accepted international standard forms will be used.) At
negotiations, IDA and the Government agreed on standard procurement times which are included
in the Implementation Manual.
3.22  Procurement Review Thresholds. Bidding packages and proposals for contract award
for all procurements in excess of US$ 250,000 will be submitted to the IDA for prior review of
tender documentation in accordance with the Bank guidelines. Procurement below this threshold



42
will be subjected to selective post review by the IDA. Therefore the Borrower is required to
maintain proper records for easy access by the IDA.
3.23   Procurement Agent. In view of earlier difficulties in undertaking procurement, the
Ministry of Health has agreed to the appointment of procurement agent/s for all procurement in
the project. At negotiations assurances were obtained that the Ministry of Health agrees to the
appointment of procurement agents to undertake all procurement in the project.
D. DISBURSEMENT
3.24   Disbursements from the IDA credit will cover the percentage of total expenditures as
indicated in Table 6.
Table 6. Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ Million)
Disbursement Category     IDA Allocation                % of Expenditures
to be Financed
1  Drugs, Supplies and          27.3          100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
Equipment                                local expenditures.
2.  IEC Materials                7.0          90% of all expenditures.
3.  Training                     0.1          100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures.
4.  Technical Assistance         0.5          100% of all expenditures.
5.  Research/Monitoring           1.2         90% of all expenditures.
6.  Vehicles                     0.9          100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures.
7.  Unallocated                  3.0
Total                       40.0
3.25  The IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of six years, from 1995 to 2000, with
procurement and disbursements completed by December 31, 2000 (completion date) and June 30,
2001 (closing date) respectively. The disbursement estimates are based on the following
rationale: (i) there are no civil works in this project which tend to slow down disbursements; and
(ii) the tender documents for drugs and condoms are ready for bidding as soon as the project
becomes effective. The proposed allocation of the credit and an estimated quarterly schedule are
shown in Annex 14. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the IDA credit will be fully



43
documented, except for: (a) contracts for equipment and goods valued at less than US$ 250,000;
equivalent; (b) consultant services (firms) valued at less than US$ 100,000 equivalent; and (c)
consultant services (individuals) valued at less than US$ 50,000 for which disbursements will be
made against certified Statements of Expenditure (SOE). SOE should also be used for all local
training programs and training abroad costing less than US$ 10,000. Supporting documentation
will be retained by project executing agencies and will be available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors.
E. ACCOUNT AND AUDIT
3.26  In order to facilitate the availability of funds for the Project when needed, a Special
Account will be established and maintained in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. An initial
deposit to the Special Account will be an amount not exceeding US$ 2.0 million which will cover
approximately 4 months of Project expenditures. The account will be replenished on the basis of
satisfactory documentary evidence, to be provided to IDA, of eligible payments made from the
account for goods and services required for the Project.
3.27  Audit. The Government's performance in auditing project accounts under the population
and health rehabilitation projects has generally been unsatisfactory. At negotiations the
Government submitted all outstanding audits for the health and population projects. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that all project accounts will be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that all audited accounts, together with the
auditor's report, will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each
Government's fiscal year (para. 5.1 (1)). In auditing STI project accounts including the Special
Accounts, the auditors will pay special attention to verifying the reliability of SOEs, and to the
internal controls and procedures involved in the preparation of SOEs. The scope of annual
financial audits will be expanded to include technical audits of NGO/CBO performance and to
monitor NGO/CBO compliance with the terms of the Implementation Manual.



IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1     HIV/AIDS will alter the distribution of income in society and create new groups
of poverty. HIV/AIDS will reduce labor supply within households and lower productivity
of people with AIDS and family members who care for them. In coping with the impact,
households are likely to change their levels and composition of production, consumption,
savings and investment. Many of the project activities will prevent and cure illness and
therefore reduce spending on health care, reduce potential productivity and income losses
because of illness and death and the loss of accumulated human capital of people who die
young of AIDS.
4.2     The project would have an immediate impact by making STD care available
nationally. It would strengthen the government's ability to deal with opportunistic
infections such as TB. Through the provision of condoms, the project would have an
immediate effect on the transmission of STDs. In the medium term, the project will
directly benefit 100,000 tuberculosis patients and their families, fellow-workers and others
who would be at risk of infection through contact with them. It will provide condoms to
an estimated 5 million persons, thus protecting them and their sexual partners from the
risk of contracting HIV and STDs. The project will furnish sufficient diagnostics to test
every pregnant women who seeks care from syphilis during the life of the project,
benefiting them and their unborn children. More than 1.7 million people with HIV will
receive care for various infections. Protective supplies will safeguard health workers from
the risk of HIV and patients from nosocomial and iatrogenic infections.
4.3     By the end of the project, Kenya will have developed the capacity to procure
condoms, and STD drugs giving a greater degree of control and information on deliveries,
rather than relying on donors. Stockouts will have been avoided through the project, and
the periodic time and energy consuming supply crises that have arisen in the past will have
been avoided. Country-wide reliable supplies of condoms will have enabled millions of
people who are expected to be persuaded by the public-information campaigns to use
condoms to do so.
4.4   The project will finance implementation of the National STD Prevention and
Control Program. Provided their program is implemented according to plan, by the end of
the project, detection and treatment of STDs should be fully integrated into every level of
the health care system. The project will facilitate the selection of the most cost-effective
treatment regimen, and support a switch away from sub-optimal regiments where
warranted.
4.5     The TB control program will have received the drugs and small increase in
operating budget needed to treat all identified cases, follow-up patients to help ensure
compliance with treatment, trace contacts, and verify suspected cases and refer them for
treatment. The project will help to avert a major resurgence of TB incidence.



45
4.6     The project will also ensure that procurement of drugs is done in a highly cost-
effective manner, and will reinforce continued use of the Essential Drugs List. By making
available adequate foreign exchange, it will prevent some of the irrational ad hoc practices
that have occurred in the past. By making available drugs for treatment of an estimated 6
million episodes of HIV-related illnesses (apart from TB), the project will avoid critical
shortages of antibiotics that are also needed for many other uses.
4.7     Prevention of STDs and HIV will result in large savings in sickness care
expenditures. The drain on society by the loss of life from AIDS is staggering in human,
social and economic terms. Investment in reducing STDs and HIV will produce savings
and increased economic activity through carefully targeted interventions. For instance a
Nairobi program found that 6000 to 10,000 new HIV infections a year were averted at a
cost of $0.50 per Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) gained. Palliative home care
costs between $30 and $75 per DALY gained. Curing each case of gonorrhea in a core
group saves 120 DALYs, at a cost well below the $1 per DALY gained if the benefits of
fewer secondary cases and the reduced risk of HIV transmission are included. Thus the
project will be an effective means for protecting large numbers of Kenya's labor force
against the disease and their dependents against AIDS-related poverty.
4.8     Project Risks. The principal risk for the project is that the incidence rates of
HIV, STDs or TB, all high already, may increase so quickly as to overwhelm even the
integrated and intensified effort of Kenya's STI program. The only way of averting this
risk is to mount the most inclusive, cost-effective program possible in the shortest time.
The project has been designed to observe the need for speed, its components are simple,
easy to supervise and rapidly implementable, and project processing - identification to
appraisal took less than nine months. A secondary risk is that the health services may lack
sufficient experience and capacity to implement an effective STD screening and prevention
program. The project provides for training of health workers in STD diagnosis and
treatment. During supervision missions, technical experts will assess capacity and
determine if any other special training or refresher courses are needed. There is also some
risk that sufficient broad Government support may not materialize. Public commitment to
STI control is an important aspect of program success, especially in spreading accurate
and timely information. Given the high public awareness about STDs, Government's
forthright treatment of the issue and integrated effort (including IEC) already underway,
this risk is regarded as small. There is a risk that the important activities that the project
complements, notably the public information efforts to persuade people to use condoms
and seek treatment for STDs, may not be carried out according to plans. Government
sensitivity to condom distribution has declined dramatically. While it is still unlikely that
government will actively promote condom usage there are no reasons to believe that it
would dissuade their use. Another risk is that the NASCP capacity may prove inadequate
to the huge coordinating task facing it. A project coordinator will be appointed and short-
term technical assistance provided as necessary. A final risk is that the behavioral changes
the STI program seeks to promote are likely to prove difficult to achieve. Limited
experience in other countries, however, suggests that the literal life-and-death choice



46
posed by the proliferation of STIs has proven compelling enough to override even the
inherent resistance to change.
4.9     Environment. There are no known negative environmental consequences of the
activities being supported through this project. Consequently, it has been classified as
category C and no environmental assessments will be necessary.



V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    During negotiations the following assurances were obtained:
(a)   that the MOH disaggregate and publish budgets at least to district levels
starting with the 1996/97 financial year (para. 2.12);
(b)   that all annual district health plans include earmarked funds for NGO and
CBO activities (para. 2.13),
(c)   that the MOH would by January 1, 1996, contract appropriate agencies for
the administration and implementation of research grants (para. 2.15);
(d)   that the NASCP would develop annual workplans and submit them to IDA
for review and approval by March 31 of each year (para. 2.17);
(e)   that the Project Coordinator be acceptable to IDA at all times during
project implementation (para. 2.18);
(f)   that the reports for both the internal and external program reviews would
be made available to IDA within two months of completion (para. 2.23);
(g)   that (i) the annual IEC plans would specify prevention interventions and
approaches and (ii) the production of IEC materials would be undertaken
through open competition (para. 2.27);
(h)   that progress reports and beneficiary assessment data will be consolidated
by the NASCP and sent to IDA, through the Permanent Secretary, MOH,
every six months (para. 2.46);
(i)   that a Mid-Term evaluation of the project be held in 1997 and that the
implementation evaluation report be prepared by Government within six
months of the project closing date (para. 2.48);
(j)   that all research proposals be reviewed by an independent review panel
(para. 2.62);
(k)   (i) that the annual work plans will be prepared in time for inclusion in the
annual budget; (ii) that adequate provisions be made in accordance with
relevant budget items to ensure adequate counterpart funding each year;
and (iii) that the Government provide, on an annual basis, evidence that
funds thus allocated in the previous year's budget were used for the
intended purpose (para. 3.14); and



48
(1)   that all project accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA and that all audited accounts, together with the auditors' report,
will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each
Government's fiscal year (para. 3.27).
5.2     The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   that the Ministry of Health issue the provision of the authority to incur
expenditures to the District Medical Officer for district health activities
starting with STIs (para. 2.12);
(b)   that the Government issue a set of guidelines for NGOs, CBOs and families
for community-based care (para. 2.35); and
(c)   that the Government furnishes IDA with a final implementation manual for
all project components (para. 2.43).
RECOMMENDATION
5.3     Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project will
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 27.7 million to the Republic of Kenya
for a term of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years, at standard IDA terms.



Annex 1
49                               Page 1 of 2
Excerpts from the Cabinet approved (November 1994) Health Policy Framework - AIDS
Section.
PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF AIDS, HIV INFECTION AND
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASES
Given the potential of the AIDS/HIV epidemic to negate health gains since
Independence, the Government recognizes the special status it must accord to this
problem. The main goal of the Government will be to slow down and eventually halt the
progression of the AIDS epidemic in Kenya through:
Prevention of HIV Infection through information, communication and education
on measures of control and prevention of HIV and AIDS.
Prevention of Bloodborne Transmission of HIV. Transmission through blood
for transfusion has already been minimized through effective screening. However, efforts
will be made to sustain this practice and also ensure that 100 per cent screening takes
place. In addition, sterile surgical procedures will be practiced by all health workers.
Prevention of Perinatal Transmission of IHV. Prevention of transmission of
I-UV to women is by far the best strategy for preventing transmission from mothers to
child. Because most women are unaware of their infection status, efforts will be made to
provide facilities for voluntary testing of pregnant women. Secondary prevention of
perinatal transmission currently depends on the avoidance of childbearing by HIV positive
women. Voluntary counseling, contraception and other fertility regulation services will be
made available to women everywhere as part of health services and supportive
environment needed for prevention of perinatal transmission. Research is needed to
evaluate the impact of current counseling methods for couples and women of childbearing
age, and to determine how to improve this impact through altemative methods, for
example using religious leaders and traditional health practitioners. Over the longer term,
biomedical research needs to pursue the development of 'perinatal vaccines' and other
such drugs for preventing HIV infection in the unborn and newborn babies of HIV
positive women.
Care, Including Counseling and Clinical Management. Proper care and
support of HIV positive persons will be stressed to that they be useful and productive for
the rest of their lives and their dignity safeguarded. The Government will strive to ensure
that humane care of a quality at least equal to that provided for other disease is
everywhere available for HIV positive infected adults and children. Services will be
appropriate, accessible and continuous. At the minimum, clinical care will include pain
relief and treatment for common opportunistic infections.
Social and Economic Support for AIDS Patients and their Families. With
regard to social security and health insurance schemes, the coverage afforded to people



Annex 1
50                             Page 2 of 2
with HIV/AIDS should be equal to that provided for people with other diseases.
Community Based Home Care for AIDS sufferers will be emphasized and developed.
Traditional approaches to care of orphans will need to be supplemented by community-
based foster care homes, day-care centers, and a bigger parenting role for schools. Other
options include village associations or cooperative which parents join in preparation for
the orphanhood of their children, the use of religious and other charitable institutions to
protect orphans' property, and the creation of a protective climate for widows and
orphans.
National Coordination of Research aimed at sharing information and
experiences, as well as accelerating scientific progress using appropriate technologies, will
be a main area of focus. Training and transfer of technology will ensure that the results of
biomedical and other research are made easily available.
Meeting National Financial Needs. The financial burden brought about by the
impact of the epidemic on the entire health care system is enormous. There will be need
to mobilize more financial resources to meet this burden. Financial resources from various
sources (e.g. International Agencies and Donors, NGOs, Government Sectors and
Communities) will be coordinated.
Organization and Management Structures. The Government will set the
National AIDS Council with broad representation of different sectors and NGOs to
address the problem of HIV/AIDS. The Council will also be mandated to foster
collaboration with international and Donor Agencies in support of the AIDS Control
Program.



Annex 2
51                              Page 1 of 11
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASES AND HIV IN KENYA
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The multisectoral workplan for the implementation of the Kenyan National
Medium Term Plan II identifies sexually transmitted diseases (STD) as an important public
health priority not only because of their severe complications and sequelae, but also
because of their relation to HIV infection.
2.    The linkages between HIV infection and other STD are summarized below and
make it clear that early diagnosis and effective treatment of STD have the potential to
prevent HIV transmission.
(a)   The predominant mode of transmission of both HIV and other STD is
sexual, although they may also be transmitted through blood, blood
products and donated organs or tissue and through an infected woman to
her fetus or newborn infant.
(b)   Many measures for preventing sexual transmission of HIV and STD are the
same, as are the target populations for these interventions.
(c)   STD clinical services are an important access point for people at high risk
of AIDS and STD, not only for diagnosis and treatment but also for
prevention education.
(d)   There is a strong association between the occurrence of HIV infection and
the presence of other STD. Increasing evidence suggests that many STD,
particularly genital ulcer disease, very significantly facilitate the acquisition
and transmission of HIV.
I
(e)   Increasing evidence suggests that there is increased severity of
manifestations aAd infectivity of STD and reduced response to
conventional therapeutic regimens in people infected with HIV.
(f)    Trends in STD incidence and prevalence can be useful indicators of
changes in sexual behavior. They are easier to monitor than trends in HIV
seroprevalence and, therefore, are valuable for determining the impact of
HIV/AIDS control programs.
3.    In view of the overlapping activities required for control of HIV and those
required for control of STD, such as health education and awareness, promotion of safer
sexual behaviors and provision of condoms, the two programs in Kenya have been
integrated.



Annex 2
52                                 Page 2 of 11
4.    The main aims of STD control in Kenya are:
Interrupting the transmission of sexually transmissible infections;
*     Reducing the risk of acquiring and transmitting HIV.
5.    To achieve the main aims of STD control two major public health oriented
interventions should be implemented in Kenya:
(a)    Provide STD care - The purpose of this intervention is to make effective
and acceptable STD care services accessible to people with STD.
Consistent quality case management should be delivered through general
health services, including first level health care facilities and providers, at
primary health care (PHC) level using simple algorithms based on
syndromic diagnosis and encouraging public health measures such as
education and partner notification. It should also include counseling and
condom provision. Special emphasis should be put on delivery of services
to individuals at increased risk of STD including HIV.
(b)    Promote STD care seeking behavior - The purpose of this intervention is to
increase appropriate utilization of STD care services. People at risk of
acquiring STD should be educated regarding the signs and symptoms of
STD, the possibility of being infected without being aware, the relationship
of other STD to AIDS and the need to seek care if there is a risk that they
have been exposed to an STD.
6.     A recent exit poll study of attendees of the STC in Nairobi enquired into their
health seeking behavior. In this small study half of both the men and women reported
using private practitioners and 80% used private practitioners for STI related complaints.
Over half the women and one third of men amongst these urban STD patients sought
treatments directly from street kiosks. Prior to visiting the STC half of the women had
visited another Nairobi City Council Clinic, In contrast, almost half of the men had
consulted a private practitioner.
7.    It should be emphasized that promotion of health care seeking behavior should not
begin until accessible, acceptable and effective services, as described above, are available.
People with STD seek medical care from a number of sources in the public and pr ivate
sector. The latter include accredited providers, such as private doctors, or unaccredited
providers, such as unqualified practitioners or drug vendors.
8.    Routine STD case management should be available at the point of the patient's first
contact with a health facility. STD services should be integrated within other services and
should be available at private and public primary care clinics, maternal and child health
(MCH) clinics, family planning (FP) clinics and outpatient departments of hospitals.
Vertical service delivery through specialized STD clinics is often unsatisfactory for
reasons which include poor accessibility and acceptability and therefore existing



Annex 2
53                              Page 3 of 11
categorical STD clinics will serve as referral centers for treatment of patients referred from
general health care facilities.
9.    To improve and provide earlier treatment of those who seek health services
because of symptoms will not in itself control the high levels of STD's. It is also necessary
to bring to treatment those infected individuals who do not spontaneously present
themselves. These are often sexual partners of patients with STD who have been treated.
10.   Many of the people with STD who fail to seek care are women as they are often a
symptomatic. Program activities which would encourage such peop'e to seek treatment
include partner notification and selected STD case finding in pregnant women seeking care
in MCH/FP.
B. ASSESSMENT OF CURRENT STD SERVICES IN KENYA
Central Management Structure
11.   The STD control program was merged with AIDS control program in the Ministry
of Health by the middle of 1993 and the STD unit of combined program has the following
responsibilities:
e     setting of policies, technical norms and technical guidance related to STD
control for governmental, private and NGO's involved in STD control in
the country.
*     facilitation of STD related laboratory, clinical, epidemiological training.
*     quality supervision of STD care provision and epidemiologic surveillance
(including sentinel surveillance) in MOH facilities in districts as well as in
health facilities run by Municipal Councils (MOLG).
.     provision of information, education and communication materials focused
on promotion of STD health seeking behavior.
Identification of high risk groups in the community and facilitation of
community involvement.
provision of technical guidelines to district's PHC facilities private
practitioners and NGO's active in STD control.
coordination of the various projects supported by external bilateral donors
(Belgium Cooperation, European Community, USAID, CIDA, Netherlands
Cooperation) in the area of STD control.
Peripheral Level Management Structure
(a)   District Level (55 Districts)
12.   In most Kenyan districts the STD care is not yet rationalized according to the
national STD guidelines based on the syndromic approach.



Annex 2
54                               Page 4 of 11
13.   At the district level the management of STD control is theoretically the
responsibility of the team working under supervision of District Medical Officer. The
STD care is provided in outpatients units of the District Hospitals and in some PHC
facilities. There is no separate budget for STD control in the districts. The supply of
drugs from the essential drug program is irregular, inadequate and not appropriate for
treatment of somne STD's (in particular gonorrhea and chlamydia).
(b)   Municipality Level (7 Municipalities)
14.   Municipal Health Services are organized and managed by City Councils under
Ministry of Local Government. With the exception of 2 specialized STD Clinics in
Nairobi and Mombasa there is no provision of effective STD management in public health
services for urban Kenyans.
Assessment of STD Service Provision
(a)    Pattern of Infections and Diseases
15.   Until the advent and spread of AIDS, the classical and curable STD were an
underrecognized problem in Kenya. There are virtually no community based data on STD
incidence but high prevalence was abundantly documented in many studies, especially in
Nairobi.
16.   Genital Discharges (both urethral and vaginal) are mainly caused by Neisseria
gonorrhea and Chlamydiae. In addition, Candida albicans and Trichomonas vaginalis are
very often causing vaginal discharge. Over 50% of the N. gonorrhea strains circulating in
Kenya are producing penicillinase thus rendering treatment with affordable penicillin
ineffective.
17.   It may be estimated that 20% of urban Kenyan women attending MCH/FP clinics
have a vaginal discharge and 13% cervical discharge and 5% have serological evidence of
latent syphilis based on a report of sentinel surveillance 1991-1993 in Nairobi.
18.   Prevalence of N. gonorrhea in pregnant woman in Nairobi varies from 6.7%
(Plummer et col., 1987) to 10,0% (Mungai et col., 1991) and in rural Kenya was found to
be 2.9% (Mbugua et col, 1991). This prevalence is of 4.0% in IUD acceptors in Nairobi
(Sinei et col., 1988) and from 30% (Piot et col., 1990) to 53.6% (Mungai et col., 1992)
among female commercial sex workers in Nairobi. Among male truck drivers 5% are
infected by N. gonorrhea (Nasio et col., 1991).
19.   Chlamydial infections were found in 20.8% of women in labor in Nairobi (Plummer
et col., 1987); in 9% male patients in Nairobi (Temmerman et col., 1992); in 12.2% female
commercial sex workers in Nairobi and in 3.7% of men attending STD clinic in Nairobi
(Ombetta et col., 1993). All infections causing genital discharges are curable.



Annex 2
55                               Page 5 of 11
20.   Genital Ulcer Disease (GUD) It is estimated that in Kenya up to 80% of all genital
ulcers are due to chancroid (caused by Haemophilus ducrey) and the rest to syphilis
(caused by Treponema palladum) and some to Herpes genitalis. All infections causing
GUD with exception of viral Herpes genitalis are curable.
21.   The prevalence of chancroid is particularly well documented in Nairobi. It is
36.6% in men and in 6% of women attending STD clinic in Nairobi (Ombette et col., 1993
and Temmerman et col., 1992, respectively) and in 30% of female commercial sex
workers (Ombetta et col., 1993).
22.   The prevalence of latent syphilis in pregnant women ranges from 7% in Nairobi
(Obwaka et col., 1992) to 3.8% in rural districts (Mbugua et col., 1991). The prevalence
is 22.5% in female sex workers in Nairobi (Ouibette., 1993) and 8% in long distance truck
drivers (Mungai et col., 1992).
23.   Impact of Curable STD on Health. In addition to facilitating transmission and
acquisition of HIV, the curable but untreated STD's have a dramatic impact on personal
and public health. GUD and specifically syphilis increases greatly the risk of intra-uterine
foetal death or congenital deformation. However, the data on preventable congenital
syphilis in Kenya are unavailable.
24.   Vaginal discharge and specifically ascending gonococcal or chlamydial infections
are responsible for Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID). PID is second commonest reason
for admission to gynecological wards (after abortion) in the Kenyatta National Hospital
(Sinei et col., 1987). It is estimated that the PID incidence in Kenya is 360 per 100,000
population (Moir et col., 1980).
25.   It has been calculated that PID accounts for one half to one-third of the infertility.
It is estimated that the high infertility rates decrease the acceptability of family planning
methods and specifically condoms (Mosher et col., 1985).
26.   Both genital discharges and GUD contributes significantly to transmission of HIV
as suggested by HIV prevalence in STD patients (45%) and in female sexual workers
(88%) in 1991).
27.   For planning purposes it can be estimated that approximately 5% of pregnant
women will require treatment for latent syphilis. 80% of patients with STD related
complaints will require treatment for genital discharge and 20% for GUD. Effective
treatment to cover for major causes is proscribed in national treatment guidelines for both
syndromes.
(b)   Accessibility
28.   There is no formal mechanism for STD case finding. In particular there is no
routine testing of pregnant women for syphilis in the majority of the antenatal clinics.



Annex 2
56                               Page 6 of 11
although it is government policy that all pregnant women are screened for syphilis
infection and treated where necessary. However, prevention of congenital syphilis is
successfully implemented in limited geographical areas with support from CIDA and
Mothercare.
29.   Symptomatic patients generally seek care in the following facilities:
(a)    Urban Population. The majority seek care in private practice, many seek
care in hospitals ran by NGO's. A minority seek care in public hospitals,
some seek treatment at the market place. In two major towns (Nairobi and
Mombasa) treatment is provided to referred patients in the existing
categorical STD Clinics (Special Treatment Clinics, STCs) supported by
the European Community. Belgian Cooperation supports the development
of STCs in Kisumu and it is planned in Kiambu.
(b)   Peri-urban population. Most use private practice, hospitals (especially
those run by NGOs). Some seek care at pharmacies and in the market
place. AIDSCAP support training of dispensing chemists in the use of the
syndromic flow chart and implementation of STD care in workplace and in
University Clinics.
(c)    Rural population. Care can be found in private practice run by midwives,
nurses and medical assistants, market place outlets, traditional healers and
quack doctors play prominent role.
30.   With the exception of a STD clinic in Nairobi and Mombasa there are no
categorical STD clinics in Kenya. PHC services are accessible but play only a very minor
role in STD care because of poor quality of service and lack of drugs.
(c)    Quality
31.   STD treatment in PHC is supposed to be provided by medical assistants whose
traditional training in STD (based on etiologic approach) consists of few hours during
their basic training curriculum. National STD care management guidelines exists but are
not widely distributed and not supported by specific training. Drugs are most often
unavailable and if available ineffective for resistant organisms (especially for N.
gonorrhea).
32.   Private practitioners are neither updated on syndromic approach nor on effective
treatment. Hospitals run by NGOs often offer appropriate treatment.
(d)   Acceptability
33.   There is no specific data on acceptability but STD patients seem to choose where
they go for treatment according to availability of drugs, quality of care and cost of care.



Annex 2
57                               Page 7 of 11
Attendance at the Nairobi STC dropped significantly with introduction of users charges
without increase in the quality of care.
34.   Identification of Constraints:
*     low financing PHC in general and of STD services in particular;
*     lack of integration of STD services in PHC;
*     effective drugs for gonococcal infection are not on the essential drug list;
*     other drugs are provided in very limited quantity by the Essential Drug
Program (EDP);
*     neither education and counseling on risk reduction including promotion
(and provision) of condoms nor partner notification are provided as
integral part of case management;
lack of a functioning mechanism for provision of STD services for
asymptomatic woman;
poor case management resulting from lack of training in use of available
national treatment guidelines;
*     stigmatization of women and men seeking STD treatment in general
services or in STCs;
*     charges made for STD consultations and drugs in private and some NGO
services.
C.    SELECTION OF PRIORITY ACTIVITIES BASED ON EFFECTIVENESS
AND FEASIBILITY
35.   The broad dissemination of already developed national guidelines on case
management will be effective in strengthening the ability of all health providers to treat
STD and is feasible.
36.   Effective STD service provision in urban areas where there is a concentration of a
target population such as commercial sex workers and clients will have maximal
effectiveness and is feasible.
37.   Integrating STD services into first level health care (PHC) will offer care to an
increased number of infected individuals and is feasible if phased approach is followed.
38.   Training to provide syndromic case management in first level health care facilities
(PHC) without or limited laboratory support and provision of effective drugs and
condoms will be cost effective and is feasible if phased approach is followed.
39.   Development of STD services in MCH/FP clinics will be effective in reducing STD
incidence in asymptomatic women (especially of latent syphilis) and is feasible but will
require laboratory support. It will also prevent congenital syphilis.



Annex 2
58                                Page 8 of l1
40.   Provision of effective STD care and health promotion through the military, police
and security service medical services is possible if syndromic case management is adopted
and will be highly cost effective in these specific populations.
41.   Provision of effective STD care based on syndromic case management and health
promotion through refugee health services will be vital if all populations at risk within
Kenya are to be reached.
42.   It will be unrealistic to expect that all PHC facilities in Kenya will be strengthened
during 5 years project duration. Therefore activities will be implemented only in selected
PHC facilities according to a phased approach. The district planning process involving all
interested parties (public and private) through the District Intersectoral AIDS Committee
(DIAC) will be responsible for setting the district priorities and the selection of PHC
facilities for phased implementation.
D.  PHASED IMPLEMENTATION OF PRIORITY ACTIVITIES TO
IMPROVE STD SERVICES
43.   In order to improve STD services it is essential to provide them in PHC facilities
as close to the community as possible. Priority activities identified below are those which
will be implemented during the project duration. Other important activities may be added
after evaluation of the project and its eventual extension over additional period of time.
Even for implementation of selected priority activities the approach of geographical
phasing will be used.
44.   The phased implementation will include:
(a)    Strengthening of the technical capacity of the STD control unit in the
NASCP of the Ministry of Health to coordinate supervision by provincial
inspectors of district and municipal implementation (7 Municipalities and
50 Districts) and to coordinate international support to implementors.
(b)    Strengthening of the unit's capacity as far as the organization and
coordination of quality control, operational research, epidemiologic
surveillance, technical supervision and training are concerned.
(c)    Strengthening of the provincial inspectorates', city councils' and district
medical teams' capacity to implement and supervise decentralized STD
activities in PHC.
(d)   Provision of STD care in selected PHC facilities and MCH centers.
(e)    Strengthening military, police and security service health care facilities in
effective STD case management.



Annex 2
5 9                            Page 9 of 11
(f)   Provision of STD care in refugee camps.
Strengthening of the Coordination Capacity of the STD Control Unit of the NASCP
45.   STD Unit Chief of the NASCP should have overall responsibility for
implementation of STD component of the STI Project.
46.   He would need additional support in order to:
prepare a detailed plan of phased operations in collaboration with the
MOLG and appropriate units of MOH.
coordinate with all units of the Ministry of Health concerned (especially
Planning Unit, Training Unit, Health Education Unit, Maternal and Child
Health Unit Accounting Section of MOH, Central Medical Store etc.) and
with administration/management of the World Bank Health Project.
monitor operations on a daily basis.
prepare regular progress reports.
prepare a format to facilitate evaluation of the STD component of the
project.
organize T.O.T at central level in collaboration with Training Unit, Health
Education Unit, MCH Unit, and subcontract to existing institutions as
appropriate (e.g. the STD training group of the University of Nairobi
supported by CIDA).
Strengthening of the Operational and Research Capacity of the STD Control Unit
47.   The following capacities will be strengthened:
(a)   Technical supervision of the operational research subcontracted to existing
institutions as appropriate and aimed at:
validation of syndromic diagnosis and treatment algorithms for use
in PHC facilities. This should be a pre-project activity.
Follow-up on changes occurring in STD pattern due to interaction
with HIV.
Sensitivity pattern of N. gonorrhea.
Constant monitoring of effectiveness of recommended treatment
regimens.
(b)   Continuous STD surveillance (including sentinel) aimed at assessment of
STD trends and evolving pattern of STD's.
(c)   Update of national guidelines in light of the results of above operational
research and epidemiological surveillance.



Annex 2
60                              Page 10 of I1
(d)   Update and further developments of STD training materials for PHC and
MCH/FP workers.
(e)   Facilitate training of trainers for implementation of STD component of this
Project in Districts and Municipalities.
(f)    Formulation of technical guidelines to promote health seeking behaviors.
(g)   Quality control and technical supervision of implementing districts and
municipalities.
(h)   Review of existing curricula of training in Schools for different type of
health providers and (in collaboration with appropriate Division of MOH)
introduction of syndromic STD case management.
Strengthening of the district and municipal medical teams' capacity to plan,
implement and supervise decentralized STD activities in PHC
48.   The District Medical Officer (DMO) will have overall responsibility for
coordination and implementation of priority STD activities in the District. He will be
administratively and logistically supported by the District Intersectoral AIDS Committee
and other relevant district authorities and by the STI Project. Above coordination is
essential in order to avoid overlap with delivery of STD services (including counseling and
promotion of STD seeking behavior) by other government and non-government
organizations.
49.   The DMO will identify an individual among his district health team who will act as
District STD coordinator. DMO will ensure that support of other members of the health
team are provided to the District STD coordinator, in particular support of health
educator, laboratory technician and district mid-wives.
50.   The main task of the district STD team under supervision of the DMO and after
appropriate training in STD management in general and priority activities of the STI
Project in particular will be to:
*     select PHC facilities for provision of STD care
*     select MCH centers for case finding of syphilis in pregnancy
*     train PHC and MCH staff involved
*     facilitate formulation of workplans in each facility involved and formulate
consolidated district workplan for implementation of STD component of
the STI Project.
*     ensure provision of STD drugs, condoms, monitoring forms, educational
leaflets etc,
*     assess performance of staff in selected PHC facility and progress of
implementation through regular supervisory visits



61                                   Annex 2
Page 11 of 11
organize district STD coordination meeting (after I st phase) to review past
experience and refine workplans
receive reports from PHC facilities, ensure feed back to reporting facilities
and provide NASCP with biannual district progress report.
facilitate mid project review and end of the project evaluation of
implementation in the district.
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
51.   District STD team will supervise PHC facilities at least monthly, check on
performance and advise on solution to problems.
52.   Each concerned PHC facility will prepare progress reports monthly. District STD
coordinator will compile facilities report and prepare quarterly progress reports to the
NASCP.
53.   At the end of I st year of operation technical expertise from WHO/GPA in the area
of STD management will be required for desk review of the progress in STD component.
54.   Ad hoc review of district STD activities can be scheduled if reports are indicating
insufficient progress.
55.   Evaluation of the STD component of STI Project will be scheduled during the 5th
year of operations in all districts. In some selected districts evaluation will be external and
include World Bank and WHO specialist to facilitate evaluation.



Annex 3
62                               Page 1 of 5
MONITORING THE IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON SEXUAL BEHAVIOR AND STD
PREVALENCE THROUGH SENTINEL SURVEILLANCE
(Report on Sentinel Surveillance, November 1991 through October 1993)
1.    While improved delivery of STD/HIV services, and increased AIDS and STD/HIV
awareness are inherently important project outcomes, ultimately activities of the scope and
intensity involved in this project can only be justified if they have an effect on reducing the
morbidity and mortality related to STD/HIV. The project has taken the position that
outcome measurements of the impact of the project on sexual behavior must be an integral
part of the project. As a minimalistic approach to measuring outcome, the project chose
to monitor time trends in reported self reported attitudes and behaviors, and STD
prevalence in sentinel populations attending clinics serving project sites. Ultimately these
trends will be compared between project sites and to similar data collected in the context
of other projects (for instance the EEC funded study of the effect of STD on pregnancy,
the IDRC funded project on perinatal transmission of HIV). These activities have only
been undertaken at Nairobi sites, because of concerns of cost. Populations of women
were chosen for monitoring for reasons of accessibility and cost. This strategy was felt by
the project staff and CIDA as consistent with the resources available and the need to
demonstrate that the project had indeed reduced STD in the communities it serves.
2.    The objectives of these monitoring activities are:
*     to determine if the frequency of self reported behaviors, STD/HIV
knowledge and perceptions of the risk of STD/HIV change as a result of
the project;
*     to determine if STD/HIV prevalence is reduced by project activities;
*     to determine the effectiveness of the STD/HIV services at project sites;
*     to estimate the fraction of the STD/HIV burden of disease within project
sites that is seen at the project clinics.
In this report only the results of the sentinel surveillance are reported.
MONITORING KNOWLEDGE, BEHAVIORS AND SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE
PREVALENCE
3.    Study site surveillance consists of monitoring, AIDS and STD knowledge, sexual
behavior, perception of AIDS and STD risk, the use of condoms, the prevalence of
gonococcal infection and antibodies to syphilis HIV-1 and H. ducreyi among antenatal
clinic women and family planning clinic women. To date a surveillance team consisting of
two nurses at the project sites in Nairobi collects and processes the data. After an initial
baseline survey (November 1991 through February 1992) follow up surveys were



Annex 3
63                                Page 2 of 5
conducted at intervals of 15 months at the three clinics serving the Korogocho region and
one clinic serving the Kibera region (Riruta). In each survey a quota sample of 300
women attending antenatal or family planning services at the clinic for the first time are
selected. (The sample size was determined estimation assumes a prevalence of all STD of
20% and a reduction of STD of 50% by the intervention. Pre-test counseling is given by
the survey team. A brief questionnaire is administered to each participant (concerning
knowledge, risk perception and sexual behavior) and samples for cervical culture of N.
gonorrhea and serology for syphilis, H. ducreyi and HIV are obtained. Treatment for
detected STD, counseling for STD and HIV and facilities for referral of sexual partners
are provided by the survey team. Sex partners are also provided with treatment.
4.    The results of the baseline survey were disturbing. Knowledge about AIDS and
STD were high. Disturbingly, 59% of women felt themselves at risk of AIDS or an STD.
Of those with a perception of personal vulnerability, the majority felt this way because of
their male partner's sexual behaviors rather than their own behavior. Although the survey
did not address this issue, it seems likely that these women have little control over sex in
their relationship with their partners. This once again points out the importance of
reaching men more effectively and reaching the women who have sex with them outside of
their steady relationship.
5.    The initial frequency of STD and HIV was higher than anticipated. The HIV
prevalence overall 12.4%. Overall 17.5% of women had one or more sexually transmitted
infections (this excludes women with the complaint of vaginal discharge which is primarily
vaginal candidiasis, a normal complication of pregnancy, in this population). The age
specific prevalent of HIV was high across all age strata with a somewhat lower prevalence
in the older age groups. Serologic testing for H. ducreyi and Chlamydia antibody has only
been completed on the baseline survey. The prevalence of antibody to H. ducreyi was
10%, while that of Chlamydia was 35%.
TIME TRENDS IN MONITORED DATA
(a)   Perception of Risk of HIV and AIDS and STD Awareness
6.    As AIDS awareness was already extremely high during the baseline survey we did
not detect any changes in the level of AIDS awareness. There have been some
encouraging changes in risk perception in the sentinel populations from the surveillance
sites. The proportion of women who reported feeling personally at risk of AIDS (STD
risk perception shows a similar trend) has declined dramatically. In the baseline survey
59% of women felt themselves to be at risk of AIDS while in surveys 1 and 2 respectively
this proportion was 33% and 31% respectively. The main change appears to a result of
differences in their concern about their partner's sexual behavior.
7.    The proportion of women who feel their partner's sexual behavior (Figure 1 below)
puts them at risk of AIDS and STD has declined dramatically. The proportion of women
who feel at risk as a consequence of their own sexual behavior has also declined while the



Annex 3
64                                Page 3 of 5
number of women who feel at risk because they don't use condoms during high risk
encounters has increased (.08%, 2.0% and 6.7% in the three surveys). There was
however no increase in the very low frequency of condom use. This suggests that AIDS
knowledge may be more accurate in the project areas, that there may have been some
significant changes in the sexual behavior of men and that there is a greater awareness of
the need to use condoms which has not yet been translated into increased condom use.
Figure 1: Perceived Risk of AIDS
Percent Perceiving Risk
7 C-
6G
5 
Reasons for Perceived Risk
All at risk
3C               1                          E    No condoms
2(               -    - - . . . . . . . . . . .   E    Personal Behavior
E    Partner's Behavior
0
Baseline  Survey I  Survey 2
p<.0001, Chi-Square
(b)   Reported Sexual Behavior Among Sentinel Populations
8.    There were modest changes in the reported sexual behaviors in the three surveys.
Among women who did not report the exchange of sex for money in the past three months
the proportion with no new sex partners in the past three months increased from 87% at
baseline to 91% and 90% in surveys I and 2 respectively.
9.    Among symptomatic women the number of women reporting past sale of sex
increased. This may be a result of increasing effectiveness of peer groups in the
community in encouraging their target populations to seek treatment. Among women
reporting the sale of sex in the previous three months the reported number of sex partners
changed relatively little. Overall, among asymptomatic women, there was significant



Annex 3
65                               Page 4 of 5
decrease in the number of women reporting the exchange of sex for money in the previous
three months from 11.5% at baseline to 4% and 5% in surveys 1 and 2 respectively.
10.   The number of sex partners reported by women who exchanged money for sex
increased significantly, however from 0.9 + 0.2 at baseline to 2.9 + in 1.9 in survey 2
(p<0.001). This may reflect an effect of educational efforts on reducing the involvement
of women who occasionally sell sex in the business of sex.
(c)    Trends in STD and HIV Prevalence
11.   The encouraging changes in reported sexual behaviors are not reflected in
decreasing prevalence of STD and HIV. Summaries of the overall HIV and STD
prevalence among all women sampled are shown in Figure 4. HIV prevalence has
increased from 12.5% to 17.4%. There has been essentially no change in the prevalence
of gonorrhea, syphilis or genital ulcers. (The apparent increase in gonorrhea from baseline
to survey 1 is most likely reflective of technical problems with cultures during baseline).
STD symptoms showed marked increases between surveys. At baseline 20% of women
were observed to have vaginal discharge and 13% of women were observed to have
cervical discharge. The frequencies of vaginal and cervical discharge increased to 28%
and 29% respectively in survey 2 (p<.001). This suggests that women who are
symptomatic now make up an increased proportion of those attending antenatal and family
planning clinics. If only asymptomatic women are considered the STD prevalence data is
somewhat more encouraging. HIV prevalence was 11.3% at baseline and 13.6% and
15.3% at surveys 1 and 2 respectively. The prevalence of gonorrhea was 2.1% at
baseline, 4.9% in survey 1 and 3.5% in survey 2. Syphilis was unchanged with
prevalences of 3.9%, 4.8% and 4.9% at baseline, survey 1 and survey 2 respectively.
12.   The HIV prevalence in each clinic shows that the HIV epidemic in Nairobi is focal
in intensity. The prevalence in Baba Dogo was 18% at baseline and increased to 24% in
survey 2 while the prevalence was 8.4% in Riruta at baseline and increased to 9.9% in
survey 2.
13.   The age specific prevalence of HIV is shown in Figure 6. Very dramatic and
statistically significant increases in prevalence were seen in the age groups <20 and 20-24
years while prevalence was more or less stable in the older age groups (the apparent
increase in the over 30 age groups is likely related to the relatively small number of
women in this age group).
INTERPRETATION OF SURVEILLANCE DATA
14.   The surveillance data clearly show an effect on the perceptions of women risk of
HIV and STD and a change in the proportion of women who think their husbands
behavior puts them at risk of HIV and STD. However, there has been an overall increase
in HIV prevalence (between 6 and 2% increase in prevalence) and there has been no
discernible effect on the prevalence of other STD. These results may reflect the true



Annex 3
66                                 Page 5 of 5
situation, flaws in the evaluation strategy or changes in the communities or the populations
served by the clinic which are not detected in the surveillance.
15.   The most plausible explanation of the observations is a change in the population
served by the clinic. There are two potential sources of change. The population of the
communities served by these clinics is growing rapidly. Migration from rural areas as a
result of conflict, the drought and difficult economic times is occurring throughout
Nairobi. Significant in migration could, particularly if from specific areas could
substantially change the prevalence of STI) and HIV. A second possibility is that because
of better services offered at the project clinics women with genital tract symptoms from
outside the normal (and baseline) catchment areas of the clinic attend the project clinics.
Although there have been anecdotes reported from project staff and City Council staff that
this is the case there is no direct evidence of this from the surveillance data. Demographic
parameters such as age education, marital status, proportion living with their partner and
so on have not changed significantly. The very large increase in women with vaginal
discharge and cervical discharge suggest that this may be the case. It is possible from
existing data on residence and birth place to examine this possibility more closely.
16.   If the data truly reflect the situation in the populations examined there are several
potential explanations. First a discernible effect on the prevalence of disease may take
more time to become evident. Second the community interventions may have insufficient
coverage or be of insufficient intensity to have made an impact as yet. Third the better
STD treatment in the clinics may be reaching individuals who are not at risk of
transmitting disease. The diagnostic approaches and management approaches (particularly
for cervicitis in women) may be inadequate. These issues should be examined through
small focused operational research activities.
17.   Potential flaws in this evaluation strategy could also account for the results. The
sample size is more than adequate to detect significant changes in STD and HIV
prevalence (as evidenced by the detection of substantial increases in HIV prevalence).
The lack of a comparative group could mean that the surveillance would fail to detect an
important effect on slowing the spread of HIV and STD. However given the very large
changes in HIV prevalence this seems unlikely.
FUTURE MODIFICATION OF ACTIVITIES
18.   The surveillance activities are currently planned to continue for the entire duration
of the project. We do not expect that the clinic based activities will have a great effect on
STD/HIV prevalence and that any effect of the community based activities would not be
observable for the first year or two. Currently we plan to continue the surveillance
activities for another year and to explore possible explanations of the findings through
further analysis. These data will be important for planning subsequent phases of the
project.



HIV AND AIDS SURVEILLANCE DATA AND PROJECTIONS FOR KENYA TO 2000
1980           1990           1992             1995             2000
(estimate)       (estimate)
Reported AIDS                                           32,843
AIDS estimate                                          100,000          131,174          238,220
IRV + Adults                                           698,000         1,152,000       1,632,000
15-49
I-UV + Women                                           282,690          466,560          660,960
15-49
HIV + Men                                              415,310          685,440          971,040
15-49
I-UV + Children                                         30,000           48,000           68,000
<5
CY%
Orphans                                 25,000                          300,000          800,000                  -
TB without AIDS            10,000       10,000           10,000          12,000           16,000
Extra TB with AIDS             0          1,000          2,000           16,000           64,000
Table updated March 1994.
x



68                                 Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
TUBERCULOSIS AND HIV IN KENYA
ORGANIZATION
1.    The National Leprosy and Tuberculosis Program (NLTP) was launched in 1980,
although a National Tuberculosis Program had existed since 1956. NLTP activities are
carried out through the Primary Health Care System of the Ministry of Health. Clinical
Officers: Lung and Skin Diseases (COLS) are stationed at District level, and Medical
Officers in Leprosy and Tuberculosis (MOLTS) are stationed at Provincial level. A
Central Unit exists in the Ministry of Health, comprising an Assistant Director Medical
Services, a Senior Medical Officer and a Senior Clinical Officer.
2.    An agreement was reached and signed between the Government of Kenya and the
Government of the Netherlands on 1 October, 1992 to support the introduction of short-
course chemotheraphy (SCC) for new sputum smear positive cases in all districts in
Kenya. Implementation has been slow but steady and the results of cohort analysis are
showing signs of improvement, judging from the NLTP Report for 1992. However there
have been some problems with obtaining the level of support promised from the GOK.
EPIDEMIOLOGY
3.    14,599 cases of all forms of tuberculosis were notified in 1992. This represents a
20% increase on the previous year. Smear negative patients increased disproportionately.
This increase is due, among other reasons, to HIV. Case detection rates vary from 134 to
382/100,000 in the nomadic areas, and from 12 to 20/100,000 in the Central Province and
parts of Western Kenya. A notable feature of the Kenyan NLTP is the "Manyatta
Program" for treatment of tuberculosis among nomadic populations, which has been
supported by the Netherlands Leprosy Relief Association, and has achieved sputum
conversion rates of over 90% by 3 or 4 months of treatment. Patients are treated with 4
or 5 drugs in the first three months and then discharged with sufficient thiazina tablets for
a further 3 months.
4.    The 2,000 (approx.) cases diagnosed in refugees are excluded from the national
statistics. The refugee population (from Somalia, Ethiopia and Sudan) is estimated at
380,000 in 1994. The refugees receive the "Manyatta regimen".
5.    Tuberculin surveys have been carried out at intervals to estimate the annual risk of
infection, which between 1987 and 1989 was estimated at 0.7%. About 10,000 cases of
new smear positive tuberculosis are therefore predicted each year in Kenya, in the absence
of HIV. However, HIV levels are increasing and in 1990 were found in 42% of a
consecutive group of about 100 patients presenting to the Infectious Diseases Hospital,
Nairobi. HIV is also known to be a major feature in patients with TB in Mombasa and
Western Kenya.



Annex 5
6 9                              Page 2 of 2
6.    The bulk of the tuberculosis affects adults of 15 to 44 years, and a shift towards
that group has been observed since 1987, and is though to be attributable to HIV.
RESEARCH
7.    The activities of the Kenya Medical Research Institute and its allied institutions
have provided a strong research base for tuberculosis in Kenya. A series of studies on the
impact of HIV on tuberculosis was conducted between 1988 and 1992, funded by the
Wellcome Trust, U.K. A study of the use of isoniazid as preventive therapy for HIV-
associated TB continues, funded by the British MRC.
CONCLUSIONS
8.    Tuberculosis remains a major problem in Kenya, and is likely to be a significant
brake on development.
9.    HIV has already had a major impact on tuberculosis in Kenya, and this can only
get worse.
10.   Government of Netherlands is currently supporting the NLTP, but support will
continue to be needed after 1996. Additional support is required now to provide the
contribution of the Kenyan Government, which has not been forthcoming to the levels
originally promised.
11.   A strong research base exists in Kenya, although Kenyan researchers in
tuberculosis require much support in order to produce high quality research work. A
research capacity strengthening program would produce useful results, provided that
inflation and the erosion of living standards that has occurred over the last few years can
be stemmed.



Annex 6
70                                      Page 1 of 2
LIST OF PREVENTION INDICATORS (PI)
PI 1: KNOWLEDGE OF PREVENTIVE PRACTICES
No. of people citing at least two acceptable ways or protection from HIV-infection
population aged 15-49 reporting
PI 2: CONDOM AVAILABILITY (Central level)
Total No. of condoms available for distribution during the preceding 12 months
population aged 15-49
PI 3:   CONDOM AVAILABILITY (Peripheral level)
No. of people who can acauire a condom
population aged 15-49
PI 4: REPORTED NON-REGULAR SEXUAL PARTNERS
No. of people aged 15-49 who report having had at least one sex partner other than their regular sex
partner(s) in the last 12 months
Total No. of people aged 15-49 who report having been sexually active in the last 12 months
PI 5: REPORTED CONDOM USE IN THE MOST RECENT SEXUAL INTERCOURSE OR
RISK
No. of peopie aged 15-49 reporting the use of a condom during the most recent act of sexual intercourse of
risk
Total No. of people aged 15-49 who report sexual intercourse of risk in the last 12 months
PI 6: STD CASE MANAGEMENT
No. of individuals presenting with STD in health facilities assessed and treated in an appropriate way
(according to national standards)
No. of individuals presenting with STD in health facilities
PI 7: STD CASE MANAGEMENT
No. of individuals seeking STD care in health facilities who received appropriate advice on condom and
on partner notification
No. of individuals seeking STD care in health facilities



Annex 6
7 1                                     Page 2 of 2
PI 9: STD INCIDENCE, MEN
No. of reported episodes of urethritis in men aged 15-49 in the last 12 months
No. of men aged 15-49 surveyed
UNDER DEVELOPMENT
PI 8: STD PREVALENCE, WOMEN
No. of pregnant women aged 15-24 with positive serology for syphilis
Total No. of pregnant woemn aged 15-24 attending antenatal clinics whose blood has been screened
PI 10: HIV PREVALENCE, WOMEN
No. of pregnant women aged 15-24 seropositive for HIV
Total No. of pregnant women aged 15-24 attending antenatal clinics whose blood has been screened



Annex 7
72                               Page 1 of 2
SUPERVISION STRATEGY
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)   The NASCP will submit semi-annual reports of project monitoring data to IDA in
March and September of each year.
(b)   The Planning Unit in the MOH will maintain up-to date project accounts and
present summary accounts to IDA every six months.
(c)    The audits of project accounts, the Special Account and Statement of
Expenditures by the Auditor General or by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
will be made available to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year.
(d)   Each implementing unit will report semi-annually to the Planning Unit, MOH on
implementation, including progress and delays.
(e)   By January 1, 1997, the MOH in consultation with the project Steering Committee
will prepare and provide to IDA for its approval a plan for carrying out a Mid-
Term Project Review by March 1997 in consultation with IDA. MOH will, with
the assistance of the implementing units, carry out a Mid-Term Review in
accordance with the agreed plan. Thereafter, Government will promptly take all
actions recommended as a result of the review that are required to achieve project
objectives.
(f)    The Planning Unit, MOH, will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
Bank supervision missions and for providing information required by missions.
(g)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings before departure will
normally be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the MOH.
Bank Supervision Inputs. It is estimated that regular supervision from Washington (to
review progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc.) will require four
staffweeks in the first year of the project and three weeks per year thereafter. The staff
time in the table that follows is in addition to this day-to-day supervision. In addition one
supervision mission a year will include donor representatives. A local staff member in the
Bank's resident mission will follow-up project implementation on a continuing basis.
Donor Supervision Inputs. Several donors are co-financing this project. They will be
invited to actively participate in and contribute to supervision missions. It is estimated
donors will provide an additional 15 staffweeks per year for supervision.



Annex 7
7 3                                  Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
Approximate Dates   Expected Skill            Activity             Staff Inputs
Requirements             (in staffweeks)
01/1995             Mission Leader            Project Launch       8
Procurement Specialist
Disease Specialist
Management Specialist
Total FY1995 = 8
08/1995             Mission Leader             Supervision         6
Economist
Disease Specialist
02/1996             Mission Leader            Supervision          6
Epidemiologist
Disease Specialist
Total FY1996  12
09/1996             Mission Leader            Supervision          6
Procurement Specialist
Disease Specialist
06/1997             Mission Leader            Mid-Tern Review      12
Economist
Disease Specialist
Management Specialist
Total FY1997 = 18
09/1997             Mission Leadcr            Supervision          4
Disease Specialist
03/1998             Mission Leader            Supervision          6
Disease Specialist
Total FY1998 = 10
09/1998             Mission Leader            Supervision          4
Disease Specialist
04/1999             Mission Leader            Supervision          4
Disease Specialist
Total FY1999 = 8
10/1999             Mission Leader            Supervision          4
Disease Specialist
04/2000             Mission Leader            Supervision          4
Economist                                     Total FY2000 = 8
12/2000             Mission Leader            Project Completion/   10
Disease Specialist        Review Mission
Epidemiologist
Management Specialist                         Total FY2001 = 10
Note: Economies of Scale will be realized by supervising this project jointly with the two
Population and the Health Rehabilitation Projects.



IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING MATRIX
PROGRAM IMPACT                PROGRAM          PROJEC'I'           PROJFCT ACTIVITY             ACTIVITY   EVALUATION              TIMF         BY
INDICATORS                    'I'ARGETS       ACTIVITIES           INDICATORS                   TARGETS   METHODS                  FRAME        WHOM
PART A: To strengthen the institutional capacity at the national and district levels.
Sub-objective Al: To strengthen the district's capacity to plan, coordinate, implement, monitor and evaluate integrated STI-related activities.
Total # districts with integrated   100% funded    Integrated plan.  Multi-sectoral planning    Monthly      Record meeting        Every year.  NASCP.
STI plans                     districts with                       sessions.                    planning    minutes.                            Provincial
integrated                                                       sessions.    Reports to NASCP.                  level.
plans                                                            Publication   Responses and
of          feedback from
integrated    NASCP.
plan within
6 months of
receiving
funding.
Sub-objective A2: To strengthen the national capacity to provide adequate technical support on health issues related to STIs.
Total # of districts receiving  100% funded    Training of NASCP   # NASCP staff trained.       100% of     Records.               Annual.      NASCP.
supervision and technical     districts       staff on STI         # supervisory visits to the  NASCP       Reports.                                            _
assistance from the NASCP.    receiving       management and       districts.                   staff.      Tally sheets.
ongoing         T/A.                                             Visit each
supervision at                                                   districts at
T/A.                                                             least once
Sub-objective A3: To conduct operational research on key socio-economic and sociological issues related to STIs.
Total # of programs addressing   Increase of one   Operational     # operational research       One to two   Records.              Annual.
macro socio-economic and      new program     research projects.    projects funded.            operational
sociological issues.          per year                                                         research
resulting from                                                   projects per
operational                                                      year.
I research.
x
00



IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING MATRIX
PROGRAM IMPACT                PROGRAM         PROJECT             PROJECT ACTMVTY             ACTIVITY   EVALUATION              TIME         BY
INDICATORS                    TARGETS         ACTITIES           INDICATORS                   TARGETS   METHODS                  FRAME        WHOM
PART B: Prevention
Goal: To promote preventive measures to reduce the risks in STI transmission
Sub-objective Bl: To control STDs through syndromic case management and provide STD care.
# of individuals seeking STD  50% of          Train and supervise   % of health personnel     85% of      Assessment of STD      Ongoing      STD data
care in health facilities assessed  individuals  health personnel in   adequately trained in correct   health  case management   supervision  recorder
and treated in an appropriate  seeking care.    management of    management of STD.           workers    through health facility   checklist.   and
way divided by total number of                STD.                                            will be      survey, observations of            medical
individuals seeking STD care in                                                              trained to    a sample of facilities,            assistant.
health facilities (PPI-6)                                                                     follow       supervisory checklist.
national
STD
guidelines.
supply facilities  % of facilities with adequate   75% of   Records review.        Annual      STD data
with adequate      supply of drugs and          health      Inspections.                       recorder
supply of          commodities for treatment of   facilities                                   and
appropnate STD     STD.                         will have                                      NASCP
drugs and                                       adequate                                        Provincial
commodities.                                    supply of                                      level.
dnugs.
# of individuals seeking STD  70% of          To disseminate     % of facilities having STD  '00% of      Health facilities      Annual      District
care in facilities who received    individual  guidelines on STD    guidelines.               facilities    surveys.                         medical
counseling, condoms advice on   seeking STD   management.                                     have         Supervisory checklist.            assistant.
partner notification divided by    care.                                                      guidelines.                                    NASCP
total number of individuals                                                                                                                  provincial
seeking STD care in health                                                                                                                   level.
facilities (PPI-7).
Distribute condoms   % of individual seeking care   80% of  Population survey.     Baseline    NASCP
to health facilities.   who receives a supply of  individuals                      project     and
condoms (I dozen).          seeking      Supervision reports    review at    district.
% of facilities with        care         Records.              project
uninterrupted supply of     receive                            completion.
condoms.                    condoms.
80% of
facilities.                                                  Id >
# of pregnant women aged 15-   75% decrease.   Syphilis screening    % of pregnant women whose   100% of    MCH record review    Annual      STD data       c@
24 with positive scrology for                 at antenatal clinics.  blood has been screened for    pregnant    and district reports.        recorder at      x
syphilis divided by the total                                    syphilis.                    women                                          the              oo
number of pregnant women                                                                      participatin                                   NASCP.
aged 15-24 attending antenatal                                                                g on all                                                     Ln
clinics whose blood has been                                                                  selected
screened (PPI-8).                                                                             antenatal
clinics.



IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING MATRIX
PROGRAM IMPACT                PROGRAM         PROJECT              PROJECT ACTIVITY            ACTITY   EVALUATION                 TIME         BY
INDICATORS                    TARGETS         ACTIVITIES           INDICATORS                  TARGETS   METHODS                   FRAME        WHOM
Training of         % of MCH trained with        All         Record review and      Annual       STD data
personnel to        adequate provision of test.  selected    district reports.                   recorder.
provide test.                                    centers will
have
syphilis
RPR card
test.
Provide treatment    % of pregnant women found    100% of    Record review.         Monthly      STD
for syphilis.       positive who are treated for    those found                     and          recorder.
syphilis.                   positive are                       reported
treated for                        quarterly.
syphilis.
# of reported episodes of     50% decrease.   STD syndromic        % of men seeking STD care    70% of      Comparison of district   Baseline   STD data
urethritis in men aged 1549 in                screening in PHC     at PHC.                     symptom      records before and     and mid-    recorder.
the last 12 months divided by                 facilities.          Total # of individuals seeking   patients  after project patient  study end    Operational
the total number of men aged                                       care at PHC.                will seek    self-report survey.    of project.   research.
1549 surveyed (PPI-9)                                                                          care.
Sub-objective B2: To promote safer sexual behaviors of priority audiences through IEC activities.
% of people citing at least 2 age   10-20%    -mass media          # of educational materials  To be        Record review.         Annual       NASCP.
groups: 15-24 & 2549 (PPI     increase over    -drama              distributed and ratio,      determined
Aud: 1549) acceptable ways on   baseline.     -community           newspaper articles.         (TBD).
protecting themselves from HIV                mobilization         # of estimated people reached
(PPI -1)                                      -targeted behavioral  by mass media materials
intervention
drama               # of dramatic production in              Tallies                Annual       District &
the district.                                                                commnumty.
Community           # of specific target audiences           Tallies & observations   Every year.  District.
mobilization.       reached by educational                   & interviews.                       NASCP
activities.
Targeted IEC        # of individuals reached by              Interviews & record    Every year.  District.
IEC activities.                          review.                             NASCP.
# of people aged 1549 who     Decrease by     Same as above.                                   TBD          Behavioral surveys.    Twice        NASCP.
report having had at least one  20% over                                                                                           during       Operational
sex partner other than the    baseline.                                                                                            project      research.        >
regular partner(s) in the last 12                                                                                                  period.                   m 
months divided by total number                                                                                                                               a o
of people aged 1549 who report                                                                                                                                w x
having been sexually active in                                                                                                                                0 co
the last 12 months (PP14)     _
U,



IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING MATRIX
PROGRAM IMPACT               PROGRAM         PROJECT            PROJECT ACTIVITY            ACTIVITY   EVALUATION             I TIME     IBY
INDICATORS                  |TARGETS         ACTIVITIES         INDICATORS                 I TARGETS   METHODS                 FRAME       WHOM-]
Sub-objective B3: To provide and promote condoms.
# of condoms available for   90 to 100%      Procurement of     Total # of condoms procured   90 to 100%   Records.            Annual      CMS &
distribution during the      coverage.       condoms.           by all donors during the    procuremen                                     District.
preceding 12 months divided by                                  preceding 12 months.        t response.
the total population aged 1549                                  # condoms distributed
(PPI-2)                                                         through various outlets.
# of people at the peripheral  90 to 100%    Distribution of    Total # of condoms          90 to 100%   Records.              Annual      CMS &
level estimated to have access    coverage   condoms.           distributed during the      distribution  Behavioral surveys.              District
to condoms divided by the total                                 preceding 12 months by      response.    Participant                       operational
population aged 1549 (PPI-3)                                    public and private sectors to            observation.                      research
various outlets.                                                          donor.
# of people aged 15-49 citing at  75%        On-going IEC and    Total # IEC and condom     At least I    Behavioral surveys.  Annual      NASCP
least one IEC or condom social  individuals  condom social      social marketing activities.  national   Record                            operational
marketing activity.          citing exposure  marketing.                                    level IEC                                      research.
to IEC or                                                      condom
condom social                                                  activity per
marketing.                                                     year.       _
% of people aged 1549        Increase by 20   Same as above.    # Districts funded.                      Behavioral surveys.   Twice       NASCP &
reporting the use of a condom    to 25% over                                                                                   during      operational
during the most recent act of  baseline.                                                                                       project     research.
sexual intercourse (PPI-5)                                                                                                     period.
# of people at the district and  75%         District funding of   # community based AIDS   At least 3    Records              Annual.     NASCP
community level citing at least  individuals  AIDS education.   education projects.         community  Inspections.                        Provincial
one exposure to community    citing                                                         based        Behavioral surveys                level
based AIDS education.        exposure.                                                      AIDS                                           districts
education
projects per
funded
district.
PART C: To enhance the health sector and conmmunity provision of care and mitigate personal impact of AIDS.
Sub-objective C 1: To train staff and provide drugs for opportunistic infections and to provide protective supplies.
# of individuals receiving drags             Procurement and    # of drugs procured.                     Records               Annual      Central
for treatment of opportunistic               distribution of    # of drugs distributed.                                                    (CMS) &
infection divided by # seeking               opportuistic       # of patients provided drugs.            Records               Annual      NASCP          4
(or in need of) drugs for                    infection.         Unmet need for opportunistic             Records               Annual      district       o
opportunistic infection,                                        drugs.                                                                     (DHT) data
# of patients provided                  Tallies.                          recorder &     >
prescriptions.



IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING MATRIX
PROGRAM IMPACT               | PROGRAM         PROJECT           1 PROJECT ACTlVITY              ACTIVITY   EVALUATION           T| llE         BY
INDICATORS                    TARGETS         ACTIVITIES           INDICATORS                   TARGETS   METHODS                  FRAME        WHOM
Total # of staff attending                     STD case            Training sessions held.      1000/o staff  Records.             Annual.      NASCP.
training sessions on STD case                  management and      # staff at district and      at district    Tally sheets.       Every 3      Provisional
management and care.                           care training.      community level trained.     and         Supervisory checklist.   months.    level.
% skills performed          community                                        District
appropriately as reflected in   level                                        Medical
case management and care    trained in                                       Assistant.
checklist.                  STD case
manageme
nt and care.
Sub-objective C2: To support district based NGO and CBO home based health care and counseling for people with AIDS.
# of people receiving AIDS                    District level       # of community based health              Records                Annual       District
related health services in the                provision of support  service providers and home-                                                 (data
community compared to # of                    for community        based care providers                                                         recorder)
people in need of such services               health services      supported in the district.
(PCI-I).                                      related to AIDS
case management
including
opportuListic                                                                                                  ao
infections case
management
# of people receiving social                  Advertising &        # of people receiving at least           Records.               Supervisor   District
support services for AIDS-                    facilitating access to  I counseling session.                 Interviews.            y checklist.  NASCP.
related issues from conmmunity                community based      # of individuals receiving
compared to # seeking such                    and home based       social support services.
services (PCI-4).                             social support
service providers.
# of social support service                   Strengthening social                                          Records.               Baseline     Consultant.
providers m the coummunity by                 support services in                                           Observation.           mid-study    Operational
type of social support (PCI-5).               the community.                                                Interviews.            and at end   research.
of program.
# of people receiving TB case                 Provision of TB      # of people with TB.                     Records.               Annual
management compared to # of                   drugs.               # of patients receiving                  Supervision checklist.              DHT
people with TB.                                                    adequate TB drugs.                       Tallies.                            medical
assistant.       >
oQ D
x
00
U,



79                                     Annex 9
PROCUREMENT PLAN
Project procurement will be performed on a scheduled basis as follows:
Procurement Schedule
(US$ million)
Project Element  Procurement   FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY2000  FY2001  Total
Frequency/Year
Drugs &
Equipment           2          2.3    5.0    5.0    4.0    4.0       2.4     1.0    23.7
Supplies            2          2.0    4.0    4.0    3.0    2.1       2.0             17.1
IEC Materials       2          1.5    2.2    2.3    2.2    2.5       1.1     0.5     12.3
Local Training   N/A           0.6    0.8    0.6    0.8    0.8       0.5     0.4      4.5
Overseas
Training         N/A                  0.3    0.3                                      0.6
Technical
Assistance          1          0.2    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.3                        2.0
Vehicles            1          1.9                                                    1.9
Research/
Monitoring          2          0.2    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5       0.4     0.3      2.9
RecurrentCosts    N/A                        0.1    0.1    0.1       0.1     0.1      0.5
Total                          8.7   13.3   13.3   11.1   10.3       6.5     2.3     65.5
The borrower will submit updates to the bank on a semi-annual basis. These updated
reports will monitor actual versus estimated procurement dates, US dollar totals by supplier
and aggregate US dollar totals by project element. The Borrower will indicate causes of, and
corrective actions to be taken, on all substantial variances and schedule delays.



80                                Annex 10
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT CONTRACTUAL SERVICES
Staff/Month
1.    Contracts with Firms/Institutes
Single Package with One Firm
(a)   Monitoring and Evaluation
M & E Program Manager                             15
Beneficiary Assessment Specialist                 3
Computer Specialist                              24
Statistician                                     24
Report Writer                                     6
(b)   Operational Research
Epidemiologist                                    12
Program Manager                                   12
Statistician                                      6
Report Writer                                     6
2.    Individuals
(a)   Project Management
Evaluation Specialist                             6
Epidemiologist                                     6
MIS Specialist                                    6
Accountant                                        6
Management/Planning Specialist                   36
Training Specialist                              36
Gender Specialist                                 6



81                                 Annex 11
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
PROJECT STEERING COMMIITEE
Terms of Reference
1.    The Committee will act as the advisory body to all implementing agencies by:
*   monitoring project implementation;
*   addressing and seeking solution to problems, that cannot be resolved through
the normal lines of command, and
*   advising the P. S. on policies and other matters related to the project.
2.    Coordination will thus take place through the established mechanisms of the
Ministry of Health. The membership of the Project Steering Committee is limited but can
be expanded if necessary.
3.    The Committee meets four times per year, with additional meetings as required.
4.    Members
(a)  Permanent Secretary, MOH
(b)  Director of Medical Services
(c) Specialized divisions within the MOH
(d)  NASCP Director
(e)  World Health Organization
(f)  Office of the President
(g)  Representative from Ministry of Finance
(h)  Representative from Ministry of Local Government
(i)  Representative from Ministry of Planning and National Development
(j) Representative from Ministry of Information
(k)  Representative from Department of Defense
(I)  Representative from NGOs
(m) Representative from MOI University
(n)  Representative from University of Nairobi
(o)  Project Coordinator, Secretary



Annex 12
82                                Page 1 of 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT, MINISTRY OF HEALTH
The accounting records and the books of account should be designed to present
not only the historical record of receipts and payments but should also be able to depict
the "financial status" of the project at the end of an accounting period. Given below is the
proposed terms of reference for the project Principal Accountant (PA) in the Ministry of
Health.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Qualification. Professionally qualified Accountant or advanced level partly qualified
Accountant and having broad experience in public sector accounting and finance as well as
management (cost) accounting. He should also be computer literate.
Key Functions. The PA should be fully familiar with the Government based accounting
practice and have the capacity to maintain financial records require under the project as
specified in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The PA should coordinate the
expenditures at the District level and ensure that expenditures returns are processed and
submitted through the Treasury (PMG) from the Districts. He should capture all the
project expenditures at the Districts and incorporate the same with project
expenditures/returns received from the NGOs involved under the project. The PA should
develop a system of monitoring and facilitating funds flow to the NGOs participating in
the Community Development component on a quarterly basis. The PA should initiate
from time to time the preparation of Withdrawal Applications based on Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) and direct payment where applicable and prepare Payment
Authorization Forms (PAFs) for all payments through the Special Account (SA). The PA
should on a regular basis ensure that the District cash flows are maintained through
weekly reimbursements by Treasury. The PA should from time to time liaise and follow
with Treasury (ERD) on any SA replenishment applications at least once every month.
The PA should also interact with the Project Coordinator for the preparation of the
Annual Work Program; Budgets and Allocation of Funds especially in the issuance of
Authority to Incur Expenditures (AlEs). In addition the PA would establish a record of
actual disbursements matched with provisions made in the project documents under each
major category of expenditure, and compile data showing current and cumulative actual
expenditure and commitments, under each category and project component. The PA
should also prepare the consolidated project accounts from all the project financial data
(sources and applications) and liaise with the Ministry's Accounting Officer to ensure the
project accounts and records are submitted to the Auditor by the due date. The PA shall
coordinate with the Auditor General's Department for annual audit in accordance with
IDA requirements as stated in the DCA.



Annex 12
83                              Page 2 of 2
AccouNTs AND AUDIT
A single consolidated accounts would be prepared for the project. The
Government's appropriation accounts would no longer be acceptable by IDA as an
adequate representation of expenditures incurred under the project. Responsibility for
preparing the project accounts would rest with PA Ministry of Health, who will
specifically be assigned the task of establishing and maintaining the project's financial
records and accounts. The PA would obtain information from the District Treasuries
through the Pay Master General (PMG) Unit of the Treasury on all project expenditures at
the District level and incorporate the information with project expenditures reported by
the Non-Governmental Organization (NGOs) involved in the Community Development
component of the project, and use this information to prepare consolidated project
accounts.
A foreign exchange SA would be established for the project with a commercial
bank through the Central Bank of Kenya on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Upon Credit Effectiveness, an initial deposit of US$ 2 million equivalent would be
deposited in the SA representing about 3 months of operating expenditures. Operation of
the SA including replenishments (preferably on monthly basis), would follow Bank
procedures.
Audit. The accounts would be audited by independent auditors, the Controller and
Auditor General or appointed by him and satisfactory to IDA, and that all audited
accounts, together with the auditors' report and separate opinion on the records and
accounts used to support disbursement against SOEs will be submitted to IDA not later
than six months after the end of each Government fiscal year (para 5.03 (h)). Government
will also ensure that the auditor's opinion is obtained on the operation of the project SA in
each fiscal year and submitted to IDA together with the PA's report on or by the due date
(in the present case December 31).



84                                Annex 13
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year     Disbursement        Accumulated        Accumulated
and Quarter Ending    During Quarter     Disbursement      Disbursement %
--- (US$ Thousand) ---
FY1995
Mar. 31, 1995                0                  0                   0
June 30, 1995                0                  0                   0
FY1996
Sept. 30, 1995           2,000              2,000                   5
Dec. 31, 1995            2,000              4,000                  10
Mar. 31, 1996            1,200              5,200                  13
June 30, 1996            1,200              6,400                  16
FY 1997
Sept. 30, 1996           2,000              8,400                  21
Dec. 31, 1996            2,000             10,400                  26
Mar. 31, 1997            1,200             11,600                  29
June 30, 1997            1,200             12,800                  32
FY1998
Sept. 30, 1997           2,000             14,800                 37
Dec. 31, 1997            2,000             16,800                  42
Mar. 31, 1998            2,400             19,200                  48
June 30, 1998            2,400             21,600                  54
FY 1999
Sept. 30, 1998           2,400             24,000                 60
Dec. 31, 1998            2,400             26,400                  66
Mar. 31, 1999            2,400             28,800                  72
June 30, 1999            2,400             31,200                  78
FY2000
Sept. 30, 1999           2,000             33,200                 83
Dec. 31, 1999            2,000             35,200                  88
Mar. 31, 2000            1,200             36,400                  91
June30, 2000             1,200             37,600                 94
FY2001
Sept. 30, 2000           1,200             38,800                 97
Dec. 31, 2000            1,200             40,000                 100



85                              Annex 14
Page 1 of 6
PROCEDURES FOR NGO PARTICIPATION IN THE STI PROJECT
1.    Objective. The objective is to ensure NGO participation in the sexually transmitted
infections (STI) project, and extend their participation to other parts of the health and population
sectors in the future. The procedures are a result of discussions during negotiations and take into
account the current policy decision by the government to decentralize its operations and transfer
greater authority to the district level administration. Implications in the health sector involve
devolving the responsibility for implementing health related activities to district level non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and community based organizations (CBOs).
2.    These procedures have been designed by and agreed with the NGOs working in AIDS and
the Government, in two sessions in February 1995. The Government proposes to issue the final
document by March 1995. The procedures would be revisited on an annual basis, and will be
modified according to recommendations made by NGOs and Government.
Institutional Framework-- (see attached Chart 1).
3.    Elements of the framework. The institutional framework would comprise of the
following elements: coordination, selection, networking, technical support, financial management,
and monitoring and evaluation. The functions of the entities encapsulated in the Chart 1 include:
(a) At the national level, the following entities would be instituted: a national panel to
review and select NGO proposals; NGO/government forum to discuss and decide
priorities in health; NGO coordinating unit in the Ministry of Health; a technical
support/training agency to train and support regional NGO trainers; and, a
monitoring and evaluation agency to assess the functioning of the institutions at the
national and district levels.
(b) At the district level, the following entities would be set up: a forum of NGOs,
CBOs and district health authorities to discuss and decide priorities in health, NGO
coordinator in the District Health Management Team/Board, and technical support
agency.
Functions of the Institutions
4.    Forum of NGOs/government. An NGO/CBO/government Forum would be set up at the
national and district levels with the purpose of bringing health sector NGOs participating in the
project under one umbrella. The functions of the Forum would include information
documentation and dissemination on NGO and government activities in STIs, engage in
discussions on national and district level priorities in STI activities, and agree priorities. The
national Forum would have joint meetings with the district Forum, periodically, in order to
empower and assist them. The NGO AIDS Consortium could function as the forum at the
national level, and set up similar forums at the district levels. This forum would cohesively link
and integrate other groups in the health sector including a National Intersectoral AIDS Board
chaired by the Office of the President, the National Network of Health NGOs and religious
forums (church groups, islamic groups, etc.). A database (project tracking system) on the work



86                                 Annex 14
Page 2 of 6
and activities of NGOs in the health sector, has been subcontracted to the NGO AIDS
Consortium by the Government in February 1995, and is operational.
5.    National/District Panel. A panel would be established at the national and district levels
to perform the role of an autonomous selector of NGO/CBO programs in STI. The function of
the Panel is one of reviewing and selecting proposals from NGOs at the national and district
levels, based on the attached criteria. To ensure impartiality, the 7-10 members of the Panel
would sit in their individual capacity. The national Panel would be selected or shortlisted by the
national NGO/Government Forum, and the district Panel by the district NGO/Government Forum,
and then appointed by the MOH. The panels will review proposals and respond within a specified
time lirnit.
6.    Coordinator. An NGO coordinating unit in the MOH would perform the functions of
setting up the Forum. Already a senior health specialist has been appointed to coordinate NGO
activities in the health sector. At the national level, the Ministry of Health through the NGO
officer, would call meetings of the Forum, provide administrative and logistical assistance, and
represent national priorities at the discussions. At the district level, the District Health Committee
(DHC) would be the key coordinating body. All districts will have NGO representatives on the
DHCs. The District Medical Officer (DMO) or his/her appointee would facilitate the forum
meetings, and present district priorities at the discussions. An officer of the DHMT would also
function as the district's NGO liaison officer. The following functions would be performed at the
national and district levels:
identification of NGOs and CBOs;
set up meetings of the established Forum; and
ensure general administrative support, procurement of supplies and availability of
these supplies to NGOs.
7.    Technical Support. Technical support to NGOs and CBOs in areas of financial
management and capacity building would be provided by a competitively selected agency at the
national level, and several agencies at the provincial level (one in each province) and may be
NGO's or commercial companies with appropriate expertise. The technical agency would
support and advice NGOs and CBOs in developing their strengths, and past efforts at conducting
training programs and building institutional capacity.
8.    Provincial and national NGOs would be periodically trained by a national level agency.
The bulk of the training and technical support to district NGOs and CBOs in the formulation of
proposals and implementation of the programs, would be provided by the provincial NGOs.
9.    Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) would be in two areas:
M&E of the framework, and
M&E of individual NGO performance.



87                                Annex 14
Page 3 of 6
10.   Both functions would be carried out by an independent agency (either a local social
science research organization or a local NGO). The agency would submit quarterly reports to the
national forum and the govemment (MOH). Donor agencies would receive these reports, as
appropriate, through normal channels. The reports would assess the following:
nature and effectiveness of operations of the framework ( e.g. selection,
administration, and financial), and recommend corrective measures, if necessary.
effectiveness of NGO performance in implementing programs.
*   suggest emerging and future priorities for consideration by NGO programs.
11.   Evaluations will be conducted either by the same agency or by a separate organization, on
an annual basis, which will include: (a) whether implementation of the mechanism has had an
impact; (b) whether the implementation of the NGO proposals has had a broad impact on the
prevalence of STIs, and (c) whether specific NGO implemented programs have been successful.
12.   Funding. The ability to provide funds in a timely manner is critical to the success of the
NGO/Government collaboration. To ensure success, funding mechanisms should have minimum
bureaucratic delays, and speedy disbursement of funds, and audits.
(a)  District Level: All participating districts will receive an agreed annual allocation of
funds, which is likely to be not more than $50,000. Funding for the district level
would be separate from the national level. Each district will set its priorities and
ceilings for funding project activities.
(b)  Regional and National Level: A member of NGO's function at regional and
national level and their proposals will be reviewed by the national panel but each
district panel will be consulted if the NGO proposes to conduct activities in that
district.
After approval by the respective district and/or national level:
(a)  MOH and Donor jointly approve detailed work plan for a one year period, including
budget. MOH place approved budget totals under Appropriations in Aid category
for the GOK financial year.
(b)  Memorandum of Understanding is signed between MOH, Donor and NGOs
(national and district) approved by the Panel. MOH and Donor jointly agree the
appointment of a Certified Public Accountant to audit the NGOs concerned.
(c)  Donor arranges the disbursement of agreed budget, in appropriate tranches through
the accounting firm. The firm would be competitively selected, based on
recommendations made by the Donor and approved by MOH. Disbursement and
auditing would be carried out by the same firm. The firm would work with the



88                                Annex 14
Page 4 of 6
selected NGOs (whose proposals were approved by the Panel) on a quarterly basis
to ensure program/disbursements are on track. NGOs provide six monthly reports
to MOH and Donor, including summary financial statement.
(d)  MOH and Donor formally approve the six monthly reports. In the event of
problems, joint remedy is arranged before further disbursements take place.
(e)  Annually, the auditor makes a detailed check of all NGO books related to the project
and issues audit report to MOH and Donor. NGO submits detailed work plan and
budget for next financial year for approval by MOH and Donor. After approval,
MOH arranges for agreed budget to be shown under Appropriations in Aid for the
next GOK financial year. The ministry would contract out the disbursement function
to a competitively selected commercial bank.
(f)  An upper limit will be set for the use of funds on overhead costs including
administrative and structural expenses. However, due consideration will be given to
new or struggling NGOs
Institutional Process
13.   At the village level, CBOs would form a forum and send their representatives to the forum
at the district level. The district level forum would comprise of representative of the district
health management team, district level NGOs, and representatives of the CBO forum. The forum
would discuss and identify areas of critical importance in the field of STI prevention in the district,
and assess comparative advantages of the government and NGOs on the one hand and between
NGOs and CBOs on the other. The national forum would perform a similar function. Activities
and issues in STI would be discussed from a national and district perspective, in joint and
individual sessions, and decisions would be made and transmitted through the forums.
14.   Based on the priorities decided at the forums, the government would invite proposals from
NGOs on STI related activities. NGOs and CBOs at all levels could then prepare proposals in
accordance with priorities and submit them to the national and district panel. Proposals from
regional and national NGOs would be sent to the National Panel, and proposals from the district
NGOs could be sent to the District Panel. In the preparation of the proposals, technical assistance
would be provided by the provincial technical capacity agencies through seminars, workshops
and individual support.
15.   The Panels would select promising proposals, based on the attached criteria, within a
specified time period. Proposals that may be innovative, but weak in other areas (management,
financial, etc.) would be selected on a provisional basis by the Panel, and the technical agency
would be instructed to help the NGO strengthen the proposals. Decisions would be transmitted
through the forums to the chosen NGOs/CBOs and the MOH.



89                                  Annex 14
Page 5 of 6
Benefits
16.   Benefits of the above structure are that coordination of NGO and government activities in
the health sector would be achieved, participation would be built up, program efforts could be
targeted, and outputs could be monitored. It would result in decentralization of efforts to the
grass root level - the level which is worst affected by STIs and AIDS - and participation by that
level in decisions that affect it. The funding mechanism would ensure speedy delivery of funds,
with minimal bureaucratic delays, thereby ensuring continuity and sustainability of
implementation, and eventual success of the project.
Criteria for Evaluating NGO Proposals
Technical Criteria
*     extent to which the proposal reflects national and project objectives
*     linkages with local programs
*     extent to which it addresses local needs
*     technical quality of proposed activities
*     clear indicators of inputs, outputs and outcomes.
Management and Financial Criteria
*     administrative and managerial capacity
acceptability and viability of cost proposal
-     co-financing potential
Epidemiological and Geographic Criteria
*   geographic distribution of proposals (e.g. underserved areas will be given greater
weight)
*    degree to which activities would target the following: high incidence areas, places
with high rates of transmission, or areas at risk of having the infection introduced.
extent to which project would build partnership with other actors.



90                                            Annex 14
Page 6 of 6
Chart 1: INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
National
COORDINATOR
| NGIO OFFICER, MOH
Sets Up
FORUM                          PANEL                       TECHNICAL SUPPORT
|NGO/GOVEREVIENT A                                      SclectsNATILNGOS
|  FO)RUM    \         )   NGO PROPOSAN TRAINING INSTITUTE
Sends/
Proposals                   /rains
/Supports
AND
EVALUATION
Discussions                                                          LOCAL SOCIAL SCIENCE
RESEARCH GROUP/NGO
District                               COORDINATOR
Sets Up
FORUM                             PANEL',
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
NGOICBOI          eet         REVIEW AND SELECT         Selects   PROVINCIAL NGOSI
GOVERNMENT                    t|   DISTRICT NGO                     TRAINING CENTERS
Sends                            rains
Proposals                       Supports
NGOS/CBOS



91                                  Annex 15
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
Health seeking and sexual behavior among clinic attenders with sexually transmitted
diseases in Kenya: Implications for STD Control Strategies. Moses S, et al, Department
of Community Health, University of Nairobi, 1994.
Sexual Behavior in Kenya: Implications for Sexually Transmitted Diseases Transmission
Control. Moses S, et al, Department of Community Health, University of Nairobi, 1994.
An assessment of the economic impact of AIDS in Kenya. Forsythe et al, Family Health
InternationaUAIDSTECHIAIDSCAP, Rapid IV, 1993
An investigation of strategies for renegotiating sexual relationships. Balmer DH, et al,
NARESA, 1993
AIDS Prevention and Control Project implemented by Kenya NGOs. British
Development Division in Eastern Africa, Overseas Development Administration, March
20, 1994.
Investing in Health, Kenya's Health Policy Framework. Ministry of Health, November
1994.
Gender and Negotiation of Sexual Behavior, Background paper prepared by appraisal
mission, July 1994.






A N,
. . ....                     KENYA
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" ,                             i                                           \
<
D                        
PII                                                           
'   A   : r A r A ^:  1 a
1~ . '''                                         4/:i
A~~~~~~A
/~~~ 
'K's    --l'                                                                                                          /
MaAJOR TOWk4S           /      kJ                   '                                )/  
* NAT ONAL CAP TAL       T                                                                         O I ncean
MAIN ROADS
4         NATIONAI A RPORTS                         t _
INTERNJATIONAL AIRPORTS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                  \                        'i
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR ES                                                     /          . S    . -
er-lirie-x1ert  v1   e/1:Stz+  !      s   i t    T- iV, ec                     , B I
'A -



