CREDIT NUMBER 2686 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Sexually Transmitted Infections Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           2<L.                 , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2686 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     OH        2 Z       , 1995, between the
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has submitted to the Association a
Health Policy Framework Paper, dated November, 1994, including
adoption of a district health planning approach and the development
of a policy on community-based care (hereinafter referred to as "the
Policy Framework");
(B)   the Borrower,   having  satisfied  itself as   to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project and declared its commitment to the
execution thereof in accordance with the Policy Framework;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt ffr
Wiederaufbau (KfW) a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount equivalent
to $4,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
(D)   the  Borrower  intends   to  contract  from   Overseas
Development Administration (United Kingdom) (ODA) a grant (the ODA
Grant) in an amount equivalent to $12,500,000 to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the ODA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and ODA;
(E)   the  Borrower   intends   to   contract  from   Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) a grant (the DANIDA Grant)
in an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
DANIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
DANIDA;
(F)   the Borrower intends to contract i.zom the Government of
the Kingdom of the Netherlands (the Netherlands) a grant (the Dutch
Grant) in an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the Dutch Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Netherlands; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "AIDS" means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(b)   "CBO" means a Community Based Organization;
(c)   "HIV" means Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
(d)   "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication
materials;
(e)   "Implementation Manual" means the Implementation Manual
referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(f)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(g)   "NASCP" means the Borrower's National Aids and STD
Control Program;
(h)   "NGO" means a Non-Governmental Organization;
(i)   "STD" means Sexually Transmitted Disease;
(j)   "STI" means Sexually Transmitted Infection;
(k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty seven million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 27,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit,.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
commencing August. 1, 2005 and ending February 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-5-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOB
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
clinical, administrative, technical and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, and the Implementation Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, not
later than June 30, 1997, undertake, in conjunction with other
interested donors, a midterm review of the Project, during which
they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the
progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Agreement; including, but not limited to: (i)
a review of the achievements of the Project, having regard to
performance indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association; (ii) the implementation and management aspects of the
Project; (iii) implementation procedures in each district; (iv)
performance and use of technical assistance personnel; (v) the role


﻿-6-
of national counterpart staff; (vi) the status and results of
training; (vii) reporting, accounting and audit performance; (viii)
disbursement procedures; and (ix) the sustainability of the Project.
(b)   Not later than one month prior to such midterm review,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project.
(c)   Following such midterm review, the Borrower shall act
promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed  necessary   to  remedy  any   shortcoming  noted   in  the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of
the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency, and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿-7-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, in
the case of NGOs and CBOs, a separate opinion by
said auditors on performance of such NGOs and
CBOs under the Project and, in particular, the
extent    of   their    compliance   with    the
Implementation Manual; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain,  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain,  until at least one year      after  the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and


﻿-8-
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
(a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Project, or any part thereof, will be carried out in
accordance with the Policy Framework;
(b)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply  if  the  Borrower   establishes  to  the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,   cancellation,    termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with


﻿-9-
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that an event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the  Borrower  has  issued  the  authority   to  incur
expenditures to the District Medical Officer for district health
activities pertaining to STIs;
(b)   the Borrower has issued guidelines      governing the
provision of community-based care by NGOs, CBOs and families; and
(c)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association a final
implementation manual (the Implementation Manual), giving, inter
alia, details of proposed organizational arrangements for the
implementation of the Project, including the roles and functions of
the various persons and entities involved in the implementation of
the Project, their reporting obligations and other administrative
procedures; together with the annual and training plans referred to
in paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, for the first
year of implementation of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:               Telex:
FINANCE                  22921
Nairobi                  MINFIN-KE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/ /        /(f        LJ    Li/
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Drugs, supplies          18,900,000         100% of foreign
and equipment                               expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2) IEC Materials              4,900,000        90%
(3) Training                      70,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(4) Technical                    350,000        100%
Assistance
(5) Research/                    830,000        90%
Monitoring
(6) Vehicles                     630,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(7) Unallocated                2,020,000
TOTAL                27,700,000


﻿- 13 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
such expenditures for equipment and goods under contracts not
exceeding $250,000 equivalent, for consultant services (firms) under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, for consultants
services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, and for all local training programs and overseas
training not exceeding $10,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to mitigate the incidence and
impact of sexually transmitted infections, including HIV/AIDS, in a
cost effective manner, and to reduce the direct costs of AIDS and
the workload of health facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Development
1.    Development of the capability of the NASCP to plan, monitor
and evaluate STI activities, through, inter alia: (a) training in
program management and leadership for NASCP staff; (b) expansion of
management and health information systems; (c) strengthening of
evaluation strategy and system; and (d) enhancement of capacity to
develop policy and technical guidance, and provision of improved
systems for communication, printing, distribution and transport.
2.    Development  of managerial and planning     capabilities at
district level, through the provision of training and guidance in
STI prevention and impact mitigation for district personnel.
3.    Development of the ability of district health teams to plan,
monitor and implement health activities, and to coordinate and
supervise all STD and HIV related activities occurring in the
district, regardless of sector.
4.    Strengthening  of   existing  national   and  district   STD
surveillance systems, and monitoring of STI treatment interventions
for efficacy.
5.    Provision of grants in favor of existing institutions and
private consultants to support research and studies specifically
designed to improve interventions supported by the Project.
6.    Support for initiatives by NGOs and the private sector to
develop intervention for care and for prevention of STI for targeted
population.


﻿-15-
Part B:     Prevention
1.    Provision of syndromic treatment of STDs at primary health
level in public sector and NGG facilities, including public health
measures of condom provision, health promotion, counseling and
partner notification.
2.    Provision of condoms to districts, municipalities, NGOs and to
those providing health services to the military, police security
services and refugees.
3.    Development and implementation of national IEC programs,
including patient education materials, newspapers, magazines, and
other  print  articles, radio    and  television  advertising  and
programming, as well as non-traditional media.
Part C:     Community-based Care for Infected Persons
1.    Provision of additional drugs and other commodities needed to
support the on-going Leprosy and Tuberculosis Control Program
(LCTP).
2.    Strengthening the evolution of treatment and care policy and
practices at the central and district levels, including the
provisibn of essential drugs through the national essential drugs
program and allocation of funds to the districts for the
mobilization and support of community-based responses;
3.    Support for existing community-based care programs through
provision of drugs for opportunistic infections, supplies for AIDS
cases, counseling services and social support.
4.    Development and implementation of an occupational safety
policy at central and district levels, including the provision of
commodities for occupational safety to health personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following
additional procedures.
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part
C of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be required
for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed upon with
the Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more.


﻿- 17 -
3.    Goods procured in accordance with the procedures described in
paragraph 1 (a) above shall be exempted from preshipment price
inspection by third parties.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Medical equipment and supplies, estimated      to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Drugs and equipment, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,500,000, and medical equipment and supplies, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 18 -
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of


﻿- 19 -
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting  firms; (c) assignments of a     critical nature,   as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Permanent Secretary, MOH, shall be the Project Director
and, as such, shall be responsible for the overall coordination and
implementation of the Project. He shall be assisted, at the district
level, by the District Health Management Teams, district based
organizations, CBOs and NGOs. The Program Manager of NASCP shall be
responsible for the technical aspects of project implementation.
2.    For purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain a
Project Steering Committee .(PSC) which shall be chaired by the
Permanent Secretary, MOH. The PSC, which shall have a purely
advisory role, shall comprise representatives of the Office of the
President, Ministry of Finance, MOH, Ministry of Information,
Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of Planning and National
Development, Department of Defence, Universities, NGOs and NASCP.
Representatives of other NGOs, and other Ministries and specialized
divisions of MOH may be invited, as necessary, to attend the
meetings of the Steering Committee.
3.    The Borrower shall appoint a Project Coordinator, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, and who shall report to
the Program Manager of NASCP, to be responsible for the day-to-day
implementation of the Project. The Project Coordinator shall work in
close cooperation with other technical units of MOH and also serve
as Secretary of the PSC.
4.    At the district level, the District Medical Officer shall be
responsible for coordinating project activities with the support of
members of the District Health Management Team, and the assistance
of NGOs and community groups active in the district.
5.    (a)   The Borrower shall have quarterly activity indicators
and periodic beneficiary assessment data prepared by the District
Intersectoral AIDS Committees, and transmitted to NASCP.
(b)   Based on such data, the Borrower shall have consolidated
semiannual progress reports prepared by NASCP, and transmitted to
the Association, every six months, for review and comments.


﻿- 21 -
6.    The Borrower shall:
(a)   cause NASCP to prepare and submit, not later than March
31 of each year, to the Association for review and approval, annual
work and training plans, giving details of proposed activities for
each forthcoming fiscal year, including a timeframe for all
procurement actions to be undertaken under the Project;
(b)   in the light of the workplans as so approved by the
Association, make adequate allocations in its annual budget to
ensure that counterpart funds are readily available at all times to
finance the Borrower's share of the cost of the Project; and
(c)   ensure that all such budgetary allocations are applied
as envisaged for purposes of the Project.
7.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to: (a) ensure
that district health teams shall prepare annual health plans for
their respective districts, which shall be consistent with the
Borrower's health planning guidelines, and including earmarked funds
for activities to be carried out by NGOs and CBOs; (b) monitor, on
the basis of the Implementation Manual, the performance of NGOs,
CBOs and other participating institutions of the private sector; and
(c) periodically conduct a beneficiary assessment on implementation
and impact of the Project.
8.    For purposes of Part A.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall,
within one month following the receipt of each research proposal,
appoint an independent review panel to review the proposal. The
review panel, whose members, composition and terms of reference
shall be acceptable to the Association, shall be appointed by the
Permanent Secretary, MOH, in consultation with the Director of
Medical Services.
9.    Not later than three years after the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall have a full internal review of the Project conducted
in all districts included in the Project, and an external review
thereof conducted in a selection of such districts; and, in the case
of each such review, shall have the findings thereof transmitted to
the Association within a two months' period after its completion.
10.   For purposes of Part B.3 of the Project,.the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than March 31 of each year, submit to the Association,
for review and comments, annual national IEC plans, giving details
of proposed prevention interventions and approaches for the


﻿- 22 -
forthcoming fiscal year; and (b) ensure that the production of IEC
materials are undertaken through open competition.
11.   The Borrower shall proceed to implement the action plan
resulting from the organizational and manpower analysis of NASCP,
in accordance with the timetable and other modalities agreed upon in
this regard with the Association.
12.   With effect from fiscal year 1996/97, the Borrower shall have
the budget of the Ministry of Health disaggregated and published to
the level of the districts.
13.   For the purposes of Part A.5 of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than January 1, 1996, enter into a contract with
appropriate agencies for the administration and implementation of
research grants.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of tLe Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shallo furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.


﻿-24-
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;


﻿- 25 -
(c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount  of the   Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.


﻿- 26 -
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


