Docwnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7334
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YJGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1801-YU)
June 30, 1988
Operations Evaluation Department
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
t A;. *p- I  e*< Ite         y .     * f at,  ,"  i d' -'  ' it  * V " Z.' ''     *   " t



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AC I           First Agricultural Credit Project
AC II          Second Agricultural Credit Project
AYB            Association of Yugoslav Banks
BCO            Basic Cooperative
BOAL           Basic Organization of Associated Labor
EMENA          Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office (World Bank)
IBT            Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP            Udruzena Kosovska Banka - Pristina
LBL            Ljubljanska Banka Ljubljana
LDP            Letter of Development Policy
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
PB             Participating Bank
PBS            Privredna Banka - Sarajevo
PCR            Project Completion Report
PPAM           Project Performance Audit Memorandum
PPAR           Project Performance Audit Report
SAP            Socialist Autonomous Province
3AR            Staff Appraisal Report
SBS            Stopanska Banka - Skopje
SR             Socialist Republic
UBB            Udruzena Beogradska Banka
VB             Vojvodjanska Baika
ZBZ            Zagrebacka Banka - Zagreb



R OmAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Opsict of w imsaawaA
June 30, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report
Yugoslavia Third Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 1801-YU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Performance Audit Report: Yugoslavia - Third Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 1801-YU)- prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department. The PCR
was prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
based on the Borrower's PCR.
Yves Rovani
by Graham Donaldson
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petformance
of their official duties. Its contents nmy not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authoriation.



FOR OOCAL USE ONLY
".OJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1801-YU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
Preface                 ......... , ......... 1....
Basic Data Sheet .i.i. ......... .  .....
Evaluation Summary ...           ...............  ..........  ...........    v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
Is   PROJECT BACKGROUND .................                           .      1
Objectives .........................................              1
Design ........................................                   2
Project Context ........................                          3
Finance Plan ...................... oo ......................     4
Implementation Plan .... *...#    ...................             4
II.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME                 ...............   4
Start-up ................................................         4
Sequence ......... ^............. *.*.................            5
Interest Rates and Inflation               ...................   7
Procurement .... .            ....... .           .      ... .    7
Loan Amendments/Covenants    ......................               9
Outcomes ......................................... *s*.           9
Social Sector ....................... . ... ..4                   9
Economic and Financial Performances ............    10
Financial Performance of the Borrower
(Vojvodjanska Banka)  ........              ...........    11
Sustainability ........ ........................                11
III.    FINDING AND ISSUES .            ..........................    12
Overview ...................................... * ..**          12
Findings and Lessons            .................         . ^   13
Timing of the Loan ............... .0*00000   13
Interest Rates ....................    14
Agroindustry ........ ..              ...........    14
Managing an Unsatisfactory Operation .........    15
Bank Procurement and Organization ............   16
Subborrower and PB Supervision               ...............    17
Issues Arising .....          ............         ......    17
Attachment 1:  Borrower Comments    .........               ...........*so   19
This document has a rstricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents, cont.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Page No.
Is  BACKGROUND   .......................................   23
II.   PROJECT FORMULATIONIPROCESSING ..............s.....  25
III.   PROJECT IMPTEMENTATION ......... . .. . ..  ............. .   27
IV.  OPERATING AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ..............  33
V.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION .............  36
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ................e........    40
VII.   BANK'S PERFORMANCE ...............................   41
VIII.   CONCLUSIONS .................... .............  42
Annexes:
1.  Number of Subprojects by Republic/Province and Investment Type
2.  Number of Household Beneficiaries by Republic/Province
3.  Physical Volume of Investments by Republic/Province
4.  Technical Coefficients
5.  Utilized Subloan Proceeds to be Repaid in Cash
6.  Average Exchange Rates of Loan Funds Withdrawals by Sectors
7. Cumulative Disbursements - Appraisal/Actual
8.  Exchange and Inflation Rates
9.   Individual Sector Investments - Actual vs. Appraisal Estimates
Map IBRD 11394



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1801-YU)
PREFACE
This is a Project Performance Audit Report on the Yugoslavia Third.
Agricultural Credit Project (AC III) for which Loan 1801-YU in the amount
of US$86 million was approved  in  February  1980.   The Loan was closed in
December 1986 after two extensions totalling 21 months and cancellations
totalling US$11.4 million.
The audit report consists of a Project Performance Audit Memoran-
dum (PPAM) prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), a Proj-
ect Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office (based on the Borrower's Project Completion Report),
*md is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2731a-YU), the President's
Report (P-2699-YU), Loan and Guarantee Agreements dated February 29, 1980,
and study of Bank files.    An  OED  mission visited Yugoslavia in February
1988 and held discussions with the Borrower (Vojvodjanska Banka), partici-
pating banks and the Institute for Agricultural Economics (in Novi Sad,
Belgrade and Zagreb). The PPAR was sent to the Borrower and Government
agencies for comment on May 16, 1988, and comments of the Borrower are at
Attachment 1.
The PPAM agrees with the general  conclusions of the PCR, but also
highlights some particular  aspects  of  Bank/Yugoslavia relationships with
respect to implementation of the project and the associated Bank policies
and processes. The PPAM is selective in dealing with the issues and does
not take up at length some other issues such as broader aspects of the
financial and fiscal context of this operation in the wider country finan-
cial sector strategy, foreign exchange risk aspects and the Bank's role in
attempting to mobilize other foreign funding (for which purpose the Loan
for this project was reduced to make room for such finance, although with-
out much success).
The PPAM discusses issues relating to the timing of the Loan, on-
lending interest rates, agroindustry policy and strategy, the Bank's per-
formance in managing a slow disbursing operation (in a deteriorating macro-
economic environment) with difficult procurement problems, and weak super-
vision of participating banks and subborrowers by the Yugoslav banking
system.
The valuable assistance provided to the audit mission by the Gov-
ernment of Yugoslavia and project staff is gratefully acknowledged.



- tt -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AWUIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
TI,RD ACRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1681-:YU
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal     Actual or        Actual as X of
Estimat   Estimated Actual Appraisal Etimaoe
Total Project Cost (US$ mlliton)              815.7          199.9              68
Loan Amount CUSS million)                      86.8            6.80           lQ
Loan Amount Disbursd (USS million)              6.80          74.6              67
Cancellation (US$ million)                       -            11.4               -
Economic Rate of Return (1)                    15-20          14.0           70-9J
Institutional Perfor  nee                      Good           Poor               -
Tecklical Performnce                           Good           Good               -
Date of Bord Approval                            -          82/2C/80             -
Date of Loan Agreemnt                            -          02/29/80             -
Date of Loan Effectiveness                   06/80/8        8/25/80           1is ;
Date of Completlon of Physical Component.   09/80/4         02/81/36           149 La
Date of Loan Closing                         83/81/15       12/81/66           129 L&
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
CUSS millIon)
FY61  FY62  FY8   FY84  FY66  FY66  FY67
Appraisal Elstimat        6.5  26.6  65.6  80.8  u0.8   .6.0  80.0
Aoi..l                    0.7  16.0  84.6  46.1  66.9  69.7  74.6
Actual as U of Appraisl
Estimat                12.5  59.7  62.8  66.6  72.9  61.0   66.7
Date of Final Disbursement                   February 26, 19?7
Principal Repaid te February 29, 1966        16.16 million



- iII -
STAFF INPUTS
(Stat f Weks)
FY7   FY78  FY79  FY81  FY81  FY82  FY8g  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  TOTAL
Pro-
appraisal   6.1   7.0  12.4   0.2                                               19.7
Appraisel               88.6  19.7                                               58.8
N.gotlation                    6L8                                                5.8
Supervision                     4.9  15.2  15.2  14.0  18.9  20.7  17.4   9.6  120.S
Other                                                   2.8                       2.8
Total        0.1   7.0  49.6 08.6  16.2  15.2  14.6  19.2  26.7  17.4   9.6  204.6
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                          Vojv6djanska Bank&-Udruxzna Bank, (VS)
Cuarantor                        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Executing Agencies                   VB and 7 other banks as tollows:
ReDubl c/Province                           Bank
Vojvodina                                VB
Serbia                 .druiena Beoade  Banks - Belgrade
Montenegro           Investiciona Banks Titograd-Udruena Banks
Kosovo                 Udruzens Kosovwka Banks - Pristins
Slovenia            Ljubljanska Bank-Udruzona Banks - Ljubljsna
Bosnia & Herzegovina        Privredns Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka
Macedonia             Stopaneka Banka-Udruzena Banks - Skopj.
Croatia                     Zagrebacka Banka - Zagreb
Ftucal Year of Borrower                          January 1 - December 81
Nam  of Currency (abbrevtation)                        Dlnar (Din)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Averago                         US81.00 a Din 19
Intervening Yere Average                       USS1.00 =  Dln 152
Completion Yer Average 9JS81.W =  Din 879
Follow-on Project                                None on nationwide basis



- IV -
MISSION DATA
Date     No. of   Man-days Specializatlons    Performane-               Types of
Mission     (Mo./Yr.)  Persons In Field/b Reoresented /a        Ratina /d  Trend Is Problems/f
Identification   04/78       8           5      A,F,O               -             -         -
Preparation I    08/79        I          6      F                    -            -         -
Preparation 2I   09/76        2          6      F,I                 -             -         -
Propareti-i  III  03/79       2          8      F,I                 -             -         -
Appraisal        05/79        5        120      A,E,F,I,L            -            -         -
Superviston 1    04/80       4          6f      A,F,I,L              1            2         None
Supervision 2    12/80       a          64      A,F,L                1            2         0
Supervision a    (A/el        8         g8      A,F(2)               1            a         0
Supervision 4    12/81        2         24      A,E                  1            1         0
Supervision E    97/82        2         28      F(2)                1             1         None
Supervision 6    12/82        8         78      E,I,L                1            2         F,O
Supervision 7    08/8S       2          g8      A,E                 2             2         F,O
Supervision 8    02/84        2         U8      F,L                 2             2         F,M,T
Supervision 9    08/86       2          42      E,F                 8             2         F,N
Supervislon 1   08/86       2          84      A,F                 8             2         na.
a   Ca!culated on the basis  of  the  number of  months  from the date of Loan
Agreement (Actual/Appraisal).
/b   In:iudes days spent by  supervision mistions on Identificiation/preparation
and supervision of other projects.
Le   A a AXriculturalict; E : Economist; F a Financial Analyst;
I = Agroindustrles Specialist; L a Livestock Specialist; 0 a Loan Officer.
/d   1 a Problem-fre  or  minor  problems;  2 a  Moderate  problems; 8 a major
problem.
Le   1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary; 8 = Deteriorating.
/t   F a Financial; M a Managerial; 0 a Other; Ta Technical.



PROJET PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1801-YU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
The Third Agricultural Credit Project was a further line of credit
supporting nationwide inatitutional credit through the lead participating
bank (Voj'odJanska Banks of Novi Sed, Vojvodina) which on-lent to a bank in
each of the other republics and provinces. These lines of credit supported
the Goverrment's efforts to develop the less developed regions, through
ciedit to botb the individual farming sector and the social sector (the
latter for agroindustrial purposes).   Specific objectives were to increase
production to niaet domestic and export demands for agricultural products,
to increase the productivity and employment opportunities of the individual
farm sector and to improve the management and operations of the eight par-
ticipating banks.
Design. Cost and Financing
The project followed the design of the first two projects with the
addition of an agroindustry study, and with allocation of 70% of the Loan
to the individual sector and half of Loan proceeds to less developed repub-
lics and provinces.   Total  project  costs were estimated at about US$316
million, of which US$100 million (322) was foreign exchange. The Bank Loan
was for US$86 million (272 of total costs) and the financing percentage for
the social sector was set low at 202 to permit cofinancing of agroindustry
subprojects. The Loan was expected to disburse over four years.
On-lending interest rates, which had been an issue from the first
project, continued as under the first two projects and a Bank-assisted
industrial  credit  project.    Meanwhile,  a  second  interest  rate study
financed by the Bank was nearing completion and it was agreed that any
agreed changes to on-lending interest rates would be applied under the
project.
Implementation and Results
Subproject commitments and therefore disbursement of the Loan were
i             delayed from the outset of the  project.   (At the time Yugoslav Bank staff
were still heavily engaged in committing funds from the second line of
credit.) Demand from the social sector was lower than expected and commit-
ments eventually achieved only 222 of project costs compared with 402 esti-
mated at appraisal.



- vi -
Initial delays were caused by the need to identify subprojects and
complete feasibility studies; there were difficulties reaching consensus on
priorities; there was a shortage of local funds in participating banks, as
well as a shortage of investor capital; and procurement problems delayed
contracting thereby contributing to some investors losing interest arld
withdrawing. Overriding and contributing to these problems there was a
rapidly deteriorating economic environment which discouraged investor inte-
rest, especially from the social sector (inflation exceeded 60% at times
and the Dinar depreciated twenty fold from 1979-1986).
Investments actually made differed significantly from appraisal
projections, particularly in th%t livestock investments rose from 22S at
appraisal to 501 of project costs, with the main emphasis being on dairy
production and processing.
Slow commitment and disbursement required extension of the Closing
Date twice following agreement by the Government and Borrower to an Action
Program designed to address the principal issues and constraints on project
implementation. The ambitious Action Program was only partially implemen-
ted, partly because it was agreed very late in the implementation period.
Also, in the audit's judgement, the Actic i Program was over-ambitious in
expecting changes, in the project context, which were too broad.
The interest rate issue had been a subject of dialogue between the
Bank and Government since the first credit, but during the course of the
project this dialogue was more properly taken up under the first structural
adjustment loan. Despite this being the third project in a series, pro-
curement problems and delays continued to create unusual demands on Bank
staff time. In the social sector, 25 investments were made, mainly in
dairy processing, milk collection and meat and food processing. These
investments were made in the face of increasingly difficult macroeconomic
conditions, declining export demand and domestic marketing problems. In
particular, there was excess processing capacity in some parts of the
country resulting mainly from neighboring republics and provinces pursuing
uncoorcinated agroindustrial expansion plans.    The number of borrowers in
the individual sector exceeded appraisal targets by 44% (15,042 compared
with 10,468).
Production, Beneficiaries and Returns
Given that subloan categories financed differed greatly from those
expected at appraisal, the production impact of the project was also dif-
ferent from that envisaged  at  appraisal.   Milk production and processing
was by far the predominant activity, followed by other livestock production
and meat and vegetable processing.
Following the pattern established under the earlier projects,
farmer beneficiaries were mainly those individual farmers who had close
long-term associations with social sector agroindustries. (The exclusion
of other farmers was a problem identified at appraisal but not effectively
resolved.) Most of these farm families draw only about half their income
from agriculture and are not the poorest section of the rural population.



- vii -
The project had no specific poverty alleviation obj ctives and clearly the
main impact as not on those most in need in the countryside.
Inadequate information was available to estimate overall rates of
return, both financial and economic, for the third project In isolation,
but the audit does not take issue with the PCR's assumption that they would
not differ greatly from those calculated for the second project. These
range from between 13% and 24% for both financial and economic rates of
return except for fruit and vegetable  processing at 10%.  Much will depend
on future government policies and development of the world and Yugoslav
economic situttion with respect to how the subprojects and individual proj-
ects fare in the future.    With respect to institutional performance, pro-
fits were made by the Borrower (VB) throughout the mid-1980s and the PCR
notes that the Borrower's financial performance was better than that of
many Yugoslav banks.
Sustainabilitv
Sustainability of project benefits will depend to a great extent
on future economic developments, both internally and externally. Some
rationalization of agroindustrial processing capacity is warranted, and
this could affect some project investments, both positively and negatively.
Findings
The findings of the audit suggest that the project, together with
the earlier two projects, was successful in assisting the Government and
the banks to better define an approach towards regional disparities, helped
to orient investment policies and priorities towards the predominant indi-
vidual sector, contributed to the Government's effort to rationalize the-
agroindustrial subsector, improved the subproject selection and preparation
process of the participating banks, made some contribution (despite overall
problems) to improved procurement methods in Yugoslavia, and finally, con-
tributoe  to the introduction  of  monitoring  and evaluation of larger sub-
loans.
Issues and Lessons
The major issues identified by the audit weres
(a) the timing of the Loan was premature considering the stage of
commitment and di,oursement of the previous Loans (and this
lei to subsequent problems on this third Loan (paras. 41-44);
(b) the dialogue on interest rate policy in the context of these
specific agricultural sectcr projects was ineffective and
only started to become more effective when it was taken up
under the structural adjustment discussions (para. 45);
(c) the approval of a line of credit fcr large agroindustry
investments, which had not been identified beforehand, is
difficult to understand in retrospect, given the concerns



- viii -
about agroindustry over-capacity and weaknesses of the PBs
(SAR, para. 4.05 and PPM, para. 46);1I
(d) resolution of the procurement difficulties was, in the
audit's judgement, more appropriate in a country context in
the interest of reaching a better understanding with the
Yugoslav authorities and reducing the amount of high-cost
Bank staff time involved in each procurement contract (paras.
49-52); and
(e) the Bank did not adequately deal with the ineffectual super-
vision by the borrowing bank (VB) of participating banks and,
in turn, the inadequate supervision by participating bank of
subborrowers (paras. 53-54).
The third line of credit was not followed by a similar operation,
but Bank support was disaggregated into different types of projects for
specific republics and provinces, some of which contain credit components.
Some of the issues raised in this audit would probably be more manageable
in such smaller-scope  projects.    General  points relating to procurement
policy (and the role of Bank staff in procurement during implementation)
and the timing of such lines of credit, are :L.sues for attention by Bank
management.
1/   Regional staff take issue with  this  finding on the grounds that
in the context of the Bank's overall lending in all sectors to
Yugoslav banks, the decision was correct at the time. The audit
notes that  the  decision was  questioned  at  the  time, and on
grounds that proved prophetic.



- 1 -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUN
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1801-YU)
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUWD
Obiectives
1.       In the 1970s, the Bank pursued a general lending strategy in Yugo-
slavia with the following objectivess
(a) support of the Yugoslav efforts to accelerate development in the
less developed regions;
(b) promotion of agricultural development in both the individual and
social sectors;
(c) encouragement of structural reforms in major sectors; and
(d) alleviation of critical foreign exchange shortages.
Within the framework of the agricultural development plan, the Bank's main
thrust in the social sector was to support the expansion of agroindustrial
processing rather than an increase in primary production. In the individ-
ual sector the Bank supported primary agricultural production, recognizing
in particular the growth potential and comparative advantage of labor-
intensive  production  of   livestock   products,  fruits  and  vegetables.
Throughout this period both Yugoslavia and the Bank increased their commit-
ment to develop the individual sector. The Third Agricultural Credit Proj-
ect (AC III) continued the approach of the first two projects (AC I and AC
II)1/ through the following three objectives:
(a) to meet increasing domestic Lid export demands for a variety of
primary and processed agricultural products;
(b) to increase the productivity, employment opportunities and incomes
of the individual farmer sector (the poorest and least developed
section of the economy); and
(c)  to contribute to institution  building  in the eight participating
banks (PB) by improving  their  project preparation, appraisal and
administrative techniques.
!1    The First Agricultural Credit Project (AC I) was approved in June 1975
with a Bank Loan of US$50.0 million and closed a year late on December
31, 1980. The Second Agricultural Credit Project (AC II) was approved
in July 1977 with a Loan of US$75.0 million and closed over two years
late on August 31, 1983, with US$1.4 million cancelled.



-2 -
A further new objective of this third project was to increase the PBs'
access to international capital markets through encouragement of cofinan-
cing, in keeping with the Bank's resource mobilization strategy for middle-
income countries.
2.       The project sought co increase  cooperation between the social and
individual sectors, concentrating on each sector's comparative advantage.
The individual sector was seen as offering the greatest potential for
lncreasing agricultural production as it owns 852 of the country's arable
land and over 902 of the livestock, and employs about 95Z of the agricul-
tural labor force.    Productivity  in  the  individual  sector was low and
underemployed family labor was available.   Complementing these points, the
social sector was seen to possess the technical skills, means and institu-
tional framework to undertake agroindustry investments, thereby providing
the marketing and processing outlets for individual sector production.
Desitn
3.       The project followed the  design  of  the earlier two projects and
was in effect a further timeslice of funding through the same on-lending
channels. A Bank mission in April 1978, in cooperation with the Federal
Committee for Agriculture and the Borrower, Vojvodjanska Banka-Udruzena
Bank& (VB), identified the Third Agricultural Credit Project. The project
was prepared, for the first time, 'y VB with contributions from the Federal
Committee for Agriculture and the Institute for Agricultural Economics in
Belgrade. During preparation three Bank missions reviewed progress and
among other things requested further analysis of the agroindustry subsec-
tor, including analysis of food product markets.
4.       The preparation report received by  the  Bank in January 1979 pro-
posed a project with the following features:
(a) an equal split of Loan proceeds between the individual sector
(13,300 subloans for vegetables, fruit, hops and livestock produc-
tion) and the social sector (17 subloans for processing facilities
for vegetables, fruit, milk and meat; 80 milk collection stations;
and irrigation development of 5,000 ha);
(b) allocation of half of Loan proceeds for less developed republics
and provinces;
(c) total project costs of about US$250 million, of which US$100 mil-
lion (40Z) was foreign exchange; and
(d) continuation of organizational arrangements as under the two pre-
ceding projects. The borrower was to be VB as before, which would
on-lend to seven participating banks, one in each of the republics
and provinces. VB would itself on-lend to subborrowers in Vojvo-
dina.21
2/   The foreign exchange risk of  individual  borrowers was to be borne by
the republics and provinces, but by social sector and subborrowers
directly.    With  the  rapid   devaltation  of  the  Dinar,  however,
Government authorities assumed the risk from 1984 for the principal
amounts of loans to the social sector.



5.       At appraisal the allocationi of  the  Loan to the individual sector
was increased to 602 and provision was made for a nationwide agroindustrial
study. At negotiations it was agreed that the study would be carried out
with local staff and domestic funds, although remaining part of the proj-
ect. Following field appraisal, to make room for potential cofinancing of
the social sector,3/ the Bank Loan was reduced from the appraisal mission's
recommendation of US$111 million to US$86 million, the allocation of the
Bank Loan to the individual sector was raised to 702 and the financing
percentage of the social sector was reduced to 202.
6.       On-lending interest rates  had  been  an  issue  from the start of
agricultural credit operations with Bank funds in the mid-1970s and conse-
quently an interest rate study was financed under the first project. Since
the ensuing report was considered inadequate by the Bank, a follow-up study
was included in the second project.   During preparation of the third proj-
oct it was intended that the second study would be completed before the
third project came on-stream so that agreed findings could be reflected in
the project. In the event the second study was delayed such that rather
than hold up processing of the project, it was mutually agreed that revised
rates arising out of discussion of the study findings would be applied to
new on-lending under the third Loan. Meanwhile, on-lending conditions were
to continue as under both the two ongoing agricultural credit projects and
the Bank-assisted industrial credit project.
Proiect Context
7.       Although the project was  the  third  in  a series, it followed so
closely after approval of the slow-disbursing first and second projects
(June 1975 and July 1977) that, at the time of appraisal (May 1979), there
were no independent evaluations available  of  the performance of the first
two projects (the PPARs for AC I and AC II are dated May 1984 and December
1985, respectively). This rapid processing of several projects in a series
closely parallels similar situations in this and other sectors where rap-
idly following projects cannot benefit fully from the experience of earlier
projects. In consequence, the experience related in this PPAR, including
the lessons learned, are similar in many respects to the PPARs for AC I and
AC II.
8.       The PCR (paras.  1.05  and  1.06)  summarizes  the findings of the
PPARs on AC I and AC II, noting in particular "modest contribution to
improving on-lending procedures and accelerating the rates of commitment
and disbursementz."
Finance Pip..
9.       As negotiated total  project  cost  was  estimated  to be US$316.0
million equivalent, of which primary production by the individual sector
was allocated US$188 million, agroindustries by the social sector were
allocated US$127.8 and the agroindustry study was to cost US$200,000. The
Bank Loan (US$86.0 million) was to finance 772 of the estimated foreign
exchange cost of the project, with subborrowers contributing 202 of total
3/   In accordance  with  general  Bank  policy  at  the  time to encourage
cofinancing in middle-income countries.



costs, or US$63.4 million. The balance of the project cost, US$166.6 mil-
lion, was to be provided by VB and the PBs, federal and republic funds, and
cofinancing to be identified for inadividual agroindustry subprojects.4/ The
Loan was to be disbursed over four years.
Implementation Plan
10.      The Bank Loan was made as  before to VB with Government guarantee.
VB had established a new unit for the first two credit projects, the Proj-
ect Operations Department, with specific responsibility for implementing
the Bank-funded agricultural credit projects.    Funds for on-lending by VB
to the seven PBs were allocated in the appraisal report to each republic or
province against four categories of primary production and eight categories
of agroindustry.   The  Loan Agreement,  however,  allocated funds only to
either primary production (Part A of the project) or agroindustrial sub-
loans (Part B of the project), thereby allowing the necessary flexibility
in response to demand.   (This  proved  to be a fortunate arrangement given
project outcomes, as  discussed  below.)   Allocations  favored the poorer
regions.
11.      Implementation arrangements were essentially the same as those for
the first and second projects.  The Loan was expected t2 4Xe-- - 'ver four
years with the first third disbursing over the first two years, followed by
a third of the Loax. in each of the third and fourth years. Apart from the
usual conditionality relating to project implementation and procedures, the
main special conditionality was completion of the agroindustrial study
according to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and application of
agreed conclusions of the interest rate study financed under AC II and on-
lending under the project.
12.      Coordination and policy  issues  at  the  national  level were the
responsibility of the Federal Coordination Committee which was established
for this purpose under the Federal Committee for Agriculture under AC I.
The Federal Committee for Agriculture was responsible for carrying out the
agroiadustry study.
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
Start-up
13.      From the very early days of project identification and preparation
there was concern about the timing of this third project so soon after the
first and second, while both of those projects were moving slower than
41   The entry of the cofinancing option at a late stage of loan processing
in mid-1979,  at   the   Bank's   insistence  and  over Yugoslavia's
reluctance, absorbed a large amount of Bank and Yugoslav staff time.
The issue was complicated by the government practice (as is the law)
of not authorizing general uncommitted lines of foreign commercial
credit to the banks, but instead allowing foreign borrowing kx
individual banks for specific subprojects as required. In the event,
cofinancing was not raised to support any subprojects.



expected and were far from fully committed or disbursed. Throughout prepa-
ration further processing of the project was held hostage to satisfactory
progress in committing and disbursing funds under the second project. Even
so, by the time of project approval in early 1980 only 81 of AC II had been
disbursed (19X of the appraisal estimate) although commitments were repor-
ted to have reached 'almost  80%."    Proceeding  with the project was then
justified on the basis of a projected financing gap if AC II progressed as
expected.
14.      The first supervision mission (April 1980) was prior to effective-
ness (two months late, in August 1980) and reported posit! ely on progress
of PBs towards identifying and preparing subprojects. From then on, how-
ever, the files show continual concern that commitments and disbursements
lagged well behind appraisal  projections.    At  this time, of course, the
same PB staff responsible for this project were also under pressure to make
up the backlog of commitments and disbursements on AC II. (In the event
the second Loan closed 26 months late, on August 31, 1983, with US$1.4
million cancelled.)   Commitment  performance  was  uneven  by republic and
province, with several regions being especially slow throughout compared
with appraisal expectations.
Sequence
15.      From the outset  demand  and  take-up  from  the social sector for
agroindustrial loans was lower than expected.  Social sector agroindustrial
investments eventually achieved only 22% of project costs compared with 401
estimated at appraisal, with a partially compensating increase in lending
for the individual sector from 602 to 73%. Over the first five quarters of
operations, disbursements rose from nothing in the first three quarters to
only a third of appraisal estimates by September 1981, and to less than a
half by September 1984 when the revised schedule was applied following the'
extension of the Loan Closing Date (see Annex 7 of the PCR).
16.      Initial delays were caused by the need to identify subprojects and
carry out feasibility studies (with PBs noting that feasibility studies,
especially market reviews, were a new onerous requirement introduced by the
Bank after project approval).5/ Investors and the participating banks
reported  the  following  causes  of  delay  and  lower  uptake:    (a) the
difficulty of reaching consensus on investment priorities; (b) shortage of
local funds in PBs due to credit ceilings imposed under the Government's
stabilization  program;  (c)   shortage   of   investor  capital;  and  (d)
procurement problems which delayed contracting thereby contributing to some
51   Specific details on subproject preinvestment  studies are given in the
SAR (para. 4.08) and are reflected in the Loan Agreement (Section 3.02
and Schedule 5), including on market prospects. The apparent lack of
knowledge of these agreed procedures by PB staff perhaps indicates
inadequate attention by both the Bank and VB to ensuring that all
participants  fully  understood   the  project's  objectives,  design,
organization and procedures.   The so-called "project launch' meetings
and seminars organized in some sectors for Bank-assisted projects are
an attempt to overcome just such communications failures.



-6-
investors losing interest and withdrawing.61 In addition, the rapidly
deteriorating  economic  environment   affected  social  sector  investment
incentives and plans because of rising costs, import restrictions, reduced
export prospects and  lower  domestic  demand.    During the project period
inflation often exceeded 60% and the Dinar wad devalued twentyfold.
17.      Even more dramatically, there was  a major  shift in the types of
enterprises financed. Lending for livestock investments, both production
and processing (dairies and milk collecting stations), rose from a projec-
ted 22% at appraisal to 50% of project cost, with a corresponding decline
in lending for crop production from the appraisal estimate of 22% to only
4%. By far the biggest single shift was towards financing of dairy produc-
tion, both milk production in the individual sector and collecting stations
and dairies for the social sector.
18.      Slow commitment and  disbursement  required  that the Closing Date
was extended by 21 months to December 31, 1986 following agreement by the
Government and Borrower to an Action Program (AP) designed to address the
principal issues and constraints on project implementation. These con-
straints were considered to be:    (a) only those individual sector farmers
who were associated (through their cooperative) with social sector enter-
prises for marketing purposes were being financed;7/ (b) inadequate
deve'lopment orientation of the PBs and their failure to perform as
independent financial intermediaries; (c) minimal involvement of the PBs in
monitoring and supervising t'.c physical implementation of subprojects; (d)
lack of appropriately trained staff in the participating banks; (e)
inefficient coordination between VB and the PBs; (f) deficient project
management in VB; and (g) poor financial prospects for agroindustry
enterp.rises.
19.      The Loan Agreement was  amended  in  October  1985 and the Closing
Date extended, initially by one year, to March 31, 1986 (although by then
half of the extension period had already passed). The principal amendments
were (a) applying a variable  and  adjustable  interest  rate, and (b) the
earmarking by the Borrower (VB) and four  of the PBs of US$0.3 million each
for individual subborrowers who would be allowed to repay in cash instead
6/   The  unusual  understanding  reached  with  the  Bank  (but apparently
unrecorded) that all contract documents would be sent for prior review
(despite clauses in the legal documents exempting 39 of 42 contracts)
is discussed further below.
7/   During appraisal the limitation this  placed on credit demand from the
individual subsector was recognized but the SAR is weak on dealing
with the issue, stating only (para. 4.06) that "direct applications
would be expected in areas where no cooperative arrangements exist or
where farmers prefer direct borrowing."    The Loan Agreement does not
reflect  any  measure   to   facilitate   or  encourage  such  broader
participation of individual farmers. This effective limitation on the
participation of a large part of the individual subsector detracts
from the project objective of ostensibly financing primary production
by the individual subsector, and achieving some degree of equity
impact by especially focusing on poorer areas.



-7-
of the comon practice of paying in produce.8/ The AP, however, as
reflected in the amendments, was ambitious at such a late stage of project
implementation and, in the event, several of the provisions were not
adhered to, namely: (a) the agroindustrial portfolio review and financial
restructuring; (b) the employment of consultants; (c) the training program
for the staff of PBs; (d) improved supervision of investments of individual
subloans;  and  (e)  establishing  a marketing  information  system.   The
Borrower notes, and the audit confirms, that the AP was over-complex and
did not reflect  a  firm  consensus.    It  therefore  had little chance of
success in the  short  time  remaining.    The  audit  notes  also that the
commitment of the Borrower and the Government to the AP may not have been
as firm as was assumed by Bank staff at the time that agreement was
apparently reached.
Interest Rates and Inflation
20.      Whereas the on-lending interest rate  for the Bank portion of sub-
project financing was 112, inflation throughout much of the implementation
period exceeded 50Z per annum.   The effects of highly negative real inter-
est rates are discussed at length in the PCR (paras. 3.10-3.13). Apart
from the well understood financial and economic distortions resulting from
such highly subsidized interest rates, the main points of concern to the
Bank are the relatively ineffectual dialogue that took place with the Gov-
ernment in the context of these three agricultural credit projects over a
long period, given especially that the series financed two interest rate
studies. In the event, it was only in 1983 during discussions on the first
structural adjustment loan that progress appeared to be made on this diffi-
cult issue. The Government's subsequent letter of development policy set
out a scheme to progressively raise on-lending interest rates towards posi-
tive levels. Even so, rates were not raised as originally agreed and
inflation accelerated, thus further worsening the situation.
Procurement
21.      Despite this being the third  project  in  a series handled by the
same banks and, for the most part, the same Yugoslav staff, with the first
project having been approved some five years earlier, procurement problems
were persistent.  The Bank  and  the Yugoslav authorities apparently failed
to find a modus vivendi whereby Yugoslav procurement laws and practices on
the one hand and the Bank's procurement guidelines on the other could be
operationally reconciled.    The  interface  between  these two conflicting
systems can be characterized as an imperfect compromise reached in some
cases on an ad hoc basis for each contract.
22.      The PCR  (para.  3.16)  attributed  procurement  problems to skill
deficiencies in the banks, but the audit believes that the problem is not
that simple. There should have been good knowledge of Bank procedures in
Yugoslavia. Senior staff from the Yugoslav banks, government sub-borrowers
and contractors attended procurement seminars held by the Bank in Yugo-
Al   It  is  unclear w4hether  this   measure   was  designed  to  open  up
participation to non-cooperators, or merely to allow cooperative
members the option of selling produce privately and repaying with the
proceeds.



slavia and specialized and experienced Bank procurement expertise was
involved in early supervisions and in a divisional management role later
during project implementation.    Furthermore,  VB's procurement specialist
visited Bank Headquarters for training. Nonetheless, procurement documen-
tation problems persisted and, the Borrower maintains, contributed to
delayed commitment and disbursements, including being a factor in some
major subborrowers withdrawing their interest after much initial subproject
work had been undertaken. This suggests that lack of knowledge was not the
problem.
23.      The audit, while noting the  remarkable  amount of Bank staff time
(as evidenced by file documents) spent on detailed procur2ment aspects
throughout implementation, attributes the main problem to a persistent lack
of commitment of the Yugoslav authorities to applying the Bank's guidelines
wherever these cut across customary and traditional local practices.
(There is also the probability, noted by Bank staff, that VB could use the
Bank's procurement decisions as a shield against insistent PBs and sub-
borrowers). Even so, the Bank, in the audit's view, must also bear respon-
sibility for not adequately dealing (on a country basis) with the interface
problem at the outset.   The  Bank  also apparently has not appreciated the
extent to which some senior Yugoslav bank officials still remain unsure of
the Bank's procedures and terminology,9/ thereby compounding lack of
commitment  with  confusion   and   misunderstandings   in  the  course  of
procurement processing.
24.      An example of an  imperfect  compromise was on turnkey contracting
for agroindustry units, which the Borrower rejected as not acceptable. The
negotiated compromise was that the Borrower would have to make the case for
an exception to turnkey contracting for each subproject, if other procure-
ment methods were preferred.    Thereafter  the  Borrower proceeded to rou-
tinely request an exception for every subproject, with consequent delays in
subproject implementation and additional calls on Bank staff resources.
25.      There is also concern that  the  Bank apparently was happy to con-
tinue to muddle through these procurement problems on a case by case basis,
using inordinate amounts of staff time (some of which may have not been
especially experienced or qualified in procurement), rather than taking
more concrete steps to ensure that the Borrower had available the required
procurement expertise and that the details of procurement procedures were
internalized in the Yagoslav agencies.101 The issue therefore remains of
whether such detailed procurement work by Bank professional staff, on a
routine basis, is an appropriate use of such costly staff over the many
9/   For example, it appeared  to  the  audit  mission that senior staff in
Yugoslavia  often  equate   international  competitive  bidding  (ICB)
exclusively  with  imported  goods,   and   vice  versa,  and  locally
advertised procurement exclusively with domestic goods, and vice
versa.
10/ Thus in other countries technical assistance staff have been used to
handle procurement where in-country expertise is lacking, including
training local staff, and also in some cases contracts have been given
to procurement agencies where local capability and significant volumes
of supply contracts indicate this to be justified.



- 9 -
years that this and other Yugoslav projects have experienced procurement
difficulties.
Loan Amendments/Covenants
26.      There were  several  amendments  to  the  Loan  documents and some
reallocation of proceeds, given that social sector investments were much
less than anticipated and that it was expected for a time that the individ-
ual sector could take up the slack, as described more fully in the PCR
(paras. 3.17-3.18). In particular, an amendment of the project description
in 1984 allowed for the financing of permanent working capital for live-
stock operations in the  individual  sector.    Other major loan amendments
were made in the context of the 1985 AP (PCR, para. 3.06).
Outcomes
27.      Given that the subloan  categories  financed differed greatly from
those expected at appraisal (PCR, paras. 4.01-4.08), with dairy farms and
broiler farms by number of investments being respectively almost 600X and
over 4001 more than projected at appraisal, the production output of the
project was quite different from that envisaged at appraisal. However,
detailed estimates of production impact are not available.
28.      With respect to beneficiaries,  the  pattern established under the
earlier two projects continued insofar as investors in dairy, sheep and pig
farms had farms which ranged from twice to over three times the size of the
country average (3.7 ha).   Also,  similar  to  the finding for AC II, more
than half the farm household members were employed off the farm. Thus the
project's main beneficiaries were higher-income small farmers from house-
holds with diversified income, who are distinguished from other less advan-
taged farmers by being long-term cooperators with the social sector agro-
industries  which  provide  their  secure  market.    These  borrowers were
required to continue the customary practice of repaying loans in kind, in
the form of produce delivered to the agroindustry unit, thereby excluding
farmers without marketing contracts who may wish to repay in cash. In
effect, in the audit's view, this qualifies the extent to which the Bank's
intention of funding  individual  farmers  (i.e., private sector producers)
can be regarded as successful.   Although  the Bank negotiated under the AP
for some funds to be specifically allocated to financing farmers who could
repay loans in cash, this couia have little impact so late in the project's
life. The project did not have any specific poverty alleviation objectives
and clearly its main impact was not on those most in need in the country-
side.
Social Sector
29.      Twenty-five investments  were  made,  mainly  in dairy processing,
milk collection and meat  and  food  processing.   These investments faced
difficulties resulting from a shortage of raw materials, declining domestic
demands for output (resulting from the austerity measures), low export
prices compared with the production costs, and management problems in agro-
industry companies.  A  shortage  of  raw  materials  was  often caused by
intense competition between processing units obtaining supplies from the
same areas. This reflects in some cases the establishment of excess prc-
cessing capacity in neighboring republics and provinces in pursuit of the



- 10 -
uncoordinated agroindustry plans of such neighboring administrations. One
of the main objectives of the agroindustry study (para. 5) was to study
market demands as they relate to present and rtojected capacity, and
thereby to permit rationalization of current and future capacity across the
borders of republics and provinces.
Economic and Financial Performances
30.      The Institute for  Agricultural  Economics  (IAE)  in Belgrade was
contracted to monitor project performance. The Borrower's PCR accepted the
financial and economic rate of return estimates by the institute. The PCR
prepared by Bank staff, however (para. 5.02), expresses strong reservations
about these estimates based on several factors which together would indi-
cate that the real rates of return were lower than those estimated by IAE.
The Bank's PCR chooses to relate the financial and economic results of this
project with those calculated two years previously for the PCR of the
Second Agricultural Credit Project.    It  then suggests that given changed
circumstances the rates for the second project can be assumed to be the
upper boundaries of the likely range for the third project.11/
31.      The financial rates of return  range  from  131 to 24Z for various
individual sector enterprises, and 102 for vegetable processing under the
social sector (Table 4 of the PCR).   Rates for other social sector activi-
ties are not  presented.    Given  the wide  range of variables (inflation
rates, devaluation, cost increases, marYet changes and uncertainties about
the future prospects for processing industries), it is difficult to arrive
at firm conclusions on the likely prospects for such a broad group of
social sector investments. Cheap credit favored the financial performance
of these processing units, but the several other negative factors could
outweigh this single adv&ntage.
32.      The assumed upper boundaries for  the economic rates of returu are
very similar to the financial rates of return, in the range of 142 to 232
for individual sector activities and 102 for fruit and vegetable processing
in the social sector (PCR, Table 5). Clearly during an inflationary period
when cheap credit was available the demand by the individual sector for
infrastructure finance, and more generally for credit to expand production,
was a logical response.   Provided such investments are maintained, farmers
can be expected to benefit from these sunk costs during more stable condi-
tions in the future.
33.      The PCR suggests that the weighted  ERR for the project as a whole
is likely to  follow  that  reestimated  for  the  second  project.  In the
absence of evidence to the contrary, the audit accepts this judgement, with.
the caveat that much will depend on the future policies of Government as
they affect production incentives and rural produce markets.
11/  The audit notes, in any  case, that there are theoretical reservations
on calculating rates of return  to  credit projects (see Annual Review
of Project Performance Results, OED Report No. 5859, dated September
27, 1985).



- 11 -
Financial Performance of the Borrower (Voivodianska Banka)
34.      In early  1985,  late  in  the  implementation period, supervision
attention to accounting practices of the project PBs eventually led the
Bank to take a closer look through an agricultural sector study at Yugoslav
banking  practices  as  a whole.    This  work  contributed  to  a better
understanding by the Bank of how the banking system functioned and of
necessary accounting reforms. The PCR notes that accounting practices for
Yugoslav banks tend (by generally accepted international standards) to
overstate assets and equity and, when foreign exchange losses increase from
year to year, also  overstate  annual  income.    (Bank files indicate that
until the mid-1980s the Bank apparently accepted the unusual arrears
estimates of Yugoslav banks, which produced arrears figures much lower than
estimates  by  conventional  means.)    Even  so  the  PCR  notes  that the
Borrower's financial performance during the mid-1980s was generally better
than that of many Yugoslav  banks.    Profits were made throughout the mid-
1980s and the interest receipts from the loan portfolio increased.
35.      In contrast to  many  similar  series  of  financing operaLions of
agricultural credit programs through single institutions, the files provide
little if any information on the collection performance and arrears situa-
tion of the banks involved. The emergence of this issue towards the end of
the implementation perio4 of the project possibly reflects the interest and
skills of Bank staff involved and wider country concerns of the Bank,
rather than a change in performance of the Yugoslav banks. Analysis in the
mid-1980s indicated that although the  arrears of long-term loans increased
slightly from 14% to 16% of current maturities, the total value of long-
term loans in arrears declined significantly. The PCR notes that this is a
far better performance than  other  banks.    The  PCR  also notes that the
absence of adequate data on loan rescheduling is but one of the management
issues that needs to be addressed through the introduction of a management
information system in VB.
Sustainabil1ty
36.      The prospect for future benefits  being sustained are difficult to
judge in the current uncertain world economic climate and the impact this
is likely to have on Yugoslavian economic conditions, especially markets
for processed agricultaral products. Yugoslavia's overriding debt problems
are a major  determining  factor.    Clearly  some rationalization of agro-
industrial processing capacity is warranted, especially to overcome loca-
tion and raw material supply problems arising from investment decisions
being taken independently by the various republics and provinces. This
could affect some project investments, either way.
37.      The sustainability of investments in the individual sector will be
critically affected by future policy changes in response to economic condi-
tions, iacluding those policies affecting social sector agroindustries on
which individual sector investors predomitnantly depend for their markets.



- 12 -
III. FINDINGS AND ISSUES
Overview
38.      The series of three agricultural credit projects in a short period
of ten years made a significant impact on Yugoslavian institutional credit
operations for the agricultural sector.   The PCR's and the audit's discus-
sions in Yugoslavia reveal the following main positive impacts:
(a) Through this series of projects, and others, the Bank was able to
assist the Government to better define an approach towards
regional disparities and to select priority activities to redress
such  disparities.    The  Third  Credit  Project  reinforced this
effort.
(b) Similarly the series of agricultural credit projects helped to
orient the investment policies and priorities more towards the
predominant individual sector, although the Bank's apparent inten-
tion in the third project to provide assistance to individual
farmers who are not linked with the social sector bore little
fruit.
ic) Through the agroindustry study and the exchange of views on indi-
vidual social sector subprojects the Bank was able to make a con-
tribution towards the early stages of rationalizing the agroindus-
trial subsector, although it is not clear what hard results had
been achieved in this respect.
(d) The Bank made a commendable contribution through these agricul-
tural credit projects towards improving the subproject selection
and preparation process of the participating banks, including the
Introduction of  better  investment  criteria.    This  was highly
appreciated by Yugoslav bank staff (such criteria were introduced
more generally by law in 1987).
(e) Although the exchanges over ten years on procurement raise ques-
tions about the lack of understanding and agreement on procurement
practices between the Bank and Yugoslavia, the Borrower's staff
noted that the adoption of some of the Bank's procurement methods
has made a positive contribution to Yugoslav procurement prac-
tices, including on non-Bank funded procurement.
(f) The introduction through Bank intervention of monitoring and eval-
uation of larger loans was significant and appreciated as valuable
by Borrower staff.   However,  results  have been below the Bank's
expectations.
39.      Although  the  institutional  improvements  achieved  as discussed
above are important and significant, the audit questions whether these
advances are themselves an adequate result of some ten years of Bank
involvement with agricultural credit on a countrywide basis, including
close to US$200 million of funding.    Clearly  at the outset of a ten-year
period of involvement the Bank would have expected to have seen more sig-
nificant advances than  those  listed  above.    It  is  noteworthy in this



- 13 -
respect that the Bank's countrywide approach to supporting agricultural
credit was not continued after the third project but was disaggregated into
individual subsector projects for different republics and provinces, most
of which include agricultural  credit  components.    At the same time, the
macro policy issues, w:hich proved largely intractable in the project-
specific context, were appropriately  taker  over by the structural adjust-
ment lending dialogue from the early 1980s.
40.      In the light of current  concerns  there should now be some regret
that the Bank's agricultural credit operations were not more broadly based
on longer-term institutional,12/ human resources and financial sector
objectives, rather than being so heavily focused on the quick disbursement
of Bank funds to participating banks.
Findings and Lessons
(i) Timing of the Loan
41.      From *:he earliest stage of preparation only three years after AC I
was approved, oroject officers and a Central Projects Staff reviewer ques-
tioned whether the operation was premature given that the first Loan was
progressing slowly and that the second Loan had been approved less than a
year earlier.   Throughout  preparation  and  appraisal this issue surfaced
repeatedly but eventually became one of there being a possibility of a
financing gap if the Loan did not proceed as planned. This position was
developed on the basis of commitment  progress and expectations on the pre-
vious Bank Loans rather than disbursements which were lagging considerably.
42.      The audit concludes that approval  of  this third Loan in February
1980 was premature. Although the Bank's lending program may have had ade-
quate funds to support the Loan at the time, and the Government needed the
foreign exchange, the audit was advised that the Yugoslav banks were not in
need of additio,nal  funds  at  that  time.13/      Indeed  these banks have
expressed concern over the unnecessary commitmerit fees incurred for funds
they could not employ for some time.
12/ Regional staff report that, at the time, institutional development
needs in the participating banks of four of the less developed
republics were being addressed through Bank IDF lines of ir-1t.
13/ A Bank regional reviewer disagrees with this conclusion, noting that
the preparation report assessed a greater need than the eventual Loan
amount. This recollection, however, overlooks that the Loan amount
was reduced significantly (23%) at a late stage to make room for
expected cofinancing (pe.ra. 5).    The  audit notes, furthermore, that
there are sufficient file references to the possibility that the
proposed loan was premature (a position not idly taken by staff in the
Bank), supported by Yugoslav sources, to suggest that this was the
case. Most revealing, however, in this connection, mission terms of
reference during preparation specifically direct that the operation be
processed "in line with the Bank's timetable" rather than that the
timing issue be reviewed.



- 14 -
43.      Beyond this purely financial  issue,  the further more significant
institutional point is that from the very start of the third project the
attention and energies of both the Bank staff and the staff of the Yugoslav
banks was diverted towards catching up with an unrealistic comuitment pro-
jection, especially given greatly delayed commitments under the ongoing
second project. This commitment rate problem increased with the unexpected
declining demand for credit from the social sector as macroeconomic prob-
lems worsened. Consequently, rather than focusing on improving institu-
tional performance and providing supervision and backup support to existing
as well as new borrowers, much time and effort was devoted towards acceler-
ating commitments.14/    Although  initially  some  success was reported in
this respect, especially compared with the first two projects, it is
doubtful whether these pressures contributed positively towards the quality
of banking operations and of the subloans made.
44.      Although at around the Loan approval stage it was suggested that a
potential financial gap justified proceeding at that time with the third
Loan, this judgement appears to have rested unduly on an optimistic view of
the rate of commitment of the second Loan. The audit concludes that pres-
sure from the lending program was the main factor dictating processing
earlier rather than later, over the misgivings of some Bank staff, which
would have better suited the borrowing banks.
(ii) Interest Rates
45.      The interest rate issue,  which  took  up much time throughout the
implementation of all three projects until the early 1980s, is a further
example of inappropriately addressing a countrywide macroeconomic issue in
the context of an  individual  project.    It  is  now well understood that
addressing interest rate problems in the context of a single sector, let
alone a single project, is not helpful, and this is now being avoided in
the Bank. The Bank correctly transferred this issue to the SAL dialogue in
the early 1980s.
(iii) AMroindustry
46.      The agroindustrial study was proposed  by the Bank largely because
of over-capacity concerns. Also, it has been suggested that prior review
of all sociel sector agroindustry investment projects by the Bank was
partly to enable the Bank to guard against financing yet further over-capa-
city. Given this overriding capacity concern, which was evident before the
project was approved, a question exists as to whether a line of credit
approach, without subprojects having been identified befo3rehand, was an
14/ The Region takes issue with this judgement as "unsubstantiated and not
very  meaningful".    The  audit  notes,  however,  (a)  that  the low
commitment rate was the main issue raised by all the earlier
supervision missions in their reports and in letters to Yugoslavia,
(b) that staff of PBs had similar concerns, and (c) that the PCR
states that "the Bank's impact on institution building has been
marginal" (para. 7.03) and that "supervision of the subprojects by the
borrower was largely ineffective" (para. 6.02).



-15 -
appropriate mode for Bank financing.15/ Since these subprojects were quite
large (in the range of US$5 million to US$20 million total cost), a less
risky and perhaps less labor-intensive approach would have been to proceed
with identification and feasibility study of subprojects in a group before
approval of the  Bank  Loan.    This  of  course  would have required later
comnitment of Bank funds with consequent impact on the lending program.
This approach would also have  overcome  the  need for a spurious degree of
projection on the subproject mix, which estimates proved largely invalid on
this and VB's two earlier Bank Loans.16/
(iv) Managing an Unsatisfactory Operation
47.      Having processed the project too  early  in the lending cycle, and
not having adequately accelerated commitments  during most of the implemen-
tation period, the Bank was left with the problem of how to bring the proj-
ect to a satisfactory conclusion.   The  approach adopted took so much time
to formulate and negotiate with the Borrower that by the time it was agreed
the original one-year extension of the Closing Date left only about six
months to implement the so-called AP.   The Borrower noted that the lengthy
period during which the AP was being defined and agreed amounted to a hia-
tus in processing new lending, such that any momentum built up in the
system until this point was lost. The AP itself was both too ambitious and
not feasible in the time  available.    In particular it received sensitive
policy changes which were not in the purview of the Borrower.17/ Further-
more, in the audit's judgement, there should have been misgivings at the
time as to the strength of the commitment of the Yugoslav authorities and
banks to aspects of the action program which had repercussions beyond the
immediate project.18/
15/  This issue was raised in the Bank during Loan processing.
16/  The Region points out that "under the regional development projects in
Yugoslavia, the Bank actually tilted towards more extensive pre-
appraisal and 'tighter' loan  agreements.   Unfortunately, the changed
economic circumstances in the country, especially the accelerating
inflation, affected the pre-identified and appraised investments in
different degrees, requiring a continuous change in the investment mix
which these agreements do not permit without extensive amendments. In
fact, in some instances, the degree of detailed specification of
project investments introduced an element of rigidity and delay in
implementation."
17/ For example, the Region now notes that individual farmers not
associated with the social sector "were not creditworthy prospects"
since the social sector monopolized marketing whereas the AP proposed
increased lending to such farmers.
18/  The Region maintains that  the  AP  was  not ambitious, largely on the
basis of it being part of a wider sector strategy, through all on-
going projects, to address the "crisis situation". To the extent that
it 'succeeded in making the Government at least cognizant of the
fundamental/structural problems afflicting the sector" the effort was
considered worthwhile.



- 16 -
48.      The lesson from this  experience  relates  again  to the timing of
project approvals, and to the string of consequences such premature approv-
als generate. This unnecessarily creates work for the Bank and borrowers
in a futile attempt to resolve problems which should not have arisen in the
first place. Rash expectations (in this case the AP) are thereby encour-
aged to surface in the process of resolving an intractable problem.
(v) Bank Procurement Processes and Organization
49.      The procurement history of the  project raises a number of serious
concerns about the Bank's procurement practices and procedures. Assuming
that experience under the first two agricultural credit projects (and other
operations in Yugoslavia) had fully acquainted Bank staff with the lack of
complementarity of the Bank's procurement guidelines with customary Yugo-
slav practices, it is unfortunate that the Bank apparently had not taken a
more countrywide position on procurement.
50.      First, a workable interface  was  needed  between the two systems,
such that the enormous amount of procurement work generated by individual
projects could be reduced.   The  audit  noted that much of the procurement
work tended to be repetitious, indicating either lack of learning or con-
tinued lack of acceptance of the Bank's methods by Yugoslav authorities, or
in contrast, was somewhat ad hoc on a case-by-case basis, possibly in order
to permit investments to proceed. The volume of file materials on procure-
ment, including on disputes and misunderstandings, is eloquent testimony to
the staff and skill intensity of such detailed work. In the event it was
fortunate but odd that the operating division concerned appeared to have
adequate resources to devote to such detailed work over long periods.
51.      Second, since this heavy  procurement  workload  was not unique to
this particular Yugoslav project, the question is posed of why a more effi-
cient long-term solution to providing the necessary skills to Yugoslavia,
together with necessary overview by the Bank, was not provided (i.e., by
technical assistance or procurement  agencies).    The audit concludes that
the work remained in-house partly because there were resources available to
handle it, but questions whether such long-term detailed procurement work
is the best use of high-cost Bank staff.
52.      Third, and more generally,  this procurement experience represents
a clear example of a failed policy requiring urgent attention by Bank man-
agement. The fact that procurement arrangements require the continual,
detailed and laborious participation of Bank technical staff, some of whom
have little professional interest or training in such paralegal work, indi-
cates a major organization and managerial deficiency. The Bank's practice
of requiring professional agronomists, educators, economists and the like
to become part-time contract lawyers, often against the wishes of such
specialist staff, is in contrast to there being separate legal and dis-
bursement arms to handle those aspects of lending. The audit concludes
that one reason that this anomaly has continued for so long is that the
consequences of inexpert and delayed procurement work are less concrete and
evident than such problems would be in the legal and disbursement fields.



- 17 -
(vi)  Subborrower and PB Supervision
53.      Although some  institutional  achievements  are  listed above, the
main failing remains that the Yugoslav Banks never adopted meaningful pro-
grams of subborrower supervision and the borrowing bank (VB) did not ade-
quately supervise the participating banks.
54.      The audit's review of  the  files  indicates that this problem was
well known throughout tk4e project cycle, but that apart from exhortation
and pressure, inadequate steps appear to have been taken by the Bank to
improve matters. Since this pattern of inadequate supervision appears to
have been established under the earlier projects, it is unfortunate that
the Bank did not follow up at project design and negotiations to ensure
that the necessary supervision was  provided.   One explanation may be that
other concerns, discussed above, such as the heavy procurement workload and
the delayed commitment of Bank funds, took attention away from this
problem.
Issues Arising
55.      Since the Bank did not  pursue a fourth agricultural credit opera-
tion on a countrywide basis, but disaggregated its support through
republic- and province-specific projects, some of the issues arising could
probably be handled in the more manageable context of these smaller scope
projects. Similarly, the interest rate issue was taken up under structural
adjustment. The more general issues of the Bank's procurement policy and
how severe conflicts with borrower practices can be resolved more effi-
ciently, the role of Bank staff in situations where there are prolonged
procurement problems, and the issue of the appropriate timing of such line
of credit operations, are not specific to this project, or country, but
warrant the attention of Bank management.



- 19 -
Attachment 1
1AI656
203 N.SAD '1'-
NO 1591
10.6.1988
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ATTN. MR. GRAHAM DONALDSON, CHIEF
OPERATION'S EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
UASHINGTON D.C. 20433
UE THANK YOU FOR YOUR COVER LETTER OF MAY 16. 1998 ATTACHED TO A
COPY OF PPAR. CONSISTING OF PPAM AND PCR FOR THE THIRD AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 1801 YU)
UE HAVE CAREFULLY READ BOTH REPORTS. OUR OPINION AND RESERVES UHICH
UE HAD ON DRAFT PCR. PREPARED BY EMENA REGIONAL OFFICE (AGRICULTURE
III DIVISION) IN AUGUST 1987 WE EXPRESSED ORALLY TO MR. JULIAN
BLACKUOOD DURING HIS VISIT TO VB IN FEBRUARY 1988.
UE THINK THAT PPAR HAS VERY REALISTICALLY EVALUATED PROBLEMS AND
ACHIEVEMENTS IN IMPLEMENTATION OF ALL THREE AORICULTURAL CREDIT
PROJECTS AND PARTICULARLY AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT III (LOAN 1801
YU) AND THEREFORE UE UOULD NOT LIKE TO GIVE ANY FURTHER COMMENTS TO
EITHER OF THE TUO ABOVE-MENTIONED REPORTS (PPAH / PCR).
ON THIS OCCASION UE UOULD LIKE TO EXPRESS OUR GRATITUDE FOR
COOPERATION AND UE HOPE THAT EXPERIENCE GAINED THROUGH OUR LONG
LASTING COOPERATION ON IMPLEMENTATION OF ALL THREE NATIONUIDE
AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS UOULD SERVE TO FURTHER IMPROVEMENT OF OUR
FUTURE COOPERATION.
REGARDS
VOJVODJMNSKA BANKA UDRUZENA BANKA NOVI SAD
DUSAN ZIKIC
14129 VOJBA YU
157833 0741 100698
01710171 656



- 21 -
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 1801-YU
Project Completion Report
August 11, 1987
Agriculture III Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department



- 23 -
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 1801-YU)
Project Completion Report
I.  BACKGROUND
;          Agriculture in the Economr
j          1.01     Between 1980 and 1985, the Yugoslav economy experienced a long period
of stagflation. Growth in real terms averaged only 1.7% per year, while
inflation gradually accelerated from 20% to more than 80% per year.  The
increasing inflation resulted from Yugoslavia's efforts to reduce Its foreign
debt that had been accumulated in the 1970's. Yugoslavia then faced sharp
increases in oil prices and interest rates and a fall in foreign capital
inflows. The decline in growth in 1980-83 compared to the 1970's was partly
attributable to the Government's cutback in investments and partly to
inefficient investments and weak response to enhanced competition in
international markets under an economic recession.
1.02     The agriculture sector, including agroindustries, currently
contributes about 20% of the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), 10-13Z to
total exports, and engages nearly 30% of the labor force. In the relatively
less developed Republics and Provinces, agriculture's contribution is higher.
Despite declining rural population, the agriculture sector has the potential
to contribute significantly to economic growth, bu: it requires restructuring
of production and demand patterns. There is a clear need for an opening up of
the economy, elimination of price controls and a reliance on real interest
lending rates in investment allocation. These reforms could transform the
sector by raising selected outputs substantially through better use of
existing resources and achieving existing levels of other outputs with fewer
resources.
1.03     Yugoslavia's agriculture is organized into two sectors which have
different rates of investment, growth, and productivity. The individual
sector is comprised of individual farmers, and the social sector is comprised
of institutional owners, characterized by workers' control. Yugoslavia's 2.6
million individual farm holders operate about 832 of the agricultural land,
making agriculture the only predominantly privately owned sector of the
economy. They engage 95% of the agricultural labor force and produce 852 to
90% of output. The social sector owns and operates the remaining 171 of the
agricultural land but virtually all of Yugoslavia's agroindustries. Between
1970 and 1980, social sector agricultural output, supported by 85% of the
annual agricultural investment allocations, grew at an average rate of 5.4%
per year, compared to 1.21 per year in the individual sector. Much of the
individual sector is supported through cooperation with the social sector,
under various forms of short-term agreements and permanent associations
between individual farmers and social sector cooperatives and agroindustries.
However, only about half of the individual farmers are associated with the
social sector.



- 24 -
Bank's Involvement in the Agriculture Sector
1.04     The Third Agricultural Credit Project was the tenth agricultural loan
made by the Bank in Yugoslavia. This loan for US$86.0 million brought the
Bank's agricultural lending in Yugoslavia tc US$500 millionL' by 1980, which
amounted to 27% of the Bank's total commitments to Yugoslavia at the time.
Since 1971, when the Bank first became involved in the agriculture sector, it
has emphasized development of primary production in the individual sector and
agricultural processing facilities in the social sector, which has provided
the market outlets for individual sector primary production. The three
agricultural credit projects have included investment components in both
sectors, and provided nationwide funding for investments designed to encourage
structural reforms and institutional strengthening, facilitating accelerated
development of less developed regions.
1.05     The project Performance Audit Reports of the First and Second
Agricultural Credit Projects had identified the following main issues:
First Agricultural Credit (Loan 1129-YU)
(a) the participating banks had inadequate capacity for on-lending
appraisals and supervision of subprojects;
(b) farmers without production marketing agreements with the social
sector were precluded from project benefits;
(c) monitoring and evaluation programs needed strengthening; and
(d) livestock operations in the social sector were uneconomic.
Second Agricultural Credit (Loan 1477-YU)
(a) The quality of analysis and assessment of subborrowers financial
performance of subborrowers (as well as investments), ought to
be enhanced, particularly with respect to debt/equity and
arrears;
b)   Staff of the Borrower and particLpating banks should receive
advance training in financial management procedures and
techniques;
c)   Individual farmers, both with and without cooperation agreements
with the social sector, should be surveyed to assess the range
of existing production incentives;
(d)  Staffing, technical capacities, and training for cooperatives
should receive more attention;
1/ In addition, the Bank had made two multipurpose loans to Yugoslavia,
amounting to US$99 million, which included components for agriculture.



- 25 -
(e)  In view of the inflationary environment and poor financial
performance of a number of subborrowers, the Bank and the
Borrower should analyze the arrears situation and rescheduling
of subloans of the participating banks;
(f) Monitoring and evaluation should be further improved.
1.06     The Bank's involvement in the two agricultural credit projects made a
modest contribution to improving on-lending procedures and accelerating the
rates of commitment and disbursements. Progress was achieved by parti-ipating
banks in all Republics in the improvement of appraisal, supervision,
procurement, and disbursement procedures. Progress was also made in applying
analytical and supervisory criteria in lending throughout Yugoslavia. In
addition, under the second credit project, a system of monitoring and
evaluation of project benefits was set up.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION/PROCESSING
Identification and Preparation
2.01     In April 1978, a Bank mission-in conjunction with the Federal
Committee for Agriculture and the Borrower under the ongoing projects,
Vojvodjanska Banka-Udruzena Banka (VB)-identified the Third Agricultural
Credit Project. VB prepared the project preparation report, with
contributions from the Federal Committee for Agriculture and the Institute for
Agricultural Economics in Belgrade.
2.02     During preparation, three Bank r'--ions monitced progress.  Among
other things, the Bank requested special analysis of the agroindustries
subsector including existing capacities and production, and analysis of food
product markets related to proposed on-lending activities under the project.
2.03     In January 1979, the Bank received the preparation report.  As
proposed by VB, the participating banks, and Yugoslav authorities, the project
had the following characteristics:
(a)  50% of the project proceeds, including about 13,300 subloans
were to be allocated to individual sector farmers, covering
production of vegetables, fruit, hops, and livestock;
(b)  5Q% of the proceeds were to be allocated for 17 subloans to
social sector organizations, covering: (i) facilities for
processing vegetables, fruit (including winery), milk, and meat;
(ii) 80 milk collection stations; and (iii) an irrigation system
for 5,000 ha;
(c)  allocations of half of all the proceeds was for less developed
Republics/Provinces;
(d)  total cost of the project was estimated at about US$250 million,
of which US$100 million (40X) was foreign exchange;



-26-
(e) continuation of on-going organizational arrangements1'.
2.04     The Third Agricultural Credit Project included similar lending
components to the previous credit projects and the same proportional
allocation of credit proceeds, half for developed atnd half for less developed
Republics/Provinces. The allocation between the individual and the social
sectors differed from that in earlier projects in that it gave each sector an
equal share whereas under the second project the individual sector's share was
larger (57%). Under the first project the social sector's share was larger
(57%).
Appraisal
2.05     Based on the preparation report, an appraisal mission visited
Yugoslav.a in May 1979. To allow the Yugoslav authorities to benefit from
cofinancing in subprojects of sufficient size and financial viability, the
proposed loan was reduced to 781 rather than 100% of the estimated foreign
exchange cost. In addition, to address the need for greater emphasis on
primary production, 601 rather than 501 of the credit proceeds were allocated
to the individual sector and 401 to the social sector. Taking into account
potential cofinancing, which would involve only the social sector, the
allocation of Bank loan proceeds was adjusted to 701 for the individual sector
and 301 for the social sector. The overall project cost estimate was
increased but the foreign exchange component, which increased only marginally,
was reduced to 351 of total project costs. Provision was introduced for a
nation-wide agroindustry study to help authorities in formulating long-term
development policy and plans.
Negotiations
2.06     On December 4, 1979, the Bank invited the government and
participating banks for negotiation of a proposed loan of US$86 million. The
negotiations took place from December 10-19, 1979. The negotiations focused
primarily on the following:
(a) The Agroindustry Study. In view of the agreed capability of
Yugoslav experts, and agreement by the Yugoslav authorities to
carry out the study on terms of reference and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, the Bank agreed with a Yugoslav request
that they implement the study with local staff rather than
consultants and with domestic funds rather than Bank funds.
Thus, while this study was kept as a part of the project, Bank
loan financing for the study was deleted.
1/ The arrangements included participation of the same eight associated
banks, one from each Republic/Province. Under a new banking law
introduced in 1978, the participating bank from the Socialist Republic of
Croatia underwent a reorganization and changed its name from Udruzena
Banka Zagreb to Zagrebacka Banka Zagreb (ZBZ).



- 27 -
(b) The Interest Rate Study. Agreement was reached that any
mutually agreed revised rates could be applied to on-lending
under this project, to permit future adjustments in light of the
results of the interest rate study which would be carried out by
the Yugoslav authorities. It was agreed that, initially,
on-lending under this project was to continue with the rates
then being applied under the on-going agricultural and
industrial credit projacts.
Approved Project
2.07     Project Objectives.  The objectives of the project were:
(a) to meet increasing domestic and export demands for a variety of
p. imary and processed agricultural products;
(b) to increase the productivity, employment opportunities and
income of the individnal sector which is the poorest and least
developed sector of the economy;
(c) to contribute to institution building in the eight participating
banks by improving their project preparation, appraisal, and
administrative techniques.
2.08     The main features of the project were:
(a) 602 of credit proceeds for about 18,800 subloans to individual
sector farmers, covering: (i) production of vegetables, fruit,
hops, and livestock; (ii) land development, including irrigation
and drainage for about 13,000 ha; (iii) tobacco drying equipment
and other equipment for small farms;
(b) 40X of proceeds for 10-15 subloans to social sector
organizations, covering: (i) facilities for processing
vegetables, fruits, milk, and meat; (ii) modernization and
expansion of existing processing facilities to be selected;
(iii) irrigation of about 3,000 ha;
(c) agroindustries study;
(d) allocation of half of total proceeds for less developed SRs and
SAPs;
(e) total project cost of US$316 million equivalent, of which US$112
million was in foreign exchange.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Start-UR
3.01     Prior to loan effectiveness, the first supervision mission in April
1980 reported that the participating banks had begun to identify prospective
investors. The Bank pointed out to the participating banks the need to carry
out detailed analysis of the market prospects and economic viability of
selected investments under the social sector agroindustry component.



- 28 -
Implementation
3.02     Initially, the participating banks appeared to make good progress in
committing loan proceeds, particularly for the individual sector. Farmers'
response appeared strong and ULe participating banks made use of experience
gained ur.der the first and second agricultural credit projects.
3.03     Social sector commitments proceeded slowly because of the need to
select subprojects and carry out feasibility studies. Yugoslavia's
macroeconomic stabilization program and the depressed economy had introduced
new constraints including import restrictions, more competitive international
markets for exports, and lower domestic demand, which affected the process of
selecting subprojects suitable under Yugoslavia's stabilization program.
Investors and the participating banks reported problems not anticipated at
appraisal, such as:
(a) difficulties in reaching consensus on investment priorities;
(b) shortage of local funds in participating banks due to credit
ceilings imposed under the stabilization program;
(c) shortage of j.nvestors' own capital required for financing their
required minimum share of investment costs.
3.04     The emphasis was shifted towards livestock investments which
eventually amounted to about 0S of project cost compared with 222 estimated
at appraisal.  This shift was also well demonstrated by the fact that more
than 12,000 households participated in livestock investments and together with
more than other 6,700 investors in "mixed" activities--most of which included
also livestock--the total number of households investing in livestock amounted
to about 18,700, or 862 of households which participated in project
implementation. The share of investments in crop production was decreased
correspondingly from the 222 estimated at appraisal to only 4X. The
individual sector exercised flexibility in altering the investment pattern to
better respond to changing conditions. The reduced share of the social sector
in total investment (from 402 estimated at appraisal to 222 of project cost)
resulted from weak demand for investments in agroprocessing and poor financial
performance. This eventually led the Bank to pursue reallocation of funds to
the individual sector instead of continuing to finance undound agroprocessing
investments.
Prolect Costs
3.05     Project cost estimates at appraisal and actual cost estimates are
compared below:



- 29 -
Table I
Project Cost
(Din Mil)
Cost
Appraisal                      Overruns
Investment Type               Estimate a/        Actual      (Savings)
I. Primary Production
(a) Crop Production                  1,335            1,095          (18)
(b) Livestock                        1,316           15,652        1,089
(c) Irrigation Drainage                441               63         (-86)
(d) Support Services                   515            5,785        1,023
Subtotal                         3,607           22,595          526
II.  Agroindustry                      2,396            8,438          252
III.  Total Project Cost                6,003           31,033          417
US$ equivalent (million) b/                316             199.9       (-37)
a/ Includes contingencies.
b/  Appraisal exchange rate 1US$ = Dinar 19.0.  The Yugoslav Dinar has been
floating since July 13, 1973. The currency equivalents given above were
effective in March 1979.
Data indicate that the Bank loan has financed about 37% of investments made by
the individual sector and 392 of those made by the social sector. In se-feral
cases the ultimate borrower failed to raise the minimum own-funds share in
investments (20X), as required by the loan agreement.
The 1985 Action Plan
3.06     In vicw of the borrower's poor performance prior to the originally
scheduled closing date of March 31, 1985 and in response to the borrower's
request for one year extension to the closing date, the Bark reviewed the
situation in February/March 1985 and initiated an action plan aimed at
addressing the principal issues and constraints in project implementation.
They were as follows: (a) potential credit was apparently limited to the
social sector and only to those individual farmers who were associated through
contracts with the social sector. This adversely affected the credit demand
which was assumed to exist in the non-associated individual sector; (b) lack
of development orientation on the part of the banks and their failure to
perform as independent financial intermediaries capable of screening
investment plans; (c) the involvement and the leading role of PBs in
monitoring the operational and financial implementation of the investments was
minimal once the subprojects are approved; (d) the lack of trained staff
capable of handling financial monitoring of investments due to the inability
to understand the implications of financial management and financial



-30 -
discipline; (e) inefficient coordination between the borrower and other
participating banks (PBs); (f) inefficient project management of the borrower;
and (g) the poor financial performance of agroindustries financed under the
project.
3.07     Amendment of the Loan Agreement (1985).  After a lengthy negotiation
and coordination process between the borrower and the other PBs that lasted
seven months, the loan agreement was amended on October 21, 1985, and the
closing date was extended by one year to March 31, 1986. The principal
amendments introduced were: (i) applying a variable and adjustable lending
rate; (ii) the borrower and four other PBs (out of six) committed at least
$0.3 million each, earmarked to be granted to individual subborrowers who were
allowed to repay in cash instead of the common practice of paying in produce.
The borrower, however, failed to comply with the amendments to the loan
agreement listed below: (a) agroindustrial portfolio review and financial
restructuriug; (b) employment of consultants; (c) applying training program
for PBs bank staff; (d) supervision of investments of individual subloans; and
(e) establishing of marketing information system.
3.08     On the whole, the failure of the borrower and the PBs' to adequately
comply with the action plan was due to the fact that these banks were not
sufficiently independent in appraising and supervising investments. Also, the
lack of trained staff compounded the situation.
3.09     Financing Agroindustries Investmenits.  The Bank ceased financing new
agroindustries investments under this Loan in 1985, as a result of the poor
financial performance of this subsector and the incapacity of the borrower and
PBs to assist in recovering loans for these investments. The PBs were found
to be incapable of performing as independent financial intermediaries--a
situa.ion that was aggravated by social pressures to grant credit to unsound
economic activities.
3.10     Interest Rate.  The on-lending interest rate on the Bank portion of
subproject financing was llZ. The foreign exchange risk was carried by:
(i) the social sector subborrowers with respect to their portion of subloans
financed out of Bank loan proceeds; and (ii) the republics/provinces in the
case of subloans to the individual farmers. Mininum interest rates on
domestic resources were set at 5Z and 62 at project start. The individual
sector benefitted substantially from the assumption of foreign exchange
differences on bank loans by the republics/provinces. This is because the
rate which was paid on domestic resources lagged significantly and
consistently behind either the rate of Dinar devaluation or domestic
inflation. The practice of systematic use of concessional lending rates, as
well as allocating credit through administrative allocation has been deeply
rooted in the Yugoslav socio-economic system.
3.11     Adiusting on-lending interest rates to inflation.  Due to soaring
inflation and less than adequate adjusting of lending rates, the "grant
element" component in concessional loans continued to rise. In particular,
loans granted to the less developed regions were characterized by an enormous
"grant element", principally resulting from extending credit from funds for
developing regions at a nominal rate of 6-6.52 p.a. even when inflation was
running at a rate exceeding 602. This pattern of highly subsidized on-lending
interest rates has contributed to the misallocation of scarce resources,
over-investments, investors' preference for imported goods due to cheap credit
and a low utilization rate. The system, which was based on concessional rates



- 31 -
of interest aimed at rapid development, did not change when inflation soared
from 252 in 1982 to 802 in 1986. The nominal interest rates were left either
unchanged altogether or only negligible changes were introduced (nominal
interest rates went up by about 6 points in the less deveioped regions) while
inflation rose simultaneously by more than 50 points (Annex 6 and 8).
3.12     The design of subloan interest rates at appraisal was adequate, in
view of the prtvailed projections for abated inflation. In contrast to these
projections, inflation in Yugoslavia soared and the issue of charging
subborrowers with an adequate financial cost became a key issue. In order to
prevent undue subsidies and find a country-wide solution to a cross-sectoral
monetary issue, the Bank pursued an agreement with the Government of
Yugoslavia. Such a solution was found in the form of a Letter of Development
Policy (LDP), under SAL I signed by Mr. J. Florjancic, then the Federal
Secretary of Finance, dated May 6, 1983. The LDP stated that it had been the
intent of the Government to start applying on-lending interest rates of 182
from January 1, 1984 and to increase it by a minimum of one-third"' of the
difference between the floor interest rate (18Z) and the twelve-month
inflation rate in 1983 (551) in the coming years until positive lending rates
are obtained.
3.13     However, no such adjustment in the nominal interest rate was made in
1984 for World Bank funds on-lent to subborrowers in the agricultural sector.
The borrower decided to seek a solution for the interest rate adjustment
through the Association of Yugoslav Banks (AYB); such an agreement was
achieved only in August 1985. Furthermore, the agreed formula for adjusting
the interest rate in the LDP assumed abated inflation. Eventually the rate of
inflation soared and, consequently, even if the borrower was fully in
compliance with the agreement as spelled out in the LDP, the gap between the
nominal interest rate and actual inflation would not have been bridged.
Non-compliance with the LDP commitment aggravated the situation and
contributed to the use of highly negative interest rates, which are shown
below.
Table II
Annual Rate of Inflation
Interest Rates Paid on Domestic Resources and On-Lending Real Interest Rates
Year         1981         1982        1983        1984         1985        1986
Annual Rate of
Inflation          37.41         24.71       55.01       55.01        81.31       67.61
Nominal Interest
rates paid on
domestic resources  3-112       5-172       5-24Z       5-301         5-43%       11-492
Real interest rate
paid on domestic
resources      (-25)(-19)Z (-16)(-6)% (-33)(-22)2 (-31)(-15)2 (-42)(-21)2 (-34)(-ll)Z
1/ One-fifth for agricultural and export lending.



- 32 -
Consultants/Studies
3.14     Interest Rate StudY.  The authorities carried out a study on the role
of interest rate in the Yugoslav economy under the First Agricultural Credit
project, and had agreed under the second project to carry out a follow-up
study1'.  The association of Yugoslav Banks completed and sent to the Bank
the first part of the latter study in March 1979.
3.15     Aaroindustry Study.  In December 1982, the Belgrade Institute for
Agricultural Economics submitted to the Bank the study on the role of
agroindustries in Yugoslav economy which it had carried out under the project
in line with the terms of reference that had been agreed upon by the Federal
Coordination Committee and the Bank early in 1982.
Procurement
3.16     In 42 cases covering the individual and social sectors, ICB
procedures were adopted to procure various kinds of equipment, plants, and
some livestock, involving a total expenditure of over US$17.4 million (232 of
the Loan). Local procurement procedures were applied to all other cases. The
advantages of the Bank's procurement procedures are beginning to be recognized
by several constituents of the Borrowers; this is leading to the adoption of
similar procedures for procurement which are not financed by Bank loans.
However, in parallel with the deficiencies noticed in the skills of BB, PB and
VB staff to appraise and supervise the investments, the skills of the
procurement staff were also found to be deficient. This had resulted in
frequent back-and-forth references between the Borrower and the Bank to
rectify defects in documentation. The deficient staff skills also give rise
to occasional problems in enforcing contract conditions with the suppliers.
For instance, in Vojvodina, the final 15% payment to the supplier of equipment
for Apatin Brewery was made before the contractor fulfilled his obligations
under the contract with respect to the equipment capacity and a successful
trial run. Organizing procurement seminars in Borrower's country by Bank
staff would be one effective way of upgrading the skills of the Borrower's
procurement staff. This would minimise time lost due to avoidable
correspondence with the Bank to rectify documentation defects. Another way to
accelerate procurement would be for the project to develop and agree with the
Bank on staadard bidding documents for procurement of specific items in
Yugoslavia, where repeated procurement of the same or similar types of
equipment/goods would be necessary. The Borrower's PCR expressed preference
for greater delegation of authority to the project to expedite procurement
processing.
Loan Amendments/Covenants
3.17     In 1981, the Bank agreed to the requests of three participating banks
(PBS, ZBZ and LBL) to reallocate a total of US$5.7 million of loan proceeds,
including US$3.0 million from the social sector to the individual sector and
US$2.7 million within the individual sector from crop production to livestock
production and support services (store houses, cold stores and related
facilities). Early in 1983, VB reported that commitments for social sector
agroindustry subprojects were still not more than about 401 of the level
1/ Loan No. 1477-YU Loan Agreement (Section 3.06) and Guarantee Agreement
(Section 3.04).



33 -
anticipated at appraisal. In addition, implementation of those subprojects
was afflicted in some cases by poor management and the investors' difficulties
in reaching decisions on technology and award of contracts. Disbursements
lagged far behind the anticipated levels at appraisal (para 3.19). With only
two years remaining before the Loan Closing Date, the Bank urged VB and the
participating banks, based on the outcome of the agroindustries study, to
consider reallocating additional loan proceeds from the social sector to the
individual sector and to establish a firm procurement and implementation
schedule by the end of 1983. In November 1983 and January 1984, the Bank
agreed to the Borrower's request that Beogradska Banka and ZBZ reallocate
US$2.3 million (US$1.7 and US$0.6, respectively) of loan proceeds from the
social sector to the individual sector.
3.18     In February 1984, with 802 of the disbursement period completed and
with less than 50Z of the loan disbursed, a Bank supervision mission found
that loan commitments had been over-estimated due to the Dinar devaluations
and changes in the exchange rate. The Bank, therefore, requested VB and the
participating banks to revise their figures on loan commitments and projected
withdrawals on a quarterly basis, to monitor implementation closely and to
take measures to use loan proceeds to the maximum extent possible e.g. by
reallocating proceeds and providing additional lending in the individual
sector for silage and hay production facilities and working capital for cattle
fattening operations. In May 1984, the Loan Agreement Project Description
(Schedule 2) was amended to include provision of permanent working capital for
livestock operations in the individual sector. Further loan amendments were
introduced through the 1985 action plan (para 3.06).
Disbursement
3.19     Loan disbursement took about two years longer than projected at
appraisal. The belated start-up and the slower pace of disbursement when
compared to appraisal resulted from: (a) inadequate preparation of
subprojects; (b) the inclination to prefer construction of new facilities
rather than modernization and expansion of existing facilities which was the
expressed intention in the appraisal reports; (c) the inability of potential
borrowers to raise contribution to the investment and the financial shortages
of banks to provide the domestic counterpart funds; and (d) delays due to the
reallocation of loan proceeds from the social to the individual sector in view
of changes in credit demand. By March 31, 1985-the original loan closing
date-only 74% of the US$86 million were disbursed. It required two
extensions of the closing date over 21 months, to December 1986, to disburse
about US$74.3 million or 86X of the original loan amount (Annex 7).
IV. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Pattern of Investment Demand
4.01     The pattern of demand for subloans showed two clear divergences from
appraisal estimates. Livestock investment rose significantly when compared to
appraisal at the expense of corresponding reduction in crop investments. The
social sector investments were lower than expected at appraisal and this gave
rise to the increased share of the individual sector in project implementation
(Annexes 1-3 and 9).



- 34 -
Table III
Physical Capacities Achieved and Planned
-Number of Farms--           Performance
Selected Types of Investment      Planned      Actual            Achieved
Individual Sector
A. Livestock
Dairy farms                     1,165        6,902                 592
Pig farms                         650        1,249                 132
Cattle fattening                    -          377                   -
Sheep farms                       805        1,535                 191
Broiler farms                     335        1,473                 440
B. Crop and Horticultural Production
Vineyards                       2,325          838                  36
Orchards                        4,685        1,221                  26
Plastic house                     138            5                   4
Tobacco drying                    365          100                  27
Tractors                          n.a.       1,342
Individual Sector
4.02     Dairy Farm investments were made by 6,902 households and accounted
for 21% of total investments. A large proportion of dairy farmers have been
engaged in cattle fattening as well; this activity mix enabled them to
diversify their risks, particularly in view of price uncertainties - a salient
issue under the volatile economic conditions in Yugoslavia. Investments in
buildings accounted for 62% of investment cost when compared with 57%
envisaged at appraisal. Investment in heifers purchase amounted to less than
envisaged at appraisal, 20% of total investment compared with 27-37% envisaged
*at appraisal. The reduced share of investment in heifer purchasing is also
well demonstrated in the reduced actual herd size, which was lower than
expected, about 70% of the projected herd. The end result indicates
over-investments in building, construction and machinery which was encouraged
by cheap and heavily subsidized credit. Farmers have maintained viable dairy
production by feeding lower quantities of high-priced concentrate, which was
in short supply, and increased amounts of agricultural by-products such as
wheat, bran and fodder beet pulp, onfarm produced forages and grazing on
communal pastures. The pattern of operation, on a smaller scale than
envisaged at appraisal, required less labor input which was done by the family.
4.03     Cattle Fattening investments were made by 377 households and
accounted for 31 of total investments. While cattle prices (liveweight)
increased from 37.6/kg in 1980 to 278.2/kg in 1985 (6391), milk prices
including subsidies increased from Dinar 6.5/liter in 1980 to only 42.2/liters
in 1985 (5491). This discouraged dairy farms from increasing the number of
cows as rapidly as expected; on the other hand, they turned to beef production
by fattening young stock to relatively heavy slaughter weights.



- 35 -
4.04     Pig Fattening investments, made by 1,249 households and accounting
for 3% of total investments, were closely linked to the Kombinats, which
granted loans to the individual farmers for building and equipment and
providing them the pigs themselves and concentrate feed and and veterinary
medicine. The farmers received an agreed sum per kilogram of liveweight
gain. The weight increase per animal was as envisaged at about 76 kg
appraisal. Several social sector organizations abandoned cooperation with
individual farmers be-ause they were either unable to make adequate quantities
of feed available or could not afford the high cost of feed. As a result,
several pig fattening facilities were either underutilized or unutilized.
Consequently, only 25 investments in pig fattening were made compared to the
200 envisaged at appraisal.
4.05     Broiler Farm investments were carried out by 1,473 households and
accounted for 20% of total investments. This activity was adversely affected
by a large increase in the price of concentrate feed compared with output
prices. Data indicates an actual 2.42 kg of concentrate feed consumption per
1 kg of incremental output compared with 2.86 kg projected.
4.06     Sheep Farm investments were made by 1,535 households and accounted
for 4.5% of total investments. The average herd was about one half of the
projected one. However, milk production was, in 1985, 45 liters per sheep
compared with only 35 envisaged at appraisal.
4.07     Characteristics of Investors.  The individual sector subborrowers
that were investing in dairy, sheep, and pig fattening farms had larger land
holdings (6.6 to 12.5 ha) compared to the country average (3.7 ha).
Apparently, as was found in the PCR for the Second Agriculture Credit (Loan
1477-YU), more than half of the farm household members are fully employed
outside the farm (mixed households). This indicates that the project's
ultimate beneficiaries are better off farmers who are primarily the long-term
cooperants with the social sector. The Government has tried to integrate
individual farmers into the socialized system through making credit and inputs
available only to those individual farmers who are associated with the social
sector. Credit was available to these associated farmers through the social
sector organizations and the cooperatives which perform as onlending
organizations for inputs, on behalf of the PBs. Loans were repaid mainly in
kind. In practice, the production/marketing contracts generally specified the
amounts of produce that were required to be marketed to the cooperative during
the period of loan repayment.
Social Sector
4.08     25 investments were made by the social sector which accounted for 22%
of total project costs. Of these, ten investments were made in dairy
processing and milk collection, three in meat and fruit processing each.
These investments have been facing the following common difficulties with
which the entire proceasing sector has had to cope over the recent years:
(a) shortage of raw material which did not allow the achievement ef a sound
rate of utilization and intense competition for raw material which caused an
unproportional increase in raw material cost when compared with output prices;
(b) a decrease in domestic purchasing power, due to austerity measures which
caused a reduction in the sales level; (c) low export prices relative to
domestic prices and production costs; and (d) a lack of understanding of
financial management principles and procedures by plant management.



-36 -
4.09     Subborrower's Debt Service.  In the individual sector, debt-service
was apparently satisfactory, as even subborrowers that achieved modest
financial returns could easily repay their debts, partly because of the large
"grant element" built into the ongoing lending rates. Interest rates were
negative during the entire project implementation period, and this situation
was aggravated because individual farmers were not required to bear the loss
incurred to the borrower, which resulted from the dinar appreciation. The
social sector borrowers, on the other hand, were affected by the requirement
to repay the foreign exchange difference on their portion of subloans financed
out of loan proceeds. Their debt service was also adversely affected by the
poor economic conditions, the low utilization rate, slackened demand and the
disparity between input and output prices.
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01     As the OED report noted (Annual Review of Project Performance Audit
Results dated September 16, 1983) various problems arise with regard to the
measurement of the benefits of a credit project, owing to reliance on a
sample, which may not be necessarily representative in view of the dispersion
and hetrogeneity of the individual farm beneficiaries receiving the bulk of
loan funds.
5.02     The borrower hired the Institute for Agricultural Economics in
Belgrade as a consultant to monitor the project's performance. The consultant
also prepared part of the borrower's PCR including all the calculations of the
Financial and Economic Rate of Retern (FRR) and (ERR). These calculations do
not estimate properly the actual FRR and ERR for the following reasons:
(a) four different indices were used as deflators to reflect separately,
income, cost, without project income and investments, instead of an
appropriate uniform index of inflation; (b) without project income was not
properly estimated; (c) no procedure was adopted to take account of the time
difference between the investment and the accrued benefits. This is of
particular importance, in Yugoslavia, where, in 1983, the only year for which
investment data were gathered by the consultant, inflation was running at a
rate of 5ss p.a.; and (d) the ERR calculated by the borrower neither used
border prices nor deducted/added the relevant specific subsidy/tax related to
the relevant activity. Instead, a coefficient reflecting the average level of
taxation and subsidy in the republic was used for taking into account the tax
and subsidies involved. The value of these coefficients were very low. As a
result, the borrower presented estimated ERRs which were almost identical to
the estimated FRRs.
5.03     The PCR of the Second Agricultural Credit (Loan 1477-YU) was prepared
by the Bank two years ago. Agricultural Credit III (Loan 1801-YU) is actually
a follow-up project which has very similar characteristics, including
investment activities and type of subborrowers when compared with the Second
Agricultural Credit.  Also, the PCR which was prepared by the borrower for
Agricultural Credit III Project includes actual data for only one additional
year (1985) which the prior project (Loan 1477-YU) does not include.
Presented below are both the FRR estimates of the borrower and those prepared
for by the Bank mission for the Loan 1477-YU. The Bank PCR for Loan 1477-YU
presents lower FRR estimates for these investments. In spite of the fact that
the Bank calculations for FRR for Loan 1477-YU are lower than those of the
borrower, it is likely that in view of the adverse economic conditions
prevailing in Yugoslavia in 1985, these lower rates can be considered as the
upper bound of actual FRR for the investments listed below.



- 37 -
Table IV
Financial Rates of Return
Appraisal        Borrower's        Bank PCR of
Estimates        Estimates        Agriculture
Agriculture      Agr4.culture       Credit II
Credit III       Credit III         Estimates
-----------percent-----
Individual Sector
Dairy Farm                       12-15              24                 14
Pig Fattening                       29              25                 13
Sheep Farm                          27              27                 18
Broiler Farm                    18-24               13                  -
Greenhouse                          29              62                  -
Cattle Fattening                  n.a.              27                 24
Social Sector
Wine Cellar                       n.a.              92                  n.a.
Vegetable Processing              n.a.             132                10%
Cold Storage                      n.a.            31%                   n.a.
5.04     Data indicate that most of the re-estimated financial rates of return
calculated for Second Agricultural Credit (Loan 1477-YU) are lower than the
appraisal estimates for Agricultural Credit III and those calculated in the
borrower's PCR for this project. Social sector investments are characterized
by a wide range of returns due to a variety of investment types, locations and
management. The borrower calculated a range of FRR ranging from 41 in Edible
Collagen covering factory to 9% in dairy reconstruction, 13% in wine cellar
enlargement and fruit and vegetable processing plant, 221 in fodder factory
and up to 31% in cold storage. The borrowers' calculations of FRR for ooth
the individual and social sector are apparently overestimated. This is
because dat:a used by the borrower for projecting the 1986-97 revenue was the
average obtained for the 1983-85 period. However, a clear decline in net
revenue was envisaged for most of the activities in 1985. Also, the
assumptions made by the borrower with regard to the expected capacity
utilizations of agroprocessors seem to be unduly optimistic as those actually
achieved in 1984-85 were significantly lower. It is not likely that
agroprocessors would be able to significantly increase their capacity
utilization because this rate is adversely affected by shortage of raw
material, inadequate pricing policy and initial overcapacity design which was
motivated by cheap credit. All of these characteristics are not likely to be
changed overnight.
5.05     The economic analysis of investments financed under Agriculture
Credit II (Loan 1477-YU) are listed below:



- 38 -
Table V
Economic Rates of Return
Appraisal           Borrower's          Bank PCR's
Estimates           Estimates           Estimates of
Agricultural        Agricultural        Agricultural
Credit III          Credit III          Credit II
Dairy Farms                        )                 29                   14
Pig Fattening                      )                 27                   13
Cattle Fattening                   )17               29                   23
Sheep Farm                         )                 30                   18
Greenhouse                         )                 73                    n.a.
Social Sector
Wine Cellar                        )                 22                    n.a.
Fruit & Vegetable Processing       )17-22X           13                   10
Cold Storage                       )T36                                    n.a.
Data indicate that the Borrower's ERR estimates are significantly higher when
compared with Bank's ERR estimate for the preceeding project, Agricultural
Credit II. Data on actual 1985's revenue and production costs which were
gathered by the Borrower for Agricultural Credit III, but not for Agricultural
Credit II, indicate a decrease in net income when compared to 1984.
Therefore, even the lower Bank estimates for Agricultural Credit II may be
considered as the upper bound for the estimated ERR for this project. The
reasons for the constant upward bias in the borrower estimates are discussed
in para 5.02. In addition, no significant changes were found in the
relationships between financial and economic input and output prices in 1985
when compared to 1984 and prior years.  Based on ERR estimates of Second
Agricultural Credit project, the weighted ERR for the project is estimated at
14%.
5.06     The Financial Performance of the Borrower.  This is the Third
Agricultural Credit Project for which the borrower, Vojvodanska Banka (VB),
performed as a borrower and implementing agency. The financial performance of
the borrower is presented below:



- 39 -
Table VI
Borrower's Income Statements
(million Dinars)
Category                          1983           1984          1985
(a) Interest earned                             26.8          55.9         127.1
(b) Interest paid                              (18.4)        (39.0)       (101.2)
(c) Other operating income                       7.7           7.0          13.6
(d) Provision for doubtful loans                (0.1)         (2.0)         (2.0)
(e) Operational expenditures                   (12.5)         (7.6)        (15.1)
(f) Statutory obligations                       (0.1)         (0.1)         (0.5)
(g) Deferred foreign exchange loss - write-off -              (1.1)         (1.4)
(h) Net income (as presented in
financial statements)                       3.5          13.2          20.8
(i) Annual increase in DFEL 1/                  N.A.          (6.6)         (5.6)
(j) Net income (adjusted)                       N.A.           6.6          15.2
(k) Annual net worth (year start)               N.A.           9.0           9.2
(1) Return on net worth                         N.A.         722          165%
1/  Deferred Foreign Exchange Loss (DFEL) is a loss already made due to
foreign exchange difference, but recorded as an asset in the balance sheet
of Yugoslav Banks. Because of this presentation, assets and equity are
overstated in Yugoslav Banks balance sheets and annual income is
over-stated whenever the DFEL at year end exceed the DFEL at the beginning
of the year.
5.07     The borrower's financial performance over the 1984-85 period is
better than that of many other Yugoslav Banks. The Borrower succeeded in
making profits (measured in current prices) and increased the interest earned
on its loan portfolio from 15 percent in 1984 to 21.6 percent in 1985. This
increase is only an indicative one, because data on interest earned do not
include foreign exchange gains on loan portfolio denominated in foreign
exchange, that should be included in VB's gross income.  VB has been netting
out these gains from exchange losses thereby reducing significantly both gross
income and expenditures. The equity ratio of VB, when properly measured after
adjustments made for the changes in DFEL is shown below.



- 40 -
Table VII.
VB's Equity Ratio
(million Dinar)
Year                                          1983           1984          1985
(i)  Equity $                                 14.9           21.7         47.3
(ii)  Deferred foreign exchange loss            5.9           12.5          25.4
(iii) Equity (-) deferred foreign
exchange loss                             9.0            9.2          21.9
(iv)  Total assets                            376            608           993
(v) Equity (-) deferred foreign
exchange loss as a percentage
of total assets (iii) x 100               2.42           1.5%          2.22
(iv)
5.08     Data indicate that the equity ratio improved in 1985, after a
deterioration that took place in 1984, yet it was still less than half of the
ratio projected at appraisal for 1981. The ratio for 1985 is still not
satisfactory and can be raised to five or six percent if financial margins are
increased together and divided distribution is refrained from. Furthermore.
the 1985's financial statements neither indicate whether the provision for
doubtful debts was adequate, nor clarify the criteria used for establishing
this provision. Partial data on arrears show that the "contaminated"1' long
term loan portfolio decreased from Dinar 17.2 million in 1984 to 12.2 million
in 1985 year end. Total arrears of long-term loans contracted in 1984 and
1985, in spite of the fact that the long term loan portfolio rose by 6 percent
in 1984 and by an additional 57 percent in 1985. Arrears of long term loans
increased slightly from 14 percent of current maturities of long-term loans at
year start in 1984 to 16 percent in 1985. This is by far a better performance
when compared with many other associated banks in Yugoslavia. No data are
available on the share of loans granted to the agriculture sector and their
relevance to the arrears problem or to their contribution to the consolidated
profitability of the borrower.
5.09     Furthermore, no data are available on rescheduling of loans that have
fallen in arrears and without this informat,on arrears could easily be
underestimated thereby providing a wrong presentation of the quality of the
loan portfolio. All these matters will have to be adequately addressed by the
promotion of a management information system for the borrower.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01     The borrower and PBs have made considerable efforts to improve the
quality and capability of their staff. However, there were still several
instances in which they had not been adequately trained to cope with the task
of appraising and supervising investments financed under the project.
1/ Loans that include overdues.



- 41 -
This was particularly evident when it came to appraising the economic and
financial prospects of complex social sector enterprises and assisting their
clients in resolving issues t"at arose from deterioration in the economic
situation in the country. Their subborrowers, particularly in the social
sector, are faced with complex managerial, financial and marketing problems
and need assistance in terms of an analysis of their financial situation and
implementation of a recovery plan.
Supervision
6.02     During implementation of the loan the supervision of the subprojects
by the borrower was largely ineffective. During the period June-December
1985, only 55 visits were made by the borrower and PBs staff out of a total of
606 approved subloans. Basic banks, apart from appraisals of subloans,
carried out very little follow-up wcrk. At all levels, the borrower, the BPa
and the basic banks have been severely constrained by a lack of staff (trained
or untrained), shortage of funds, and inadequate mobility due to a lack of
vehicles. As an illustration, in Kosovo (KBP) a Bank supervision mission
found in 1985 that out of 119 subloans, only 13 had been supervised and that
KBP staff had planned for the first semester of 1986 to visit none of the 119
subloans. In some cases supervision and appraisal responsibilities are in
separate departments, and thus knowledge gained from supervision could be
easily lost. Staffing composition is heavily geared towards engineering which
is relevant in the construction phase; however, supervision requires
agriculturists, economists and financial analysts in the post-construction
period of the loan. High inflation and frequent changes in relative input and
output prices including interest rates, have compounded the problems created
by the lack of these skills among the supervision staff.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01     The Bank and Yugoslavia have been engaged in a policy dialogue on
reforms in the financial sector. For many years progress in policy reform has
been protracted due to high inflation in the country and recessionary
conditions in the world. Agreement was reached, under the Structural
Adjustment Loan in 1983 on the adoption of positive interest rates. However,
it was only recently, in 1987, that the authorities have implemented the
long-term recommendation to apply such rates to all economic activities in
Yugoslavia. This should be considered as a major development among measures
required to reform both the agricultural and the financial sectors.
7.02     The Bank's performance in initiating the action plan and reallocating
funds from the social sector to the individual sector was adequate. The
reallocation of funds earmarked to finance social sector investments in
agroprocessing to finance primary production in the individual sector was
necessary and fully justified in view of the agroprocessing sector's poor
financial performance and its inability to take required recovery measures.
7.03     The Bank's impact on institution building has been marginal.  The
Bank could have more realistic expectations on what can be achieved through an
agreement reached with the borrower on "action plan". The Yugoslav banks
during project implementation were controlled by the investors. Consequently,
there were limitations to the extent that sound banking practice can be



- 42 -
achieved by the PBs in respect to the decision-making process of evaluating
investments and monitoring their performance and the financial performance of
their owners/investors/borrowers.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01     Supervision.  Future projects, to the extent possible, should
allocate significant funds for institution building to ensure adequate
appraisal, supervision and monitoring of investment plans. This should be
accomplished through (a) employment of local consultants; (b) recruitment of
new employees who are better trained and experienced; and (c) implementing
advanced training programs for the existing staff. It should be noted that
the Association of Banks in Yugoslavia (YBA) is currently preparing a uniform
manual for these purposes. The Bank should continue to focus on improving
monitoring and evaluation programs to provide an adequate measurement of the
benefits of credit projects and thereby an appropriate design for future
credit projects. This is particularly important in a nation-wide project
where heterogenous and widely dispersed project beneficiaries need to be
adequately represented in the sample.
8.02     It is suggested that, for future projects, supervision tasks be
exclusively designated to be carried out by the borrower, with provision in
the loan for financing any incidental foreign exchange expenditures as on
vehicles and foreign consultants. Fixed schedules of visits should be planned
at least six months in advance, with a higher frequency of visits during the
construction phase and a reduced frequency during the post-construction phase.
8.03     In future country-wide projects, the Bank should focus on choosing a
borrower that has the capacity to attract the qualified staff and the
managerial skills that are essential for implementing the necessary reforms
and maintaining a fruitful dialogue with the Bank.
8.04     Training.  The Bank should give adequate attention to training which
is the key component for institution building. The PBs and the investors will
fail to cope with the changing economic environment, unless their skills are
upgraded. In particular, they need an adequate understanding of: (i) the
principles and procedures of financial management and discipline;
(ii) procurement issues; and (iii) debt repayment management, arrears analysis
and review of loan portfolios. It is essential that the borrower assumes more
responsibility in procurement matters and in supervising the financial and
economic performance of investment so that they can provide adequate guidance
to investors.



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
Third Agriculture Credit Project
(Loan 1801-YU)
Proiect Completion Report
---Technical Co-efficients---
1983         1984          1985
Cow Farms
Herd size (No. of Heads)
Projected 1/                             8.0           8.0          8.8
Actual                                   5.9           5.6          5.7
2                                      74%           70%          651
Herd size (No. of Heads)
Projected 2/                             8.0           8.0          8.0
Actual                                   6.7           7.0           6.8
,  2                                   83X          882           852
Mid/cow/year
Projected 1/                         2,200        2,500         2,800
Actual                               2,250        2,492         2,711
2                                     1021           971          972
Milk/cow/year
Projected 2/                           800        1,675         1,862
Actual                               2,367        2,574         2,417
2                                     2951          1541         1341
Milk/sheep/year
Projected                               40           40            40
Actual                                  35            35           353/
2                                      881          881           881
Broiler farms
Projected cycles                                                    4
Actual                                                               2.5-3.0
X                                                             621-751
Broiler per cycle
Projected                                                       2,000
Actual                                                    3,000-3,500
2                                                           1501-1751
1/  In north developed Republics/provinces borrower - source PCR page 13.
2/  In south developing Republics/provinces.
3/  Source Annex 5, Table 1.



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
-Technical Co-efficients--
1983         1984          1985
Irrigation - Yield/ton/ha (465 ha)
Tobacco - large leaf
Projected                                2.0           2.0          2.0
Actual                                   1.1           1.7           1.6
%                                      551           851          802
Pepper - Industrial seed - yield/ton/ha
Projected                               30.0          30.0         30.0
Actual                                  18.0          20.0           7.5
%                                      60%           671          25S
Tomato - yield/ton/ha
Projected                               40.0          40.0         40.0
Actual                                  35.0          35.0          6.1
2                                      88%           882          151
Wheat - yield/ton/ha
Projected                                5.0           5.0          5.0
Actual                                   3.3           3.3          2.2
X                                      671           672          441
Milk Collection Station (Illandza)
Milk Purchase t'000 letter)/vear
Projected                                                         616
Actual  .                                                         185
2 of performance                                                  301
Livestock Purchase (tons/year)
Projected                                                         236
Actual                                                             92
2 of performance                                                  991
Broiler Farm - Natkovac
(a) Breeding eRgs (million/year)
Projected                                             4.9           4.9
Actual                                                 3.0          1.8
1 of performance                                    621           372
(b) One day chicken production (million/year)
Projected                                              3.5          3.5
Actual                                                 2.4          1.4
2 of performance                                    671           401
Brooding ERgs Production - Bogelci
(a) Brooding etgs production (egas/million)
Projected                                            18.0          18.0
Actual                                                 1.8          5.3
2 of capacity utilization                            102          301



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
-- -Technical Co-efficients-
1983         1984          1985
(b) One day chickens (chicken/million)
Projected                                            10.0          10.0
Actual                                                5.3           5.0
E  of capacity utilization                          532           502
Wine cellar extension (tons/year)
Projected increased capacity
from 2,260 to 3,760 tons                         3,760         3,760
Actual                                            2,440         1,690
1 of capacity utilization                           652           45%
Fruit and vegetable processing plant - Bijeljina (tons/year)
Increased processing capacity
from 12,500 to 20,000 tons                                   20,000
Actual                                                         11,500
1 of capacity utilization                                          57.51
Dairy reconstruction and extension - (Tomolie, Petrovac, litre/year)
Capacity                                                       50,000
Actual purchase                                                25,000
X of capacity utilization                                         501
Dairy - Govenje Milanovac (litre/day)
Capacity                                         30,000        30,000
Actual                                           18,300        30,000
2 of capacity utilization                           612          1002
Dairy - Reconstruction Kosovo Polie (litre/day)
Capacity                                                     100,000*
Actual                                                         30,000*
% of capacity utilization                                         302*
* Selling price of pasturized milk is lower than purchasing price of milk.



- 46 -
ANNEX 7
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 1801-YU)
Proiect Completion Report
Cumulative Disbursements - Appraisal/Actual
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal                                                      Actual as
Year end                Appraisal                              of Appraisal
Quarter                 Estimate                Actual           Estimate
FY81
September 30, 1980             0.4
December 31, 1980              1.7
March 31, 1981                 2.8                   -                   -
June 30, 1981                  5.6                   0.7               131
FY82
September 30, 1981             8.0                   2.3                29
December 31, 1981             14.1                   6.3                48
March 31, 1982                18.0                  10.9                61
June 30, 1982                 26.8                  16.0                60
FY83
September 30, 1982            28.8                  19.9                69
December 31, 1982             39.5                  24.9                63
March 31, 1983                45.0                  29.9                66
June 30, 1983                 55.0                  34.6                63
FY84
September 30, 1983            59.5                  37.2                63
December 31, 1983             68.0                  38.9                57
March 31, 1984                78.2                  41.6                53
June 30, 1984                 80.8                  45.0                56
FY85
September 30, 1984            59.5                  48.8                82
December 31, 1984             68.0                  53.1                78
March 31, 1985                78.2                  55.9                71
June 30, 1985                 80.8                  58.9                73
FY86
September 30, 1985            86.0                  60.9                71
December 31, 1985                                   63.8                74
March 31, 1986                                      67.0                78
June 30, 1986                                       70.0                81
FY87
September 30, 1986                                  71.6                83
December 31, 1986                                   74.3                86
March 31, 1987                                      74.6                87



- 47 -
ANNEX 8
YUGOSLAVIA
Third Agriculture Credit Project
(Loan 1801-YU)
Project Completion Report
Exchange and Inflation Rates
-Inflation Index (1986=100)-
Year          Exchbnge Rate 1/          Local 2/        International 3/
1979                 18.97                 7.3               84.0
1980                24.64                 9.4                92.8
1981                 34.97                13.4               93.3
1982                50.28                16.7                91.8
1983                 92.84               22.2                89.1
1984                152.82               35.0                87.3
1985                270.16               58.6                88.0
1986               379.22               100.0               100.0
I'
1/ Average exchange rate per calendar year (source: IMF Tables).
2/ Based on Industrial Producer Price Index, average annual inflation
(source: IMF Tables).
3/ Unit value index of manufactured exports (source: Economic Analysis and
Projections Department, The World Bank).



- 48 -
ANNEX 9
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 1801-YU)
Project Completion Report
Individual Sector Investments - Actual vs Appraisal Estimates
-Number of Producers--            Change
Actual       Appraisal    (Appraisal = 100X)
Crops
Fruit production                  1,221           3,794                 32
Vineyards                           838           1,516                 55
Hog                                    -            305                   -
Tobacco dryers                      100             307                 33
Vegetable production                 35           1,621                  2
Livestock
Milk production                   6,902             860                802
Hog fattening                       861             346                249
Pig production                      388             127                305
Sheep raising                     1,535             652                235
Broiler                           1,473             885                166
Area (ha)                   Change
Actual       Appraisal    (Appraisal = 100X)
CropS
Vineyard                            547           1,516                 36
Orchards                            718           1,911                 38
Improved pastures and meadows       350           3,258                 10
Livestock                           -        Heads-----
Purchase of heifers and
milk cows                        9,034           4,108                219
Sheep                            63,894          85,920                 74
Tractor units                     1,805            n.a.                  -



AVSTR'A            WGS 
o.vA U  S T k  I A                             g                                                                                                                                                     (                                                         O.D '^x,   0
[lAGEGRuRT] _ ) ) _.                                      TR                 . (,  -  S
YUAGOSLUVTA
<  _  8 % 4 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HU                               G    RYIA /CE                                                                                                            Y U G U 1  G A  R I,A
MOSTAR   /                          \                        X \                   (                 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1460R
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE AND                                                                                  S.iOTC                                  2            iiEj^Ds\5rRKSTgV,kA.
TRANSPORTATION
CAA tafoLA ~ ~  ~        ~      ~       ~      HEP~         DCAI>-
SAhOd.C SALEl     AEC-OS                                                                                                                         A        N S.                                                                   LOOAAMPo
0.095T                                                                                                                                                                                                   EVSE       CRI4(UKAlPDUftlCnOr   E      
SALVSy   O OTlE aSES OKEB lMITEO  flESO CR.  IROIT0                                                                                                                                                       OILS   EOFTTOR;ABLEO (   REa R   } [R
I'LL'A%C OOLST MtITR5hA                                                                                                                                                               SOVThC OF 0CIUTR  FB  rA }  R T \[UN   0 C
RALOOSAT 0,GOSO/                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
O0SHDS OTAlSA0U OOOLBLLC                                                                                                     ;HO3R SuOOME rOvNO                                              SIOPJETO    \       , R* I~'             C~ E
-      -R0*SEOIAOAL NO,DOEh                                                                                           ,LS,,LA,,  .L ,                                                                           .      33 
4Az.r,astsc^hals IL-           IOfK1$C0'                                                                              0,0                           E'R  I
ts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L-A                                                                                                                                            ^.E%A                                                    SEVER { 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.A' L.                                                                                                       PCE                                                                 GONDAS\%5)   
OIMERM,q RdAOS                              C  lo  zo Xt Xq 50 t   1        , ALJE *~~~~~I     HEEP  AND  HOG                              HAA5N                 ANDl  CATOa         J
50UQDAR'ESOF RESUtiltStSDUT0E                               OVRE             RNOVOU POICERAS                                                     ILAMETR5 :E VODEI<;n n>= Tt
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVi                                                                             MA FTE2OIStAROULEVIE
"   1i                            SS'                        IT'                           Ito                           ?     .                      Z,E                                  4 T                          nG~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHEL 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OW _A.                                                                                                                                                                                                          



