Document of
The World Bank                   FILE CO
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2699-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
VOJVODJANSKA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
February 6,1980
his document 1as a retd disibution sid may be osed by recipients only in te pefrnace of
their .cW  dies. Its cntents may not otherwise be discloed witbout World DBnk a.hrzUon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                 Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                             -            Din. 19.00
Din. 1                           =            US$0.0526
Din. 1,000                                    US$52.63
Din. 1,000,000                   =            US$52,631.58
' The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973; as of
December 31, 1979 the rate was Din. 19.1629   US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                   -    Basic Organization of Associated Labor
GDP                    -    Gross Domestic Product
GMP                    -    Gross Material Product
ICB                    -    International competitive bidding
Kosovo                 -    Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
LDR                    -    Less-Developed Region (of Yugoslavia)
PB(s)                  -    Participating Bank(s)
Provinces              -    Socialist Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo
and Vojvodina
SDK                    -    Social Accounting Service
SFRY                   -    Socialist Federal Republic of. Yugoslavia
the Plan               -    Agricultural Development or 1973 "Green Plan"
the Unit               -    Project Operations Department (within
Vojvodjanska Banka)
VB                     -    Vojvodjanska Banka



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA: THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Vojvodjanska Banka-Udruzena Banka (VB).
Guarantor:        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:           US$86.0 million, equivalent, in various currencies.
Loan              One Participating Bank (PB), including VB, in each Republic
Distribution:  and Province, as follows:
US$ Million
Croatia:  Zagrebacka Banka Zagreb                       12.0
Serbia:  Beogradska Banka                               14.5
Slovenia:  Ljubljanska Banka                             3.5
Vojvodina:  Vojvodjanska Banka                          12.0
Kosovo:  Kosovska Banka Pristina                        15.5
Macedonia:  Stopanska Banka Skopje                       9.5
Montenegro:  Investiciona Banka Titograd,                5.2
Bosnia-Herzegovina:  Privredna Banka Sarajevo           13.8
86.0
Beneficiaries:   The proposed project would generate about 8,000 new permanent
employment opportunities and 6,000 manyears of employment
during the construction period. An additional 30,000 farmers
are expected to benefit from access to agroindustrial facili-
ties constructed under the project.
Terms:           Amortization in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at 8.25 percent. Repayment would be according to
schedules reflecting the composite amortization schedules
of the sub-loans financed.
Relending        VB would channel the loan proceeds to a PB in each Republic
Terms:          and Province at the Bank's prevailing rate (8.25 percent) with
a repayment period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace.
VB would receive a commission of one percent on disbursements.
VB would implement directly the proposed project investment
in Vojvodina. The interest rate on Bank loan proceeds onlent
to the beneficiaries by VB and the PBs would be 11 percent,
while minimum rates on local funds would be 5 and 6 percent,
respectively, for individual farmers and social sector enter-
prises. The foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan would be
borne by the sub-borrowers in the social sector and by the
Republics and Provinces for the individual (private) farmers.
Grace periods ranging from 1 to 5 years and repayment periods
on the sub-loans generally ranging from 5 to 10 years, includ-
ing grace periods, would be applied except as otherwise
justified by projections of sub-project cash flow, including
terms of any cofinancing involved.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.  l



- ii -
Project           The project would finance the production of primary agricul-
Description:   tural products (fruits, vegetables, meat and milk) in the
individual sector as well as agroindustries in the social
sector which would use the above primary products as raw
materials to fuel an agroindustrial growth which is essential
for meeting a rapidly increasing consumer demand for high
quality and processed food products. Incremental meat and
processed fruit and vegetable production would add to the
supply of exports. Investments in agroindustries would also
help fulfill Yugoslavia's Five Year Plan's food production
objectives, create employment opportunities, and would also
provide market outlets for agricultural production in the
individual sector and promote cooperation between the social
and individual sectors. An agroindustry study would also be
included in the project.
The less-developed Republics and Province (LDRs) would
receive half of the loan which is much larger than their
share of the national agricultural product. A substantial
number of direct beneficiaries in the LDRs are expected to
belong to the target group with per capita incomes below
US$510.  The incomes of individual farmers are expected to
increase 50 percent to 120 percent as compared to pre-project
incomes. The risks of implementational difficulties and of
non-performance in the project are minimal due to the experi-
ence gained under the First and Second Agricultural Credit
Projects and the fact that the organizational and institu-
tional structures of the proposed project are substantially
identical to those developed and utilized successfully under
the first and second projects.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                             -----US$ Million----- Percent of Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Project Cost
Primary Production in Individual
(Private) Farm Sector
Crop Production                        38.6      15.9    54.5         17
Livestock                              38.5      15.1    53.6         17
Irrigation and Drainage                10.1      7.8    17.9           6
Support Services                       13.4       7.5    20.9          6
Sub-Total                       100.6      46.3   146.9          46
Agroindustries                         57.2      40.2    97.4         31
Agroindustry Study                      0.1       0.1     0.2          -
Total Base Cost                 157.9      86.6   244.5          77
Contingency Allowance
Physical (5.0 percent)                  7.9      4.4    12.3           4
Price (23.0 percent)                   38.5      20.7    59.2         19
Sub-Total                        46.4      25.1    71.5          23
Total Project Cost /1                 204.3    111.7   316.0         100
(including contingencies)
Financing Plan:                               US$ Million              Percent of
Sources                            Local  Foreign  Total    Total Financing
IBRD                                   -     86.0    86.0             27
Participating Banks /2              140.9    25.7   166.6             53
Sub-borrowers                       63.4       -      63.4            20
204.3   111.7   316.0            100
Estimated                                                   US$ Million
Disbursements:                     Bank FY      FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85
Annual                                        5.6  21.2  28.7  25.3   5.2
Cumulative                                    5.6  26.8  55.5  80.8  86.0
Rate of Return: At least 15 percent.
Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 2731a-YU.
Date: February 6, 1980
/1   Including import duties and taxes estimated at US$11 million.
/2   The participating banks are expected to seek cofinancing arrangements
with foreign commercial institutions for some of the social sector agro-
industries sub-projects.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO VOJVODJANSKA BANKA-UDRUZENA BANKA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$86 million to Vojvodjanska Banka-Udruzena Banka (VB), with
the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to help finance
a third agricultural credit project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. US$74
million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to seven other participat-
ing banks on the same terms. The participating banks would in turn on-lend
the proceeds to individual farmers, mainly through cooperatives, for on-farm
development and to social sector enterprises for agroinAustrial investments,
for periods generally ranging from 5 to 10 years including up to 5 years of
grace, with an interest rate of 11 percent. The foreign exchange risk of the
Bank loan would be borne by the sub-borrowers in the social sector and by the
various republics and provinces for the individual farmers. The participating
banks would also seek co-financing arrangements with foreign commercial insti-
tutions, primarily for some of the social sector agroindustrial sub-projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in March
1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Recent Economic Developments", 2623-YU,
was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 8, 1979.   Basic data
on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government, enter-
prises and public institutions has the leading role in economic and social
development. It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector is comprised predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by the
principle of workers self-management bringing with it its own set of unique
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
gradually evolved over the years with important new changes introduced in the
1/   Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Montenegro Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project--Railways (Report No. P-2646-YU) and the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Montenegro Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation Project - Port of Bar (Report No. P-2645-YU), both dated
November 12, 1979.



- 2 -
Constitution of 1974. These changes reaffirm and further extend the decision
making power of workers. The federative structure of the state has been
strengthened. Responsibility for important social and economic decisions has
been shifted from the federation to the republics and provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers, through their workers' collectives, over
the socially owned means of production has been potentially increased by a
restructuring of all economic organizations. All economic organizations e.g.
enterprises, now consist of legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Asso-
ciated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of production producing a
marketable output. The creation of BOALs as the basic decision making cell
provides workers with a more wieldy unit to manage particularly as the product
of their work becomes more easily identifiable.
4.        In addition to strengthening decision-making power of workers at the
micro level, recent changes have extended workers' self-management to the
macroeconomic sphere. New instruments of macro-economic policy have been
introduced which are formulated on the basis of participation of all economic
agents. These new measures are expected to strengthen macro-economic manage-
ment. The impact of these changes is apparent in incomes, prices and employ-
ment policy and in the foreign exchange and commercial policy. The most
significant development, however, is the introduction of a new system of
planning.
5.        The new system of planning--self-management planning--is based as
in central planning on an ex ante medium-term view of the development of the
economy. Similarly, it is based on legally binding undertakings, in the form
of medium term contractual arrangements between all economic units, thus
reflecting a strong commitment to plan implementation. However, in sharp
contrast to central planning, plan formulation is based on participation of
all economic units, including government planning bodies, on a non-hierarchical
basis. Following an exhaustive exchange of information, the planning process
involves a series of iterations to achieve consistency amongst the plans of
economic units. Once an acceptable degree of consistency is achieved, eco-
nomic units enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply and
demand. In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date the state
can impose a temporary injunction.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural trans-
formation. GDP between 1954-75 grew at an average annual rate of about 7 per-
cent in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high throughout
the period, averaging 30 percent of GDP in recent years. Since population
grew at only 1 percent per annum, real per capita income more than tripled.
during the period. Per capita GNP in 1978 is estimated to be US$2,390 at 1978
market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the
driving force of the economy. The share of industry in GDP has increased to
about 49 percent while agriculture has declined to about 14 percent, paving
1/ According to the 1979 World Bank Atlas.



- 3 -
the way for development of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
The past two decades have also been associated with a growing integration of
Yugoslavia into the world economy. Between 1954-76 exports and imports of
goods and non-factor services grew by around 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent per
annum in real terms, respectively; much of this in the convertible currency
areas.
7.        Although Yugoslavia's overall performance has been impressive,
Yugoslavia is characterized by large regional income disparities.  Four of the
regions, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, with two-thirds
of the national average per capita income, and Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDRs). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed, Kosovo,
is 6 to 1. Parallel to these inter-regional disparities there are large
intraregional per capita disparities ranging 10 to 1 between communes. These
differences are a p-oduct of diverse factors notably differing shares of the
low productivity agricultural sector and unfavorable demographic conditions
e.g. higher dependency ratios and population growth rates. Until recently
regional income disparities tended to widen. Since 1971 sizeable concessionary
credits (with about 50 percent grant element), equal to about 9.3 percent of
the GDP of the LDRs in 1974, have been transferred to the LDRs through the
Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions.
8.        Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the expanding modern
sector. Between 1954-76 employment in the modern social sector increased by
around 4 percent per annum facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, considerable imbalances exist. Large
productivity and income differentials exist between the modern (mainly social)
and the traditional (private agricultural) sectors. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in
1973 Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973,
with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend
has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing considerable
pressure on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates
have risen rapidly from about 7 percent in 1971 to nearly 13 percent in 1976. 1/
This problem has taken an added urgency as the incidence of unemployment has
been highly regionalized. In 1975 unemployment rates ranged from 23.5 percent
in Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        Yugoslavia's economic development in recent years has been charac-
terized by stop-go policies and cyclical behavior. Periods of rapid economic
growth and inflationary pressure have resulted in balance of payments diffi-
culties, leading to measures restricting the level of economic activity. This
has been followed by periods of relatively modest growth and improvements in
1/   These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered unemployment to social sector
labor force. The ratio of registered unemployment to total resident
labor force would have been about 7.5 percent in 1976.



-4-
the balance of payments situation. In 1974, rapid domestic economic growth,
recession in Western Europe and higher oil prices resulted in a sharp deterio-
ration in the balance of payments situation and a $1.2 billion current account
deficit. In the same year domestic inflation (retail prices) fueled by
external price rises, accelerated to 26 percent. Both 1975 and 1976 were
marked by policies aimed at stabilizing the economy through moderating the
rate of growth, improving the balance of payments situation and reducing
inflation. GDP grew by 3.6 percent per annum in 1975 and 3.9 percent in 1976,
well below the historical trend rate. Weak domestic demand reduced import
requirements and placed pressure on enterprises to export. This, and the
recovery of activity in the OECD, led to a 15 percent real increase in merchan-
dise exports in 1976. Merchandise imports in the same year fell by 7 percent.
As a result, the current account deficit was transformed to a surplus of $165
million. Inflation also dropped perceptibly to 9 percent. This was partly
due to slack domestic demand but also due to stringent price controls.
10.       A strong upturn in economic activity driven by a revival in invest-
ment activity began in mid-1976 and has continued since. There-was a rapid
increase in money supply in 1976. Enterprises began to adjust to the new
financial and accounting system introduced early in 1976 which, through
increasing financial accountability of enterprises, had been an important
factor in dampening the level of economic activity in early 1976. GDP is
estimated to have grown by about 8 percent and the industrial sector by about
10 percent in 1977. This upturn led to a revival of inflationary pressure
and a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments situation. Inflation
increased to 13 percent, exports declined in real terms by 4 percent and
imports rose by 15 percent. The balance of payments current account recorded
a deficit of $1.6 billion. There was some slackening in the level of economic
activity in 1978. GDP is estimated to have increased by about 6.5 percent
despite a drop in agricultural production of 5 percent due to adverse weather
conditions.  The current account deficit is estimated to have fallen to around
$1.0 billion. The rate of inflation is estimated to have been 13 percent.
Policies for 1979 aimed at maintaining a 6 percent growth in GDP, a 5 percent
growth of exports, a 2 percent growth in imports and a current account deficit
of around $1.2 billion. Preliminary trends in 1979 indicate that although the
economy has continued to grow rapidly, growth has been associated with a
rapidly deteriorating balance-of-payments situation. This has been a conse-
quence of a sharp revival in demand for imports following a year in which
import volume declined and has been exacerbated by the rise in the price of
oil and less favorable prospects for tourism following the devastating earth-
quake of April 15 in the coastal areas of Montenegro. Oil price increases
were estimated to add in excess of $0.5 billion to the import bill in 1979.
These factors together with the more rapid growth of imports than exports, are
likely to have led to a sharp deterioration in the current account deficit,
to over $2.5 billion in 1979.  In addition, inflation increased significantly,
resulting in the imposition of a price freeze in August. While producer prices
are estimated to have increased by about 17 percent, the increase in retail
prices was sharper, at about 23 percent, reflecting several factors including
increases in fuel prices and retail margins. The economy is expected to grow
somewhat more slowly in the early 1980's because of a more binding balance of
payments constraint. Slower growth is expected to ease inflationary pressures
and result in a reduction of the high inflation experienced in 1979, as
occurred in 1976.



- 5 -
11.       Despite the uneven growth rate of GDP since 1974, employment has
expanded steadily and rapidly. An important factor in this has been the
social pressure on enterprises to create additional work places. Employment
grew by 4.5 percent per annum between 1974 and 1978. Labor productivity has,
as a result, grown little during this period. Since real personal incomes
have continued to rise, unit labor costs have risen.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The external events of 1973 and 1974 had an important impact on
Yugoslavia's medium-term outlook, particularly in two areas. The first was the
balance of payments. The sharp increase in the price of oil led to a sudden
increase in the country's import bill. More importantly, the decline in the
number of Yugoslav workers abroad inhibited the growth of workers' remittances,
which account for about one fifth of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange earnings.
The prospects for growth of merchandise exports also deteriorated because of
the slower growth in Western Europe. The balance of payments consequently be-
came a more binding constraint on economic growth. The second area was employ-
ment. External migration was a key factor in allowing the low-productivity,
private agricultural labor force to decline rapidly between 1965-73. Return
of Yugoslav workers placed considerable pressure on the labor market and in
particular the social sector, which is the main source of new jobs.
13.       The policy response to these issues was the 1976-80 Five Year Plan
which foresaw important structural changes to deal with the new external
circumstances. On the question of the balance of payments, Yugoslavia,
by and large, opted for the import substitution route. To ensure greater
self-sufficiency the Plan called for a major restructuring of the economy
with emphasis on raw materials and intermediate goods, and particularly the
power sector. Included in the priority sectors were basic chemicals, ferrous
metallurgy, parts of non-ferrous metallurgy, agriculture, food processing and
inter-republic transportation. These were areas where production had lagged
and where import dependency had increased most after 1965, despite consider-
able possibilities for local production. Rapid expansion of employment
opportunities remained one of the key objectives of the plan. To compensate
for the generally more capital-intensive investments involved in developing
raw materials and intermediate goods, a number of measures were introduced to
ensure a sufficiently rapid growth of employment opportunities. Emphasis was
placed on development of labor-intensive activities and small scale industry.
An employment policy was adopted to facilitate an orderly growth of work
opportunities in existing enterprises. New incentives were also provided
to the private sector to encourage investment in productive activities. These
measures were expected to lead to a 3-4 percent growth in modern sector work
places. Such a growth would be sufficient to absorb returning migrants and
some outflow of workers from the agricultural sector albeit at a slower pace
than in the past decade.
14.       To achieve these objectives the plan foresaw a growth in GDP of
7.0 percent. Exports were projected to rise by 8.5 percent in constant
dollars. However, imports were projected to rise by only 4.5 percent reflect-
ing the significant degree of import substitution anticipated. Such a sharp
fall in import growth, however, appeared somewhat excessive and not likely to



- 6 -
be attainable during the plan period.  Consequently, if Yugoslavia adhered to
the ceiling it set in the plan on the level of indebtedness and debt service
ratio, a somewhat more modest overall economic growth rate of 5-6 percent was
likely to be achieved.
15.       Developments in the first three years of the 1976-80 Plan were
mixed. The economy grew rapidly as planned (average annual growth of of GDP
of 6.2 percent) and modern sector employment opportunities also increased
significantly. However, merchandise export growth at 2.6 percent per annum
was very disappointing. The current account deficit was kept in check by
limiting merchandise import growth to 1.8 percent per annum. Despite this,
external indebtedness increased significantly and will be further exacerbated
with the anticipated deterioration in the balance of payments in 1979. Thus,
although the economy is likely to achieve a 5-6 percent overall economic
growth rate for the period 1976-80, the balance of payments situation is worse
than anticipated. Consequently to deal with the deteriorating balance of
payments situation Yugoslavia will need to accept a more moderate medium-term
growth target and instigate policies designed to improve the country's export
performance. Based on recent trends in external borrowing and our balance of
payments projections, Yugoslavia is expected, even with slower growth, to
experience gradually rising debt service ratios in the early 1980s. The Yugo-
slavs, aware of the balance of payments situation, are undertaking stabiliza-
tion measures and are reassessing the economy's medium-term growth targets.
16.       Finally, the reduction of regional disparities is also a priority
objective of the plan. The financial transfer mechanism continues as the
principal instrument for regional development. However, in addition to
this, provisions have been made for direct joint venture investment by enter-
prises in the developed, into the less developed regions. This measure is
expected to facilitate a transfer of managerial and technological know-how in
addition to the financial transfers of the past few years. The regional prob-
lem, however, is expected to remain as one of the least tractable issues facing
the Yugoslav economy and one that will only be resolved in the longer run.
Creditworthiness
17.       In the period 1974-77 gross capital inflows averaged just over $2.0
billion per annum. Total medium- and long-term debt (outstanding and disbursed)
was $8.9 billion at the end of 1977, and is estimated at about $11 billion at
the end of 1978. In 1979, Yugoslavia availed of the increased liquidity in
international financial markets to refinance earlier obligations at better
terms. About three quarters of debt contracted in recent years has come from
commercial sources, in convertible currencies. These have usually been pro-
vided in the form of suppliers credits though financial credits in the Euro-
currency market have become increasingly important in financing the economy's
residual external capital needs. The World Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to
need substantial credits in the commercial markets to achieve its medium-term
economic objectives. The debt service ratio averaged 17 percent between 1974-
78 taking into account Yugoslavia's receipts from workers' remittances. The
debt service ratio is expected to increase to over 20 percent in the early
1980s in spite of lower anticipated growth rates of GDP. Given Yugoslavia's
past debt service record, pragmatism and its past control over the balance of
payments, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank
lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA I/
18.       The Bank has made 60 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,401
million. Of this amount, approximately 45 percent ($1,089.4 million) has been
for 21 loans iior the transportation sector--ll for highways, 6 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for a
port project. Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure
including, in addition to the transportation loans, four power loans, one
telecommunications loan, two water supply and sewerage, a drainage and five
multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial irrigation components).
Ten loans totalling $493 million (about 21 percent of the total amount lent to
Yugoslavia) have been made for agriculture (including three for irrigation
and one for drainage) and agro-industries. Fourteen loans amounting to $300
million (about 12 percent of the total) have also been made for industry and
two for tourism amounting to $30 million.  The $27 million first Bank loan
for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976. In addition, IFC has
made investments in twelve Yugoslav enterprises totalling about $173 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IFC investments as of
December 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(iii) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
1/   Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Montenegro Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project--Railways (Report No. P-2646-YU) and the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Montenegro Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation Project - Port of Bar (Report No. P-2645-YU), both dated
November 12, 1979.



It is obvious that each and every Bank operatiorn cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the LDRs, but the
basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly been
towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. Moreover, lending to regions other than
the LDRs frequently has had as its basis the alleviation of disparities be-
tween the urban and rural areas. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending, as
noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as the
Tenth Highway Project (approved March 27, 1979), the Bosanska-Krajina Agricul-
ture and Agro-Industries Project (approved October 5, 1978), the Macedonia
Strezevo Irrigation Project (approved August 8, 1978) and the Third and Fourth
Industrial Credit Projects (approved July 11, 1978), as well as operations
envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans for water supply
and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agricultural development,
emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs. Previously
approved loans for a Ninth Highway Project and a Fifth Railway Project (Fiscal
Year 1978) and a Middle Neretva Hydro Power project (also Fiscal Year 1978),
as well as the Second Power Transmission Project approved in Fiscal Year 1977,
will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and
energy sectors. A recently approved (September 4, 1979) Croatia Sava Drainage
Project will increase incomes of the low income rural population in a rela-
tively well developed republic and reduce the disparities in incomes between
the rural and urban population. IFC is currently investigating several new
investment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide
technical, management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.



-9-
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and while the social sector is the main vehicle for growth, the
Plan clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth must neces-
sarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the individual farming
sector.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. This proposed project, as well as forthcoming projects
for agro-industries, irrigation and rural development will support agriculture
development in general and in particular, the individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of ,ealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where sig-
nificant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of
road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essen-
tial for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework
for the transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No.
1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmis-
sion system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will
enable the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power
exchange coordination among all Republics/Provinces.
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address
the critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the
Yugoslavs are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to
Western financial markets and institutions (including the European Investment



- 10 -
Bank), there is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The
Bank, therefore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not
only constitutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally
important, is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of
international confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 9.2 percent of
Yugoslavia's total debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to
the Bank is expected to remain a fairly stable ratio of Yugoslavia's total
debt outstanding and disbursed. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 4.7 percent in 1977 and is projected to be about 6
percent by 1980.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Background
29.       The agriculture sector, which occupied over one-third of the popula-
tion and accounted for about 15 percent of the GMP 1/ in 1977, has grown at
an average annual rate of about 3 percent during the period 1970-77. Agri-
cultural development in Yugoslavia is of crucial importance to (a) meet an
estimated 4 percent annual increase in domestic consumption requirements;
(b) provide for increases in exports; (c) meet the raw material requirements
for expanding the agro-industries subsector; and (d) to achieve its employment
and income objectives through development of the individual sector.
30.       The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently many and
varied. Fifty-eight percent of the national territory is recorded as agri-
cultural land, two-thirds of which is arable and the rest pasture. The soil
is better than in other southern European countries, especially in the fertile
plain in the northeast which includes Vojvodina and which, while containing
only one-sixth of the country's total area, encloses nearly one-third of the
arable land and produces more than half of the country's wheat and maize and
three-quarters of the sugar beet. In the hilly areas covering much of Serbia,
Slovenia and Bosnia, a mixed farm pattern prevails. The mountainous regions
to the west and south contain extensive upland pastures suited to livestock
1/   GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 11 -
rearing. Along the Adriatic coast, in the Mediterranean climatic zone, vine-
yards and olive and citrus groves flourish while further south, in Macedonia,
sub-tropical crops such as tobacco, cotton and rice are grown.
Institutional Setting
31.       An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and individual farmer sectors. The social sector, which grew out of
the postwar collectivization, is made up of a number of different institutions
including kombinats (integrated factory farms), cooperatives and research
institutions; this sector accounts for about one-third of the total agricul-
tural output, controls 15 percent of agricultural land, and employs about
5 percent of agricultural manpower. In contrast, the individual farmer sec-
tor, which consists essentially of privately held family plots not exceeding
10 ha of arable land and which controls 85 percent of the cultivated land and
employs about 95 peccent of agricultural manpower, is handicapped not only by
fragmented, but by poor quality land as well, and has been neglected in
terms of provision of basic infrastructure, financing and technology. For the
most part, these two sectors are inherently complementary rather than competi-
tive. The cooperation which exists between the two sectors takes the form of
trade in input and output and the contracting of joint production.
32.       Yugoslavia's principal strategy in agricultural development has been
to emphasize growth of the social sector as the principal means to achieve
large-scale market production and self-sufficiency in food. As a result, the
agricultural production in the social sector grew at an average annual rate
of 10.9 percent during 1954-72. In contrast, during the same period the
individual sector grew at an annual rate of 2.9 percent. While the objective
of self-sufficiency in food was substantially achieved through this emphasis
on social sector growth, there remain large income differentials, with average
incomes among individual sector farmers ranging from less than a third to less
than half of those workers in the social sector and there has been a rapid
depletion of the labor force in the agriculture sector which contributed to
the rural-urban migration and increased overall unemployment in the economy.
It is now generally recognized that development of the individual sector is
necessary to address the problems of unemployment, rural poverty, regional
income disparities and low productivity. Yugoslav policy has been evolving
towards increased emphasis on the development of the individual sector,
although the social sector continues to be the main vehicle for growth.
33.       Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy and plans rests
with the Republics and Provinces, all of which are represented on the Federal
Committee for Agriculture, the President of which is a member of the Federal
Executive Council with the rank of Minister. Due to decentralized decision
making, all functions associated with policy and plan implementation rest with
autonomous self-governing organizations, such as kombinats and cooperatives.
Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy
34.       Yugoslavia's Agricultural Development Plan (1976-80) stresses the
importance of agricultural development and outlines measures to develop the
individual sector. The Plan aims at a 4 percent per annum agricultural



- 12 -
production growth for the period 1976-80 with the agricultural production in
the social sector expected to grow at 8 percent and in the individual sector
at 3 percent. Agroindustries, a priority activity, are expected to grow by
8 percent per annum. The less rapid growth of the individual sector reflects
its limited absorptive capacity and the difficulties in providing the large
number of individual farmers involved with appropriate inputs and markets.
35.       The Plan's strategy is based on continued development of social
sector holdings, particularly in agroindustries and industrial crops and
increased cooperation with the individual farm sector. The cooperation with
the individual sector is sought through long-term association of individual
farmers into agricultural cooperatives. These cooperatives are typically
associated with agrokombinats. The creation of cooperatives provides farmers
with a number of advantages while at the same time permitting them to retain
title to their individual parcels of land: it provides the mechanism for
integrating the individual farmers into the market economy, enabling them to
draw on the agrokombinats' technical knowhow, credit and inputs; it provides
farmers access to health and pension schemes similar to other social sector
organization members; and finally, it provides farmers with a means of partici-
pating in decisions that directly affect their welfare such as overall develop-
ment programs of the agrokombinats. The cooperatives thus provide a vehicle
for serving the interest of both the social and individual sectors. Experience
so far is insufficient to permit a definitive assessment of the effectiveness
of these cooperatives, however, encouraging results have been achieved in the
short time since their inception in 1974. During the period 1973-77, the area
under major crops (wheat, maize and sugar beet) and the number of individual
farmers engaged in livestock production on a long-term basis increased by 37
percent and 60 percent respectively.
36.       While the overall agricultural production in Yugoslavia has basically
followed an upward trend, it has been consistently below planned targets.
Agricultural production grew at an average annual rate of 2.2 percent between
1965-70 (planned 4.6 percent), 2.7 percent between 1971-75 (planned 3.5
percent), and 2.3 percent between 1976-78 (planned 4 percent). The reasons
for less than planned growth, besides bad weather, were a cost price squeeze,
difficulties in export markets, a decline in cultivable areas and a lower than
planned growth in labor and capital productivity largely due to the general
lack of emphasis to the individual sector which owns most of the cultivated
area.
37.       Domestic agricultural production has grown at a rate which is three
times higher than the rate of population growth in the last three decades.
Thus production has generally been sufficient to meet demand for consumption
and over the last 20 years the dependence on agricultural and other food prod-
uct imports has declined. The country is a net exporter of live animals and
meat and is generally self-sufficient in cereals. However, in years with bad
harvests, maize has to be imported to support livestock production. There is
a shortage of dairy products, eggs, vegetable oils and protein-rich animal
feed. Within the agricultural sector, the agroindustries subsector in
Yugoslavia is of prime importance in supplying food to an expanding urban
population and a significant tourist industry. In 1977, agroindustries
contributed 3.6 percent of the GMP and employed 180,000 persons or 3.4 percent



- 13 -
of the labor force in the social sector. The output of agroindustries more
than doubled during the period 1967-77. However, many of the existing agro-
industries are obsolete, unhygienic, or ill-equipped to produce the variety of
processed convenience foods which consumers desire. Many of the others are of
small size and uneconomic to operate. There is, therefore, an urgent need for
new investment to modernize and expand agroindustries.
38.       The prospects for the development of agriculture in the 1980s in
Yugoslavia are inextricably tied to the fact that Yugoslavia is in the
process of becoming a predominantly urbanized industrialized society. While
in the past the rate ahtd pattern of agricultural growth has been adequate to
meet the domestic demand, a major reorientation of agricultural development is
necessary because Yugoslavia has reached a consumption level where most of the
agricultural production has to be processed, stored, and transported to urban
markets. For this purpose reconstruction and modernization of existing
agroindustries is essential. There is a need to improve the overall policy
framework in Yugoslavia for agroindustry development. A growing awareness of
the need to balance agricultural production and processing capacity exists at
the federal level and there is recognition for the need to improve the overall
policy framework in Yugoslavia for agroindustry development. Therefore, work
is underway in connection with the preparation of the next Five Year Plan
(1981-85) to develop a long-term agroindustry development policy for Yugoslavia.
The agroindustry study proposed to be conducted under this project would help
in this effort (see paragraph 55).
39.       The challenge in the 1980s for Yugoslav agriculture is to provide an
ever increasing diversity of secondary processed foods and strengthen and
expand the export base of agricultural and processed food products, while at
the same time increasing the productivity and incomes of the large individual
sector. This challenge is recognized by the government, and the Agricultural
Development Plan for 1976-80 as well as the draft plan for 1981-85 give
emphasis to creating the industrial complex capable of meeting the changing
consumer demand and export requirements, as well as to expanding the coopera-
tion among individual farmers and between individual farmers and social sector
organizations. The proposed project would help advance these objectives.
Agricultural Credit
40.       The social sector has long-established credit channels with existing
banks, special funds operated by Federal, Republican and Provincial authori-
ties, suppliers credits and so forth. Credit to the individual farmer is
normally provided through a social sector organization with which he has a
cooperative agreement, and this mechanism appears to offer considerable scope
for increasing rural incomes. Individual farmers may, but evidently rarely do,
also obtain credit directly from the banks, usually on less favorable terms.
41.       The interest rate structure in Yugoslavia is characterized by highly
differentiated interest rates among the republics and provinces, by purposes
and by sources of funds. Most of the funds to agriculture are on-lent at
interest rates ranging from 3 percent to 9 percent. The lower rates apply
to resources from the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of Less-
Developed Regions, whereas the higher rates apply to funds from the banks'



- 14 -
own resources from deposit mobilization. Under the First Agricultural Credit
Project, a study on the role of interest rates in the agricultural sector was
commissioned. This first study, though it provided some understanding of the
current interest rate structure and a basis for initiating a dialogue with
the Federal and Republic/Provincial authorities, was too general and did not
adequately address the complexity of the issue, which requires considerable
empirical work.  Therefore, it was agreed with the Government under the Second
Agricultural Credit Project that a further and more exhaustive study on the
role of interest rates in the agricultural sector would be undertaken. This
second study forms the part of a broader review of the role of interest rates
under the present system of decision making in the Yugoslav economy which had
been initiated by the Yugoslav Association of Banks. This study will examine
the effect of interest rates on resource mobilization and allocation and
capital intensity of investment and make recommendations for long-term policy
on interest rates in Yugoslavia. The preparation and organization for this
study took longer than expected and it has only recently been completed. It
has been submitted to the Yugoslav government authorities at federal and
republican/provincial levels, to Yugoslav banks, and to the Bank, and is
currently being translated for review by the Bank. The study is expected to
be the basis for further dialogue with the Yugoslav authorities on this
question.
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector
42.       The proposed third agricultural credit project would represent the
seventh Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia. Since
1971, when it first became involved in the agriculture sector in Yugoslavia,
the Bank has financed twc nationwide agricultural credit projects (Loan Nos.
1129-YU and 1477-YU), four agriculture and agro-industry projects in Macedonia,
Montenegro and Bosnia Herzegovina (Loan Nos. 894-YU, 1370-YU, 1371-YU and
1621-YU), as well as three irrigation and multipurpose projects with agricul-
tural components (Loan Nos. 777-YU, 1360-YU and 1616-YU) and one drainage
project (Loan No. 1756-YU). The Bank's involvement in these projects has been
both in the social and individual sectors. As summarized in Annex II, these
projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily.
43.       Within the framework of the agricultural development plan and the
Government's objectives, the Bank's lending program for agriculture is based
on the support of primary production (irrigated and rainfed) in the individual
sector and agricultural processing facilities in the social sector which
provide the outlet for individual sector primary production. The individual
sector is recognized as having significant growth potential and comparative
cost advantage in primary production, particularly in labor-intensive products
such as livestock, fruits and vegetables. The Bank therefore emphasizes
development of primary agricultural production in the individual sector and
in recent years both Yugoslavia and the Bank have increased their commitment
to the development of the individual sector. The mix between involvement in
the social and individual agricultural sectors in Bank projects in Yugoslavia
is deternmined in each particular case by taking into account several factors,
such as, the Federal and Republican/Provincial governments' own efforts for
the social and individual farm sectors and the relative investment requirements
in each republic or province to bring about a balanced agricultural development
between primary production and processing capability. In addition, given the



- 15 -
problems of regional income disparities and employment problems, there is an
increasing need to emphasize the rural sector to improve income distribution,
alleviate pockets of rural poverty and to increase rural productivity, all of
which relate primarily to the lower-income individual farmers, most of whom
are in the relative poverty target group with per capita incomes of less than
US$510 per ar.
Performance Under First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects
44.        Performance under the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects
has been generally satisfactory. While commitments and disbursements under
the first loan were initially slow due to inadequate sub-project identifica-
tion and preparation and unfamiliarity with appraisal methodology, progress
over the last two years has accelerated. The first loan is fully committed
and is expected to be fully disbursed by mid-1980. Disbursements under the
second loan began more quickly than under the first loan but have been behind
appraisal estimates. The loan is expected to be fully committed by end-1980.
To some extent the decision-making process under the Yugoslav self-management
system contributes to implementation delays; the process of consultation,
debate, and final consensus is invariably time-consuming, but has the advan-
tage of firm collective commitment to the decisions ultimately reached. Other
major reasons for relatively slow commitments/disbursement rates, have,
however, been discussed with all participating banks (PBs) and are being
remedied to the extent possible under the proposed project. These include
advancing subproject identification and preparation, greater flexibility in
sub-project categories, higher free limits, and simplified appraisal procedures
(see paras. 54 and 60). These measures are expected to be effective in
accelerating commitments and disbursements in the future.
45.       Notable progress has been achieved towards attaining a number of
objectives which were initially begun under the first agricultural credit
project, and continued under the second. All the PBs have project units with
staff trained in appraisal, supervision, procurement and disbursement proce-
dures and these techniques are being employed in some instances by the PBs
for evaluating other than Bank-financed sub-projects. Thus, consistent analy-
tical and supervisory criteria for agricultural sub-projects are increasingly
being applied throughout Yugoslavia. This also facilitates Bank lending in
other sectors. Under the second project, a system of monitoring and evalua-
tion of project benefits has been set up.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.        The Federal Government has requested the Bank to help finance the
proposed project, a nationwide agricultural credit project, under which credit
would be provided for medium and long-term investments in fruit, vegetable and
livestock production in the individual farm sector and agro-industrial devel-
opment in the social sector. The proposed project, a sequel to the First
(Loan No. 1129-YU of 1975) and Second (Loan No. 1477-YU of 1977) Agricultural
Credit Projects, was identified in May 1978 by a Bank mission and was prepared
by the proposed borrower, Vojvodjanska Banka-Udruzena Banka (VB), with the



- 16 -
assistance of the other participating Yugoslav banks (PBs) and the Federal
Committee for Agriculture. The proposed project was appraised in May 1979.
Negotiations were held in December 1979. The Yugoslav delegation was led by
Mr. Branko Jovanovic, Vice-President of the Federal Committee for Agriculture.
Annex III summarizes key events leading to the presentation to the Executive
Directors and special conditions provided for in the Loan Agreement.
Project Objectives and Description
Objectives
47.       The proposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the report
"Appraisal of a Third Agricultural Credit Project" (No. 2731a-YU). This
report dated February 6, 1980 is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
48.       The project's main objectives are to (a) meet increasing domestic
and export demands for a variety of primary and processed agricultural prod-
ucts; (b) increase the productivity, employment opportunities and income of
the individual farmer sector which is the poorest and the least developed
section of the economy; (c) contribute to institution building in the eight
participating banks (PBs) by improving their project preparation, appraisal
and administrative techniques; and (d) increase the PBs' access to inter-
national capital markets through encouragement of cofinancing on those sub-
projects for which such financing is appropriate. The project strategy is
based on fostering increased cooperation between the social and individual
sectors, with each sector drawing on its respective comparative advantages.
The individual sector offers the greatest potential for increasing agricul-
tural production, as (a) it owns about 85 percent of the country's arable land
and over 90 percent of livestock and constitutes about 95 percent of the
agricultural labor force; (b) its current levels of productivity are low and a
great deal of underemployed family labor exists; and (c) its capability to
achieve productivity levels at least as high as the social sector, given
technical assistance, credit and market access, has been demonstrated. The
social sector possesses the technical skills, means and institutional framework
to undertake the agroindustry investments. Thus, subloans to the individual
sector would finance investments for increased primary agricultural production
and subloans to the social sector would finance investments in agroindustrial
processing facilities stimulating production on individual farm holdings. The
project objectives and strategy are substantially identical to those estab-
lished for the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects and are in line
with the objectives of the Agricultural Development Plan of Yugoslavia. The
project investments are part of the 1976-80 and draft 1981-85 Agricultural
Development Plans.
49.       The first loan for agricultural credit, which was made in June 1975,
represented a significant initiative in terms of our developing with the
Yugoslav authorities a nationwide credit system for channelling funds to high
priority sub-sectors and to the lesser developed republics and for providing
investment credit to the small individual farmers. The second loan made in
1977 allocated a greater proportion of funds to individual farmers and the



- 17 -
less-developed regions (under the proposed project, the individual sector
would receive 70 percent of the loan proceeds as compared to 57 percent and
43 percent under the second and first projects, respectively). These first
two projects have very clearly demonstrated the significant demands for, and
ability to, absorb credit in the individual farmer sector. At least 50 per-
cent of the processing capacities of sub-projects to be financed under the
loan would be available for individual farmer production (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5 paragraph 2 (B)(i)(b)). The components financed under the proposed
project would be located throughout Yugoslavia, taking into consideration
particularly the less-developed Republics and Kosovo, to which about one-half
of the Bank loan proce~eds would be allocated, as well as the less-developed
regions of the more developed Republics and Vojvodina.
Detailed Description
50.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  primary agricultural production in the individual sector.  Sub-loans
would be made to about 18,800 individual farmers through coopera-
tives (Zadrugas) for livestock development to produce milk, beef,
pork, chicken, lamb, and fruit and vegetable. In addition, to
improve land productivity and help meet Plan production targets, the
project would finance investments in drainage on about 13,000 ha of
individual sector land and irrigation totalling about 5,000 ha in
both social and individual sectors. Sub-loans would also be pro-
vided for support services or joint facilities which would assist in
the expansion of primary agricultural production in the individual
sector. Typical investments would include grain drying and storage
facilities, milk collection centers, pasture improvement, and farm
machinery services;
(b)  agroindustries development of processing capacities to ensure an
adequate and assured market for incremental agricultural production
and to meet the fast growing consumer demand for processed foods.
In keeping with the Plan objectives, sub-loans for agroindustries
would focus mainly on processing of milk, meat, fruits and vege-
tables all in the social sector. Investments would include the
establishment and expansion of about 10 to 15 agroindustries; and
(c) an agroindustry study.
Project Organization and Implementation
51.       Institutional Arrangements.  The organizational framework and insti-
tutional structure of the proposed project is identical to that developed and
successfully utilized under the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects.
The Federal Coordination Committee, established under the previous two proj-
ects and which coordinates agricultural policy and investments under those
projects (but has no "line" responsibilities), would continue to perform its
coordination role (Guarantee Agreement Section 3.03). The lead bank role
would continue to be filled by VB.



- 18 -
52.       VB and the seven Participating Banks (PBs) together account for
nearly 75 percent of the banking activity in Yugoslavia. In general, the PBs
enjoy a status in their own Republics/Province comparable with that of VB in
Vojvodina, and pursue similar operating policies and procedures. All of the
PBs are known to the Bank as borrowers or disbursement agents under previous
Bank projects; four of them are participants in industrial credit projects
financed by the Bank (Loans Nos. 1012-YU, 1013-YU, 1277-YU and 1611 through
1614-YU). The PBs, including VB, would be directly responsible for the execu-
tion of the proposed project in their respective Republic or Province and
would present appropriate documentation for reimbursement of the Bank portion
of the sub-loans to VB for review and submission to the Bank for disburse-
ments. The banks' performance under the first and second projects has been
satisfactory.
53.       VB would be responsible for the repayment of the proposed loan, and
for the overall implementation of the project by the PBs. VB's role as lead
bank has been valuable in the past and continues to be needed in the future,
as the main channel for institution building efforts involving staff training
programs, as well as improvement and dissemination of appraisal and supervi-
sion techniques. Its management and staff are well-trained and experienced,
and they have acquired familiarity with the appraisal techniques employed by
the Bank.
54.       Under the First Agricultural Credit Project, a special Project
Operations Department (the Unit) was set up within VB to implement the project
and it has performed satisfactorily. It was agreed that two additional
specialists, in agroindustries and marketing, would be added to the Unit (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(i)). VB has conducted training programs for the staff
of the PBs since 1975, including seminars for appraisal criteria and would
continue this training role under the proposed project. It is expected that
in this manner further improvements will be made in the PBs early identifica-
tion and preparation of subprojects, as well as economic and marketing analysis,
procurement, systematic supervision and disbursement procedures.
55.       There is a need to improve the overall policy framework in Yugoslavia
for agroindustry development (see paragraph 38). To help in formulating long-
term agroindustry development policy, an agroindustry study would be undertaken
and financed by the Federal Coordination Committee to identify the need for
processing and storage capacities in the 1980's, taking into account current
and future domestic and export markets for major agroindustries, the raw
materials base and existing capacities (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part C).
The study is expected to be completed in about one year and assurances have
been obtained to the effect that the study would be carried out under agreed
terms of reference. This study is also expected to provide input for the
Bank's future lending for agroindustry development in Yugoslavia.
56.       Regional and sectoral allocations of the loan to be provided have
been agreed upon by the Republics and Provinces taking into account the agri-
cultural development priorities and regional income and sectoral distribution
objectives and would be monitored by VB in Vojvodina and by the PBs in each
of the other seven Republics and Province (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1;
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03).



- 19 -
57.       Relending Terms and Procedures.  Onlending terms under the proposed
project would be substantially identical to those provided under the second
project. To meet the cost of its operations in project administration VB
receives a one-time, one percent commission on Bank funds disbursed by it. VB
would onlend to each PB the amount of the loan allocated to it at the rate at
which it recrives funds from the Bank (8.25 percent). The commitment fee
would be 0.75 percent. These provisions would be covered in a manner similar
to previous loans, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to be concluded
between the PBs and VB. Signing of the subsidiary agreement, on terms satis-
factory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan
(Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
58.       The terms of sub-loans under the project would be related to the
cash flow projections of the investments. The repayment period of individual
sector sub-loans would normally not exceed ten years including a grace period
of up to five years~. For agro-industry sub-projects, repayment periods would
normally not exceed ten years including grace periods of up to three years
except in cases where cofinancing from foreign sources is involved, in which
case repayment and grace periods may be extended to 15 and 5 years, respec-
tively (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 3(C)).
59.       Annual rates of inflation (retail prices) have varied considerably
in the last four years, averaging about 14 percent in the period 1976-79.
While inflation increased sharply in 1979, the projected annual rate of
inflation for the next three years is estimated to be in the range of 12 to 14
percent (see paragraph 10). As discussed in paragraph 41 of this Report, the
issue of the role of interest rates is currently being analyzed in a special
study undertaken under the Second Agricult-ural Credit Project. Under that
project, it was agreed that uniform floor interest rates be set for onlending
of local funds, a policy that has been pursued in subsequent agricultural and
industrial credit projects. Therefore, it has been decided that as an interim
measure pending review of the findings of the study, to maintain onlending
rates for the project at the same level as those under the Second Agricultural
Credit Project. Assurances have been obtained to the effect that if the
findings of the study should result in subsequent agreement between the
Bank and the Yugoslavs to apply rates at a different level, such revised rates
would be applied to on-lending under this project. Thus the PBs will apply
minimum rates on domestic resources loaned to agriculture and agro-industries
under the project. The minimum will be at least 5 percent for lending to the
individual sector and at least 6 percent for the social sector. The lending
rate to be applied to the Bank portion of sub-project finance is 11 percent
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 3(B)). This rate approximates current
market costs of foreign borrowing to Yugoslav investors. The onlending rates
to the social sector under this project would result in a minimum blend rate
of about 8.5 percent which is expected to be marginally positive in real terms
given that the social sector enterprises would also be bearing the foreign
exchange risk on Bank funds. For the individual sector, the rates, though
higher than those charged by local banks, will nevertheless not result in
positive real rates. This rate structure would provide the PBs with a spread
of about 2.75 percent on the proceeds of the Bank loan and at least 1.2
percent on the local funds portion of the subloans.



- 20 -
60.       VB and the PBs would appraise the sub-projects and ensure that they
are technically and financially sound. In recognition of the improvements
in each PB's and VB's project appraisal work and because of the Bank's growing
familiarity with and greater confidence in these institutions, the PBs would
approve all subloans under the primary production component, except for
subloans for support services. The free limits on individual sub-projects for
support services and agroindustries would be doubled from those under the
Second Agricultural Credit Project as follows: (a) PBs would be responsible
for approving subprojects having an investment cost below US$2.5 million, (b)
all sub-projects above this level but costing less than US$3.0 million would
be referred to VB for review and approval, and (c) sub-projects costing more
than US$3.0 million would be submitted by VB to the Bank for approval. In
addition, for each agroindustry investment estimated to cost US$3.0 million
or more, VB and the PBs would require, when considered necessary, that the
proposed investor would engage suitably qualified and experienced consultants
to prepare a report examining market prospects, appropriate technical design,
and bid specifications. Expenditures for such a review would be eligible for
financing under the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)(ii) and Schedule 5
paragraph 2(C)).
61.       The foreign exchange risk arrangements agreed upon for the second
project will continue to apply under the proposed project. Social sector
subborrowers would carry the full foreign exchange risk with respect to the
portion of sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan for their
own investments. The foreign exchange risk on sub-loans to private farmers
would be carried by the Republics and Provinces (Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.04).
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
62.       VB will provide the Bank with quarterly and annual reports covering
the progress of the project. Under the Second Agricultural Credit Project,
VB set up a system of evaluation of the economic impact of both the first and
second credit projects. Evaluation reports will be prepared annually. These
reports will help VB and the PBs in loan approvals and supervision, as well as
in preparation of project completion reports. This evaluation system is
satisfactory and will be followed for this project (Loan Agreement Section
3.04(b)). The total cost of the evaluation system over an eight year develop-
ment period for this project is estimated to be US$240,000 (constant prices).
This cost would be borne by VB and the PBs.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
63.       The estimated total cost of the sub-projects, including physical and
price contingencies, but excluding interest during construction, is US$316
million, with an estimated foreign exchange component of about US$112 million
or 35 percent. The cost estimates include import duties and taxes estimated
at US$11 million. An average 5 percent physical contingency has been allowed
and an average price contingency of 23 percent on base cost price plus physical
contingencies has been included in project costs to meet expected inflation in
foreign and local costs during the project implementation period of four years.
Details of the cost estimates are shown in the Loan and Project Summary.



- 21 -
64.       The proposed Bank loan of US$86.0 million would represent about 77
percent of the total estimated foreign exchange cost and about 27 percent of
total project costs. The loan would be made to VB for 15 years, including
3 years of grace. VB would retain US$12.0 million of the loan for Vojvodina;
the balance would be relent to a PB in each of the seven remaining Republics
and Province (see paragraph 57). About 20 percent of the total project
cost (US$63.4 million) would be contributed by subborrowers, and 53 percent
(US$166.6 million) by the PBs, including possible funds from co-financing (see
paragraph 65 below). About 70 percent of the proposed loan would be allocated
to the individual farmer sector to cover the full foreign exchange costs of
sub-projects in this sector, with 20 percent of a sub-project's cost being
furnished by the sub-borrower and 48 percent by the PB. Thus, the Bank's
contribution to the cost of a sub-project would be about 32 percent. The
comparable figures for the social sector would be 20 percent and 39 percent by
sub-borrowers and PBs, respectively, with about 20 percent representing the
Bank's contribution and the balance of 21 percent expected to be obtained from
foreign commercial sources.
65.       The Bank contribution to the financing of the social sector agro-
industrial investments represents about 50 percent of the estimated foreign
exchange costs; hence, provisions for encouraging cofinancing have been
designed in conjunction with the project by allowing longer grace and repay-
ment periods on sub-loans when the sub-project is also being financed from
other foreign sources (see paragraph 58) and by limiting Bank participation in
any single agroindustry subproject to US$4.0 million (Loan Agreement, Schedule
5, paragraph 2(B)(i)(f)). These other sources typically require repayment in
five to six years with a grace period of only one to two years; therefore
longer grace and repayment periods on Bank sub-loans would provide a more
appropriate cash flow pattern for the sub-project by blending Bank funds with
medium-term credits. While similar co-financing has been undertaken under the
Second, Third and Fourth Industrial Credit Projects (Loans 1277-YU, 1611-YU,
1612-YU, 1613-YU and 1614-YU), this would be the first application of such
co-financing to this type of agricultural credit project in Yugoslavia. The
experience to date under the industrial credit projects, wherein about 70
percent of sub-projects costing over US$3.0 million have attracted foreign
commercial credits, is indicative of the results expected on those sub-projects
under this project which are of sufficient size and financial viability to
handle commercial terms. In addition, VB and the PBs are expected, following
recent trends in the Yugoslav banking system, to aggregate to the degree
practical, appropriate sub-projects which are submitted to them for financing,
in order to obtain loans on more favorable terms from the international
capital markets. The Bank would extend its services related to co-financing
in the customary manner. Should co-financing arrangements be satisfactorily
concluded, a proposal to amend the legal documents if necessary, would be
submitted to the Board for its approval. The proposed loan would be repaid
according to an amortization schedule based on the composite of individual
amortization schedules for sub-loans.
Accounts and Auditing
66.       As required by Yugoslav law, all banks and enterprises are audited
annually by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). Normal audit by SDK does



- 22 -
not conform to internationally accepted standards. SDK has, however, imple-
mented a training program for its staff, with the Bank's support, to undertake
internationally accepted audits of Yugoslav banks. This has resulted in five
of the PBs having been audited by SDK according to internationally accepted
standards under previous Bank financed industrial and agricultural credit
projects. It is expected that the remaining three banks would receive full
audits after the close of 1980.
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       The subborrowers, assisted and supervised by VB and PBs, would be
responsible for procurement of goods and services required for the project.
The works, equipment and other goods to be procured for the primary agricul-
tural production component of the project would include small farm buildings,
small buildings for the livestock and poultry units, dairy cattle and other
animals for the livestock and poultry units, milking equipment, and farm
machinery and implements. Given the small size of each investment (and
therefore the size and quantity of goods for such investments), their uncoor-
dinated timing and their dispersion over all of the republics and provinces
of Yugoslavia in physical location and the variety of goods to be procured,
it is not practical to bulk the requirements into a few contracts for procure-
ment. Sufficient commercial channels are available in Yugoslavia to provide
adequate competition for the supply of goods needed under this component of
the project. Similarly a large number of competent Yugoslav contractors are
available for the construction of civil works facilities under the project on
a competitive basis. Therefore, all procurement under the primary agricultural
production component of the project (US$188.0 million) would be handled through
existing commercial channels or local competitive procurement procedures and
would be supervised by the PBs and VB, as under the previous projects.
68.       The machinery and equipment and some processing plants to be
financed under the agroindustry component of the project would be procured in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines. The details of these investments are not
known at this stage, but only a few of the individual contracts for agro-
industries processing equipment are expected to cost less than US$2 million.
The equipment and works for most agroindustrial subprojects would be of a
specialized nature with a limited number of suppliers. Therefore, ICB would
be required for all individual contracts for equipment, as well as turnkey
contracts whose value is expected to exceed the equivalent of US$2 million.
It is estimated that items to be procured under ICB would total approximately
US$50 million and would be awarded mostly to foreign suppliers. Exemption
from ICB for contracts above these limits would be possible if the Borrower
provides justification that ICB is not the most economic and efficient method
of procurement and the Bank and the Borrower agree upon other appropriate
arrangements. The lower of a 15 percent preference or prevailing custom duty
margin would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids for
equipment under ICB (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4).
69.       Bank disbursements would take about 4 years, although the entire
loan is expected to be committed by the end of 1983. The annual disbursement
of the proposed loan proceeds is given in the Loan and Project summary.



- 23 -
Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 40 percent of the indi-
vidual sector sub-loans and for the social sector, 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures subject to a maximum
of either 50 percent of each sub-loan or, for the purposes of encouraging
co-financing (see paragraph 65), a total amount of US$4.0 million, whichever
is lower (Lcon Agreement, Schedule 1).
Benefits and Risks
70.       The project would finance the production of primary agricultural
products (fruits, vegetables, meat and milk) in the individual sector as well
as agroindustries in the social sector which will use the above primary
products as raw materials to fuel an agroindustrial growth which is essential
for meeting a rapidly increasing consumer demand for high quality and pro-
cessed food products. Incremental meat and processed fruit and vegetable
production would add to the supply of exports. Investments in agroindustries
will also help fulfill Yugoslavia's Five Year Plan's food production objec-
tives, create employment opportunities, and would also provide market outlets
for agricultural production in the individual sector and promote cooperation
between the social and individual sectors.
71.       Direct beneficiaries of the project would total about 18,800 farmers
under the primary agricultural production component of the project, with the
largest number being in the least developed regions. A substantial number of
direct beneficiaries in the LDRs are expected to belong to the target group
with per capita incomes below US$510. The incomes of individual farmers are
expected to increase 50 percent to 120 percent as compared to pre-project
incomes. The investments under the agroindustries and support services
components of the projects would result in indirect benefits to an estimated
additional 30,000 farmers by providing marketing outlets for their production,
and providing inputs and services. The project's contribution to employment
would be substantial. At full development, the project would create in the
individual sector (under the primary agricultural production component of the
project), a permanent increase in employment of an estimated 6,500 man-years
and temporary employment of an estimated 6,000 man-years during the construc-
tion period. About 2,000 man-years out of the permanent employment created
would be hired seasonal labor and the balance of 4,500 man-years would be
increased employment of family labor for under-employed families. About 1,500
new fulltime jobs are expected to be created by the investments under the
agroindustry component of the project.
72.       A wide range of investments would be financed under the project and
the exact program composition depends on future demand for sub-loans for
different purposes. The financial viability of the primary agricultural
component of the project has been examined through selected illustrative
investment types, represented by 14 farm models. Technical coefficients used
in the farm models are based on the operational experience obtained under the
two previous agricultural credit projects. The financial rates of return on
the farm investments vary between 12 and 36 percent. Analysis of specific
projects funded under other Bank loans in Yugoslavia in the agroindustrial
sector has indicated financial rates of return for such investments in the 12
to 30 percent range.



- 24 -
73.       The illustrative models used for the financial analysis referred to
above have been adjusted for the calculation of the economic rate of return.
On this basis the economic rate of return for the primary production component
of the project is calculated at 17 percent. Changes in investment costs and
net benefit streams were made to test the sensitivity of the projects rate of
return to deviations from assumed values and it was found that a 20 percent
increase in investment costs would reduce the ERR to 15 percent and the 20
percent decrease in net benefits would reduce the ERR to 14 percent. The rate
of return for the agroindustries and support services components have not been
estimated as details of individual sub-projects are not yet known. However,
the estimated ERR of a~groindustry and support services investment financed
under the Second Agricultural Credit Project and other previous agroindustry
and agriculture projects in Yugoslavia have ranged from 12 percent to 22
percent. Including the agroindustry component of the project, the weighted
average economic rate of return on the whole project is expected to be in the
range of 15 to 20 percent.
74.       The project's nonquantifiable benefits would include the continued
institutional development of the eight participating banks under the project.
The PBs would continue to be assisted through direct training and indirectly
through the application of specific appraisal criteria for sub-projects. The
latter is also expected to contribute to more efficient resource allocation in
Yugoslavia, particularly since the application of these sub-project appraisal
criteria are being increasingly employed by the participating banks in other
than Bank financed projects.
75.       The risks of implementational difficulties and of nonperformance
in the project are not great due to the experience gained under the first two
agricultural credit projects (see paragraph 44) and the fact that the orga-
nizational and institutional structures of the project are substantially
identical to those developed and utilized successfully under the first two
projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between Vojvodjanska Banka-Udruzena Banka
and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Provisions in the Agreements of special interest are noted in
paragraphs 49 through 69 of this Report and the most important provisions are
listed in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness for
this proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01) is that VB and each of the
PBs are to conclude between themselves the Subsidiary Loan Agreements (referred
to in paragraph 57 of this Report).



- 25 -
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 6, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-26 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOUSANS.lCOSLAVIA  EERENCE GROUPS ( JU5TED A'JERAGES
LAD ARA  TROUSAND                                                             -   ST RECENT ESTI.'TE) I
TOTAL TURL        4                                                             SAME           NEJIT YISHER
AGRICULTURAL     143.2                                 MDST RECENT       EOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c  GROUP /d    CROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA (LS$)                  430.0       940.0    2390.0           2906.3      1942.6      3075.3
ENERGY CONSUPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAKS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)     872.0       1459.0   2016.0            2033.2     1646.7      2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATSSTICS
POPULATION. MID-YAR  (HLLIONS)       18.4        20.4      21.7
URBAM POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9         34.8      38.4             56.3       51.2         72.1
POPULATION PROJECTONS
POPULATION tN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       26.0
STATIONARt POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         29.0
YEAR STATIONAtY POPULATION Is UEACYED                  2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PIR SQ. ICM.                       72.0        80.0      85.0             81.5       28.2        33.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    124.0        139.0     152.0            138.8      100.5        91.3
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         30.5         27.4      25.0             25.6       35.4        33.3
15-64 YIS.                         63.2         64.8      66.0             62.9       56.3        57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   6.3          7.J       9.0             10.2        5.1          5.7
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0       0.9              0.9        1.7         2.1
URBAN                               3.6         3.2       3.0              2.6        3.0
CRUDE IIRTH RAtE (PER THOUSAND)      24.0        19.0      18.0             18.5       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.0         9.0       9.0              9.2        9.1          8.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4         1.3       1.1              1.2        1.8          1.9
FAMILY PLAN4ING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF 'ARL ED WOMEN)    ..         59.0        ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDZX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          83.6         92.0     120.0            115.7      102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Of
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRL'4ENTS)                 115.0        124.0     136.0            134.2      120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          91.0         92.0      97.5             95.4       80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       27.0         29.0      35.4            45.4        31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.0         3.0       2.0              1.3        5.1         2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0         67.7      69.0             70.0       65.6        68.7
INFANT NORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           88.0         55.5      35.0             31.5       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..       69.b        73.9
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       85.1        94.6
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..       43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..       70.1
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       88.3
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..       33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICLN           1400.0/f    1010.0     790.0            661.6     1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1350.07-    410.0      390.0           677.1       765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            200.0        170.0     170.0            180.1      197.6       240.6
UR3AN                                ..        70.0      70.0                .      260.2
RURAL                                *-      1610.0    1770.0              ..      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        17.0      17.0             15.3       17.3        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.0          3.8       3.8               ..        4.7
URIAN                              3.3          3.2       3.3               ..        4.4.
URLtAL                             4.4          4.3       4.1               ..        5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.6         1.4        ..               ..        1.1
URBAN                              1.7          1.3        ..               ..        1.2
RURAL                               1.5         1.5        ..               ..        1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             55.4         87.9        ..               ..       66.0
URBAN                             92.7         98.4        ..               ..       85.1
RL'RAL                            36.1         80.1        ..



-27 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ay[RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAMlE       SAME      NEXT HIGHER
4OST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOtE        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  96.0         94.0       97.0            105.7       101.7        107.6
MALE                 100.0         98.0      100.0            107.1       110.0
FMALE                 91.0         89.0       94.0            104.5        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  34.0         46.0       55.0             65.9        51.2         39.7
KALE                  43.0         50.0       59.0             70.3        56.4
FEMALE                24.0         42.0       50.0'            62.2        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (: OF SECONDARY)  72.0           72.o       75.0             20.4        18.3
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         24.0       22.0             26.7        27.1
SECONDARY                           13.0         27.0       30.0               *-        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         77.0         83.o       85.0                *-       86.1
CONSU9PTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TROU 5iND
POPULATION                           3.0         35.0       80.3            105.5        53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         835.0        163.0      210.0            233.7       225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4         88.0      161.0            148.0       102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
IMTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0         85.0       89.0                ..       78.5
CINE1A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0            4.0        3.8              6.4         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8345.0       9175.0/1  9779.0/&
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    35.0         36.5       36.3             32.3        24.5         27.22
AGRICULTULRE (PERCENT)              63.7         49.8       42.0             25.8        28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  23.5         29.2       34.0             33.1        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCLENT)
rTTAL                                 45.4         45.0       45.9             37.6        33.8         40.1
MALE                                  60.3         58.3       59.4             57.0        51.3         55.7
FEMALE                                31.0         32.3       32.7             28.0        16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.8        0.7              1.0         1.3          1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/h         15.1/i       ..
HIGREST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS  41.5i/h        41.471    40.0/             47.9        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97h          6.671      6.S5             5.0         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07i;        18.471    18.4,             15.4        11.0
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTItATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..       550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      420.0            436.1       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN
RURAL                                 *-
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populaced country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of dara and is nct uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Europe;   /d  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e  Nigh Income (over S2500 per capita,
1976);   /f  1962;   Ig  Including migrant workers working abroad;   lh  1963;   /t  1968;   /i  1973.
Most Recent Escimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 28 -                                                              ANNEX I
DUINTIT7G   07 9013AL IIDAT7ORSO                                                 Page   3  of   6
Note--   Although th. data ar  do-t  from  soresgnealy judged the meat authritative end reIible, it should also be acted than they saY ext be intet--
tiona.lly comparble beta-s  of the  ack of etandmdissd definitiooe  mod concept. used by differsot couctries is colleting  the data. The data  r,ooteea
useful to describe orders of  agoitude,  oiloa-te treods, mcd obaroterioe cet.o major diff-ereces betnoeecooii
The aduted gr-u . avraes for each iodioator ar  pop'.ltlon-vig9hted geomtric men, eocludlig the ootree v1,oftejdi-mno  scd the  -nt populated
oootp  o  ac Dgou.   .  to lak of data, group aergee of oll iodicators for Capital Surplus Oil Eoporterand of liotrof Ao-ea  to sWer nod bEoreto
flisposal, Noosing, booDm stlibetriholo   and Poverty for other co-try grops are population-e-ighted ge-mtrit means eithout eolao    f the  ote                     value  sod
the   as populated ocuty _        oetecoeaeo  catts ame  the indicators deopd  cmaalilt.by  fdt  sdI   o    ofr.ooioo  0t5 he eceroi.ed
ia relattingaeae   f0c  adloator to another.  Ths   veae   rewtyusfla                               srcisatloo   of 'c id  vales  he Tosparigtthe v-le, of one
Yodi-ator atatiesee  -eo try"ad re-ferm'amegop..
lAXP dREA  (thousad .q.he..                                                                A doe  ti bocreto Ileposl (percent of pooaI tl - totl   .in   o   ua 
otl-Total qurfan  area coprising land are  and Inadses.Nmbro  pepl   (totl, urba, _andrrl)sredb                                                      resdspsls
dgiutrl-  ta.t reoeot estimate of agiulualae  used temprarily                        perentgee of their reepeotive popslatloos. E-creto disposal as yioclude
or PIrsnoly for crop,, pasturs  markt and kitchen gardens orto                            the _oujevtlv  mod diepomal, sith or  ithoot treatgeot, ofhooc  e-vtn
lIe faloc                                                                                and  ,aste-oatev by oater-br-r syut-s  or the  -o  of pit priviec cod  -..lla
iostallatic.-
GNP PEp CA.PITh (01$  - GIm  per caiaetmtsa   uro    ake  pie,                              PuitoyvP-  ngplylni   - Ppolativo dovi~dod by cubto  of pr-oticiog physloi-o
77)ftj yie  occriomthod as cWrIld  WAh Atlas (1976-78  ai)                               yffitrendolsho  at uieriy leve.
1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                                PocaioprWo-IuPro                   PpuIatio- divded by vu-be  o.f practiviog moOr
ENOb!fN5YbUOPyGON flR CAPfITA - onoul  --ecptio of  -onrell energycadfml   rdseue.  prarti-Il ouss -ad ..ssistt  nurse,.
oalad lgit., peroeu, osua  gas andhydro-, ou_ea  and gec-                            Pooulotioo pee hosPital Red   total, urban,ad rurl - Population (tonal, urbc,,
thermal electricity) Io hlosgr-n  ofco lequValeot- por capitm; 1960,                        nod rua) divde  by thi  re_petive oumbr ofbusyito1 beds  -valole in
I"", and 1976 data.                                                                         puilic and proete severa  ard spevliced bo-tpitnl sod rehbailitoticno-oter_
hospitals are es toblieheots permasetlytaffedlr  hpnb        laty       physicia-
POPUdLATION ANG VITAL. STATISTICSItbihct  providing prtoi_allycustcinl _ var  sn v  occlded, cral1
Total ?Pplatioo. gid-Yec    ills  -. bof July 1; 1960, 1970, and                            hospitole, hoevr  bobS.. hesIth nod medical -eters not p-eraoetly storied
1977 dais,by   pysI-ta  (hut by a -edi-I assistant, eurer,  ddoie  ec    hioh offer
"rban Poua,tico  cer-nt of total) - PaIo of urban to total population;                      Lo-Pntieot  ooe-datio- sod provide a limited rsoge o    eia   aiiis
different deflitioc   of urban ors o ffect coparability of data                        A-dmeis   Wr tmia  bed - fotal ouber of ndnisi... to Of disoharget froo
_mo   ontris   90  i70, nd 1975 dato.                                                 h-epitlo divided by the to-ner of bed..
1975 total pupulatioc by age so-     e   o  theIr wotenhndfriIy                      Avrg   ie  fOonod (per-oc  per bousnhvld( - total  u-bn.b  and r-ro  -
rat.ec.Projeti-o paraeter  for ortoity ranee  -oprise of three                         0     4houshod vnsicte of a group of In1div 1idu lsbci  s.har  bIting q-ater  end
leels aseurbos life ecP-trtany st birthiceco   eith roantry's                          their "nic cr01,.  A ivverd~ orldge  cup oray ct be iolulrd  - tie
per capits ioco.e ieve   and female life eopectsno   stab I.hlgat                      Ovuceht1d fo  stt.t io -io   purpoes.
77.5 years.  The par-ters fvr fertility rote ale  hav  three levels                    teA;E-  nuber cf persoto perrom   toal           I-a, and  rura  - Aoverege vuub-
so_iog declior It fertility sc-oding to  .. ie_m eve  cd Peet                         of persoo      Pvrrv  in nil urban  andrura  o-pird v-ovetioo.d-neinv
fain .llolnign performanc. E.nn  -ctry is then.. asigoed vin  of these                 reape-iv-ly D. Illig.ig   e-cldeoo.p-pernoet et-tvires and  _n_vp'.eo  sro
eice cobinatIon  of -otaity and fertility trede for yevjectivc                       do-es to Eleot'icity  percent of dellicoc)l - itotl. ubrba. end r-rl -Co-
purposes.                                                        v~~~~~~~~~~~~entiornI de-lings sub electviotty  to  ioig   un..ners as P-rcetagoo
Stmtloae-p- posclativo  , - Ge&soivor.y pcplatio  there ie 00 groeth                     tonal, ubrba, and crerl d-ellivgs rIesrt itely
- vrte   it   ae iseqa  to the death vate, and also the age
etrurure  ensisoo tant.Thi  Os achieved  oly after fertility rateu           fISfATI N
d_1line to the relcco   ee  of u_itcet repr-du-tice rote,  h- ce                     Ojusted EIcrll.t vatios
each geteratioc of wome  reper   ief ccsi. The stat ioa.ry popo-                       Piayoho  -tca.male nod female - Oroac 1tovl, nale nod fe-nle, etroll-
rote to replavenent level.                                                    od'.stedfvv differe       Pr levgtb   of prar  euaio;if -p-vi-ir  tcob
veoreithtlcoarv  anolativo1 is reached - The year  bec. stativeary ppyclativo              uciverel eduvati- envol1-mt   3rts  eoeed 100 perveot  1lv- e coe -upile
eioe ha"eoeabiIc Ico  or, above obe off1v-l school age.
PovLoicoDnst                                                                                ieotdmry school - tottl,  mie and female - Computed so s, -r;uronr
Prs.k.-Mid-peesoP-Poplation Per squae kilometer (IDO hertar-) of                    eduvotio requiree  It lcnv four your  of approved pr-itryoiuro~c
Per s   . O. agri-ou-lts  land - C-epoted      above foe agricultural lan-d                 ucuol ly of 12 to 1') Yeare of agr; v-rr-co-deore  -cr-c  t-  co--rlG
coIl..                                                             noc~~~~~~~~~~~~.ludeu
Poculailo   ge Structure   sreot) - Ihbidren  (-il ye.r..   eo rkiog-age                    oV_ot ioca  -orolr-nt )oerceot of.. oeodario  - Poonti-c.s  looti t.tio-  ivol.de
(15-64 years),1and retired (b5 years and over) as percetagee cf mid-Pea                    teroial  iuuoril  or o.thrr pr.rogsu  ohlicoprrntc  aoep-o-tly o
Pop.  tit  190, 1970, and 1977 d.ts.                                                        depart"mno`ofsec-dory inutitutio-e
Populotion Gro-th bane (per-et) - total - Ano.a. Ir-eth rates of total mid-                 Pupil-teahrrto-pdoy   n   oodr      oo  otodonto   -1olld ic
year popuilation  for 1950-h6, 17'60-70, ano 1970-77.                                       prm ryad sevndoy lovelo dite y rner   f tair   r  i
?Pcua.ti.o Grcoth Pate (p-eret) - urb -An      n ..ouI guthrtes of urdac                      pyvdinglelo
popolatiove for 1950-h0, 1960-70, and 1971-75.                                           AdL1t loterc   ot   prvoo-ifear                 sdlto  Inbr to vend nod o-itc)n
Crude Birth  at        th,posad    n- oul11c  bi:rt h.Per thound of aid-                     apv evg   ftotl ,dut popolotio  aged 05 ycnvo nodOvr
yArpoPuot-ico  1I6,197,  anu 1977 dnta.
Crude Denth mate  per tboad  - Ancunl death, per thtuonod of  id-pror                  COSUbiUTIGON
p eltio  19 5, 1970, and 197  data.                                                  Po..once- Ctrc  (per thoocandpopoittlocI d- Pooscolgor voro ovyrlu ,0 o,,r vr
Gros  ceceoui  i   bt-OveAge  -Ibe odagtr0consill hea                                      seating lee  than vigI  prht    o  eoPue    aeunvo,e__r   n    ltr
io .her norsli repro d-otic-perIod if:she  rprecepresen t age-                                 l
cpeifi  fertili ty rtee  omualy five-year avrerges ending io 1960,                     Rdiad    eveiv-ro (per thouoand poPu1ativo)   Alli types ofrecei.c.n  o- radio
i97G, and 1975.                                                                          hrvadvqto tv genernl pblic per thcoosod of pupointivo; ev. ldeco_li_e_ue
Paniiy P-ianio   - Acomo.Ice.  uvoA-.  (thou-ade) -Ono ubro                                 ro_I_ero  in  _vtrbco1 no di  yearsh, ci       g roitvnti    ofcojocc  _00   L
avepturs  f hirt-rcoteoi device  ande- auspice  of ootioosl feedl.                      cyfect; Oats for reet pear  v,y otbOr ooPari.e.             o     -0o..ve
pion prcgran                                                                           abolished liv iroig.
PFmily.11 Plnig-les)ere   fere                     r)-Per-entgc of  -aried               TV ce-irier  (per thousnod popultivo) - GV  -eci-er  for irodonut to  ces
ocoofcild-h'earin   ae 115-4  yer)syoehricnrldcvopbi   e  thoman  pouinto;cc .d.eou .i.rTVd'revi-cruiv cc-tri-t
tv all married ...een it ne a-ge group.                                                  ad i year notcrgsrtt    f7   es50in effet.
bee-p-pe  Ci-vultIow  (-v  thous-d Porlnti.n) - GSchu  thvo-erngvir-ulati-v
FOl001e   lfffG               o.1,t   d~.1,,  .td,Ipr-i.f 'daily genera  lterest nra-p.per", defined acper ivdi-pol ioo iivoio
Ioe   ffo    rvotc    e   ano 16.110 -fGoded  of per_           pli               dvted Pr isoily to recording geoero,l orso.IC  t   cid-red tor  doiy
= ,Ilyodcioo  alfo  c~iis  Prourideiuem  seed nod                                        ift I tc .r  ot .leat four tiours  _ceo.
fedad is oo   -edar year basis.  Cumedities covr primay goodu                       Ciomna Aonuol OttedcepraitnrOoc-oedn tic vuvb-r of trkcto
(e.g. cugarenor instead of sugar) ohich are edible and votmisi  outrirote             - ood during tienpeso   obdc   di oto on o-loic                         .dcfl
(e.g  cofee nod ten ar  e.pluded).  Aggregate pr-d-tio-  of ench courty                 unito.
is hacd 00 naticoa.l avrage produver yrio- ceights.
Per caita coorlY of caloric. (pcr_rt of reuciremets) - C cepted from                 LABOR FORCc
cooro, euvetof cot foo  cuppiiso ovilailo ie_ ...otry per ..pit.                     Total labor PRos- Ith--sod.) - ~....coi-ally occti- ccr-oo    t-budiyc,  -rc
pedsy.  A-voilahi  supplieo vopvi- dometic produotiom, imports less                  forces and u,yrPIoyed bit  .oouding h---rie, o tudeot,, rot- Nfi-i--,o
epornts, an_i_                                                                                       _l d changes inoto-k.  Net oupplieo eo-bde animal feed,  -eds,  icvroso t iesar  no   oparshle.
quantities used io food prcce-iog, and loesc  in distribution. Requir-               Pral -pypst(   F -femaleIbor froc os prrvotage of toltl inior force.
senobs  -rr  notmaed by roe bae-d cc piy-io.ogi-d-.edc for normaL              ~      fui3(             o) - i.bo- yorc  ic foerlon, forcutry, tooting nod
atirity and health coo..ide-lg  -oci-ooents1 teoperantr-, body ceighto,               fishing -c p-oetage of total lobor fLroc.
age ador  distributivom  ofppltr,ad nllc-ig 10 perv-ntfr                            idsr    eco)-lb ffoo.n,   ic,ontuoic   nuttoricouc
onec houehid 1-uel                                                              eletricity, u-ter no-d cn  pentae of Otatl mOr  ore
Pe r vpit   upyo   rni   geocrdp    Protciaccntentofc PPr loptc    cae)prrO)- total   ma1r, sod foi      'ricso
v-pitnoe  spply offod per dyp. Set ouPply of food Lo  otiiod no_tiviyrneaeoptdh   oo,ml,odfel   uo   cc   cpr
ahoc .PRequirese..t  foral  coo-trie- entsblimhed by 03DA10 pri dr forf a                et-sgr  of total, mule nd femaic poyplotiot of oil agoro.ciey
inioi.malo             60nc 9rOorssoto-tlcrutoio Perdso-ndyomransof                    1960. 1970, and 0975 dotn -Th-oc-elk-'cp.ri.iaiortorclcvvti-
anisal.and pulse protelo, of much 10'grsmm  should be animal proeio.                   nge-_ Otrucre of the Wuponnio..  and love 0tcr trend.  A  eet'ae
Tese  Iadad    re      e  than thoe o75 groin  oftoa  prti  no                        ore fcos natiotal  ..eoure
t5grm  dofanma Z Protehot- sot  evagc foIr the oorld, propoe.ed by, FAO           E.onomI  lepedeop htic -  Estiv of popolotoon ucier 15 and 65 nod  -vr to
io the Third Wirld Pood Ourep.                                                         the iabor forc  itgegroup uf 15-ku ye-r.
Per capta oroteio  suppl  from  animal and puls  - Proteio supply of fcod
derived from  - anial  and poilseo it ges    ry0s                                  INcoso DISTR=IONf
Child (aes. 1-4)  rIat, Pate (per thgoucand( - Annual deatho per thousand                 Ptcaag    fPivt    ou    bn  io cash and kind) - Ieered by riohest
iage grou  1-` prtr, to ohiidrec Le this ag  group; forout dce-Sprat  rcet2-ecnt   oro   0prent,  od' p                                                      4retupervent
oping  -cutrie- dto derived from Life tabir.                                              of housholds.
OhIATh                                                                                    MVROOfY TAX=ir  cORCP
life locectacyat Bir,tb  (pero  - Averge somber ofyear  of life                          ictimated Abuojlu  Poev   oom    re   09  e   010   - ubanndruah
re-olgs   bit;16,170, nod 1977. data.                                                    AbuourPovry Itoos  irve  do tot, iincoa  -ve   vv   ubooios
Infant   Motlt  cn   mv  buwd)-- Aocul destis of iofants coder cc                          otriti-nsly adequate diet piuo  -tetiol ny-food reqire-etto  1s nto
pero   geprtouadlc  bIrth,.                                                               aff-rdaie-
A-cee  to Smf. eater (perveot of    usoo -total, uban  and ruaE.hnate-td tRiativePvrySca   ee  (019 pe   nos                                                rban and rurl
mubro   epe (tct.1, urban  and rualmthraoblacesor rerettle  ocetyttco  leon  i  oo-tr                                                    f -cragr Pec  -np;ts
safe ester supply (incldes trented surfae o-ter. or untreated hot                        porso-a  income of the  -atry  Ivn  leelic  rived fron the crsr' level
cocotmisatd eater e-ch as that from pront-ted hoeoe    pig,                                ibmjomo  for big b   co  ofOvn   oubanneo
an -aitary -ells ( a  pcr-entage  of uheir resp-ti-e puplatioos. Go                  ttimted Populatio Belos Ab-cot`  Poverty  Ino e lvl (~r ..vt( - urba  and
an urban are  a public fcotaio or stadpust loctate  oct mare thanrra   Percet of ppltve(ra nd vral) obo  r    bouepc"
2   mters from a bhse may he  -oider-  asbigcti   esnble
soeme oftht house,  in rural ..e. vensble ans  would imply
thnt the houseife or meters o  the household do sot have to spend                                                                E c-cic and Socia1 lava Dioioioo
dlspropurtiomatr part of the dyp Io fetching the fagily's eater needs                                                       hooncmb  Analysis enod ProJ eti-c  lepart.eet
dugust 1979



ANNEX I
- 29 -                                          Page 4 of 6 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                           ESTIMATE             PROJECTED
1970        1975         1976        1977 /1          1978                 195
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS /2
(US$ mil. at 197.5
Prices)
Gross Domestic
Product (GDP)  22,519.9    30,931.9    32,138.2         34,612.8      36,897.2                48,787.7
Gains from Terms
of Trade           148.9          0           69.1           0           332.6                     0
Gross Domestic
Income          22,668.8    30,931.9    32,207.3        34,612.8      37.229.8               48,557.6
Imports           6,519.8      8,832.0      8,493.2       9,636.8      10,038.5               12,857.0
Exports--Volume -5,022.7    -6,426.0    -7,026.9         -6,712.8      -6,761.7              -10,952.4
Exports--Terms
of Trade
Adjusted        -5,171.6    -6,426.0    -7,095.1        -6,712.8      -7,094.3              -10,952.4
Resource Gap      1,348.2      2,406.0      1,398.1       2,924.0       2,944.2                 1,904.6
Consumption      16,339.6    23,123.5    22,778.2        25,367.6      26,820.2               34,256.7
Investment        7,677.4    10,214.4    10,827.2        12,169.2      13,353.8               16,405.6
National
Savings          6,993.2      9,211.4    10,992.2       10,817.0      12,520.3               15,713.7
Gross Domestic
Savings          6,329.2      7,808.4      9,429.1       9,245.2      10,409.6               14,501.0
GDP at Current
US$              13,766.4    30,931.9    42,336.6        50,154.9      58,480.6              123.803.8
SECTOR OUTPUT
(share of GDP
at 1975 prices)
Agriculture             .182         .152         .160          .156          .139                   .130
Industry               .410         .480         .472          .478           .487                   .508
Services               .408         .368         .367           .366          .374                   .362
PRICES
(1975 =100)
Exports Price
Index               52          100          104           117           128                    210
Imports Price
Index               50          100          103           117           122                    210
Terms of Trade
Index              104          100          101           100           104                    100
GDP Deflator         61          100          132           145           158                    254
Annual Average
Exchange Rate       12.50        17.39        18.19         18.30         18.64                    -
SELECTED INDICATORS             1976-78      1978-85
Import Elasticity                 .71          .88
Average National
Savings Rate                     .33          .32
Marginal National
Savings Rate                     .30          .27
Imports/GDP                       .27          .26
Investment/GDP /3                 .35          .34
Resource Gap/GDPi                 .07          .06
/1  Preliminary.
/2  Components may not add up because of rounding.
/3  Including all statistical discrepancies.  In 1976, 1977, and 1978 large statistical discrepancies
exist as a result of which components of final denand exceed total resources. Since, in the
above table consumption has been reduced by this discrepancy and investment has not been changed
although it too is likely to account for part of the discrepancy, the share of investment is likely
to be an overestimate.
EMIDC
January 29, 1980



- 30 -                                Annex
Page 5 of 6 p'ages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ Million)
Actual                               Prolected
1974        1975        1976       1977      1978 1/             1985
Exports (f.o.b.)                     3,805       4,072       4,878      5,254       5,671           15,000
Imports (c.i.f.)                     7,520       7,697       7,367      9,634      9,988            21,000
Trade Balance                    -3,715       -3,625      -2,489    -4,380      -4,317            -6,000
Non-Factor Services Receipts         1,891        2,354      2,430      2,600       2,984             8,000
Non-Factor Services Payments           795        1,135      1,381      1,641       2,259            6,000
Non-Factor Services
Net Balance                     1,096        1,219       1,049        959         725            2,000
Factor Services Receipts             1,714       1,746       1,974      2,220      3,030             4,500
Factor Services Payments               285          343        364        381         455            1,800
Factor Services Net Balance       1,429        1,403       1,610      1,839      2,575             2,700
Current Account Balance            -1,190       -1,003         165    -1,582      -1,017            -1,300
Capital Account-Medium
and Long-Term (net)                   612       1,156       1,193      1,615      1,300             2,000
Disbursements                     1,426        2,171       2,096      2,665      2,700             7,000
Amo,rtization                       -814      -1,015        -903    -1,050      -1,400            -5,000
Exports Credit Extended Net           -130          -80       -100       -213        -150              -300
Disbursements                       -215          -           -          -          -                 -
Amortization                          85           -          -          -           -                 -
Total Medium and Long-Term
(net)2/                               482       1,076       1,093     1,402       1,150             1,700
Short Term (net)3/                     270          127        -47        -19         182               -
Allocation of SDR's                     -            -          -          -                             -
Change in Reserves(-=Increase)         438         -200     -1,211       -199        -315             -400
Gold, Foreign Exchange, SDR          243         -63      -1,065         38       -250                -
Bilateral Balances                   195        -137        -146        161        -65                -
1/    Preliminary
2/    External borrowing reported in the balance of payments is  not consistent with external debt data.
3/    Including capital transactions, n.e.i and errors and omissions.
EMENA CPIC
January 29, 1980



- 31 -                                                  PAnnex I
Page 6 of 6 pages
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
ACTUAL
1973          1974         1975           1976          1977
Medium- & Long-Term Debt (Disbursed only) - US $ million
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD) (end of period)               4287.0       4925.9          5820.0        7145.1       8946.1
Including Undisbursed          (end of period)             5548.7        7709.7         8807.9        9696.4      12157.8
Public Debt Services           (during period)             -306.5       -394.2          -447.0        -305.2       -379.0
Interest                                                  -98.4       -105.3         -127.9        -143.0       -157.3
Other Medium- and Long-Term Debt Service(during pd.)   -746.4           -822.7          -989.7       -1134.8      -1233.3
Total Debt Service             (during period)            -1052.9      -1216.9         -1436.7       -1440.0      -1612.3
Debt Burden
Debt Service Ratio                                            23.9         21.4           22.4          19.7         20.2
Debt Service Ratio/l                                          18.4         16.9           17.3          15.7         15.9
Terms
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                               4.9           5.0            4.9           4.2          4.0
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                  24.6         24.7           24.7          20.2         18.0
Dependency Ratios for Medium- & Long-Term Debt
Gross Disbursements/Imports                                   37.0         20.6           27.3          32.8         30.7
Net Transfers/Imports                                         13.7          4.5            8.7          13.3         14.0
Net Transfers/Gross Disbursements                             36.9         21.8           31.7          40.5         45.6
Exposure
World Bank Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements             3.0          5.8            7.3           4.9          4.5
World Bank & IDA Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  3.0               5.8            7.3           4.9          4.5
World Bank DOD/Total DOD                                       8.2          8.6            9.6           9.2          8.5
World Bank & IDA DOD/Total DOD                                 8.2          8.6            9.6           9.2          8.5
World Bank Debt Service/Total Debt Service                     3.6          3.6            3.9           4.7          5.3
World Bank & IDA Debt Service/Total Debt Service               3.6          3.6            3.9           4.7          5.3
/1   Including workers' remittances.
EMlDC
January 29, 1980



- 32 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of December 31, 1979)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-four Loans fully disbursed                                 617.6
777     1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water  45.0       9.1
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0      0.1
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Agricultural
Industries          31.0      1.1
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline         59.4    20.1
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Industrial Credit   28.0       0.3
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0         0.4
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways              93.0    15.5
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion    44.0       8.3
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      3.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural
Credit              50.0     9.1
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  Roads                 40.0     0.7
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline              48.4      2.3
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0     9.5
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage             45.0    27.7
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control              38.0    13.9
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit               50.0    10.4
1360     1977   Management Organization    Multipurpose
"Metohija"                  Water                54.0    49.6
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries           26.0    18.7
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje    Agriculture
Industries          24.0    21.0
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo      Roads                 56.0      6.9
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic              Transmission          80.0    55.5



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      69.5
1534     1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                  Railways             100.0     51.7
1535     1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia        Roads                 80,0     42.0
1561     1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine       Hydro Power           73.0     61.5
1611     1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina   Third Industrial
Credit              40.0      29.3
1612     1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo  Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      15.0
1613     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      17.1
1614     1978   Investiciona Banka          Fourth Industrial
Titograd                   Credit               20.0      9.6
1616     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation          82.0     75.0
1621     1978   Privredna Banka,            Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                   Agriculture and
Agro-Industries    55.0       54.9
1678     1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and the Socialist
Republic of Macedonia    Roads                 148.0    141.3
1756 /a  1979   Zagrebacka Banka            Croatia Sava
Drainage            51.0      51.0
1759     1979   Road Organization  of       Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                  ilitation-
Highways            21.0      21.0
1768 /a  1979   Port of Bar                 Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation - Port
of Bar              50.0     50.0
1769 /a  1979   Railway Organization        Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro               ilitation -
Railways            14.0      14.0
Total (less cancellation)                            2,401.5    986.3
of which has been rapaid                              273.9
Total now outstanding                                2,127.6
Amount sold                             9.2
of which:  Amount repaid              7.7              1.5
Total now held by Bank                               2,129.1
Total undisbursed                                                986.3
/a   Not yet effective.



- 34 -                    ANNEX II       -
Page 3 of 10 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at December 31, 1979)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation       -      2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry            7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-            Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry         13.7    3.4      17.1
1972   Sava Semperit                          Tires            11.3    4.0       15.3
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira            Pulp and Paper  13.3       -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0       -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                             Steel            50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute          Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing        4.0    2.5       6.5
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.6    2.6      18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                            Hermetic
Compressors      7.0     -        7.0
Total Gross Commitments                                147.4   25.1    172.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                              81.0    2.6      83.6
Total commitments held by IFC                           66.4   22.5      88.9
Total Undisbursed                                        5.5    4.5      10.0



- 35 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. A small part
of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder expected to be
completed during 1980 and 1981. Project costs have been substantially above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Progress continues to be slow on
land consolidation and consultants have been engaged to assist in this task.
Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate legislation. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which will assist
in the provision of agricultural extension services to the individual sector.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Project construction has progressed slowly, but has been com-
pleted, about two years late. Its cost has increased to about $428 million
(up 90 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The resulting cost over-
run is being financed from funds received from the Federal Republic of Germany,
local loans and from the Borrowers' own internal sources. Appointment of
management consultants was delayed until mid-1976, but their recommendations
have now been made and are being discussed with JUGEL and the Borrowers and
implementation of many of the recommendations is underway.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 42 are completed, one is under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory. The Closing Date of the loan, originally
December 31, 1978, has been postponed to June 30, 1980, to permit comple-
tion on disbursements to suppliers of equipment.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of this
and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the project has
been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116). Phase I
is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a pipeline
extension to link up with the pipeline constructed under the Sarajevo Air
Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing was obtained.
Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing required for Phases
I and II. A delay of more than three years in project implementation has
occurred as a result of the increased project costs and revision of the proj-
ect. While two of the three sections have been completed and gas deliveries
have commenced, the third section is scheduled for completion by late 1980 or
mid-1981.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan is fully committed and almost fully disbursed. The Closing
Date of the loan, originally December 31, 1978, was postponed thrice to
June 30, 1980 to allow full utilization of project funds and completion of
disbursements to equipment suppliers.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: February 29, 1980.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative
difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementa-
tion. Tariff increases and institutional developments, including improved
investment planning and management, the formation of COIs and the signing of
Social Agreements on railway and transport policies have resolved the major
problems. Undisbursed balance of $15.5 million is fully committed. Closing
date has been postponed from June 30, 1979 to December 31, 1980 to allow full
utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements on contracts.



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yala. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the earth-
quakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to port
installations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused further
delays and will require a reassessment of the financial situation.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component has now been
completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage com-
ponent.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. The loan has been fully committed. Disbursements are
behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and learning curve
problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participating banks with
withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time lag between
commitments and disbursements.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is
now in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro.
The Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to
traffic.
LoanA173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project has been substantially completed, about a year behind
original estimates and deliveries of oil have commenced. The revised cost
estimates of the project indicate a cost overrun of about 45 percent because
of required changes from original project components and increases in local
costs. The Borrower obtained supplementary financing from various sources



- 38 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
both foreign and local. Upon review of the award of a site preparation
contract in one case, and the procurement procedures regarding a telemetry
supervision control system in another case, the Bank concluded that the
procurement procedures were not in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000 and $112,000, respectively)
that would have otherwise been eligible for disbursement were cancelled from
the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished, has been reviewed by the
Bank and discussed with the relevant Yugoslav authorities. The flood control
and water quality studies are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays
in selecting consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. Construction is completed on the principal parts of the
Cacak component, the remainder is well advanced. Construction is also under-
way in Titovo Uzice. Designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo
Uzice are underway. The pilot irrigation components which were delayed pend-
ing the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway. The
creation of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due
to the longer than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the
Yugoslav parties concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has
been strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in
the Morava Region Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage collection
is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed in early 1980. Con-
struction of the sewerage treatment plan has begun.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initial deliveries
of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally planned. Diffi-
culties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were the the major cause
of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and high pressure
loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Dis-
bursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates.



- 39 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Co_:struction of the dam, intake weir and feeder canal are progressing
satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year behind schedule.
Awards of other procurement contracts are underway and it is expected that by
December 1980 all major contracts would have been awarded.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. ICB
procurement for the winery and the cold stores is completed and construction
is underway.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all agro-industrial sub-projects have been approved by
the Borrower. Twenty four sub-projects in the individual sector have been
approved committing 94 percent of loan proceeds. Progress in project implemen-
tation is slower than expected due primarily to lack of employment of an
agro-industries specialist by Borrower and slow bid evaluation processing.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress. The contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has been
completed by the consultant awarded. The studies on Road-User Charges and
Rail Costs are substantially complete. Disbursement rate is satisfactory.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission:  US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 84 percent of the loan amount have been
let and physical execution is underway on the most critical sub-stations and
lines. The least cost development study and tariff study have been submitted
to the Bank and are being translated and reviewed.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and all
funds are expected to be committed by end-1980. The monitoring and evaluation
system is being implemented and procurement for 12 agroindustrial subprojects
is nearly completed.



- 40 -                    ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway:  US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well and approximately
US$48 million has been disbursed. The level of compensation payments is how-
ever increasing and substantial tariff increases will be necessary to revise
this trend.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Contractor prequalification for all project road sections has been
approved, and the construction contracts have been awarded for road sections
in Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 80 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Commitment to date is $30.5 million of which about $10.0 million is
for special projects. The remainder will probably be committed for a further
single special project (lead smelter).
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each Loans
of July 26, 1978; Effective Dates: November 16, 1978; Closing
Dates: December 31, 1982.
Progress has been satisfactory. Commitments to date are $39.4
million.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Major contracts for construction of the dam, alimentation canal,
main canal and irrigation network have been awarded. Thermal pipeline,
diversion tunnel and coffer dam construction have been completed.



- 41 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Subproject approval has been proceeding more slowly .Lan expected at
appraisal. About 40 percent of loan has been committed. Tender documents
have been approved for two agroindustrial subprojects.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1978; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
All five participating Republics/Provinces have completed prequalif-
ication of contractors and have established monitoring and evaluation units
and four have awarded contracts.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: March 31, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is March 31, 1980.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation Project - Highways: US$21
million Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan become effective on December 19, 1979, and withdrawal appli-
cations amounting to about $5.0 million have been dispatched to the Bank.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation Project - Port of Bar: US$50
million loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: February 28,
1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is February 28, 1980.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation Project - Railways: US$14
million loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: February 28,
1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is February 28, 1980.



- 42 -                   ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA: THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
project:                                8 months
(May to December 1978)
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:        Vojvodjanska Banka (VB) with
assistance of Participating
Banks (PBs) and Provincial and
Republican Secretariats of Agri-
culture
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:        December 1978
(d)  First Bank mission to review
project:                                March 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:         May 2, 1979
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:             December 20, 1979
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:          June 30, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  As a condition of effectiveness, VB and the PBs to conclude between
themselves the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01;
para 57 of this Report);
(b)  Terms of sub-loans to be related to cash flow projections of the invest-
ments (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph 3(C); para 58 this Report);
sub-loan limit of US$4.0 million (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1 and Schedule
5, paragraph 2(B)(i)(f); paras 65 and 69 this Report); and VB and each of
the PBs to apply, to their domestic resources made available to investment            4
projects, interest rates differentiated sectorally as follows: floor
rates of 5 percent for lending to individual farmers and 6 percent for
the social sector enterprises (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paragraph
3(B); para 59 this Report);



- 43 -                    ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(c) VB to continue to employ a set of monitoring and evaluation procedures
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.04(b); para 62 this
Report);
(d)  The Fe'=-al Government to continue to ensure that the individual sector
sub-borrowers do not carry the foreign exchange risk with respect to
their sub-loans (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04; para 61 this Report)
and ensure that the Federal Coordination Committee for Agriculture con-
tinues to perform its coordination role with respect to the proposed, as
well as the first and second projects (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03,
para 51 this Report);
(e) Federal Coordination Committee to undertake a long-term agroindustry
development study (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part C; para 55 this
Report);
(f) At least 50 percent of the processing capacities of agroindustry sub-
projects to be used to handle individual farmer production (Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 5, paragraph 2 (B)(i)(b); para 49 this Report);
(g) The Project Operations Department within VB to acquire two additional
specialists in agroindustries and marketing (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(i); para 54 this Report);
(h) Regional and sectoral allocations of the credit to be provided and as
agreed by the Republics and Provinces to be monitored by VB in Vojvodina
and by the PBs in each of the other seven Republics and Province (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1; Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03; para 56 this
Report);
(i) VB and PBs to ensure that sub-projects are technically and financially
sound; sub-projects having an investment cost below US$2.5 million to
be approved by the appropriate PB; all sub-projects above this level to
be referred to VB for review and approval; sub-projects costing more than
US$3.0 million to be submitted by VB to the Bank for approval (Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 5, paragraph 2(C); para 60 this Report); for each agro-
industry investment to cost US$3.0 million or more, investor to engage,
where considered necessary by VB or a PB, suitably qualified and experi-
enced consultants to prepare a report on the sub-project (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02(a)(ii); para 60 this Report).






00 s                                            H, .  O k  srti4  1  .....................  1; .1  n rf3r;  1    /t    t-3  H     I 31   ol           0i
40 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~--V4  A /VM 04 --01001000 
NOII          0030                                                                                                                  01004000MIMI0l"1 
J    t  54 9  0 3  4    Af O V '/r , , - t * =     ; t    , j    '; ,. -                                                                           3 SS N s N I ule l   
0040 -iXn                             0 r3=       <                                                                                                           000 31040 -=) 05J  ww3t
(.3    i~ia   4                                                                                                                                                   00000(N  00H0s  ,r----=
: ];.  g     21 i ; VNu31rlre                                                          _    z        fleN W3ZeN sY rE$Nor9931tJ"Nl9vwlid&Dt"333jsi Y/////ga0314000 d0S 0114 3.LIfl 0300013000000T10
_0f fi      ;,   i  ;f0/ -5  t}$~t                                             t3            NOIIVI8OdSNK8I
_ t  itX  ]>HS'-Yr93Nls;OX'> (                                               GNV ])fnCOdd 1V8ni1nDIOV
00                                      H                                                                                         i '
33010000                                                                                                       >47~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41AMO
-ff: ;O(W~                                                                     W00p.                            03011000f    >            t %:  .. W_4
311''                                                                                                                                      >
1-~~~~~~~                                         
.K404<I,,003~~~~~~~~~  -Kz~~~~~~  \    ~~~i  /                     /,/       4o'0~~~~~~~
AjHa     orlo~W                       "9-/                 4
0040 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~~~                                                                       4.                             1:   j~~~~~~~~~M'J
~~6SI[ 0031lp 






IBRD 3774R
D-be,  1974
Pt
Aw;my -S'LiZr. I
_-E a                                                                                                  'Altitvdes in metert
JK                                                                                                                                                                                      U '40D
L                                              vara&                                                                                                   T            40(
LJUSUANko                                                                                                              0subotica
TAi$T
Kop'ee-'                            KQ'10ac
0           Sisak                                           Os,je
c                                                                        0 D [P N A
WEKA
c       R      0        A       T        I       A
Z,                                            ad
Rov
f
Put
Luka: W
z
s q] A          H E,"    E    'O "V 11 'N Al    --7/
10
czehIco
Zadar
7                 01
FJRAJEVO
ir en,                                                                                                                                                       co
C,                                                           J
gplit                                                                                                                       5-
-J
_e
M 0 N T E N
'D                                                                           r
Ko,ovo
Dubrovpik
YUGOSLAVIA
RELIEF
PJE
lntemational boundories
Republics bowdaries
Autonomms provinces                                                                                                                       fE'--          'N   I -A
N
20   40        80   100
tj:
<3 tR F, E C



