Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FLE  copy
Report No. 273ia-YU
k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
STAFF APPRAISAI, REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
February 6, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture III
This document has a res.ricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
US$1                                                 Dinars (Din) 19.0
Din 1                                                US$ 0.0526
Din 1,000,000                                        US$ 52,631.58
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                      2.20 pounds
1 quintal                                            100 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)            =                    1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)            =                    0.98 long ton
1 millimeter (mm)                                    0.04 inch
1 centimeter (cm)                                    0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                                          1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                                     0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)   2                                   2.47 acres
1 square meter (m )   2         =                    10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km )        =                    0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                                          0.264 gallon
1 hectoliter (hlA               =                    100 liters
1 cubic meter (m )                                   1.31 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS
VB         -       Vojvodjanska Banka, Udruzena Banka
PB(s)      -       Participating Bank(s)
BOAL      -        Basic Organization of Associated Labor
FNP       -        Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of
Less Developed Regions
GMP       -        Gross Material Product
SAR       -        Staff Appraisal Report
SDK       -        Social Accounting Service
SFRY      -        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SR        -        Socialist Republic
SAP       -        Socialist Autonomous Province
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
*The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. The currency
equivalents given above are those effective in May 1979.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ....................................             1
A.  Project Background .................................            1
B.  Agriculture in Yugoslavia ..........................            1
C.  Output Trends ......................................            3
D.  Consumption Trends and Trade Balance ....         ...........   4
E.  Agroindustries Subsector ...........................            4
F.  Prospects .........        .................................    5
G.  Bank Strategy and Involvement in the Sector    ........         6
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT.                                                   7
A. General.                                                         7
B. The Banking System.                                              8
C. Interest Rates.                                                  9
D. The Borrowing Bank .10
E. The Participating Banks (PBs) .12
F. Creditworthiness .13
G.  Performance Under the First Two Projects .14
III. THE PROJECT .15
A. Project Objectives .15
B. Project Description .15
C. Cost Estimates .17
D. Finance .19
E. Disbursements .19
F. Procurement .20
G. Environmental Impact .21
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..
A. Organization .1
B.  Onlending Policies and Procedures .23
C. Accounts and Audit .26
D.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation.                           6
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ir 'h performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World tsank authorization.



Table of Centents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................    27
A.  Production ........     .................................  27
B.  Market Prospects and Prices ........................    29
C.  Financial Benefits .................................    29
D.  Economic Benefits and Justification ....     ............    30
E.  Risk and Uncertainty ...............................    32
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS    ..32
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Details of Lending Program
Annex 2 - Assumption Underlying Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 3 - Guidelines for Technical and Economic Review of Agro-
industry Investments
Annex 4 - Supporting Tables
Annex 5 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
MAP
IBRD 11394
IBRD 3774R



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Project Background
1.01      The Government of Yugoslavia has requested a Bank loan to help
finance a nationwide agricultural credit project for medium- and long-term
investments in fruit, vegetable and livestock production in the individual
farm sector and agroindustrial development in the social sector. The proposed
Third Agricultural Credit Project would be a continuation of the lending pro-
gram initiated with the previous two loans for the First (Loan 1129-YU) and
Second (Loan 1477-YU) Agricultural Credit Projects approved in 1975 and 1977.
1.02      This project was prepared by the proposed borrower -- Vojvodjanska
Banka, Udruzena Banka (VB) -- with the help of seven other Yugoslav banks in-
volved in the project and with the help of the Yugoslav Federal Committee for
Agriculture. This report is based on the Preparation Report which has been
reviewed and analyzed by the Bank, and on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Yugoslavia in May 1979, consisting of Mr. V. Bhargava, Ms. A.
Trzeciak (Bank) and Messrs. W.P. Mott, III, R.P.S. Harrison and P. Loizides
(Consultants).
B.   Agriculture in Yugoslavia
Role in the Economy
1.03      The agriculture sector contributed 15% of the total Gross Material
Product in 1977, a decline from a 32% share of GMP in 1957. In spite of
its declining role, agricultural development in Yugoslavia is of crucial
importance to (a) meet an estimated 4% annual increase in domestic consumption
requirements; (b) provide for increases in exports; (c) meet the raw material
requirements for expanding the agroindustry subsector, and (d) to achieve its
employment and income objectives since incomes of private agriculture sector
are less than half of average for social sector and migration out of agricul-
tural sector contributes to increase in unemployment.
- .dividual and Social Sectors
1.04      An important feature of Yugoslavia's agriculture sector is that it
is predominantly privately owned, with about 85% of the country's arable land
belonging to nearly 2.6 million individual farmers (average holding size 3.2
ha) who constitute about 95% of the agricultural labor force. The individual



- 2 -
sector exists side by side with the social sector, factory farms (Agrokombinats)
which hold about 15% of arable land and produce one-third of total agricultural
output. The agrokombinats operate all the existing agroindustrial processing
facilities in Yugoslavia. Yugoslav policy aim has been to emphasize growth of
social sector as principal means to achieve large scale market production and
self sufficiency in food. Social sector growth was encouraged through substan-
tial capital input, skilled labor input, near doubling of cultivable area,
large-scale mechanized farming and adoption of advanced technology. As a
result, the agricultural production in the social sector grew at an average
annual rate of 10.9% during 1954-72. In contrast, in the same period, the
individual sector grew at an annual rate of 2.9%. Unlike the social sector,
the source of production growth in the individual sector was not land or
labor, but technological progress since, over the period 1954-71, the culti-
vated area as well as the labor force in the individual sector declined by
8% and 31% respectively.
1.05      While the objective of self-sufficiency in food was substantially
achieved through this emphasis on social sector growth, there remain large
income differentials, with average incomes among individual sector farmers
ranging from less than a third to less than half of those workers in the
social sector and there has been a rapid depletion of the labor force in the
agriculture sector which contributed to the rural-urban migration and in-
creased overall unemployment in the economy. It is now generally recognized
that development of the individual sector is necessary to address the problems
of unemployment, rural poverty, regional income disparities and low produc-
tivity. Yugoslav policy has been evolving towards increased emphasis on the
development of the individual sector, although the social sector continues
to be the main vehicle for growth.
Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy
1.06      Yugoslavia's Agricultural Development Plan (1976-80) stresses the
importance of agricultural development and outlines measures to develop
the individual sector. The Plan aims at a 4% per annum agricultural production
growth for the period 1976-80 with the agricultural production in the social
sector expected to grow at 8% and in the individual sector at 3%. Agro-
industries, a priority activity, are expected to grow by 8% per annum. The
less rapid growth of the individual sector reflects its limited absorptive
capacity and the difficulties in providing the large number of individual
farmers involved with appropriate inputs and markets.
1.07      The plan calls for future increases in agricultural production to
come from increases in land productivity and provides for major investments in
irrigation and drainage development and for adoption of advanced technology.
The development of livestock production is envisaged through improvement in
livestock quality, improved feeding practices, and enlarged market opportuni-
ties. Agroindustrial production will be raised by modernization of existing
capacities as well as addition of new capacities. The project appraised in
this report would help provide institutional credit support for financing
these Plan investments. The plan strategy is based on continued development of



social sector holdings, particularly in agroindustries and industrial crops
and increased cooperation with the individual farm sec or.
1.08      Cooperation with the individual sector is sought through long-term
association of individual farmers into agricultural cooperatives (Zadrugas).
The Zadrugas are different from various forms of cooperatives axisting in
Yugoslavia since, for the first time, the cooperatives have been given identi-
cal legal status like other social sector organizations. The legal basis for
such equality is set out in the Law on Associated Labor, 1976. Zadrugas are
typically associated with a kombinat. The creation of a Zadruga provides
farmers with a number of advantages while at the same time permitting him to
retain title to his individual parcels of land: it provides a mechanism for
integrating the individual farmers in the market economy, enabling them to
draw on the kombinats' technical know-how, credit, and inputs; it provides
farmers access to health and pension schemes like other social sector organiza-
tion members; and, finally, it provides farmers with a ueans of participating
in decisions that directly affect their welfare such as the overall development
programs of the kombinat. The Zadrugas are potentially a vehicle for serving
the interests of both the social and individual sectors. Experience so far is
insufficient to permit a definitive assessment of the effectiveness of the
Zadrugas, however, encouraging results have been achieved in the short time
since their inception in 1974. During the period 1973-77 the area under major
crops (wheat, maize and sugar beet) and the number of individual farmers
engaged in livestock production on a long-term basis increased by 37% and 60%
respectively.
C. Output Trends
1.09      The growth of agricultural output in Yugoslavia has been erratic
since only 1.3% of cultivable area is under modern irrigation systems;
variations in rainfall from year to year are large and frequent damage is
caused by frost, floods and hail. However, the overall agricultural produc-
tion has basically followed an upward trend, though consistently below Plan
targets. Thus, aggregate agricultural production grew at an average annual
rate of 2.2% between 1965-70 (planned 4.6%), 2.7% between 1971-75 (planned
3.5%), and 2.3% between 1976-78 (planned 4%). The reasons for less than
planned growth, besides bad weather, were a cost-price squeeze, difficulties
in export markets, slow progress on individual holdings, a decline in culti-
vated areas and low labor and capital productivity, largely due to the general
lack of emphasis to the individual sector which owns most of the cultivated
areas.
1.10      The following trends in crop and livestock output were noticed
during 1967-77: (a) the area sown with the main cereal crops--maize and
wheat--declined, but their total production increased by 16% and 37%
respectively, led by over 30% increase in yields per hectare; (b) among the
industrial crops, production of sugar beet, sunflower and rapeseed nearly
doubled, due to combined effect of an increase in area cultivated as well as
improvement in yields per hectare; (c) production of fruits and vegetables
generally stagnated though there were wide fluctuations in output from year to
year; (d) production of meat increased by nearly 50% with major increases in



- 4 -
poultry (138%), pork (45%) and beef (31%); (e) production of milk rose by 50%;
and (f) production of eggs increased by 90%.
D. Consumption Trends and Trade Balance
1.11      In last 30 years the growth rate of domestic agricultural produc-
tion was three times the rate of population growth. Thus production has been
sufficient to meet demand for consumption and over the last 20 years the
dependence on agricultural and other food product imports has declined. The
country is a net exporter of live animals and meat and is generally self-
sufficient in cereals. However, in years with bad harvest, maize has to be
imported to support livestock production.  There is a shortage of dairy
products, eggs, vegetable oils and protein rich animal feed. Tropical fruits
and coffee have to be imported on a fairly large scale due to strong consumer
demand. Since import substitution for these imported goods is not likely,
exports will have to be expanded steadily to achieve a balanced trade.
1.12      The increased agricultural production in Yugoslavia was accompanied
by increased food consumption and as a result the daily caloric intake per
capita increased from 2,710 to 3,562 during the period 1952-1976 and then
levelled off. Most of the calories come from starchy foods and fats. The
availability of animal proteins is low. However, the per capita consumption
of meat, fruit and vegetable products shows a steady rise. The composition of
consumption requirements in Yugoslavia is undergoing significant changes and
the demand for livestock products, high quality fruits and vegetables, and a
wide variety of processed foods with longer shelf life and built-in convenience
is becoming strong. These qualitative changes in consumption pattern neces-
sitate modernization of agroindustries in Yugoslavia.
E.   Agroindustries Subsector
1.13      Agroindustries in Yugoslavia are of prime importance in supplying
food to an expanding urban population and a significant tourist industry. In
1977 agroindustries contributed 3.6% of the GMP, compared to 3.0% of GMP in
1967, and employed 180,000 persons or 3.4% of the labor force in the social
sector. The output of agroindustries, at 1972 prices, more than doubled
during the period 1967-77. This rapid growth in agroindustries is derived
from the gradual decrease in on-farm consumption in favor of retail purchases
in urban areas. The strong consumer demand for processed food products is
expected to continue on account of (a) a population (21.5 million) which is
growing at an annual rate of 0.8% and which spends 34% of its gross income on
food with an ever-increasing preference for prepared and processed food
products; (b) increasing number of couples where both husband and wife work;
(c) a growing tourist traffic of 16.5 million tourist nights including about
40% foreign tourists; and (d) demand of institutional (factories, businesses,
and hospitals) and catering organizations which made up 17% of total food and
beverage expenditures in 1975.



- 5 -
1.14      Many of the traditional food processing facilities, particularly
meat processing, wineries and dairies are in place but have obsolete equipment
and are not up to hygienic standards. For instance, there are about 1,000
slaughter-houses in Yugoslavia, but more than one-half are not likely to meet
the veterinarv-health requirements announced by the Government in July 1978
and will the,efore have to close down. Many of the others are of small size,
not equipped to produce processed meat products, and uneconomic to operate.
This situation coupled with a strong consumer demand for secondary processed
or formulated food products (such as ice cream, dry soup mixes, snack foods,
bakery and confectionery items) creates a need for new investment to modernize
and expand agroindustries.
1.15      The policy framework for agroindustries development is inadequate
to cope with the rapid expansion in agroindustries subsector. Planning and
expansion of agroindustries is generally reviewed and coordinated between
the kombinats and government agencies at the republic/province level. This
has worked well in the past when most of the agroindustrial development
concerned only a regional market; the output from the agroindustries such as
milk, bakery products, fresh meat, animal feed was sold in the regional market
controlled by a kombinat. In future, while the investments in modernization/
expansion of agroindustries with regional market should continue to be evalu-
ated on a regional basis, the investments in agroindustries involving secondary
processed or formulated food products and fruit juices should be evaluated in
a national context. Most of these products have long shelf life and would be
sold nationwide since the economies of scale warrant output which cannot be
absorbed in a regional market. Thus a continued lack of coordination at the
federal level may result in excess or duplicate capacity for these products.
A growing awareness of the need to balance agricultural production and process-
ing capacity exists at the federal level and work is underway in connection
with the preparation of the next Five Year Plan (1981-85) to develop a long-
term agroindustry development policy for Yugoslavia. The Agroindustry Study
proposed to be conducted under this project would help in this effort (para.
3.09).
F. Prospects
1.16      Yugoslavia is in the process of becoming a predominantly urbanized
industrialized society. The majority of the population relies on a decreasing
minority to produce and supply food to urban markets in a fresh or processed
form. While in the past the rate and pattern of agricultural growth has been
adequate to meet the domestic demand, a major reorientation of agricultural
development is necessary because Yugoslavia has reached a consumption level
where most of the agricultural production has to be processed (into higher
value products), stored, and transported to urban markets. For this purpose
reconstruction and modernization of existing agroindustries is essential. In
addition to the normal growth in demand from a rising population, demand for
primary agricultural products is also increasing due to an increase in the
demand for processed food products. The challenge in the 1980's is to provide
an ever increasing diversity of secondary processed foods to increasingly



- 6 -
affluent consumers, improve quality and shelf life of traditional food prod-
ucts, and strengthen and expand the export base of agricultural and processed
food products. This challenge is recognized by the Government, and the
agricultural development Plan for 1976-80 as well as the draft Plan for
1981-85 give emphasis to transforming the agriculture sector into an agro-
industrial complex capable of meeting the changing consumer demand. The
project appraised in this report would support development of agroindustries
as well as primary agricultural production and would thus help achieve these
objectives.
G. Bank Strategy and Involvement in the Sector
1.17      The Bank has pursued, in the last few years, a general lending
strategy with the following objectives: (a) support of the Yugoslav efforts
to accelerate development in the less developed regions; (b) promotion of
agricultural development in both the individual and social sectors to provide
the basic infrastructure; (c) encouragement of the structural reforms in the
major sectors to improve coordination, institution building, and technical
assistance; and (d) alleviation of critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing a significant proportion of the required long-term
capital, encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other sources
of medium and long-term capital, and supporting projects which generate or
conserve foreign exchange.
1.18      Within the framework of the Agricultural Development Plan and
Government's objectives, the Bank's main thrust in the social sector is to
support the expansion of agroindustrial production rather than an increase
in primary production. In contrast, the individual sector is recognized as
having significant growth potential and comparative cost advantage in primary
production, particularly in labor-intensive products such as livestock, fruits
and vegetables. The Bank therefore emphasizes development of primary agricul-
tural production in individual sector. In its projects, Bank also seeks to
maintain a balance between expansion of agroindustries in relation to market
on one hand and with increase in primary production on the other hand. In
recent years both Yugoslavia and the Bank have increased their commitment to
develop the individual sector.
1.19      The proposed Third Agricultural Credit Project (which primarily
addresses the individual sector) would be the tenth Bank loan for agriculture
and agroindustries in Yugoslavia, following the First Agroindustries Project
in Macedonia (Loan 894-YU) in 1973 (primarily involved with the social sector),
the First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1129-YU) in 1975 (about 47% of
which is directed towards the individual sector), the Metohija Multipurpose
Project (Loan 1360-YU) in 1977 (primarily involved with the individual sector),
the Second Agriculture and Agroindustries Projects for SR Montenegro (Loan
1370-YU) and SR Macedonia (Loan 1371-YU) in 1977 (the first primarily con-
nected with the social sector and the second having a significant involvement
in the individual sector), the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1477-
YU) in 1977 (about 57% of which is directed towards the individual sector),



7
the Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation Project (Loan 1616-YU) in 1978 (about 60% of
which is directly involved with the individual sector), the Bosanska-Krajina
Agriculture and Agroindustries Project (Loan 1621-YU) in 1978 (about 60% of
which is directed towards the individual sector), and the Croatia Sava
Drainage Project (Loan 1756-YU) in 1979 (benefitting about 58% of project
area held by the individual siector). Other Bank loans for multipurpose
projects have included agricultural components; such as, irrigation works
under the Ibar Multipurpose Project (Loan 777-YU) of 1971 and two pilot
irrigation projects under the Morava Region Development Project (Loan 1262-YU)
of 1976 both involving primarily individual sector farmers. In general,
progress on all of these projects is satisfactory and the first Agroindustries
project in Macedonia is now nearing completion. Progress on the First and
Second Agricultural Credit Projects is given in Chapter II.
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
A. General
2.01      On the basis of the 1976-80 Social Plan, whose goals are described
in Chapter I, Federal, Republic, and Provincial authorities concluded the 1977
Social Compact on the Development of the Agroindustrial Complex. In addition
to the planned volume of production (para. 1.09), the Compact also sets out
the basic policy on the application of credit and monetary policies to working
capital and long-term investment needs. The share of agriculture in total
Yugoslav investments was 9.6% in 1975, 9.2% in 1976, 7.6% in 1977, and 6.6%
over the first seven months of 1978. Total gross agricultural investments for
the social sector amounted to Din 6.3 billion in 1975, Din 6.1 billion in
1976, and Din 8.4 billion in 1977 (current prices). Of these funds, 45.6% in
1975, 41.8% in 1976, and 38.5% in 1977 came from investors' own funds, while
50.1% in 1975, 58% in 1976, and 60.6% in 1977 was contributed by bank funds.
The balance came from other minor sources, mainly grants. Provision of funds
through banks is regulated through various self-management agreements. The
bank funds are composed of commercial credits, financial loans, IBRD funds,
bank "potential" (local funds), and the Federal Fund for the Accelerated
Development of Less Developed Regions (FNP). Gross agricultural investments
in the individual sector for 1975, '76 and '77 amounted to Din 5.1 billion,
Din 6.1 billion, and Din 8.8 billion respectively in current prices, but the
breakdown of sources is not available. Institutional credit to individual
farmers is largely limited to credit extended on the basis of their contractual
association with a cooperative or a social sector enterprise. Individual
farmers can also borrow directly from banks against land security and personal
guarantees. Direct borrowing is prevalent in areas where cooperation is not
strong and social sector kombinats do not exist.



-8-
B. The Banking System
2.02      The banking system is structured in harmony with the fundamental
Yugoslav principles of decentralized socialism and self-management. The func-
tions of the financial mechanism are essentially (a) the pooling of resources
of organizations of basic labor and other organizations and (b) financial
mediation aimed at supplying supplementary resources for the economy. The
structure of financial institutions includes the national banks, commercial
banks, savings and loan organizations, insurance institutions, credit funds,
and other institutions. Of these, commercial banks, which are in fact multi-
purpose institutions carrying out commercial, investment, and savings opera-                 V
tions, are the dominant form of financial mediation. For a discussion of the
various types of financial institutions and the development of the Yugoslav
banking system, see the last two Basic Economic Reports and the appraisal
report of the Second Agricultural Credit Project. 1/
2.03      The New Banking Law:  The new Federal Banking Law which became
effective in January 1978 ushered in a new stage in the development of the
structure of financial institutions. The essential change introduced by the
new Law was the evolution of banks from autonomous decision-making units to
institutions fully integrated with the organizations of associated labor and
other organizations who are their founder-members. This change is reinforced
by (a) the dual notion of joint management and profit-sharing by the members
together with unlimited liability for obligations and risk-sharing, (b)
increasing independence from socio-political communities, which may not be
bank members, and (c) greater linkage between sources and uses of funds. The
Law established a three-tier organizational commercial banking structure
consisting of internal banks, basic banks, and associated banks, also intro-
ducing new forms of specialized association such as banking consortia and
self-managment funds of associated labor. The internal bank is essentially a
service organization established as a legal entity through a self-management
agreement by two or more basic organizations of associated labor (BOALs) within
a working organization. The basic bank is the only banking organization which
may carry out all kinds of credit and banking operations in Yugoslavia,
and as such, forms the core of the restructured banking system.  It can be
founded by BOALs, internal banks, or other social legal entities, and in fact
has tended to evolve from branches of the business banks predating the new
Law. Of the eight project Participating Banks (PBs), ZBZ (Croatia), is the
only basic bank. The other seven PBs are all associated banks. An associated
bank is established as a legal entity through a self-management agreement of
two or more basic banks. Associated banks are formed mainly to concentrate
1/   IBRD, The Economic Development of Yugoslavia, Report No. 194a-YU, November
26, 1973, pp. 285-287, IBRD, Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development, Report No. 1615a-YU, March 21, 1978,
Volume III, pp. 125-134, and IBRD, Yugoslavia: Appraisal of a Second
Agricultural Project, Report No. 1537a-YU, dated June 13, 1977, Annex 2.



- 9 -
resources for financing major investments and to carry out foreign business
transactions on behalf of their member basic banks. The new Banking Law has
in effect considerably strengthened the associated banks, which are mainly
former head offices of earlier business banks, by backing them up with the
guarantees of all member basic banks which are in turn guaranteed by all their
founder-members.
C. Interest Rates
2.04      Interest rates in Yugoslavia are frequently set at low levels
compared to inflation rates. Complete data on volume of funds on-lent at
different interest rates is not available. However, the available data shows
that most of the funds to agriculture are on-lent at interest rates ranging
from 3% to 9%. The interest rate structure is characterized by the lack of
uniformity across internal geographical boundaries among banks and for similar
types of investments. This interest rate structure in Yugoslavia should be
seen in the political and economic context of the country's socialist self-
management system which contributes to low interest rates in four ways:
(a) the cooperative basis of the banking structure, where the social sector
borrowers are at the same time the bank's major shareholders and hence the
formulators of interest rates; (b) the fragmented nature of capital market in
which each basic bank is free to determine on-lending rates for its loans and
lack of any central authority which can set the level of interest rates;
(c) the Yugoslav view that the low interest rates on investment credits are
an important policy instrument for development purposes especially in less
developed regions and in the agricultural sector; and (d) the banks in Yugo-
slavia operate on a break-even basis and are supported by institutional
arrangements which keep financial risk on their loans low.
2.05      In real terms the interest rates in Yugoslavia have been tradi-
tionally negative. Efforts to persuade Yugoslav authorities to move the
overall interest rates higher and more realistic levels have not been
successful due to factors cited in the above paragraph (although interest
rates under Bank projects have been higher; see para. 2.06 below) and due to a
debate about the role of interest rates in resource allocation in Yugoslavia.
The Yugoslavs maintain that in their system the interest rates play some
allocative role but not the predominant role. In addition, the fact that the
Yugoslav banks are protected against financial losses arising from loan
defaults also contributes to low interest rates. The Yugoslavs also reject
the idea, that in their system, the market forces have influence on the
allocation of investible resources. Instead the planning system is considered
the main vehicle to achieve efficient resource allocation. The planning
system however is new and the Yugoslav policy makers have experienced difficul-
ties in controlling the level of investments and their structure. Although
the precise role of interest rates is not clear, the monetary policy including
the interest rates provide the Yugoslav authorities with an instrument, in
addition to their existing planning mechanisms, to manage demand for investment



- 10 -
funds. While there are differing views about the role the interest rates play
in resource allocation, it is agreed that the investment environment in
Yugoslavia is characterized by recurrent excess demand for investible resources
and in agriculture many instances of over capitalization of new investments.
The extent to which the low interest rates have been responsible or have been
contributing to these undesirable and often unintended effects is not clear;
empirical evidence is not adequate to derive a firm conclusion. In addition
to the low interest rates, following other factors have also contributed to
excess demand for capital: (i) enterprise had little reason to fear risk
taking because bankruptcy was rarely enforced; (ii) the major objective of
enterprises was to maximize the productivity of labor; and (iii) the large
demands on investible resources were made by social infrastructure development.
2.06      As a part of its efforts to encourage higher level of interest rates
in Yugoslavia, the Bank requires that at least, under Bank projects the on-
lending interest rates be higher than the general interest rates prevailing in
Yugoslavia. Thus, the recent agriculture and industrial credit projects stipu-
late on-lending interest rates of 11% on Bank funds and minimum rates of 6% and
5% on local funds to be on-lent to social and individual sectors respectively.
These requirements have had only a marginal impact on national interest rate
policies. Under the First Agricultural Credit Project, a study on the role of
interest rates in agricultural sector was commissioned. This first study,
though it provides some understanding of the current interest rate structure
and a basis for initiating a dialogue with the Yugoslav officials, was too
general and did not adequately address the complexity of the issue. Therefore,
to better understand the role of interest rates in the present system of
decision making in Yugoslavia and at the Bank's insistence, the Government of
Yugoslavia has agreed to carry out a comprehensive interest rate study as a
part of Second Agricultural Credit Project. The proposed study will examine
in depth the effect of interest rates on resource mobilization and allocation
and capital intensity of investment and will make recommendations for a long-
term policy on interest rates in Yugoslavia. Because of its nature, importance,
and the number of banks involved, it has taken longer than expected to organize
this study and the study has only recently been completed. The study has been
submitted to the Yugoslav government authorities at federal and republican/
provincial levels and to Yugoslav banks. The study has been received by the
Bank and is currently being translated for review by the Bank. The study is
expected to be the basis for further dialogue with the Yugoslav authorities on
this question.
D. The Borrowing Bank
Vojvodjanska Banka (VB)
2.07      VB is the Borrower and apex bank under the first two agricultural
credit projects and would serve the same functions under the proposed Third



- 11 -
Project. VB was selected to be the borrower by the Yugoslavs because Vojvodina
is the most important agricultural area in Yugoslavia and also because a large
part of VB's operations cover the agricultural sector. VB's role as lead bank
has been valuable in the past and continues to be needed in the future, as the
main channel for institution building efforts involving staff training programs,
as well as improvements and dissemination of appraisal and supervision tech-
niques. As a result of the new Banking Law, VB is now an associated bank with
18 basic bank members, some of which include former VB branches, and others
which were branch offices of other banks. Its staff as of March 1979 numbered
325. As an associated bank VB has no direct relations with the public, nor
with basic bank member enterprises except with respect to foreign loans or
direct government funds, and is expected increasingly to take on the character
of a service organization to its members. All of VB's members have equal
managerial rights regardless of the extent of their relations with VB.
Through its Assembly, the highest managerial body made up of delegates elected
by its members, VB adopts a 5-Year Plan and an Annual Plan and Business
Policy, which, together with other Assembly decisions, guide its operations.
VB operates as a mixed commercial/investment bank and is authorized to deal
in foreign exchange. Its supervision, procurement, and disbursement procedures
are satisfactory.
2.08       Financial Condition and Performance of VB.  Sight deposits and loans
from banks and other sources have historically been and are expected to con-
tinue to be VB's largest sources of short-term and long-term funds respec-
tively. Total asset growth was 39%, 38%, and 25% in 1975, '76, and '77
respectively, with an increase of 204% from 1977 to 1978 mainly due to the
Banking Law reorganization. Total asset growth over the next three years is
conservatively projected to increase at a little over 10% per annum, with long
term loans growing more rapidly than short-term. Part of the growth in
long-term lending will be financed through short-term resources, a practice
allowed under the control of the National Bank. The capital to assets ratio
has shown a continuing declining trend, but will remain at a satisfactory
level. The main component of net worth is the Joint Liability Fund. Assets
are about 95% composed of Banking Assets. VB's liquidity levels are rela-
tively low. The new Banking Law, however, introduced strict regulations
requiring the maintenance of liquidity, particularly through provisions for
various reserve funds. Long-term debt to equity has not exceeded 4:1 up to
1977, but will increase to about 7:1 by 1981, due to the increase in liability
versus capital accounts. This ratio remains nonetheless within a satisfactory
range.
2.09       Income statement results and projections should be interpreted
bearing in mind that profitability in the Yugoslav context is neither a goal
nor an essential measure of efficiency or financial performance. VB's Net
Surplus after Taxes has, nonetheless, been positive and increasing signifi-
cantly except in 1977 when the Surplus declined by about 13% over 1976 results.
The 1978 Surplus is estimated to be 124% greater than in 1977 again mainly due
to the restructuring after implementation of the new Banking Law, but the
following three years show a return to previous income levels. Financial
Expenses accounted for nearly 70% of total operating income over the period
1974-1977 and administrative costs rose steadily over the same period from



- 12 -
10.6% to 13.1% of total income. Both items are projected to increase signifi-
cantly as a proportion of total income, with financial expenses accounting for
nearly 80% through 1981 and administrative expenses increasing to 17.4% of
total income by 1981. The projected trend of higher expenses-to-total-income
ratios, along with other ratios, reflects the policy decision to keep income
levels to the minimum needed to meet legal obligations, salaries, and expenses
incurred by VB as a working organization. VB's balance sheets and income
statements are in Annex 4.
2.10      Arrears have ranged below 2% of total long-term loans outstanding
over the last three years and more than half the arrears consist of arrears up
to three months old. Loans rescheduled have amounted to less than 0.3% of
loans outstanding over the past three years, and write-offs in proportion to
loans amounted to 0.02% in 1975, 0.3% in 1976, and 1.0% in 1977.
E. The Participating Banks (PBs)
2.11      One bank from each SR and SAP will participate in the project, and
VB will function as the PB for SAP Vojvodina. The eight banks are among the
most important in Yugoslavia; all are known to IBRD from the two earlier
projects; and five of them have been borrowers under a number of additional
agriculture, agroindustrial, and industrial credit projects. 1/ (See paras.
2.16-2.17 and 4.05.)  The PBs were all affected by changes introduced by the
New Banking Law and have similar organizational and managerial structures and
operating policies to those of VB.
2.12      Financial Condition and Performance.  All PBs are mixed commercial/
financial banks authorized to carry out banking operations,, including foreign
exchange transactions. In 1977, their combined total assets exceeded Din
521.4 billion (US$27.4 billion), combined deposits exceeded Din 255.1 billion
(US$13.4 billion), and combined total operating income exceeded Din 31.4
bil lion (US$1.7 billion). Since 1974 growth trends in all three categories
have been positive although erratic, with 1976 a deviant year for several
banks. VB is the only PB whose assets, deposits, and income magnitudes were
significantly affected by the reorganization. Seven PBs project continued but
slower growth in assets and deposits through 1981. For operating income, the
positive trend is also generally expected to continue although tapering down
from pre-1977 levels.
1/   During implementation of the second project, the PB from SR Croatia was
changed from Udruzena Banka Zagreb (UBZ) to Zagrebacka Banka Zagreb (ZB).
As SR Croatia has no associated banks, ZB is the only PB which is a basic
bank, and as such will act as "apex" bank for SR Croatia and, together
with four other basic banks, will carry out the Project. The extra layer
of responsiblity thereby imposed is not expected to create significant
problems, although it may contribute to slower processing of subprojects
than in other SRs/SAPs.



- 13 -
2.13      The capital to assets ratios of all PBs are expected to decline as
of 1978 due to the policy of little reliance on net worth as a source of
funds. Of the eight PBs, VB is the most active short-term lender. 1977
results indicate that all PBs somewhat increased their long-term lending and
the short-term/long-term proportion is expected to remain relatively constant
through 1981. The liquidity levels of the PBs for which data was available is
low, but the Banking Law requirements (see para. 2.08) offset the implied
risks.
2.14      Financial expenses have and will continue to consume around 70% of
total operating income. Administrative expenses vary more widely (from 6.6%
to 19.1% of total operating income in 1977), and in general show a moderate
increasing trend through 1981. Six PBs showed small declines in returns on
both net worth and total assets in 1977. Seven PBs forecast declines in the
return on total assets as well as return on net worth through 1981. Net
operating surplus as a percentage of total operating income also declined for
all eight PBs in 1977 and a continued downward trend is projected, through
1981. The forecasts thus consistently reflect the policy of keeping income
levels to a minimum.
F.  Creditworthiness
2.15      Each of the eight banks is considered creditworthy for Bank lending
on the basis of past operations, as well as projected future performance.
Traditional evaluation of their creditworthiness is difficult, as three of
the banks have not yet been audited against generally accepted international
accounting standards, and more so due to the unique character of the Yugoslav
banking system. However, the banks continue to be supported by certain
institutional arrangements which have proved to be sufficient for the approval
of Bank loans supporting agricultural, agro-industrial, and industrial
projects in the past. These include:
(a)  The members of each PB have unlimited liability for their bank's
obligations. Creditors of a bank thus have legal recourse to all
assets of the member basic banks who are in turn guaranteed by
the assets of their members, many of which are large industrial
enterprises.
(b)  Each of the PBs is closely integrated with the economy of the
area in which it conducts the bulk of its business, and as such
its liquidation is highly improbable.
(c)  Each of the banks has performed satisfactorily in the past with-
in the context of the Yugoslav banking system, and their manage-
ments observe sound banking principles with respect to resource
management and project selection.



- 14 -
(d) A large portion of the long-term debt of four of the five smallest
banks consists of funds provided for developmental purposes by
the Federal Republic. It is highly unlikely that the inability
of any bank to repay Federal Funds obligations on schedule would
result in forced liquidation, given the purposes of these funds,
the intimate link between these banks and their members, and the
expected role of their members in securing the economic advance-
ment of the areas in which they operate.
(e) The new Banking Law sets down strict regulations governing
liquidity maintenance through specific reserve requirements.
G. Performance Under the First Two Projects
2.16     Performance under Agricultural Credits I and II has been generally
satisfactory. The first loan of US$50 million supported a project costing
about US$125 million. While commitments and disbursements unde!r the first
loan were initially slow due to inadequate subproject identification and
preparation and unfamiliarity with appraisal methodology, progress over the
last two years has accelerated. The first loan is fully committed and is
expected to be fully disbursed by mid-1980. Disbursements under the second
loan began more quickly than under the first loan but have been behind
appraisal estimates. It is expected that the second loan will be fully
committed by end of 1980. To some extent the decision-making process under
the Yugoslav self-management system contributes to implementation delays:
the process of consultation, debate, and final consensus is invariably time-
consuming, but has the advantage of firm collective commitment to the decision
ultimately reached. Other major reasons for relatively slow commitment/
disbursement rates have, however, been discussed with all PBs and are being
remedied to the extent possible under the proposed project. These include
advancing subproject identification and preparation, greater flexibility in
subproject categories, timely availability of local funds, higher free limits,
and simplified individual sector appraisal procedures. Given progress achieved
under the first two loans, these measures are expected to be effective in
accelerating commitments and disbursements in future.
2.17      Institution building and the dialogue between IBRD and the PBs has
improved significantly over the implementation period. All PBs have project
units with staff trained in appraisal, supervision, procurement, and disburse-
ment procedures. These staff are also providing guidance to basic bank and
subborrower in these procedures. Thus, consistent analytical and supervisory
criteria for agricultural subprojects are increasingly applied throughout
Yugoslavia. This also facilitiates Bank lending in other sectors.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The Project's main objectives are to (a) meet increasing domestic
and export demands for a variety of primary and processed agricultural prod-
ucts; (b) increase the productivity, employment opportunities and income of
the individual farmer sector which is the poorest and the least developed
section of the economy; (c) contribute to institution building in the eight
PBs by improving their project preparation, appraisal, and administrative
techniques; and (d) increase the PBs' access to international capital markets
through encouragement of co-financing. The project strategy is based on
fostering increased cooperation between the social and individual sectors,
with each sector drawing on its respective comparative advantages. Individual
sector farms offer the greatest potential for increasing agricultural produc-
tion, as (a) they own about 85% of the country's arable land and over 90% of
livestock and constitute about 95% of the agricultural labor force; and (b)
their current levels of productivity are low and a great deal of underemployed
family labor exists; and (c) their capability to achieve productivity levels
at least as high as those in the social sector, given technical assistance,
credit and market access, has been demonstrated. The social sector possesses
the technical skills, means and institutional framework to undertake the
agroindustry investments. Thus, subloans to the individual sector would
finance investments for increased primary agricultural production and subloans
to the social sector would finance investments in agroindustrial processing
facilities stimulating production on individual farm holdings. The project
objectives and strategy are substantially identical to those established for
the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects and are in line with the
objectives of the Agricultural Development Plan of Yugoslavia.
B. Project Description
3.02      The Project will finance investments in all republics (SR) and
provinces (SAP) of Yugoslavia over a four-year period (1980-84). As in the
case of the previous two projects, the proposed Bank loan would be made to VB,
for on-lending to individual and social sector subborrowers through a PB in
each SR and SAP. The investments financed under the proposed project would be
located throughout Yugoslavia. One-half of the Bank loan proceeds would be
allocated to less developed republics and Kosovo, which is much larger than
the share of the national agricultural product contributed by these SRs and
SAP Kosovo and reflects Bank's and Yugoslav government's emphasis to help
lesser developed SAP and SRs. Regional and sectoral allocations of the Bank
loan proceeds have been agreed upon by the SRs and SAPs taking into account the
agricultural development priorities and sectoral distribution objectives.
Assurances have been given that regional and sectoral distribution of the Bank
loan proceeds would be executed as agreed, and would be monitored by FCC, VB



- 16 -
and PBs, as well as the Bank. Distribution of the proposed Bank loan by SR
or SAP, sector, and major category is shown in Annex 1, Table 4. The project
would consist of two major components: (i) Primary Agricultural Production,
and (ii) Agroindustries Development, and an Agroindustry Study to be carried
out under the project. These components are described below.
Primary Agricultural Production
3.03      This component aims at increasing production of fruits, vegetables,
milk, beef, pork, chicken and lamb through subloans to about 18,800 individual
farmers. This component would consist of four subcomponents.
3.04      Crop Production.  Subloans would be made to about 11,500 individual
farmers to finance investments in plastic houses for vegetable production (0.1
ha), vineyards, orchards, hops fields, irrigation facilities for vegetable
farms (about 1 ha per farm) and small tobacco drying facilities. Credit would
be provided as appropriate for inputs including materials, machinery and
equipment, land preparation and wells.
3.05      Livestock Production.  The project would support livestock develop-
ment on about 3,000 individual farms through subloans for production of milk
and beef, pork, chicken, lamb, and wool. Livestock development would typically
involve: expansion of dairy farms from 3 to 10 cows, and of sheep farms
from 100 to 160 ewes; new pig units of 20 breeding sows or 200 fatteners and
broiler units of 7500 birds per batch. Typical investments would include
construction of livestock housing, purchase of breeding animals, appropriate
machinery and equipment and improvement of pastures.
3.06       Irrigation and Drainage.  In order to improve land productivity and
to meet production needs, the project would finance investments in drainage
totalling about 13,000 ha in the individual sector, and in irrigation total-
ling about 5,000 ha in both the social and individual sectors in SR Macedonia.
Drainage schemes would be organized in blocks of about 100 ha and irrigation
schemes in blocks of about 1000 ha. Around 4,300 individual farmers are
expected to benefit from such subloans. Investments would include field
drainage systems, sprinkler irrigation systems, land levelling, access roads
and farm machinery.
3.07      Support Services.  The project would finance investments in those
services or facilities which would be for the benefit of primary production
on individual farms but would need to be organized on a communal basis.
Typical investments could include grain drying and storage facilities, ser-
vices, milk collection centers, pasture improvement, farm machinery services,
and irrigation schemes, depending on the needs of various areas.
Agroindustries Component
3.08      The project would support development of agroindustries, which are
an important link between primary agricultural production and the final
consumer. Investments in agroindustries will help fulfill the Plan's food
production objectives and will create employment opportunities. They would



- 17 -
also provide market outlets for agricultural production in the individual
sector and promote cooperation between the social and individual sectors. In
keeping with the Plan objectives, project financing for agroindustries would
focus mainly on processing of milk, meat, and fruits and vegetables, all in
the social sector. Considerable interest exists among social sector agro-
kombinats i: aodernization and expansion of existing agroindustries and a
number of subprojects have already been proposed (Annex 1, Table 1). It is
expected that about 10 to 15 subloans would be made, over four years, from
the funds allocated to this component. In addition to processing equipment,
items to be financed would also include engineering design, site preparation,
construction of buildings and provision of utilities (water and power installa-
tions).
Agroindustry Study
3.09      To help in formulating long-term national agroindustry development
policy (para 1.15) and to identify the needs for the development of processing
and storage facilities in the 1980s in Yugoslavia an agroindustry study would
be undertaken by the Government, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank. The study will take into account the current and future domestic and
export markets for major agroindustries products, the raw materials base,
existing processing capacities and the needs, if any, for modernization of
such processing capacities.  This study is also expected to provide input for
the Bank's future lending for agroindustry development in Yugoslavia. The
cost of the study is estimated at US$200,000 which will be fully met by the
Government. During negotiations, assurances were obtained to the effect that
Federal Committee for Agriculture would take all action by September 30, 1980
to undertake the study, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
3.10      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies
but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at Din 6,003 M
(US$316.0 M) of which 35% or Din 2,122 M (US$111.7 M) would be the foreign
exchange component. Duties and taxes estimated at about Din 200 M are included
in the total project cost. Cost estimates are based on investments indicated
by the various republics and provinces as requiring Bank funds, and adjusted
by the appraisal mission to emphasize development of primary production in
balance with agroindustries. Model investment costs for primary agricultural
production are based on PB's recent experience with similar on-going projects
for the agroindustries component costs are based on agroindustries investments
tentatively identified for financing under the project. Cost estimates are
based on April 1979 prices and have been updated to reflect the costs that
would prevail in early 1980.   An average 5% physical contingency and an



- 18 -
average price contingency of 23% 1/ on the base cost plus physical contingen-
cies have been included in the cost estimate.  The summary cost estimate is
given below; details are in Annex 1.
Foreign
Din  Millions           US$  Millions        Exchange
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total           %
I.   Primary Production
A.   Crop production          769    316   1085    40.5   16.7   57.2         29
B.   Livestock                767    302   1069    40.4   15.9   56.3         28
C.   Irrigation and
drainage               202    156    358    10.6    8.2   18.8         44
D.   Support services        268    150    418    14.1    7.9   22.0          36
Subtotal            2,006    924  2,930   105.6   48.7  154.3          32
II.  Agroindustries        1,142    802  1,944    60-.1   42.2  102.3         41
III. Agroindustry Study        2       2       4      0.1    0.1    0.2       50
Total Base Cost 2/  3,150  1,728  4,878   165.8   91.0  256.8           35
Price Contingencies
(23%) 3/                731    394  1,125    38.5   20.7   59.2         35
Total Project Cost         3,881  2,122  6,003   204.3  111.7  316.0          35
1/3/ Price contingencies are based on estimated annual inflation rates, in
dollar terms, of 9% for 1980, 8% for 1981 and 7% for 1982-84, for civil
works as well as equipment.
2/   Including 5% physical contingencies, which are considered adequate for
an agricultural credit project.



- 19 -
D. Financing
3.11      The Project financing plan is shown below:
Local Banks
including
Subborrowers  cofinancing         IBRD         Total
US$M     %    US$M                       x US$M    %    US$M   %
I.   Primary Production  37.6       20   90.2    48        60.2   32   188.0  100
II.  Agroindustries        25.6     20   76.4    60        25.8   20   127.8  100
III. Agroindustry Study   0.2 /1 100    0.0        0        0.0    0      0.2  100
TOTAL            63.4      20  166.6    53       86.0   27   316.0  100
/1   Entire cost of the study to be met by the Government.
3.12      The proposed IBRD loan of US$86.0 M would finance 77% of the
total estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. Subborrowers would
contribute 20% of total cost or US$63.4 M. The balance of the project cost,
US$166.6 M would be provided by the VB and PBs, and includes funds from
Republic and the Federal sources as well as possible cofinancing sources.
3.13      The Bank loan of US$86.0 M would be made to VB for 15 years includ-
ing 3 years of grace, for onlending to subborrowers through a PB in each
SR/SAP (para 4.01). Under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to Bank,
VB would on-lend US$74.0 M out of the proceeds of the Bank loan to seven PBs.
Out of the balance of the loan, US$12.0 M would be retained by VB for onlend-
ing to subborrowers in the operating area covering the SAP Vojvodina. Distri-
bution of the Bank loan proceeds by SRs/SAPs and investment purposes (para.
3.02) is shown in Annex 1, Table 4. The Bank loan would be repaid on basis of
adjustable repayment schedules reflecting the composite repayments of subloans.
Assurances, on the above conditions, were obtained during negotiations.
E. Disbursements
3.14      The disbursement of the proposed Bank loan of US$86.0 M would
extend over four years and would be made as follows:
(a) Subloans for Primary Agricultural Production (US$60.2 M)
40% of each subloan.
(b) Subloans for Agroindustries Development (US$25.8 M). 100% of
foreign expenditure and 50% of local expenditures subject to a
maximum of 50% of each subloan or a total amount of US$4 million



- 20 -
of Bank funds, whichever is lower. The latter limit is for purpose
of encouraging cofinancing of larger agroindustry subprojects (see
also para. 4.11).
An estimated schedule of disbursements is attached to Annex 1. Disbursement
requests would be supported by full documentation in the case of subloans for
agroindustry development. For all other subloans the Bank would disburse
against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which would be
retained by the Borrower and would be available for inspection by the Bank
during the course of project implementation. The same disbursement procedures
would apply for disbursement by VB to PBs. Assurances have been obtained from
VB that it will arrange for audit of procedures followed by it and PBs to
ensure that Bank loan proceeds withdrawn by them on basis of the crtificates
of expenditures are used for the purpose for which they were granted. As in
the case of the two previous loans, the Bank would make disbursements in
accordance with the provisions of Two Currency Disbursement Scheme, as long as
the scheme is in effect.
F. Procurement
3.15      The subborrowers, assisted and supervised by VB and PBs, would be
responsible for procurement of goods and services required for the project.
The works, equipment and other goods to be procured for the Primary Agricul-
tural Production Component of the project would include small farm buildings,
small buildings for the livestock and poultry units, dairy cattle and other
animals for the livestock and poultry units, milking equipment, and farm
machinery and implements. Given the small size of each investment (and
therefore the size and quantity of goods for such investments), their unco-
ordinated timing, and their dispersion over all of the republics and provinces
of Yugoslavia in physical location and the variety in goods to be procured,
it is not practical to bulk the requirements into a few contracts for procure-
ment. Sufficient commercial channels are available in Yugoslavia to provide
adequate competition for the supply of goods needed under this component of
the project. Similarly a large number of competent Yugoslav contractors are
available for the construction of civil works facilities under the project on
a competitive basis. Therefore all procurement under the Primary Agricultural
Production Component of the project (US$188.0 M) would be handled through
existing commercial channels or local competitive procurement procedures and
would be supervised by the PBs and the VB, as under the previous projects.
3.16      The machinery and equipment and some processing plants to be financed
under the Agroindustry Component of the project would be procured in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines (March 1977). The details of these investments are
not known at this stage. The equipment for most subprojects under this
component would be of a specialized nature with a limited number of suppliers.
ICB would be required for all individual contracts for equipment, as well as
turnkey contracts, whose value is expected to exceed the equivalent of US$2 M.
It is estimated that items to be procured under ICB would total approximately
US$50 million and would mostly be awarded to foreign suppliers.



- 21 -
Exemption from ICB for contracts above US$2 M would be possible if the Borrower
provides justification that ICB is not the most economic and efficient method
of procurement and the Bank and the Borrower agree upon other appropriate
arrangements.
3.17      The suitability or otherwise of a turnkey contract procedure for
each agroindustry subproject financed under the project would be agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower at the earliest possible time (para 4.09).
Contracts for the procurement of equipment would include provisions under
which the equipment suppliers would furnish erection supervisors, would
guarantee performance and train local staff in operation and maintenance of
the equipment. The lower of a 15% preference or prevailing custom duty margin
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids for equip-
ment under ICB. During negotiations assurances were obtained that procure-
ment arrangements outlined would be followed.
G. Environmental Impact
3.18      The Project is not expected to have any significant adverse
environmental impact on the project area. The subborrowers for agroindustry
invest ments will be required to have adequate effluent treatment facilities.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization
4.01      The organization structure under the proposed project would be the
same as under the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects. Thus, eight
Yugoslav banks - one from each of the six Republics and two Provinces would be
responsible for project implementation in their respective areas. These PBs
have designated one of them--Vojvodjanska Banka, Udruzena Banka (VB)--to be
the borrower under the Bank loan. VB was also the borrower under the previous
two agricultural credit projects. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
concluded between the VB and seven PBs would specify that the PBs would
follow the onlending polices and procedures described in Section C of this
Chapter. Signing of the SLA satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations. Coordination and policy issues at the national level
would be the responsibility of the Federal Coordination Committee (FCC)
established for this purpose under Federal Committee for Agriculture under the
previous two credit projects. The Federal Committee for Agriculture would also
be responsible for carrying out the Agroindustry Study under the Project.
Given the experience gained and satisfactory performance under the previous
loans (paras. 2.16-2.17) risks of implementation problems stemming from
organizational arrangements are minimal.



The Federal Coordination Committee (FCC)
4.02      The FCC was established under the previous two agricultural credit
projects to coordinate agricultural itrvestments under the project in Yugoslavia.
Its members are the representatives cf the Secretaries for Agriculture of the
SRs and the SAPs and of the Federal Government, with the Deputy President
of the Federal Committee for Agriculture (i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture)
as Chairman. The FCC's coordinating role has included involvement in the
preparation of the previous two Bank financed Agricultural Credit projects and
the proposed project. Its responsibilities have been mainly (a) resolution of
policy questions, (b) reallocation of loan proceeds among SRs and SAPs and
between subsectors, in consultation with the Bank, (c) review of project
progress, and (d) initiation of remedial actions. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the FCC would carry out its above responsibilities
towards this project.
The Borrower: Vojvodjanska Banka (VB)
4.03      All project funds would be channelled through and supervised by VB
whose organization, financial condition, and operating policies and practices
are briefly described in Chapter II of this report and described in detail in
the Project Implementation File as well as in the appraisal report of the
Second Agricultural Credit Project (No. 1537a-YU, June 13, 1977). The Project
Operations Department established in VB under the first two projects as an
independent organizational unit has had primary implementational responsi-
bility for both projects and has performed satisfactorily. The Department is
organized around a managerial unit, headed by a Director, with two Divisions--
Appraisal and Implementation. Total staff of this Department is 14, including
the Director, a Procurement Advisor, 3 agronomists, 3 economists, a lawyer, a
disbursement officer, a translator, and 3 clerks. Three staff have completed
EDI courses and all are suitably qualified and experienced to carry out VB's
role under the Project. By September 1, 1980 VB would assign two more staff--
specialists in agroindustries and marketing--suitably qualified and experienced
to assist PBs and subborrowers in subproject appraisal and later in subproject
supervision, for which only one person is currently responsibLe. Existing
staff of VB have gone through an important training function during implemen-
tation of the first two projects. This has included a range of activities
including seminars for all PBs, ad hoc advice to PBs and subborrowers, and
preparation of guidelines for appraisal, disbursement, etc. VB's training
role under the proposed Project is expected to focus mainly on economic
aspects of appraisal, marketing, ad hoc advice particularly oln procurement
issues, and as necessary "refresher" courses. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations from VB that the Department would:  (a) carry out its
responsibilities diligently in respect of the project; continue to retain
adequate and qualified staff including a Procurement Specialist; employ or
assign two additional specialists--one in Agroindustries and the other in
Marketing by September 30, 1980; (b) remain responsible for appraisal and
supervision of all subloans under the proposed project according to the agreed
free limits (para 4.11) and as PB for Vojvodina; and (c) continue its train-
ing role with respect to its own staff and staffs of PBs, social sector
subborrowers, Zadrugas, and basic banks.



- 23 -
4.04       In keeping with Yugoslav banking policy (para. 2.09) VB would not be
expected to generate a profit from its loans to the PBs but only to recoup
administrative costs for the project which are estimated at Din 18.0 million
over the life of the project. To cover these costs VB, at the time of dis-
bursement would receive a one-time 1% commission on loan funds disbursed by
the Bank. VB would, however, on-lend the loan proceeds to th PBs at the same
rate at which it borrows from the Bank, and VB's commitment charges to the PBs
of 0.75% on the undisbursed portion of the loan would be the same as the
Bank's commitment charge to VB. These provisions would be incorporated into
the subsidiary loan agreement. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
The Participating Banks (PBs)
4.05      The PBs are essentially the same as those under the First and Second
Agricultural Credit Projects except insofar as they were affected by changes
brought about through the new Banking Law (paras. 2.03 and 2.11). Five out of
these seven PBs are well known to the Bank as direct borrowers from the Bank
under other previous agricultural and industrial credit projects. Their
performance under the first two projects has been generally satisfactory and
improving with experience. The main performance aspects needing further
improvement are early identification and preparation of subprojects, economic
and marketing analysis, procurement, systematic supervision, and disbursement
procedures. There is already an awareness of these weaknesses, which apply in
differing degrees to different PBs. The solution lies partly in training
efforts led by VB (para 4.03) and supplemented by the PBs (e.g. sending PB
staff to EDI, training by PB staff of basic bank and subborrower staff), and
partly in organizational changes. A summary appraisal of the PBs is given in
paras. 2.11-2.15.
B. Onlending Policies and Procedures
Subborrower and Sublending Arrangements
4.06      Subloans for Crop and Livestock Production under the Primary Agricul-
tural Production Component of the project would be made by the PBs to individual
farmers who are either directly subborrowing from a PB or subborrowing through
a Zadruga. Most of the lending to individual farmers under the First and
Second Agricultural Credit projects has been through the Zadrugas which
aggregate investment proposals from several individ.ual farmers with whom they
typically have long-term cooperation agreements 1/ for production and marketing
of their produce. This arrangement has worked satisfactorily in the past.
However, direct applications from individual farmers would be expected in
areas where no cooperative arrangements exist or where the farmer prefers
1/   For details see paras. 1.06-1.08.



- 24 -
direct borrowing. Subloans for Irrigation and Drainage and Support Services
Subcomponents would be made by PBs to Zadrugas or social sector organizations.
Subloans under the Agroindustry Component of the project would be made to
social sector organizations.
Appraisal Criteria
4.07      Appraisal guidelines and methodologies for both sectors shall be
reviewed as necessary, and as has been the practice, between the Bank and VB
and the PBs. VB and the PBs would be responsible for subproject appraisal.
In addition, for lending under the Primary Agricultural Production Component
of the project, VB and the PBs would ensure that: (a) subprojects are
technically feasible and would generate sufficient cash flow to cover debt
service, legal claims, and reinvestment needs; (b) adequate and continuing
technical assistance and market outlets are foreseen for farmers who are
subborrowers; (c) in the case of lending to individual farmers through Zadrugas,
the cooperation agreements are satis factory; and (d) in case of lending for
Irrigation, Drainage and Support Services Subcomponents the beneficiaries of
the investment are individual farmers, and the Zadruga or the social sector
organization involved has made adequate arrangements to provide extension
services to individual farmers and will stipulate service charges adequate to
fully recover its costs.
4.08      In appraising agroindustry subprojects the VB and the PBs would
ensure that: (a) at least 50% of subproject processing capacities would be
available for the use of production from individual farmers; (b) subprojects
provide satisfactory financial and economic rates of return on the basis of
detailed and realistic cost and benefit estimates, and would generate suffi-
cient cash flow to cover debt service, legal claims, compulsory allocations to
enterprise funds, and reinvestment needs. Subprojects would have a minimum
financial and economic rate of return of 12% in constant Dinars; (c) subproj-
ects are technically feasible based on a critical review of technical data and
specifications provided by the sub-borrowers. For this purpose VB and the PBs
would require that, for each agroindustry investment estimated to cost US$3 M
or more, the proposed investor engage suitably qualified and internationally
experienced consultants to reveiw: the scale of investment in relation to
market prospects; design; economics; specification of bids; and to ensure that
the technical solution is optimum commensurate with producing the final output
at the lowest cost. Guidelines for such review are at Annex 3 and the expendi-
tures incurred for such review would be eligible for financing under the
project. Prior to subloan approval, the report of such consultants would be
made available to the PB and VB, and on request to the Bank; (d) the methods
of procurement foreseen for the subproject will be agreed to at the earliest
possible opportunity, in accordance with criteria outlined in paras. 3.16 and
3.17; (e) subborrowers are creditworthy and organization and management and
financial structure are satisfactory for subproject implementation; (f) that
the necessary amount of seasonal credit would be available for the subproject;
and (g) appropriate attention is given to the economic impact of subprojects,
including employment, income, and import/export effects.



- 25 -
4.09      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the criteria
outlined in paras. 4.06-4.08 will be followed by VB and the PBs in appraisal
and approval of subloans.
4.10      Free Limit:  In view of considerable experience gained by PBs under
the AgCred:' I and II projects they are considered suitable for approving
all subloans for primary production except for support services which is a new
activity under the primary production component of project. The free limits
on subprojects for Support Services and the Agroindustries component will be
as follows: (a) for all subprojects with an investment cost exceeding US$3M,
the Bank would review the appraisals and approve the subprojects. It is
estimated that the Bank will review about 8-10 subproject appraisal reports
over a two-year period; (b) all subprojects between US$2.5 million and US$3
million would be reviewed and approved by VB; and (c) all subprojects with
investment costs below US$2.5 million would be approved by the PBs. All
subloan approvals would be reported to the Bank at quarterly intervals.
4.11      Subloan Size and Terms:  Subborrowers from both the social and
individual sectors would provide a minimum of 20% of total investment costs.
The PBs would provide the remaining 80%, a part of which will be financed from
the proceeds of the Bank loan and the remaining from the PB's own sources.
The repayment period of individual subloans would not exceed ten years includ-
ing grace periods of up to five years. For agroindustry subprojects repayment
period would normally not exceed ten years including grace periods up to three
years except where cofinancing from foreign sources is involved, in which case
repayment and grace periods may be extended to 15 and 5 years respectively.
To encourage cofinancing for larger agroindustry subprojects, no sub-loan
would exceed US$4 million, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
4.12       Interest Rates:  Pending outcome of the interest rate study (para.
2.04 to 2.07), the on-lending rates under this project would remain the
same as those under the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1477-YU).
Thus, the Bank funds would be on-lent at not less than 11% interest. The
interest rates applicable to the domestic resources loaned under the Project
to social sector subborrowers would be at least 6%, and to individual sector
subborrowers at least 5%. These rates are expected to result in minimum
blend rates of approximately 8.5% and 7.4% for social and individual sector
subborrowers respectively. Annual rates of inflation (retail prices) have
varied considerably in the last four years, averaging about 14 percent in the
period 1976-79. While inflation increased sharply in 1979, the projected
annual rate of inflation for the next three years is estimated to be in the
range of 12% to 14%. The on-lending rates to the social sector for the Bank
funds under this project are expected to be positive in real terms given that
it would also be bearing foreign exchange risk. For the individual sector the
rates will be higher than those charged by the local banks but will not be
positive in real terms.



- 26 -
4.13      Foreign Exchange Risk.  As under the previous two credit projects,
final social sector subborrowers would carry the full foreign exchange risk
with respect to the portion of subloans financed out of the proceeds of the
Bank loan for their own investments. The foreign exchange risk on subloans to
individual farmers would be borne by the individual Republics and Provinces.
These provisions, together with the application of an adjustable repayment
schedule and Two Currency Disbursement Scheme (paras. 3.13 and 3.14), will
eliminate any significant foreign exchange risk to VB and the PBs accruing
from subloan repayments occurring earlier than amortization payments under the
Bank loan.
C. Accounts and Audit
4.14      Yugoslav law requires that all banks and enterprises be audited
annually by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). Of the eight PBs included
in the Project, five are borrowers under the Bank-financed industrial and
agricultural credit projects and are already audited by SDK according to
internationally accepted standards. It is expected that the remaining three
banks can receive this type of full audit after the close of 1980. In the
interim, financial statements certified by SDK in accordance with Yugoslav
laws will be accepted. Assurances will be sought from VB, during negotia-
tions, that it will submit its own as well as the PBs' audited accounts to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
4.15      Assurances were obtained during negotiations, that VB would main-
tain and cause the PBs to maintain separate accounts for the Project covering
disbursements under all subloans and the auditors will give a separate opinion
as to whether satisfactory procedures are in operation at VB and PBs, to ensure
that the withdrawals made on basis of certificates of expenditures (para. 3.14)
have been used for the purpose for which they are provided.
D. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.16      Monitoring of the project, during implementation, will be done
through field supervision of subloans and through review of key indicators
such as investments identified, subprojects under preparation, subloan
approvals, number of farmers financed, commitments, disbursements, loan
recoveries and reschedulings, and field supervisions performed. VB is follow-
ing the monitoring guidelines agreed under Second Agricultural Credit Project,
which are also valid for this project.  However, these guidelines will be
further refined, in agreement with the Bank, to improve project monitoring
during implementation.
4.17      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that VB and the PBs
would ensure technical and financial supervision of subprojects during con-
struction and over the life of the subloans, and that supervision reports
satisfactory to the Bank would be prepared. VB would require subborrowers to



- 27 -
submit SDK-certified financial statements within six months from the end of
each fiscal year.
4.18      Reporting:  VB provides quarterly progress reports to the Bank in
the format established for the previous two credit projects, which will be
amended by including data on key indicators.
4.19      Evaluation:  Under the Second Agricultural Credit Project VB has
contracted the Institute of Agricultural Economics, Belgrade to carry out the
evaluation of investments financed under both credit projects. This Institute
will collect and analyze data on costs, benefits and financial viability of
main investments financed. Annual Evaluation Reports will be submitted by
the Institute to VB. These reports will help VB and the PBs in loan approvals
and supervision as well as in preparation of project completion reports. This
evaluation system is satisfactory and will also be followed for this project.
The annual cost of present evaluation system is Din 0.6 M. Assuming same
rates for this project, the total cost of the evaluation system, in constant
prices over a eight year development period, is estimated to be Din 4.8 M or
US$0.24 M. This cost will be borne by VB and the PBs.
4.20      VB would prepare a project completion report not later than six
months after the Closing Date. Assurances were obtained that VB will provide
IBRD with (a) quarterly progress reports (para. 4.18), (b) annual evaluation
reports (para. 4.19), (c) a project completion report, and (d) that VB will
follow the monitoring and evaluation procedures outlined in paras. 4.16-4.19
above.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
5.01      The project would finance the production of primary agricultural
products--fruits, vegetables, meat and milk--in the individual sector as well
as agroindustries in the social sector which will use the above primary
products as raw material to produce a wide range of processed food products.
An estimated 18,800 individual farmers throughout the six republics and
two autonomous provinces are expected to participate in the project. The
following table shows incremental annual production of major primary products
expected from the project; full production is expected to be achieved in
1989.



- 28 -
Summary of Incremental Agricultural Production
Unit           1982        1985     Full Development
(1989)
Crop Farms
Cereals                tons           (9328)*    (7762)*         (6871)*
Tomatoes               tons           27647      89195          89195
Green beans            tons            7000      15300           15300
Grapes                 tons           (4700)*    15345          27250
Sour cherries /1       tons             -         1875          27900
Fodder crops /2        tons          48940      145790         148350
Hops                   tons              58          75             75
Cured tobacco /3       tons             831        1369           1369
Livestock Farms
Cattle /4              tons l.w.         70        480            1420
Sheep                  tons l.w.         80        1080           1280
Pigs                   tons l.w.       1120      12220           13200
Broilers               tons l.w.      5700       20030          21360
Milk                    '000 1         5220       20815          28840
Wool                   tons              29         143            165
Cereals                tons           (2880)*    (5500)*         (5500)*
/1   Could also be other orchard crops.
/2   Mainly maize silage.
/3   With a corresponding reduction in green tobacco.
74   Includes heifers sold for breeding.
*    Figures in brackets () correspond to a decrease in production.
The total value of annual incremental output is estimated to be Din 2031 M
(US$107 M) at May 1979 farmgate prices. The above estimates are subject to
substantial variation depending on the actual phasing and composition of
subloan approvals by participating banks, and the pace at which these sub-
projects are actually implemented.
5.02      In parallel with the expansion of agricultural production, some new
agroindustries would be established and some existing agroindustrial faciities
....wn11d be modernized.  The incremental production from the agroindustries
financed under the project cannot be quanti ied as the investments to b
financed are not certain and their details are not yetrknown.  However,
f~investments identified for thic prnject are sihTiar totoefinanced under
the Second project and are expected to result in incr           p
processed meat, processed fruits and vegetables, fruit juices, processed milk,
cheese, yoghurt, and wine.



- 29 -
B. Market Prospects and Prices
5.03      Most of the individual farmers receiving credit under the project
would have marketing agreements with the cooperatives or social sector enter-
prises, thr-gh which they would receive subloans under the project. The
cooperative and social sector enterprises are normally part of an agrokombinat
and have supply contracts with the processing facilities, retail outlets, and
export organizations within the kombinat. The incremental project output will
be marketed through these channels and therefore the marketing arrangements
are adequate at the micro level.
5.04      At the macro level the incremental project production of milk, pork,
and lamb is small compared with total national production (each about 2% of
the 1980 Plan figure), and would be easily absorbed either on the domestic
market or by exports. Projected incremental poultry production is about 6% of
the proposed 1980 Plan requirements, while the incremental production of
vegetables is estimated at about 3% of national vegetable production excluding
potatoes. Incremental production of grapes and of sour cherries would also
amount to about 2% of the proposed 1980 Plan levels. Thus, the incremental
production of the project would amount to only a small part of the increases
of agricultural products proposed under the most recent agricultural develop-
ment Plan. At the margin this production could be absorbed by the marketing
system in view of expected 4% annual growth in domestic consumption require-
ments, anticipated growth in exports, and incremental raw material requirements
for agroindustry which is expected to grow at 8% annually under the Plan
period. The market prospects, thus, appear satisfatory.
5.05      Prices.  The financial analysis was based on May 1979 farmgate
prices.  Economic prices are based on 1990 World Bank projections for wheat,
maize, beef and lamb (expressed in May 1979 prices) and on local prices
adjusted for subsidies for non-tradeables. Details on financial and economic
prices are shown in Annex 2, Tables 4 and 5.
C. Financial Benefits
5.06      A wide range of investments would be financed under the project and
the exact lending program composition depends on future demand for subloans
for different purposes. The financial viability of the Primary Agriculture
Production Component of the project has been examined through selected illustra-
tive investment types, represented by 14 farm models, using partial budgets
and full budgets, as appropriate. Technical coefficients used in the farm
models are based on the operational experience obtained under the two on-going
agricultural credit projects and are summarized in Annex 2, Tables 1-3.
Details are in Project Implementation file. The financial rates of return
(FRR) on the farm investments vary between 12 and 36 percent. FRR, incremental
income and incremental employment after full development are given below.



- 30 -
Producer Benefits and Financial Rates of Return (FRR) on Typical Investments
(on unit investment basis)
At Full Development Incremental
Investment            Unit      Size         Cost    FRR  Income    Employment
Din '000  %   Din '000  man hours
per year  per year
1. Plastic House       ha        0.1         74.2    29    16.0          -
2. Irrigated Vege-
tables            ha        1.0         33.3    36    12.8       1,580
3. Drainage            ha        5.0/a       74.1    20    19.4          33
4. Vineyard            ha        1.0        165.1    15    61.7         240
5. Orchard             ha        1.0         94.7    23    66.2         380
6. Hops Production    ha         0.5        132.8    22    23.8         740
7. Tobacco Dryer       ton       3.0        149.7    29    27.4         360
8. Irrigation          ha        3.0/b       99.4    17    25.4       1,498
9. North Dairy         cows    10  Id       406.4    15    90.8       1,000
10. South Dairy         cows      8  /d      368.8    12    74.5         950
11. Sheep Farm          ewes   160  /d       149.6    27    67.1       1,350
12. Pig Breeding        sow      20          327.3    23    73.1       1,000
13. Pig Fattening       pigs   200           410.6    29   143.4       1,200
14. Broiler            birds  7500           827.4    18/c 155.6       1,800
/a   Ha per farmer.  Typically implemented in blocks of 100 ha.
/b   Ha per farmer.  Schemes typically implemented on 1000 ha blocks.
/    Return to farmer alone.
/-d Total including pre-project livestock averaging 3 cows for dairy farms
and 100 ewes for sheep farms.
5.07      Financial benefits for the Agroindustries Component have not been
quantified (para. 5.02). However analysis of specific projects funded under
other Bank loans in Yugoslavia has indicated financial rates of return for
such investments in the 12 to 30 percent range. Returns from investments
funded under this project are expected to be similar and accordingly the
agroindustry investments would be financially attractive to investors. In
addition, the requirement that each agroindustry investment financed under the
project will be comprehensively appraised and will have a minimum financial
and economic rate of return of 12% will serve to ensure the financial and eco-
nomic viability of the agroindustry component of the project.
D. Economic Benefits and Justification
5.08      Main Benefits.  The principal quantifiable benefit of the project
would be (a) an increased production of fruits, vegetables, meat and milk, and
(b) processed fruit, vegetable and meat products, and wine. The incremental



- 31 -
primary output would mainly be processed into higher value products and would
thus, fuel an agroindustrial growth which is essential for meeting a rapidly
increasing consumer demand for high quality and processed food products.
Incremental meat and processed fruit and vegetable production would add to
supply of exports. The project would improve the productivity on individual
farms and raise their incomes. The project would also create substantial
employment opportunities. These effects are described below.
5.09      Beneficiaries.  Direct beneficiaries of the project would total
about 18,800 families under the primary agricultural production component
of the project, with the largest number being in the least developed regions
(LDR's). A substantial number of direct beneficiaries in the LDRs are
expected to belong to the target group with per capita incomes below US$510.
The incomes of individual farmers are expected to increase 50 percent to 120
percent as compared to preproject incomes. The investments under the agro-
industries and support services components of the projects would result in
indirect benefits to an estimated additional 30,000 families by providing
marketing outlets for their production, and providing inputs and services.
5.10      Employment.  The project's contribution to employment would be
substantial. At full development, the project would create in the individual
sector (under the primary agricultural production component of the project) a
permanent increase in employment of an estimated 6,500 man-years and temporary
employment of an estimated 6,000 man-years during the construction period.
About 2,000 man-years out of the permanent employment created would be hired
seasonal labor and the balance of 4,500 man-years would be increased deployment
of family labor presently underemployed. About 1,500 new full time jobs
are expected to be created by the investments under the Agroindustry Component
of the project.
5.11      Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  The illustrative models used for
financial analysis (para. 5.05) have been adjusted for the calculation of
the economic rate of return.  Details of adjustments and assumptions are in
Annex 2.  On these bases the economic rate of return for the primary produc-
tion component of the project is calculated at about 17%.  Changes in invest-
ment costs and net benefit streams were made to test the sensitivity of the
rate of return to deviations from assumed values and it was found that a 20%
increase in investment costs would reduce the ERR to 15% and a 20% decrease in
net benefits would reduce ERR to 14%. The rate of return for the Agroindustries
and Support Services components have not been estimated_ as etals ot indivi-
dual subprojects are not vet known (para. 5.02).  However, thastimateALERRB
of agroindustry and support services investments financed under the Second
Agricultural Cred-it Pros LancLothlerprev ious agro_indus t r y      agr-i-u4ur-e-  |
projects in Yugoslavia have ranged from 12 percent to 22 percent. Including
the Agroindustry Component of the project, the weighted average economic rate
of return of the whole project is expected to be in the range of 15-20 percent.
5.12      Other Benefits.  The project's non-quantifiable benefits would
include the continued institutional development of the eight PBs under the
project and fostering of increased cooperation between the individual and
social sectors by giving the individual farmers the means, incentives and
technical advice to produce and supply agricultural products to social sector



-32 -
processing and marketing channels. The PBs would continue to be assisted
through direct training and indirectly through enforcement of specific apprais-
al criteria for subprojects. The latter is also expected to contribute to
more efficient resource allocation in Yugoslavia.
E. Risk and Uncertainty
5.13      The project is large, diverse and complex and therefore carries with
it risk of slow implementation. This risk is seen in the ability of the
PBs to identify, prepare and appraise subprojects in the individual sector at
higher volumes of lending thereby resulting in implementation delays. This
may be intensified by a lack of demand for credit by individual farmers due to
drastic changes in input/output price ratios. However, during the preparation
of this project considerable work has been done by PBs and secretariats of
agriculture in each SR and SAP to identify farmers and subprojects for financ-
ing under the project. The financial analysis of investments proposed under
this project shows them to be financially attractive and stable in view of
changes in assumed values. In view of this, and the experience gained by the
PBs under two previous credit projects the risk of slow implementation will
be minimized. Within the Agroindustries Component the risk of individual
subproject failure due to raw material shortage is remote in view of planned
expansion of primary agricultural production under the proposed project as
well as under the Plan; the risk of lack of sufficient market demand remains.
However, some uncertainty in market prospects is normal for such investments.
The insistence of a detailed market analysis being included in subproject
appraisal would minimize this risk.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Assurances have been obtained from Federal Government, to the effect
that the Federal Committee for Agriculture would take all appropriate action
before September 30, 1980, to undertake an Agroindustry Study according to
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.09).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from VB, as the
borrower, that it would:
(i)  implement the project as described in paras 3.02 through
3.08 and carry out its responsibilities under the project
(paras 4.03-4.04);
(ii)  allocate the proposed Bank loan between various SRs and SAPs
and various sectors and subsectors as agreed (para. 3.02);
(iii) follow the financing, disbursement and procurement proce-
dures outlined in paras 3.12 through 3.17;



- 33 -
(iv) appoint an agroindustry specialist and a marketing
specialist to its staff by September 1, 1980 (para 4.03);
(v) follow project lending policies and procedures described
in paras 4.06 through 4.12; and
(vi) follow the auditing, accounting, and progress reporting
procedures (including project completion report) set out
in paras 4.14 through 4.20.
6.03      Conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between VB and the PBs,
would be a condition for making the loan effective (para 4.01).
6.04      Subject to these agreements the project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$86.0 million on standard terms. The Borrower would be the Vojvodjanska
Banka, Udruzena Banka (VB).



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Details of Lending Program
Lending Program and Project Cost
1.        The projected lending program is shown in Table 1 and the annual
phasing of investment costs shown in Table 2. The composition of the projected
lending program was based on careful estimates of probable demand for different
categories of loans, the commitment and disbursement experience gained under
the previous two agricultural credit projects and, in case of the agroindustry,
investments tentatively identified for financing under the project. These
agroindustry investments are in different stages of readiness varying from
identification to detailed feasibility analysis and consequently the cost
estimates are highly tentative. Some of the proposed investments themselves
may be substituted by others.
2.        The unit costs of different investments to be financed and the
number of each type of investments expected to be financed under the project
are given in Table 3.
Inter-republic and Inter-sectoral Allocations
3.        The regional and sectoral allocations of investments and Bank loan
proceeds are presented in Table 4. The regional allocations were agreed upon
by the Republics and provinces taking into account the regional income and
distribution objectives. The sectoral allocations are based on achieving a
balanced growth objective, i.e., at the margin the incremental output from
investments under primary agricultural production component of the project
would be roughly equal to incremental raw material requirement of incremental
processing capacities established under the project.
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.        Presented in Table 5.  Disbursement projections are based on year-
wise phasing of investments. In view of eight participating banks involved in
the project a lag of nine months has been allowed in incurring of expenditures
and claiming of reimbursement from Bank.



ANNEX 1
- 35 -                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
us$ 'ooo                              DIN MILLION
..............,..............................................-_________
(16)         (17)         (18)         (19)         (20)          (21)
TOTAL       FOREIGN       LOCAL        TOTAL       FOREIGN        LOCAL
I F:RIMARY AGRICULTURAL FRODUCTION
A. LIVESrOCK PROIIUCTION
NORTH DAIRY FARM                     6,952        2,086        4,866           132           40           92
SOUTH DAIRY FARM                    16,306        4,892       11,414           310           93          217
PIG FATTENING FARM                   5,401        1,674        3,727           103           32           71
PIG BREEDING FARM                    6,681        1,270        5,411           127           24          103
BROILERS FARM                       14,588        4,522       10,066           277           86          191
SHEEP FARM                           6,339        1,395        4,944           120           27           93
SUB TOTAL A.                        56,267       15,839       40,428         1,069          302          767
B. CROF FRODUCTION
PLASTIC HOUSE                        5,389        1,671        3,718           102           32           70
IRRIGATED VEGETABLES                 4,789        1,772        3,017            91           34           57
VINEYARDS                           20,201        6,263       13,938           383          119          264
ORCHARDS                            23,354        5,830       17,524           444          110          334
HOPS                                   517          176          341            10            3            7
TOBACCO DRYING                       2,875          949        1,926            55           18           37
SUB TOTAL B.                        57,125       16,661       40,464         1,085          316          769
C.IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
IRRIGATION                           8,715        4,794        3,921           165           91           74
DRAINAGE                            10,148        3,450        6,698           193           65          128
SUB TOTAL C.                        18,863        8,244       10,619           358          156          202
TOTAL I                            132,255       40,744       91,511         2,512          774        1,738
D.SUPPORr SERVICES
SUPFORT SERVICES                    22,000        7,920       14,080           418          150          268
TOTAL-FRIM.AG.PRODUCTION           154,255       48,664      105,591         2,930          924        2,006
III AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOFMENT
MILK PROCESSING-SLOVENIA             9,200        5,428        3,772           175          103           72
MILK/Mr.AT FROC.-MONTENEGRO          5,400        2,268        3,132           103           43           60
MILK FfiOCESSING-KOSOVO              6,500        3,835        2,665           124           73           51
MILK COLLECTION-MACEDONIA            3,300        1,254        2,046            63           24           39
MEAT PROCESSING -SERBIA             23,900        7,887       16,013           454          150          304
FRUIT PROCESSING-VOJVODINA          15,000        6,450        8,550           285          123          162
FRUIT PROCESSING-BOSNIA             18,000        7,920       10,080           342          150          192
WINERY/FRUIT PROC.-CROATIA          21,000        7,140       13,860           399          136          263
TOTAL III                          102,300       42,182       60,118         1,945          802        1l143
TOTAL PROJECT COST
WITHOUT FRICE CONTINGENCIES        256,555       90,846      165,709         4,875        1,726        3,149
TOTAL FRICE CONTINGENCIES           59,198       20,719       38,479         1,125          394          731
TOTAL PROJECT COST
INCLUDING CONrINGENCIES            315,753      111,565      204,188        6,000         2,120        3,880
1/9/80



ANNE( I
- 36 -                                                       TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
TOTAL PROJECT COST ($ 000)
(10)        (11)        (12)        (13)        (14)         (15)        (16)         (17)         (18)
YEAR 1      YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5       YEAR 6       TOTAL       FOREIGN        LOCAL
I PRIMARY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
g05rH DAIRY FARM                    2,460       2,353        1,390         749           0            0       6,952         2.0e6        4,866
SOUTH DAIRY FARM                    6,212       5,338       4,756            0           0           0       16,306         4,892       11,414
IFIG FATTENING FARM                   864       2,053        1,512         972           0            0       5,401         1,674        3,727
PIG BREEDING FARM                   1,833       1,960       2,485          403           0            0       6,681         1,270        5,411
BROILERS FARM                       4.137       4,572       4,137        1,742           0           0       14,588         4,522       10,066
'iHEEP FARM                         2,441       2,323        1,2_99        276           0            0       6,339         1,395        4,944
SUB TOTAL A.                       17,947      18,599       15,579       4,142           0            0      56,267        15,839       40,428
B. CROf' F'RODUCTION
PLASTIC HOUSE                       3,007       1,406          976           0           0           0        5,389         1,671        3,718
IRRIGATED VEGETABLES                1,751       1,725       1,313            0           0           0        4,789         1,772        3,017
VINEYARItS                          4,462       7,682       5,960        2.097           0            0      20,201         6,263       13,938
ORCHARDS                            7,408       7,506       6,137        1,565         739           0       23,354         5,830       17,524
HOPS                                  276         241            0           0           0            0         517           176          341
rOBACCO DRYING                      1,142         906          827           0           0           0        2,875           949        1,926
SIJB TOTAL B.                      18,046      19,466      15,213        3r662         738           0       57,125        16,661       40,464
C.IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
IRRIGATION                          3,518       4,056       1,141            0           0           0        8,715         4,794        3,921
DRAINAGE                            3,647       3,671       2,281          549           0           0       10,148         3,450        6,698
SUB TOTAL C.                        7,165       7,727       3,422          549           0           0       18,863         8,244       10,619
TOTAL I                            43,158      45,792      34,214        8,353         738           0      132,255       40,744        91,511
D,SUPPORT SERVICES
S'UPPORT SERVICES                   7,000       7,000       6,000        2,000           0           0       22,000         7,920       14,080
TOTAL-PRIM.AG.PRODUCTION           50,158      52,792      40,214       10,353         738           0      154,255       48,664       105,591
III AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOF'MENT
.______________________________
MILK PROCESSING-SLOVENIA                 0      5,000       4,200            0           0           0        9,200         5,428        3,772
MILK/MEAT PROC.-MONTENEGRO          1,100       3,100       1,200            0           0           0        5,400         2,268        3,132
MILK PROCESSING-KOSOVO                   0      4,500       2,000            0           0           0        6,500         3.835        2,665
MILK COLLECTION-MACEDONIA             800       1,200       1,300            0           0           0        3,300         1.254        2,046
MEAT PROCESSING -SERBIA             8,000      10.000       5,900            0           0           0       23,900         7,887       16,013
IFRUIT PROCESSING-VOJVODINA        10,000       5,000            0           0           0           0       15,000         6,450        8,550
IFRUIT PROCESSING-BOSNIA            7.000      11,000            0           0           0           0       18,000         7.920       10,080
WINERY/FRUIT PROC.-CROATIA         12.000       9,000            0           0           0           0       21,000         7.140       13,860
TOTAL III                          38,900      48,800      14,600            0           0           0      102,300       42,182        60,118
TOTAL PROJECT COST
WZTHOUT PRICF CONTINGENCIES        89.058    101.592       54.814       10,353         738            0     256,555        90,846      165,709
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES          12,869      23,976      17,678        4,296         379           0       59,198       20,719        38,479
TOTAL PROJECT COST
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES           101,927    125.568       72,492       14.649       1,117           0      315,753      111,565       204,188
1/9/80



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
NO. OF FARMS ENTERING PROJECT
(01)      (02)      (03)       (04)       (05)       (06)       (07)       (08)       (09)
UNIT COST                                                                             TOTAL NO.
5 000    F.E.X    YEAR 1    YEAR 2       YEAR 3     YEAR 4     YEAR 5     YEAR 6    OF FARMS
__________   -----    ------     ------     ------     ______------  ------  ---- -     -
I PRIMARY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
---------------------------------
A. LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
_______________________
NORTH DAIRY FARM                21.387      30        115        110         65         35           0          0         325
SOUTH DAIRY FARM                19.411      30        320        275        245          0           0          0         840
PIG FATTENING FARM              21.607      31         40         95         70         45           0          0;        250
PIG BREEDING FARM               16.700       19       130        115         155         0           0          0         400
BROILERS FARM                   43,547      31         95        105         95         40           0          0         335
SHEEP FARM                       7.875      22        310        295        165         35           0          0        .805
SUB TOTAL A.                                        1,010        995        795         155          0          0       2,955
B. CROP AND HORTICULTURAL PROD.
_______________________________
PLASTIC HOUSE                    3.905      31        770        360        250          0           0          0       1,380
IRRIGATED VEGETABLES             1.751      37      1,000        985        750          0          0           0       2,735
VINEYARDS                        8.689      31        915        860        550          0           0          0       2,325
ORCHARDS                         4.985      27      1,875      1,735      1,075          0           0          0       4,685
HOPS                             6.891      34         40         35          0          0           0          0          75
TOBACCO DRYING                   7.877      33        145        115        105          0          0           0         365
SUB TOTAL B.                                        4,745      4,090      2,730          0          0           0      11565
C.IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
IRRIGATION                   1,742.947      SS       1,000        665                    0          0          0        1,665
DRAINAGE                        78.052      34       1,300                               0 50  O   O           0       2,600
SUB TOTAL C.                                         2,300       1,465      500          0           0          0       4,265
TOTAL                                                8,055      6,550     4,025         155         0           0      18,785



THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Distribution of Proceeds of the Bank Loan by Republic,
Province, and Sector
Serbia   Montenegro   Slovenia   Bosnia  and   Macedonia   Croatia   Vojvodina   Kosovo    Total
Herzegovina
----------------------------------- IBRD  Funds $'000 ---------------------------------
I.  Primary Ag. Production            9,300      3,500       2,000        10,300          7,600        7,800      6.700      134,000   60,200       1
A.  Crop Production              4,900         700         -            4,100         2,600        1,550     1,200        7,000   22,050
B.  Livestock Production         1,700      2,300          660         5,700         1,000        3,250      2,400       5.500    22,510
C.  Irrigation and Drainage   -2,200          -            840           -            1,000       2,500         600         -       7,140
D.  Support Services               500         500         500           500         3,000           500     2,500          500     8,500
II.  Agroindustry Component            5.200     1,700         1,500         3,500         1.900        4.200      5 300       20        25_800
Total (I + II)                  14,500      5,200        3,51 13,800                  9,500       12,000    12,000       15,500    86,000
411
X- >c1
>- H-



39 -                                ANNEX 1
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
IBRD Funds      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter                            Cumulative
FY81
September 30, 1980                         0.4           0.5
December  31, 1980                         1.7           2.0
March     31, 1981                         2.8           3.0
June      30, 1981                         5.6           6.0
FY82
September 30, 1981                         8.00          9.3
December  31, 1981                        14.10         16.3
March     31, 1982                        18.00         20.9
June      3M, 1982                        26.80         31.1
FY83
September 30, 1982                        28.80        33.4
December  31, 1982                        39.50        45.9
March     31, 1983                        45.00        52.3
June      30, 1983                        55.50        64.5
FY84
September 30, 1983                        59.5           70.0
December  31, 1983                        68.0           80.0
March     31, 1984                        78.2           92.0
June      30, 1984                        80.8           95.0
FY85
September 30, 1984                        86.0          100.0



-40 -                 ANNEX 2
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Assumptions Underlying Financial and Economic Analysis
A.   Financial Analysis:  Assumptions
1.        The financial analysis has been limited to the primary agricultural
production component of the project. Under this component a wide range of
investments would be financed. For illustrative purposes fourteen repre-
sentative individual farm models are specified. These models are derived from
review of investments financed under the previous two credit projects. The
underlying assumptions on input/output coefficients are presented in Tables
1-3 of this Annex. Details of farm models are in the Project Implementation
File. Financial Analysis is based on May 1979 Yugoslav prices collected by
the mission, with the following exceptions: (a) in the case of fertilizer
prices, an upward adjustment to the 1978 price levels was made by taking
account of the reduction in compensation payments (subsidies) to the fertil-
izer manufacturing companies for 1979, (b) as a result of the abnormally low
harvest in 1978 and the delay in importation, the maize price and the various
concentrate feed prices at the time of the mission were substantially above
long run levels. For purposes of financial analysis maize has been priced at
around its long run average price, expressed in real May 1979 currency terms
(Din 2,900 per ton) and parallel adjustments have been made to concentrate
feed prices to bring them in line, (c) for other items whose prices were not
actually verified by the mission, the November 1978 Preparation Report prices
were adjusted upwards by the general inflation factor for agricultural inputs
covering the same period, i.e., 4%. The financial prices are presented in
Table 4.
2.        Financial cash flow projections for individual farm models have been
made on the basis of interest rates of 11% on IBRD funds and 5% on local
funds. Length of loan and grace period would vary by the type of project
involved, with the aim of matching the grace period to the construction, or
build-up time of the model.
B.   Economic Analysis:  Assumptions
1.        The Basis.  The economic rate of return was calculated on the basis
of changes forecast in agricultural production with the project compared with
the agricultural situation before the project on the estimated 18,800 farms
entering the project. Implicit in this assumption is the fact that the level
of yield increases and other changes due to non project factors without the
project would be the same as with the project. In the case of the dairy
models, the sheep model, the drainage model, and the. large-scale irrigation



-41-                  ANNEX 2
Page 2
model, the economic impact has been evaluated on a total farm basis while with
intensive livestock, orchards, vineyards, plastic houses and small-scale
irrigated vegetables, the effect of the new enterprises have been considered
using partifl budgeting.
2.        Cost and Benefit Streams.  The cost and benefit streams for the farm
production part of the project are based on aggregating the estimated benefits,
annual costs and investments costs (including 5% physical contingencies) of
the fourteen representative farm models which typify the farm developments
included under the project. The estimated numbers and phasing of the different
types of farms into the project are given in Annex 1. The projections of the
physical and financial development of the individual farm models are given in
the Project Implementation File. In addition to farm level costs incremental
banking administration expenses are also considered an economic cost and
included in the economic analysis.
3.        Prices.  The project output prices for wheat, maize, other cereals,
beef and indirectly for pork and poultry, using grain price projections, are
based on the World Bank's commodity price projections for 1990 expressed in
May 1979 constant dollars. 1990 prices have been chosen, because 1990 is the
mid-point of the project, and there are World Bank projections for these
commodities for that year. Local prices have been used for wool, lamb, milk,
fodder crops, garden produce, tomatoes, grapes, sour cherries, green beans and
tobacco, and it is assumed that there will be no change in real prices of
these commodities over the project life. Details of the calculation of
economic prices are given in Table 4. Investment and operating costs have
been priced at constant May 1979 figures based on local financial prices
adjusted for taxes and duties. However, in the case of fertilizer there is an
expected increase of the World price in real terms between the present and
1990, consequently fertilizer prices are adjusted to bring them in line with
the World Bank 1990 projections. Similarly, concentrate prices are adjusted
upwards in line with the World Bank 1990 projections for grains and oilseed
cakes. Locally bred in calf heifers purchased by project participants are
priced at a 15% premium above their value as meat to reflect the higher cost
of production.
4.        Hired labor (during peak season for crop farms) is included at the
financial wage rate, however, family labor which is severely underemployed in
the without project situation is considered to have a shadow wage rate on
average 25% of the unskilled wage rate. This low opportunity cost is taken
because one of the criteria for selection of project participants is that they
are full time farmers. Generally, full time farmers in rural areas would have
little or no alternative income earning potential for the additional hours of
work which would be required with the project compared to the situation
without the project.
5.        A standard conversion factor (official exchange rate, divided by the
shadow exchange rate) of 0.93 is applied to the prices of non-traded outputs
and to the local cost component of non-traded input items. Specific conversion
factors are summarized in Table 5.



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Main Physical Inputs and Outputs Per Ha By Commodity - Short Term Crops
Wheat        Wheat       Maize       Maize         Tomatoes        Tomatoes   Green   Maize    Alfalfa   Meadow
Units   Irrigation   Drainage   Drainage   Irrigation   (Irrigation)   (Plastic   Beans   Silage            Hay        Hay    Pasture
Model        Model       Model       Model                          House)
Without Project
Yield                 ton        2.8          2.5        2.7          3.6               25            -                                      4 -  _.  3 ( a
Inputs                                                                                   A                                                          Dry aatter)
Seed                kgm       250          250          30           20          20,000            -         -         -         -          -        -
Fertilizer          kgm        300         230         300          300             600             -        -         -         -          -        -
Plant protection   din         600         300         400          700           6,ooo            -         -         -         -          -        -
Combine             hour         2            2         -            -              _              -         -         _         _       C  _
Hired tractor       hour        14           14         20           20                                 , -                               15          -
Cultivator          day         -            -          -            -               30-
Labor unskilled       hour        2042         20LZ.      40/2         442          1,600L3           -        -         -         -        4oL2        -
With Project
Yield                 ton        3.5          3.5        4.0          6.o               25             40       12       35.0       8.o       -         -
Seed                kgm       250          250          30           30          20,000 .       20,000        30       25         5(av)    -
Fertilizer          kgm        300         300         330          600             600          1,500       400      650       300         -        -
Plant protection   din         600         600         700        1,000           6,ooo          7,500    3,000        -        400         -        -
Manure              ton         -            -          -             5              10             10       -         10        -          -        -
Combine             hour         2            2         -            -              -              -         -         -         -          -        -
Hired tractor       hour        14          14          20           20               4            -           4       20        20         -        -
Cultivator          day         -/2           /2                     -               20/3           30/3    -          -         -          -
Labor unskilled       hour        20-          2d--       4c1-         7O13         1,600c-        1,60-  1,20da         3 4       4          - _
/1  Seedlings.
72  All family labor.
73  50% family labor.
7_  Two thirds family labor.



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Main Physical Inputs and Outputs Per Ha By Commodity - Long Term Crops
Grapes         Grapes         Sour
Units      to be          to be          Cherries       Hops
Replanted      Irrigated
Without Project
Yield                                       ton           4            12               -            -
Material Inputs
Fertilizer                               kgm         400            400              -             -
Manure                                   ton            5             5              -             -
Plant protection                         din        1600           2000              -             -
Hired tractor                            hour         12             12
Labor
Hired unskilled                          hour         20             80              -             -
Hired skilled                            hour         -              40              -             -
Family unskilled                         hour        250            280              -  
With Project (At Full Development)                         /1                              /2          /3
Yield                                       ton          12L-          20               7.5           2--
Material inputs
Fertilizer                               kgm         400            600            600           350
Manure                                   ton           5              5              -             10
Plant protection                         din        2000          2500            1600          3000
Hired tractor                            hour          6              6              2             80
Cultivator                               day          12              8             20            -
Labor
Hired unskilled                          hour         80            150            100          1200
Hired skilled                            hour         40             40              -            -
Family unskilled                         hour        280            350            300           300
/1  Build up - 0, 0, 3.5, 9.0, 12.
/2 Build up - 0, 0, 0, 0, 3.0, 5.0, 6.5, 7.5.
/3 Build up - 1.0, 2.0.



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Main Physical Inputs and Outputs - Livestock
With        Without                                        With   /1
Project     Project                                        Project-
Cattle                                                              Breeding Sows
Milk yield - Imp. breed - North         3,500 1      2,500 1        Pigs weaned/sow/year             15.3
Milk yield - Imp. breed - South         3,000 1       N.A.          Feed/sow/year (Inc. boar)         1.1 tons
Milk yield - Busha - South               N.A.        1,200          Extra creep/24 kg weaner         35 kgs
Calving   % live calves                    80           80
Age at first calving                    30-33 mths  30-33 mths  Fattening Pigs
Concs. Fed. per cow                                                 Weight at sale                  100 kg
-  North                             750          250          Weight at purchase              24 kg
-  South                             650          150          Feed conversion ratio            3.7:1
Stocking rate                                                       Mortality                         2%
(a.u./ha gross and silage)                                          Labor hrs/pig fattened            2.4
-  North                               0.5          0.8        BatcheB per year                 2.6
-  South                               0.6          1.5
Ferts/ha Forage                           400 kg       Nil        Broilers
Weight at sale                   1.7 kg
Sheep                                                                 Feed conversion ratio             2.45:1
Weaning % - Ewes                          100           85          Mortality                         3%
- Ewe lambs                      50           50         Batches per year                  5
Lambs - Av. sale weight                     17 kg       17 kg       Time per batch                   56 days
Milk/ewe flock                             40 1         32 1
Wool/ewe                                     1.8 kg       1.3 kg
Mortality                                    4%          4%
/1  At full development.                                                                                          - X
M_ 



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financial and Economic Prices of Main Project Benefits-
Economic
Financial                           (1990 Forecasts)
Din/Ton       US$/Ton                    Din/Ton    US$/Ton
Grains
Wheat                  ) ex farm or          3,100          163                       4,240        2237 _7
Maize                  ) village at          2,900          153                       3,000        15 E
Barley/Other cereals ) harvest 14%           2,800          147                       2,700        142-
Industrial Crops           moisture
Hops              )                         70,000        3,684                      70,000      3,684 A
Vegetables)                                                                                              /4 /12
Tomatoes (May)*  )                          25,000        1,316                      25,000       , 316/4 /1.2
Tomatoes (June)* )                           8,ooo          421                       8,000        421/-4-/12
Tomatoes (July)* )                           3,250          171                       3,250        171Th-/
Tomatoes General*)                           2,500          132                       2,500        1327,-/12
Green beans*      )                          4,750          250                       4,750        250 4 /12
Garden produce*  )                           4,000          211                       4,000        211- -
Fruits               )   ex farm                                                                         /4
Sour cherries*   )                          12,000          632                      12,000        632-7-
Grapes*           )                          6,500          342                       6,500        34  4
Green tobasco*   )                           4,000          211                       4,000        211-
Cured tobacco*   )                          40,000        2,105                      40,000      2,105L-
FodderA
Alfalfa Hay*      )   ex farm prices         1,800           95                       1,800         9 '
Meadow Hay*       )  (used in partial        1,500           79                       1,500         79-
Maize silage*    )   analysis of crop          400           21                           0         21-
farms)                                         US$/he4d                                 US$/head
Meat
Cattle
Cull cow - Improved (550 kg) )              22,000        1,158         632          19,100      1,006            553
- Busha    (380 kg) )             21,000        1,105         421          18,300        962-           366
Calf     - Improved (120 kg) )              45,000        2,368         284          38,800      2,042            245
- Busha    ( 85 kg) ) live        35,000        1,842          158         30,400      1,600            136
Bulling  - Heifer   (400 kg) ) weight   35,000            1,842         737          31,000      1,630            652
Pigs                            ) ex farm
Cull sow (150 kg)               ) or at    20,000         1,053         157          19,803      1,044            i5o
Weaner   ( 24 ke)               ) village  34,000         1,789           43         33,600      1,770             42
Fat pig  (100 kg)               ) colle-   25,000         1,316         132          24,700      1,300-           130                 H w
Sheep                           ) ction
Cull ewe                        ) center   23,000         1,210           53         23,000      i    /8 15/8 Y. N
Lamb (15 kg) - Early spring  )              55,000        2,895           43         55,000      2,895-            4 /8
Lamb (25 kg) - Summer           )           40,000        2,105           58         40,000      2,105             53,-
Broiler                         )
1.7 kg bird                     )           21,000        1,105           1.88       20,800      1,094-             1.86
Milk
Cow - Improved 3.7% butterfat*)  at         5 din/l       0.26 $perl      -          4.4 din/l  0.23 $per I =
Cow - Busha   3.85% butterfat*) colle-  5.2 din/l    0.27 $perl                      4.6 din/m  0.24 $per 1-
Sheep           7%   butterfat*) ction   11 din/m         0.58 $perl      -         10.5 din/i  Q055  /X 10-
Wool*                            ) centre  35,000         1,842            -         35,000      1,84Z-



Explanatory Notes to Table 4 Annex 2
/* Before application of standard conversion factor to non-traded items, marked*.
7T Import parity price: i.e., World Bank Commodities Division forecast for 1990 adjusted to May 1979 conttant
dollars, US$202/ton, plus transport, Thunder Bay to Rijeka, US$26/ton, plus pQrt charges and transport Rijeka
to Zagreb US$8 per ton, less local assembly transport US$5/ton - equals US$223/ton.
/2 Export parity price: i.e., World Bank Commodities Division Projection for 1990 adjusted to May 1979 constant
dollars, US$167/ton, plus transport, Gulf ports to Rotterdam uSo/ton, less local transport US$15/too - equals
US$158/ton assuming maize free on rail Yugoslav Ports would be equally valuable to Southern and Central European
markets as maize f.o.b. Northern European ports.
/3 On basis of value to animal feeds industry, i.e., 90% value of maiza - TUS$142.
/4 Not traded - Local price taken.
/5 Local price linked to export price - local price taken.
/6  Export parity price:  Fat animals which give high quality chilled beef are valued at export prices, and the economic
price per kilo for cull cows and calves is derived from the economic price of fat beasts, plus a            premium in            4
the case of calves, and less a quality discount related to the financial price discount for cows.  Baae prices                    a
used are those calculated for 1978 in the Sava-Croatia appraisal report adjusted for the Bank's estimated increase
in beef prices between 1978 and 1990 of 38% and expressed in May 1979 constant currency terms, i.e., the economic
price for quality beef, ex farm is $1,480/ton (28,200 din). Cull cows are valued at a discount of 35% from this
in liveweight terms for Busha, and 32% for simmethal. Calves are valued above the base price by the same percentage
as on the domestic market - 38% for improved calves, 8% for Busha. Bulling dairy heifers are valued at a 10%
premium over their worth for meat.
/7 Fat pig: Export parity - economic price considered to be the same as for Romania, adjusted upwards by US$50 per ton
of product sold because of lower transport costs to Italy, Spain, and Greece. This gives a price of US$1,22() per
ton l.w., ex-farm for 1971-1977 expressed in 1979 dollar terms. Application of ;6 1/2% increase in value due to
corresponding increase in the economic price of feeds (index comprising 20% soya: 80% maize) would give US$1,300
per ton l.w. for 1990 economic price.
$ow: Taken at same ratio with fat pig as in financial prices, e.g, din 20:25 gives US$1,042/ton l.w.
Weaner: Taken at same ratio to fat pig price as with the financial price, i.e., 36% higher. This gives weaner
value of US$1,770 per ton l.w.
/8 Sheep: As these are exported to the Italian market, the local prices are taken to reflect the economic price.
79 Poultry meat: Valued at 84% of pigmeat price as in financial prices - US$1,094 per ton l.w.
/10 Milk: Not traded, taken at local price, less federal and republic premia (av. lin.0.6/1) - Price 4.4 for improved
cattle, 4.6 for Busha. Sheep's milk 10.5 (7% butterfat at 1.5 din/unit).
/11 Wool: Local price used as wool is not traded and may be inferior in quality t6 higher priced imported wools.
/12 Vegetables: Assumed to be marketed fresh.
!13 Tomatoes: Mainly for processing.
I-3 x
I.',



- 47 -                       ANNEX 2
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Cost Conversion *Factors - Financial to Economic
Investment Costs
Motor cultivator                                 0.75
Pump                                             0.87
Tractors, etc.                                   0.87
Breeding sheep                                   0.93
Breeding pigs                                    0.93
Breeding cattle                                  0.70
Milking machine                                  0.75
Broiler equipment                                0.87
Family labor a                                   5.81 din/hr (25% of the economic
price of unskilled labor)
% Family Lab 0/2
Buildings - North Dairy       25                 0.78
South Dairy      25                0.78
Sheep            30                0.73
Pig fattening   20                 0.81
Pig breeding    25                 0.77
Broilers         10                0.88
Fertilizer                                       1.27
Misc, Items
F.Et 1Q%                                      0.937
F.E. 20%                                      0.944
F.E. 30%                                      0.951
F.E. 40%                                      0.958
F.E. 50%                                      0.965
F.E. 70%                                      0.979
Operating Costs
Purchased weaner                                 0.96
Fertilizer                                       1.27
Concentrates                                     1.13
Machine services                                 0.86
Hired labor                                      0.93
Others                                           0.93 - 0.965 depending on F.E.
(see investment costs)
Family labor /1                                  5.81 din/hr (25% of the economic
price of unskilled labor)
/1  No factor can be used as financial price is zero.
72  Percentage of buildings costs represented by the farmers own or other unpaid
family labour.
*These composite factors take account of the Standard Conversion factor (0.93 on local
cost), specific duties on imported items and the special factors outlined in
appendix 3,4,5, and 6.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Guidelines to Consultants for Market, Technical and Economic Review
of Agroindustry Investments
I.        INTRODUCTION
A.   Prepare a paragraph describing the project, location, estimated
cost, capacity and end products.
B.   Identify the Investor.
C.   Identify construction period.
II.      PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEFINITION
Provide an individual or a team with technical experience on back-
ground in the designs, operations and economics of the investment
to:
- Prepare a written analysis of the project as described in
Section III.
- Recommend changes which would improve productivity, increase
quality or reduce investment and operating costs.
- Assist in preparation of the technical specifications for
the equipment, as a part of the tender documents to conform
to "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank loans to
IDA Credits", March 1977.
- Assist in bid evaluation and recommend to the investor the
lowest bidder.
III.      REPORT FORMAT, ANALYSIS AND ISSUES
A.   Market
- Target market and consumers.
- How many firms producing same or similar end products, relative
market shares.
- Demand forecast, historical consumption basis, price of compara-
ble products and close substitutes.



- 49 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 2
- How realistic are sales forecast and pricing structure.
- Recommended plant capacity and product mix on basis of sales
forecast and consumer analysis.
- Distribution and promotion strategy.
B.   Raw Materials
- Total production of raw material in plant area, competing
uses of raw material.
- Availability and cost.
- Suitability for process proposed.
- Are finished product yield estimates realistic.
- Is suitable storage available.
- How will raw material be procured.
C.   Technology and Engineering
Capacity
- Does capacity meet sales forecasts.
- Can the facility be easily expanded.
- Is technology appropriate to capacity.
Equipment
- Is the technology appropriate.
- Is the equipment flexible.
- How can the processing equipment investment be minimized.
- Will the equipment have low maintenance costs and low
maintenance requirements.
- Are local maintenance personnel with the requisite skills avail-
able.
- What is the risk of down time.
- What percent of equipment will be idle due to raw material
seasonality. Multiple uses of equipment possible?



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
- Is packaging equipment appropriate. Preferred packaging of
consumers and distributors.
Training
- What special procedures should be taken in training personnel
for the plant and equipment operation.
Infrastructure
- What special transportation problem exist.
- Is power and water ample.
Waste Disposal
- Analyze method of soil and liquid waste disposal.
D.   Economics
- What are the estimated raw material costs.
- What are the estimated plant operation cost.
- What is the estimated product cost and estimated selling price.
- How do their costs relate to existing costs in Yugoslavia and
in international markets for similar products.
- Investment cost estimates, basis, realistic.
E.   Finance
- Projected income and operating expenses.
- Projected Balance Sheet.
- Working capital requirements and financing arrangements.
- Projected month-wise cash flow for first year of production and
annual cash flow for 15 years.



APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
List of Participating Banks in the Project and their Previous Involvement
In Bank Operations
Name of the Participating Banks         Republic/Province       Involved in Bank Loans                Loan No.
ZB    =   Zagrebacka Banka, Zagreb      SR Croatia            -Ag. Credit Projects I and II          -1129-YU and 1477-YU
-Croatia Sava Drainage Project
LJB   =   Ljubljanska Banka, Ljubljana SR Serbia               -Ag. Credit I and II Projects         -1129-YU and 1477-YU
Ljubljana
PBS   -   Privredna Banka, Sarajevo    SR Bosnia               -Ag. Credit I and II Projects         -1129-YU and 1477-YU
Udruzena Banka              Herzegovina           -Industrial Credit I, II and          -1013-YU, 1277-YU          LA
IV Projects                        and 1612-YU
-Bosanska Krajina Agriculture         -1621-YU
and Agroindustries Project
SBS   =   Stopanska Banka-Zdruzena      SR Macedonia          -Macedonia Agroind. I and II           -894-YU and 1371-YU
Banka Skopje                                       -Agricultural Credit I and II         -1129-YU and 1477-YU
-Industrial Credit I, II and IV       -1012-YU,1277-YU.1613-lU
-Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation        -1616-YU
VB    =    Vojvodjanska Banka-           SAP Vojvodina         -Ag. Credit I and II Projects         -1129-YU and 1477-YU
Udruzena Banka
KBP   =   Udruzena Kosovska Banka        SAP Kosovo           -Ag. Credit I and II Projects          -1129-YU and 1477-YU
-Industrial Credit I,II-and           -1012-YU, -277-YU and
III Projects                         1611-YU
IBT   =   Investiciona Banka -          SR Montenegro         -Ag. Credit I and II Projects         -1129-YU and 1477-YU
Udruzena Banka Titograd                            -Industrial Credit I, II and          -1013-YU, 1277-YU and
IV Projects                          16-14-YU
-Agriculture and Agroind. Project   -1370-YU



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT 1PROTECT
YUGOSLAVIA
VOJ7VOJANSKA BANATA - UDRIUZENA BANTKA
Actual and Projeced BlneSet
(Din, millior.)
ACTUAL                                         ESTIMATED                            PROJECTIED
Assets                                                 1974                    ACTUAL      1976     ,6      1977       %      1978       %      1979              1 9?1O9E
Cash and Banks                                        57      145    1,121      6.4    1,497      6.1    1,864      6.1    8,824      9.6   10,143      9.9   11,157      9.7   11,987      9.6
Deposits with National Bank                         1,011     8.0    1 329      7.6    1,814      7.5    2,327      7.7    6,568    T71    6,613        6.4    6,633      5.7    6,665      5.3
Subtotal - Minim.um Risk Assets                                1,                       5 8 12 . 5 2,450    1W  3,311    13.6    4,191    13.5    15,392   16.7  16,3  15.04   18,652 1
Short Term Loans                                    4,872    38.7    7,519    42.8    9,825    40.5    9,561    31.5   22,712    24.6   26,343   .25.7   32,987    28.7   36,874    29.5
Short Term Risk Assets                            66,453    51.2    9,969    56.8   13,136    54.1   13,752    45.3   38,104    41.3   43.099    42.0   50,777    44.1   55,526    44.4
Tong Term Loans                                     4,870    38.6    6,o30    34.4    8,657    35.6   14,459    47.7   46,257    50.1   52,153    50.8   57,141    49.6   63,159    50.5
llousing and Construction Loans                       932     7.4    1,059      6.o    1,398      5.8      -          -      -          -      -          -      -          _
Other Long Term Assets                                -         -       -         -       -         -      -          -    1,480      1.6    1,437      1.4    1,128     1.0       914      0.7.
Subtotal Banking Assets                           12,255    97.2   17,058    97.2   23,191    95.5   28,211    93.1   85,841    93.0   96,689    94.2  109,046    94.7  119,599    95.6
Miscellaneous Current Assets                          265     2.1       281     1.6       858     3.5    1,754      5.8    5,553      6.o    4,978      4.9    5,028      4.4    4,533      3.6
Fixed Assets                                           88     0.7       210     1.2       234     1.0      347      1.1      922     1.0       967      0.9    1,021     0.9    1,040       0.8
Total Assets                                       12,608   100.o   17,54    100.0   24,283   100.0   30,312   100.0  92,316   100.0  102,634   100.0  115,095   100.0  125,172   100.0
Managed Funds                                       2,020             2,797             2,756            6,854            11,840            11,248            10,538            10,182
Rate of Growth of Total Assets                                          39%               38%              25%              2o4%               11%               12%                9%
Liabilities
Short Term Borrowing                                1,342    10.6    2,799    15.9    3,786    15.6    3,727    12.3   13,238    14.3   15,600    15.2   16,090    14.0   16,950    13.5
Sight Deposits                                      3,504    27.8    5,198    29.6   10,238    42.2   12,433    41.0   29,947    32.41  30,682    29.9   36,738    31.9   38,226    30.5
Time and Savings Deposits up to 12
months original maturity                          1,405    11.1    2,205    12.6    1,959       8.1    2,349      7.9    9,543    10.3  10,945    10.7   12,453    10.8   13,962    11.2
Other Short Term Liabilities                          605     4.8       268     1.5       200     O.8      473      1.6    3,463      3.8    3,290      3.2    2,840      2.5    2,690      2.1
Short Term Liabilities                              6,856    54.4  10,470    59.7   16,183    66.6   19,027    62.8   56,191    60.9   60,517    59.0   68,121    59.2   71,828    57.4
Time Deposits                                       1,400    11.1    2,239    12.8    2,904    12.0    3,894    12.8   14,642    15.9   18 164    17.7   21,980    19.1   26,858    21.4
Loans from Banks and Other Sources                  2,525    20.0    2,707    15.4    2,543    10.5    5,079    16.8   13,262    14.4   15,490    15.1   17,090    14.8   18,890    15.1
Loans from Government Funds                           521     4.1       420     2.14      4~93    2.0      108      0.3    2.167     2.3    2 120       2.2   1i467       1.3      945      0.8
Long Tens Liabilities                  4, 446 35.3    5,366                             5,940    214.5   9         30.0   30071            35 864             40537    35.2    46693    373
Total Liabilities                                  11,302 ;          15,o36    90.2   22,123    91.1  2___         92.7   o      e72           96 3 81 93.9 1           1                   T
Net Worth
Business Fund                                         -         -       312       -       442       -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -          -
Founders Funds                                        941       _    1,016        -    1,198        -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -
Property and equipment Fund                           -         _       -         -       -         -      611        -    1,609        -    1,708        -    1,786        -    1,853        -
Reserve Fund                                          203       -       289       -       397       -      460        -      973        -      985        -    1,005        -   1,024         -
Joint Liability Fund                                  -         _       -         -       -         -      970        -    2,158        -    2,201        -    2,287        -    2,415        -
Funds of the Banks Working Communities                162       -        96       -       123       -      163        -    1,314        -    1,359        -    1,359        -    1,359        -
Net Worth                                           1,306    10.4    1,713      9.8    2,160      8.9    2,204      7.3    6,o54      6.6    6,253      6.1    6,437      5.6    6 681        3
Total Liabilities and Net Worth                    12,608   100.0   17,549   100.0   24,283   100.0   30,312   100.0   92,316   100.0  10o2634   100.0  115,095   100.0  125,172   100.0
Managed Funds                                       2,020             2,797             2,756             6,854           11,840            11,248            10,538            10,182
Total Deposits                                        6,251            10 202                             185514 55272                        57227             65281             69108
Rate of Growth of Total Oeposits                                                           5                 1



APPRAI SAL OF
ThIFD AGFICULTURAL CREDIT PiOJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Vojvodjanska Banka - Udruzena Banks
Actuel and Pro: cted Income Statementa
( Din . Million )
ACTUAL                                                 ESTIMATE)                  o        PROJECTED
oof            f        of                    of                                                         - %of  % of                Of%  --               o-
Total Op.             Total Op.            Total Op.             Total Op.            Total Op.             Total Op.             Total Op.             Tot
Income                                                       1974     Income       1975      Income      1976     Tncome      1977     Income      1978      Income      1979      Income      1980      Income      1981     Income
Interest and Charges on Loans                               645      74.9         880       76.6     1,192       72.7      1,343       72.6     7,238       88.1      7,920       88.3      8,745       88.5      9,307       88.4
Guarantee Fees and Charges                                   52       6.0         103        9.0        193      11.8        265       14.3       294        3.6        327        3.6        367        3.7        399        3.8
Commissions on Managed Funsds                                25       2.9          31        2.7         48       2.9         8o        4.3        -        -           -         -           -         -           -         -
Other Income                                               139       16.2         135       11.7        207      12.6        163        8.8        684       8.3        728        8.1        773       7.8         817       7.8
Total Operating Income                                      861     100.0       1,149      100.0     1,640      100.0      1,851      100.0      8,216     100.0      8,975      100.0      9,885      10o.o    10,523      10.0        l
Expenses
Financial
Interest and Other Charges:
Short Term Borrowing                                         78       9.1         108        9.4        153       9.3        24(       13.3     1,403       17.1    1,616        18.0      1,839       18.6     1,962       18.7
Long Term Borrowing                                         356      111.3        496       43.2        663      4o.4        641       34.6     3,836       46.7      4,545       50.6      4,944       50.0     5,095       48.4
Other Including Debts Niztte  Off                           180      20.9         161       14.0        213      13.0        361       19.5        935      11.4        996       11.1      1,057       10.7      1.117       10.6
Total Financial Expenses                                    614      71.3         765       66.6     1,029       62.7      1,248       67.4     6,180       75.2      7,157       79.7      7,840       79.3      8,174       77.7
Administrative
Salaries and Related Expenses                                58       6.7          85        7.4        123       7.5        169        9.1        723       8.8        84o        9.4        932        9.4      1,059       10.1
Depreciation                                                  6       0.7           7        0.6          9       o.6         12        0.7        126       1.5        141        1.6        153        1. 6       170        1.6
Other Admin. Expenses                                        27       3.2          44        3.8         65       4.0         61        3.3        376       4.6        470        5.2        545        5.5        602        5.7
Total Admin. Expenses                                        91      10.6         136       11.8        197      12.1        242       13.1     1.225       14.9      1,451       16.2      1,630       16.5      1,831       17.4
Total Operating Expenses                                    705      81.9         901       78.4     1,226       74.8      1,490       80.5     7,405       90.1      8,608       95.9      9,470       95.8    10,005        95.1
Net Operating Surplus                                         156      18.1         248       21.6        414       25.2       361       19.5        8u         9.9        367       4.1        415        4.2        518       jz,
Less Taxes                                                    6                     5                     5                    6                    15                   18                    21                    24
Bet Surplus After Taxes                                     150      2            243                   4og                  355                   796                  349                   394                   494
Rate of Growth of Bet Surplus After Taxes                                         62%                   68%                 (13%)                124%                  (56%)                  12.9%                 25%
Distribution as per VB Statements
Founders Fund                                                49                    97                   162      -           -
Business Fund                                                70                    73                   124      -
Property and Equipment                                      -        -            -         -           -                    103                   302                   99                    78                    97
Reserve Fund                                                 24                    58                    97                   70                  190                    12                    20                    19
Joint Liability Fund                                        -                     -                     -                    138                   109                   43                    86                   128
Funds of the Bank's Working Communities                       7                    15                    26                   33                   -                    -                     _                     -
Proposed Distribution to Members                            -                     -                     -                     11                   118                  150                   210                   250
Others                                                                 -                                                     -                      77                    45                  -



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSIAVIA
VODJ.VODJANSKA BANKA - UDRUZEIA BA!EA
Selected Financial Ratios
(Din. Million)
ACTUAL                   ESTIMATED            PROJECTED
1974    1975     1976    1977     -jff8           1979      19o0     1981
Capital to Assets Ratio /1
a. Net Worth                               1,306    1,713    2,160    2,204       6,054       6,253    6,437    6,681
b. Total Assets                            12,608   17,549   24,283   30,312     92,316      102,634  115,095  125,172
c. Ratio (a ' b)                            10.4       9.8     8.9      7.3         6.6         6.1       5.6      5.3
Deposit Run-off Ratio  /2
a. Deposits with National Bank             1,011    1,329    1,814    2,327       6,568       6,613    6,633    6,665
b. Total Deposits                           6,251   10,202   15,977   18,554     52,728       57,227   65,281   69,108
c. a. as % of b.                            16.2    13.0    11.4       12;5        1244        11.6     10.2       9.6
d. Cash and Banks                            570    1,121    1,497    1,864       8,824      10,143   11,157   11,987
e. 100% - c                                 8338     87.0     88.6    87.5         87,6        88.4    89.8    go.4
f. d  e                                      6.8    12.9    16.9    21.3          100.7       114.7   124.2   132.6
g Ratio (f I b)                              0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1         0.2         0.2       0.2      0.2
Banking Assets Structure Ratio /3
a. Short Term Risk Assets                  6,453    9,969   13,136   13,752      38,104      43,099   50,777   55,526
b. Total Banking Assets                   12,255   17,058   23,191   28 211      85 841       96 689  109 046 119i599
c. Ratio (a , b)                            555 58.-    56^6    48.T               4474        44.6      46.6    46.h
Term Transformation Ratio /4
a. Short Term Liabilities                  6,856   10,470   16,183   19,027      56,191      60,517   68,121   71,828
b. Short Term Risk Assets                  6 453    9,969  13 136   13,752       38 104      43,099   50.777   55,526
e. Funds Borrowed Short Bent Long (a - b)                         403 501    307 5,275       18,7,418 17,344  16,302
d. Ratio (c ' a)                             5.9      4.8    18.8    27.7          32.2        28.8    25.5    22.7
Return on Net Worth       /5
a. Net Surplus after Taxes                   150      243      409      355         796         349      394      494
b. Net Worth                               1,306    1,713    2,160    2,204       6j054       6,253    6,437    6,681
c. % Return (a * b)                         11.5    14.2    18.9    16.1           13.1         5.6      6.1      7.4
Return on Total Assets    /6
a. Net Operating Surplus                     156      248      414      361         811         367      415       518
b. Total Assets                           12,608   17,549   24,283   30,312      92,316     102,634  115,095  125,172
c. % Return (a . b)                          1.2      1.4      1.7      1.2         0.9         0.4      0.4      0.4



- 55 -                           ANNEX 4
Table 4
Explanatory Notes to Table 4 Annex 4          Page 2
FINANCIAL RATIOS APPLIED TO YUGOSLAV BANKS
1/ Capital to Assets Ratio: expresses a bank's net worth (excluding valuation
reserves) as a percentage of total assets. It is a rough measure of the cushion
to creditors which is provided by a bank's net worth, or the extent of losses
expressed as a percentage of assets which a bank could absorb without being
technically insolvent.
2/ Term Transformation Ratio: compares short term liabilities with short term
risk assets, and expresses the size of the difference as a percentage of short
term liabilities. This difference represents funds which the bank borrows on
a short term basis and uses for some purpose other than short term lending.
These funds are in effect borrowed short and loaned long, which is an important
function of financial intermediation by commercial banks. However, this
activity involves the risk of illiquidity, and the ratio is a very rough
indicator of the extent of this risk.
3/ Banking Assets Structure Ratio: compares short term risk assets (i.e., cash
and deposits with other banks including statutory deposits and short term
loans) with total banking assets. This measure indicates the composition of
total banking assets in terms of length of maturities, using the arbitrary
division between short and long term assets for classification purposes.
4/ Deposit Run-Off Ratio: indicates the percentage by which a decline in deposits
could be met from a bank's holdings of cash, its accounts with other banks,
and by the release of statutory reserves occasioned by the decline in
deposits. This ratio is an indication of bank liquidity.
5/ Return on Total Assets:  indicates the size of the before tax net income or
operating surplus in relation to a bank's total assets. This ratio is a
standard overall purely financial indicator of relative efficiency in banking.
6/ Return on Net Worth: shows after tax income or surplus as a percentage of net
worth. This ratio indicates the return which a bank's activities provide to
its owners collective investment in the Bank.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRW ECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Vojvodjanska Banka - Udruzena Banka
Sources and Uses of Funds
Esti-
Actual             mated            Projected
Uses of Funds                             1975     1976      1977     1979     1998  1981
Increases in Assets
Cash and Banks                             551       376      367    6,960    1,319    1,014      830
Deposits with National Bank                318      485       513    4,241       45       20       32
Short-term loans                         2,647    2,306       -     13,151     3,631   6,644    3,887
Long-term loans                          1,160    2,627    5,802   31,798    5,896    4,988    6,018
Housing and construction loans             127      339       -        -        -        -
Miscellaneous current assets                16       577      896    3,799                50
Fixed assets                               122       24       113      575       45       54       19
Other long-term assets                     -         -        -      1,480      -        -        -
Decreases in Liabilities
Short-term borrowing                       -        -          59               -        -        -
Other short-term liabilities               337       68       -        -        173      450      150
Loans from Banks and other sources         -        164       -                 -        -        -
Loans from government funds                101       -        385      -         47      653      522
Time and savings deposits up to
12 months original maturity              -        246       -        -        -        -        -
Total Uses                            5,379    7,212    8,135   62,004   11,156   13,873   11,458
Sources of Funds
Decreases in Assets
Short-term loans                           -        -         264      -        -        -        -
Other long-term assets                     -         -        -        _         43      309      214
Miscellaneous current assets                -        -        -        _        575      -        495
Housing and construction loans             -         -      1,398      -        -        -        -
Increases in Liabilities
Short-term borrowing                     1,457       987      -      9,511    2,362      490      860
Sight deposits                           1,694    5,040    2,195   17,514       735    6,o56    1,488
Time and Savings deposits up to
12 months original maturity              800      -         390    7,194    1,402    1,508    1,509
Other short-term liabilities               -        _         273    2,990      -        -        -
Time denosits                              839       665      990   10,748    3,522    3,816    4,878
Loans from Banks and other sources         182       -      2,536    8,183    2,228    1,600    1,800
Loans from government funds                -          73      -      2,059      -        -        -
Increases in Net Worth
Business fund                              312       130     (442)     -                          -
Founders funds                              75       182   (1,198)     -        -        -        -
Property and equipment fund                -         -        611      998       99       78       67
reserve fund                                86      108        63      513       12       20       19
joint liability fund                       -        -         970    1,188       43       86      128
Funds of the banks working communities      (66)      27       85*   1 106*     135*     (90)*    -
Total Sources                        5,379    7,212    8,135   62,oo4   11,156   13,873   11,458
* Figures adjusted by +45, -45, +90, -90 respectively to achieve sources and uses balance.



57                             ANNEX 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.        Selected Reports and Studies on the Agriculture Sector
A-1       Agricultural Development Plan, Yugoslavia, 1976-80.
B.        Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1       Project Preparation Report "Yugoslavia - Third Agricultural
Credit Project" Vojvodjanska Banka, Udruzena Banka,
December 1978 (3 Volumes)
B-2       Report on'Analysis of the Market for Agricultural Food Produce
included in the Third Agricultural Credit Project"
Federal Committee for Agriculture, Government of Yugoslavia,
January 1979.
C.        World Bank Appraisal Mission Working Papers (Project
Implementation File)
C-1       Financial and Institutional Aspects of Project.
C-2       Agricultural Sector in Yugoslavia.
C-3       Crop Production Component of Project.
C-4       Livestock Production Component of Project.
C-5       Agroindustries Component of Project.
C-6       Economic and Financial Analysis of Project.
C-7       Detailed Project Cost Estimates.






IBRD 11394
U Y:S ' SrS ~r' 'g"2R,2] A    pA,   .- ,S GA .y
W' fRXP'&   t   CROA   TX  \  J  0  ;  o   {SHEEP ANDTHO(                                                                   ND  C                       GAGT G
St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GEUSAG  RAUVt S., :L
ITEATTOA  GA DA GAHG
K       " TE '       G   AROSE                            A                                                                                                                we           RL
GAISGL CAAL                                                                                                                                                                                 CER  IS< MLEII  \C R A S"
VOUVI ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ SPEIE                       COREOG               ,
* tFiGS ) f -' 8 2 & -\o 9O HOG
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE AND   --                                                                                                       C 4Cg  KiIC  2  s  IA0NT5NEGR  >   '-,zSHFFPA/ tT=aVvlKK   >.  t4EEECTN."
TRAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0SPOTAIN --  E R Z E  0 Pv+>,f 
_                                                                                                                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RI
EAYOPOR IIIOGAY  D                                                                                                                                            OA             AR TRAALS -T
AT,IB GINUROANDSA                  DC.TI,LEU,  ,                                                       44-  ,,AA  AO AX WA R;G |SEEP , AT 00 0OSKfN
-           GGAL4AEIOSFRIILGGNCOSAET OGTRANOAS YPE OFVINCUUES                              O, ,4L G3R1  KMNOVGG    00  O40LJA00VA   ''WA     45 
I :INTERNATIONAL SANOAGSRO CAR-4'                                                                                                      t    4X                                            E        E                               N 
S@             =                I                                                    UNRER   CONSfN   U             C              f            l              O             4  t 0 0    0    O  ', >4  5   (A  X  g^:N2'1 A     :: \ <ti D T4Rt>= KUKUNI>STRUMICA '
4                      NAVIRAELECANALS                                                                   _ [t'                                    Ct \ i.   .   )   0:      g       0 3RAVAKU  KHH  SERB IA EO\CER  w9   
NAVIIALEONALUMCRCOETRCTlN                                                                                                                                             CEREALS/EA L -V G TA LS  
YUG         SLAVIAREO  REALc h  RTNMlSPOINE                                                                              t    M L 
TRANSPORTEATIONALONAIS-                                                                                                                              '                                                        N
    I EE                                                                                                                             lTn   /TE  lEe   F-   5  ;   |     ::    7 \ \ 2EZ j2,22 &; 5 ;: -: , 220 0 :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I IN






d ~~~~~-;,,                                                                                                                                           -400
ttXB-t~~~-                                                                                                                                      400-1500'Vl ad''9  22* <   \-    N'7
rZ-( F >- > X , ~~~~Karlavac S  '~Oie .%   ;00   '     
IvEKA '; ~~~~~~c                  R           A-   T        I      A Noia  ;4,L:0  
Rotf.             ., >  Zdr'<                    <   4 t                 esc                       \   
' Su0 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V                                                                                        JiS   ,
tti~ ~ ~~~~~; A  H E  E           E'Nltt                               Kaoo         / 0          > 
YUOlVA<TTrRD)                                                                                    :i        
RElF Zadar-4,:>0  i;>:4,_> 
Sneroionboundoi     es BaRt -A    r   -JEV, 
Republics boundories                                           " <0            0 i E T   j  2  ~   4        X           K     r >
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  N0                               T E, N -
, _ S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                                                                             0; .   -       0t-GR   



