                                           Document of
                                       The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                          ReportNo: 32411-Hu




                             PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT




                                              ON A

                               PROPOSEDGRANTFROMTHE

                   GLOBALENVIRONMENTFACILITY TRUST FUND

                           INANAMOUNT OFUS$12.5 MILLION




                                            TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY

                                             FOR A

                             NUTRIENT REDUCTIONPROJECT

                                         March28,2006




InfrastructureDepartment
Europeand Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective February 15,2006)
                            CurrencyUnit   = HUF
                                    HUF = US$O.O0473
                                     US$ = HuF211.22

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   - December31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BMSC    Budapest MunicipalSewerage Company
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DDNP    Duna-Drava National Park
EL4     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP     EnvironmentalManagement Plan
EU      EuropeanUnion
FM      Financial Management
FMR     Financial Management Report
F M S   Financial Management System
GEF     Global EnvironmentFacility
GoH     Government of Hungary
MWP     Municipal Wastewater Project (Loan 4512-HU)
ICPDR   International Commissionfor the Protectionof the Danube River
JAP     Joint Action Plan
M&E     Monitoringand Evaluation
MOB     Municipality of Budapest
MOEW    Ministry of Environment and Water
MOF     Ministry of Finance
N       Nitrogen
NBWWTP  NorthBudapest Wastewater Treatment Plant
P       Phosphorous
PIU     Project ImplementationUnit
PMRs    Project Management Reports
PMU     Project Management Unit
PSC      Project Steering Committee
SA       Special Account
UNDP     UnitedNations Development Programme
WD       South-Transdanubian Environment Protection and Water Management Directorate
WFD      (EU)Water FrameworkDirective
WWTP     Wastewater Treatment Plant

                        Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                    Country Director:       Daniela Gressani, ECCU7
                       Sector Manager:      Sumter Lee Travers, ECSIE
                   Task Team Leader:        Xavier Chauvot de Beauchihe, ECSIE

                                                        HUNGARY
                                 NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page

A.   STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                                .............................................................  1
 1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                    2
 3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                               3

B.   PROJECTDESCRIPTION                          .............................................................................................   3
 1.  Lending instrument............................................................................................................. 3
 2.  Project development and global environmental objectives and key indicators .................. 3
 3.  Project components .............................................................................................................             4
 4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe Project design ...........................................................                               6
 5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                             7

C.   IMPLEMENTATION                     ......................................................................................................    8
  1. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................................                             8
 2.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults................................................................                                10
 3.  Sustainability and Replicability ........................................................................................                   10
 4.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                            11
 5.  Grant conditions and covenants ........................................................................................                     13

D.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY                         .............................................................................................     14
  1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                      14
 2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................        15
 3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................       16
 4.  Social.................................................................................................................................     17
 5.  Environment......................................................................................................................           17
 6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................             19
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                       19

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                     .........................................................        20

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                           .................23
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                           ........................................................................         24

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description                ......................................................................................          28

Annex 5: Project Costs    ...............................................................................................................            35

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                        .................................................................................         52

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                                  .....................................    55

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements                     ......................................................................................          61

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                        .............................................................................         66

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues              ............................................................................................           71

Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision                             .....................................................................         73

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                     .................................................................................          74

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                      ..............................................................................          75

Annex 14: Country at a Glance             .................................................................................................           76

Annex 15: IncrementalCost Analysis                   .......................................................................................          78

Annex 16: STAP Roster Review               ................................................................................................           85

Annex 17: Maps  ..........................................................................................................................            92

Annex 18: BiologicalProcesses of NutrientTrapping inFloodplainsand Wetlands                                                                 ...........95

                                       HUNGARY

                           NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                              EUROPEAND CENTRALASIA

                                         ECSIE

Date: March 28, 2006                          Team Leader: Xavier Chauvot D e Beauchene
Country Director: Daniela Gressani            Sectors: Sewerage (5O%);General water,
Sector ManagerDirector: Sumter Lee Travers    sanitation and flood protection sector (50%)
Project ID: PO74971                           Themes: Biodiversity (P);Pollution
Focal Area: Internationalwaters               management and environmental health
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (P);Other environment andnatural resources
                                              management (S)
                                              Environmental screening category: Partial
                                              Assessment


[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit  [XI Grant   [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.):
ProDosedterms:




Borrower:
Republic of Hungary
Hungary

Responsible Agency:
Ministry of Environment andWater Management, Department of Development Policy
FOU. 44-50, 1011
Budapest
Hungary
Tel: +36 1457 3463 Fax: +36 1201 25 82
sziferenczsofia@mail.kvvm.hu
Southtransdanubian Environmental andWater Authority, on behalf of the Duna-Drava National
Park

Koztarsasag ter 7.
Pecs
Hungary
7622
Tel: +36 72 506 346 Fax: +36 72 506 350
britta.vizgazd@ddkovizig.hu
Municipality of Budapest
Varoshaz utca 9-11
Budapest
Hungary
1052
Tel: +36 1327 1066 Fax:     + 3613271811
siklosid@budapest.hu                                                                              I


Project implementationperiod: Start July 6,2006 End: June 30,2011
Expected effectiveness date: July 6, 2006
Expectedclosing date: December 31,2011
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref. PAD A.3                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        [ ]Yes [ IN0
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The key development objectives of the Project are: (i) reduce Budapest's discharge of nutrients
                                                        to
(nitrogen and phosphorus) into the Danube River, and consequently into the Black Sea; (ii)    to
enhance the nutrient trapping capacity of Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa wetlands situated inthe
lower Hungarian part of the Danube River; and (iii)   to serve as a model for similar nutrient
reduction initiatives inHungary and other Danube basin countries.

Global Environment objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
Same as the Project Development Objective.

Project description [one-sentencesummary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
The Project has three components:
  Component 1- Development of tertiary treatment (nutrient removal) at the North Budapest

wastewater treatment plant;
 Component 2 - Wetland restoration inthe Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa areas of the Duna-
k a v a National Park and establishment of a comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation system
'or the evaluation of Project impacts interms of reduction of NandP;
 Component 3 - Dissemination activities to foster replication inHungary or in other parts of the
lanube River basin.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Ref. PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
Znvironmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) and Projects on
international Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50) are the Safeguard Policies triggered by the Project.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Board presentation:
Yone

Loadcredit effectiveness:
The GEFLegal documents will become effective once the Bank has received evidence that the
Srant Implementation Agreement has been duly executed and Legal Opinions, respectively from
the Republic of Hungary attesting the validity and the bindingnature of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant Agreement and of the Grant ImplementationAgreement; and from the Municipality of
Budapest (MOB) attesting the validity and the bindingnature of the Project Agreement.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
Indicatedin section C.5 of the PAD, they include:

 For the GEF Trust FundGrant Agreement:

 (a)     The Recipient shall maintain throughout Project implementation the Project Management
Unitwith adequatefinancial andhumanresources to ensure quality andtimely coordination.

 (b)     Inorder to ensure appropriate inter-agency coordination, provide overall guidance,
facilitate integration and address potential conflicts, the Recipient shall maintain throughout
Project implementation a Steering Committee chaired by a senior level official of the Ministry of
Environment and Water (MOEW) and comprising representatives from the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), MOEW, the MOB, the Duna-Drava National Park Directorate(DDNPD) and the South-
Transdanubian Environment Protection and Water Management Directorate (WD).

 (d)     Inorder to assess and assist the WD authorities inthe selection and monitoring of the
plannedinterventions under component 2, the Recipient, through the MOEW, shall ensure that a
panel of internationally recognized experts inthe area of wetlands restoration and management
shall provide appropriate advice and recommendations, all in accordance with the Operational
Manual.

 (f>     The Recipient shall take all measuresnecessary on its behalf to carry out, or to enable the
WD, as the case may be, to carry out, the measures identified under the Environmental

Management Plans at all times in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the
implementation o f said measuresi s suitably included inthe Project progress reports to be
preparedby the WD.

 For the M O B Project Agreement:

 (a)    The M O B shall maintain the Project Implemention Unit of the M O B throughout Project
implementation with financial and human resources adequate to enable it to appropriately carry
out its responsibilities under component 1of the Project.

 (b)    The Budapest Municipal Sewerage Company (BMSC) shall report to ajoint review team
formed by representatives of the MOB and of the BMSC.

 (c)     The MOB shall take all measuresnecessary to carry out the measuresidentified under the
Environmental Management Plan for component 1of the Project at all times in a timely manner,
ensuring that adequate information on the implementation of said measuresi s suitably included
inthe Project progress.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Countryandsector issues

One of the main reasons for environmental degradation of the water bodies of the central
European region and the Black Sea i s the high content of nutrients. The Danube River, one of the
continent's largest and most important rivers, i s by far the single most important contributor to
the nutrient pollution of the Black Sea. The loads of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) transported
via the Danube River are estimated as of about 690,000 and 70,000 tons per year', respectively.
As a comparison, these amounts represent about ten times the loads of Nand P discharged to the
North Sea from the river Rhine. The eutrophication on the northwestern shelf of the Black Sea, at
the mouth of the Danube, has had a disastrous impact on water quality, natural habitat, and fish
populations on which both biodiversity and human populations depend. Future development of
the river basin will further increase the pressure on the ecosystems.

Since the mid 1980s, the countries in the Region have stepped up cooperation for the protection
of the Danube River and the Black Sea. The Bucharest (1985) and Sofia (1994) Conventions,
signed by eleven Danube basin countries and the European Union (EU), ledto the creation of the
International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River (ICPDR) in October 1998.
Under the ICPDR's lead, strategic action plans and monitoring programs have been launched,
setting baselines and identifying hot spots and investment priorities. In November 2000, the
ICPDR adopted its first Joint Action Plan (JAP) for the years 2001-2005, which called for the
reduction of municipal discharges from major urban centers. Although, according to studies,
pollution from non-point sources represents about 80% of N and 65% of P, it i s much more
difficult to address them than point-source discharges. One effective method to achieve this
consists of developing wetlands as nutrient traps. This method was identified as a strategic
priority to improve the Danube River water quality, and thereby decrease the discharges of
nutrients in the Black Sea. Budapest i s the most important source point of nutrient discharges
identified by the JAP in Hungary. As such, it has been included within the top five regional
priorities of the JAP.

Hungary joined the EU on May 1, 2004 and i s in the process of adapting its regulatory
framework to comply with EUrequirements, particularly the EUDirectives on water. With this
goal in mind, the Municipality o f Budapest (MOB) has prepared a long-term comprehensive plan
for wastewater collection and treatment in Budapest. This plan represents a substantial step
toward Hungary's compliance with EU Directives. It entails the development, by the end of
2010, of four major projects: the completion of the wastewater collection system in all areas of
Budapest; the rehabilitation and the development of nutrient removal facilities at existing
wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs); the construction of the Central WWTP; and the increase
of landfill capacity for mid-term sludge disposal. The proposed Project complements the actions
already undertaken by the MOB, in particular through the ongoing World Bank-financed
Municipal Wastewater Project (MWP), to further reduce nutrient discharges and achieve
additional global benefits (for additional information, see Annex 1).

Within the overall investment program of the JAP, construction of wastewater treatment
infrastructure i s the largest investment, representing about 90% of the investment program


  Source: Nutrient Removal Extension of North Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant - Environmental Impact
Assessment (Imsys Ltd.) February 2005, based on MONERIS results.

(investments in wastewater treatment infrastructure in Hungary alone represent 25 % of the JAP
investment program). Although the Danube River i s not declared a sensitive water body, the
Hungarian authorities have decided to add tertiary treatment in the North Budapest WWTP
(NBWWTP) to fulfill Hungary's commitments towards the reduction of nutrient discharges into
the Danube and the Black Sea.

In order to reduce costs and to make more affordable the achievement of the stated objectives,
the JAP also puts emphasis on alternative solutions to reduce nutrients. Restoration of wetlands,
in particular floodplains connected to rivers, is one of the main alternative actions proposed.
Given the ample capacity they have to act as nutrient filters, wetlands can make a significant
contribution to reducing N and P loads. However, to date the impact of such floodplains and
wetlands connected to rivers on nutrient reduction have not been systematically documented
(water depth, timing of flooding, vegetation etc.) and hence the outcomes remain difficult to
predict in quantitative terms. The proposed Project aims at developing knowledge and scientific
data to better understand such solutions and facilitate their replication.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The Bank has played a catalytic role in the ongoing MWP by financing a substantial portion of
the investment requirements and helping to mobilize funds from other sources to support the
Project. The Bank-financed MWP, co-financed by an EU Phare Grant, i s part of a Euro 100
million investment aimed at reducing the pollution load in the Danube River Basin,
strengthening compliance with Hungarian and EU environmental standards, and improving
wastewater operations in the water and wastewater utilities. Project benefits extend beyond
Hungary to Black Sea countries. The MWP includes the rehabilitation of the North Budapest
and South Pest WWTPs to the secondary level of treatment, the improvement of nutrient
reduction at the South Pest WWTP, and the construction of a WWTP for secondary treatment in
Dunaujvaros.       Loan savings and unallocated funds under the MWP will be utilized to
complement the GEF Grant for the proposed Project.

The Bank and the GEF helped to establish regional coordination and institutional cooperation
 through the ICPDR, and were instrumental in the development of the UNDP/GEF Strategic
Partnership for the protection of the Danube River and the Black Sea. To support actions under
 the Partnership, the GEF created an investment fund which will finance the proposedProject. As
 the executing agency for GEF-financed projects, the Bank has gainedexperience from projects to
reduce nutrients in other countries and regions and i s incorporating the lessons learned into the
 proposed Project. Examples include a wetland restoration project in Bulgaria and a project in the
 Russian Federation to reduce nutrient discharges into the Don river and the AzovBlack Seas
 from the Rostov-on-Don WWTP.

 The proposed Project i s consistent with the themes of the last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
 for Hungary discussed by the Bank's Board of Directors in2002, namely: support for Hungary's
 EUaccession objectives, environmental improvements inter alia to comply with EUDirectives,
 sub-national development, poverty reduction and increased social inclusion. The proposed
 Project i s also consistent with the "Framework for World Bank Support to the European Union
 New Member Countries of Central and Eastern Europe" (SecM2004-0283, dated May 28, 2004).
 The program set out inthe CAS includes the ongoing MWP and the proposed Project, in parallel
 with analytic and advisory services.


                                                  2

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The Project's higher-level objectives are to assist national and local authorities in Hungary inthe
implementation of top priority investments in the wastewater sector and to support the
Government's commitments under the Danube Conventions and other international agreements
for the protection of the Danube River andthe Black Sea.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument

The Project's cost of US$32 million would be partially financed by a full-sized GEF Grant in the
amount of US$12.5 million. The Grant will be complemented by a reallocation in the amount of
EUR5.9 million2 (US$7.7 million equivalent) from the Bank's Loan 4512-HU to the MOB for
the MWP, and additional counterpart funding of about US$10.4 million from MOB, and US$1.4
million from the Ministry of Environment and Water (MOEW).

2. Project development and global environmental objectives and key indicators

The key development and global environmental objectives of the Project are to: (i)reduce
Budapest's discharge of nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) into the Danube River, and
consequently into the Black Sea; (ii)enhance the nutrient trapping capacity of Gemenc and
Beda-Karapancsa wetlands situated in the lower Hungarian part of the Danube River; and (iii)
serve as a model for similar nutrient reduction initiatives in Hungary and other Danube basin
countries. These objectives will be achieved through: (i) development of tertiary treatment
                                                                      the
(nutrient removal) at the NBWWTP; (ii)            the rehabilitation of wetlands in the Gemenc and Beda-
Karapancsa areas of the Duna-Drava National Park (DDNP); and (iii)the establishment of a
comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system for water quality and environmental
health allowing to measure the reduction of nutrients and contributing to the development of an
impact evaluation methodology. The Project will also finance dissemination activities to foster
replication inHungary and in other parts of the Danube River basin.

The set of monitoring (physical/technical) and performance (operational and environmental)
indicators that will be monitored and reported through Project Management Reports (PMRs)
have been agreed duringProject preparation. These include:

     0  Annual reduction of nutrient discharges from the NBWWTP(Nand P kg/year)
     0  Average operation cost of the nutrient reduction process in the NBWWTP (US$/kg of
        nutrientreduced)
     0  Number of hectares of wetlands rehabilitatedin the DDNP
     0  Annual amount of nutrients retained by the DDNPwetlands (Nand P kg/year)
     0  Average operation cost of the wetland management procedures in the DDNP, in terms of
        i t s nutrient reduction capacity (US$/kg of nutrient reduced)



* An amendment to the LoanAgreement for the Municipal Wastewater Project (Loan No. 4512-HU) is being
presented to the Board for its approval on a no objection basis, incompliance with OPBP 13.25 on the Use of
Project Cost Savings.

                                                          3

Target and baseline figures for these indicators were agreed upon at Negotiations. They might be
revised in the early stages of the Project, based on the results of the baseline study.

3. Project components

The Project uses a multi-focal approach to assist the Government of Hungary (GoH) in
developing advanced wastewater treatment of domestic discharges and to restore high priority
wetlands to work as nutrient traps, while increasing their internationally recognized ecological
values. It will enable comparison of two different forms of intervention to reduce discharges of
nutrients from point and non-point sources, and evaluation of their impacts in terms of global
benefits in relation to their respective investment and operation costs. It i s thus expected to have
an important demonstration role in Hungary and within the region to help develop technically
and financially sound solutions, allowing for best use of scarce resources. Furthermore, the
Project i s expected to strengthen the institutions involved, build capacity of local staff in efficient
development and operation of wetlands for nutrient trapping, and raise awareness of the
ecological benefits of wetland rehabilitation and their impacts on biodiversity. (See Sections C.2.
and Annex 4 for details). The Project has three components:

Component 1- Development of tertiary treatment at the NBWWTP (Budapest). (GEF
amount including contingencies: US$6.96 million, Total cost: US$25.04 million)
This component, hereafter referredto as MOB- or Budapest- component, will finance works and
equipment to upgrade the NBWWTP to the tertiary level of treatment for N and P removal. The
technology for such treatment i s highly specific and likely to be protected by patents. From a
procurement standpoint, specifying the technical solutiodprocess would give an unfair
advantage to a given supplier. Therefore, the procurement will be based on a set of precisely
defined performance requirements (to be detailed in the technical specifications of the bidding
documents), with evaluation based on technical and financial efficiency in attaining the specified
outcomes inregards to Nand P reduction.

Component 2 Wetland Restoration in the Duna-Drava National Park (DDNPcomponent).
                -
(GEFamount including contingencies: US$5.20 million, Total cost: US$6.50 million)
This component, hereafter referred to as DDNP- or Park- component, will finance the
rehabilitation of about 10,000 hectares of wetlands to develop their nutrient trapping capacity
within two identified areas, Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa, located within the DDNP, along the
course of the Danube River. The rehabilitation process will be implemented in stages, starting
with the establishment of one pilot in each of the two areas for a period of one year. It will also
provide funds to design and install an M&E system for the evaluation of Project impacts interms
of reduction of N and P. A comprehensive baseline study will be carried out at the beginning of
the Project to assess the areas' environmental quality at the first stage of the Project, to help
determine the precise location o f the two pilots, and to provide recommendations on the design
and development of the M&E system. Buildingon the results and lessons learned from the pilots,
the rehabilitation will then be scaled up. Early in the process, an Experts Panel will be convened
by the MOEW to assist the South-Transdanubian Environment Protection and Water
Management Directorate (WD) and the DDNP Directorate (DDNPD) in the selection and
monitoring of the planned interventions. In parallel, the component will adapt a methodology of
impact evaluation, using local research organizations and universities. It will also include the
development, in a participatory way, of a DDNP Special Area Management Plan, including
measures to best accommodate authorized uses and protection measures in the Park area. Finally,


                                                    4

this component will include limited funding for incremental Project management costs for the
WD, PIU. Works to be carried out in the wetlands include localized clearing, dredging and
construction or installation of small scale water regulating structures. As the lead-time for the
approval of the required environmental licenses could extend to about eighteen months,
execution of works under this component i s scheduled to start during the second year of Project
implementation. The M&E system will be developed in the meantime, allowing it to be fully
operational prior to the execution of works. (See details in Annex 4)

Component 3       -Dissemination and Replication. (GEF amount including contingencies:
US$0.35 million, Total cost: US$0.43 million)
This component will finance consultant services to carry out a comprehensive end-of-project
impact evaluation and results analysis study of the two interventions (tertiary treatment and
wetlands restoration), including a cost-benefit analysis. The results of these studies will serve as
a basis for the dissemination, replication and knowledge sharing activities. The component will
also finance workshops, public communication campaigns and promotion of cost effective
solutions for nutrient reduction in other areas of Hungary and in other riparian countries. The
project will link to the GEF Danube and Black Sea Regional projects, Danube Convention-
supported dissemination activities and the GEF-funded IW Learn initiative. In this regard, this
component will include setting up a Project website consistent with the GEF IW:LEARN
guidance, participation of project staff inIW:LEARN activities, participation in at least two GEF
International Waters portfolio conferences, and participation in ICPDR and Black Sea
coordination meetings. The Project will also provide limited funds to finance a Project launch
workshop; auditing services; and training to strengthen WD for project implementation and to
build capacity of DDNPD staff for the efficient development and operation of wetlands for
nutrient trapping.

Table 1. Project Costs (mill inUS$)
        Component            Indicative     % of     Local       Parallel      GEF         % GEF
                                 cost      Total   Financing    Financing    Financing    Financing
                                                                 through
                                                                  IBRD
                                                                LoanNo.
                                                                4512-HU
 1:Developmentof tertiary       23.40       73%       9.70         7.20         6.50         52%
 treatment at the NBWWTP
         (Budapest)
  2: Wetland Restorationin       6.08       19%       1.22         0.00         4.86         39%
  the Duna-DravaNational
            Park
    3: Disseminationand          0.41       1%        0.08         0.00         0.33         3%
         Replication

                                 2.09       7%        0.77                                   6%
                                31.97      100%      11.77     +%WE--                       100%




                                                 5

Benefits and Target Population.

At the global level, the Project is expected to generate benefits through the reduction of Nand P
discharges into the Danube River and consequently into the Black Sea3. The primary
beneficiaries of the Project are downstream riparian countries and littoral states of the Black Sea.

The contribution of the Project (reductions of about 4,000 tons per year for N and 260 tons per
year for P) might appear small in comparison to the total N and P flow at the mouth of the
Danube (about 690,000 tons of N and 70,000 tons of P). However, it represents a 9% and 4%
reduction respectively of N and P total nutrient discharges from Hungary (see Annex 15). In
particular, the M O B component i s expected to reduce 14% of N and 6% of P Hungarian
discharges from point sources and the DDNP component 6% of N and 2% of P from diffuse
sources. Further, the Project i s not only justified by its direct benefits; it represents also a
necessary first step to help generate the commitment for the complementary investments for
nutrient reduction needed to achieve the ultimate objective of controlling eutrophication in the
Black Sea.

More importantly, the Project i s expected to have a demonstration effect in Hungary and in the
region. It will result in a replicable model for the treatment of non-point sources of nutrient
pollution, using wetland and floodplains, and the development of a methodology of impact
evaluation, which will potentially benefit the entire Danube-Black Sea basin population. The
implementation approach proposed, the environmental monitoring information to be introduced,
and the results analysis to be performed will also be reviewed and analyzed from a cost-benefit
prospective, comparing the wetland rehabilitation approach to the implementation of tertiary
treatment. On that basis, a set of recommendations will be prepared to serve as a "transfer of
experience" to other cities in Hungary and riparian countries, through the ICPDR.

The ecosystems of the DDNP are also expected to benefit directly from the Project. These
include the Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa areas, which are two areas of international importance
(Ramsar sites) and nesting places for a number of migratory birds and other species of global
importance. (See Annex 10 and 18 for details)

At the national level, Hungary will benefit from progress towards compliance with EU
Directives, in particular in regard to wetland management aspects of the Water Framework
Directive (WFD), and increased capacity o f the existing central, regional and local institutions
concerned to protect and manage wetlands, floodplains and aquatic ecosystems.

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe Project design

The main lessons learned from similar Bank-financed operations in the country, in the region,
and in other regions suggest that:



  Estimation of the nutrient reduction potential of the rehabilitation of Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa wetlands was carried out on
the basis of the data collected, international experience in other regions and extensive literature research, with data adapted to the
size and general characteristics of the selected restoration sites (e.g., permanent water bodies, water depth, timing of flooding,
vegetation). Expected incremental annual nutrient reduction i s estimated to range between 1,390 and 1,734 tons of N and
between 76 and 92 tons of P, Le., between 130 and 165 kilogram per hectare per year of N and between 7.3 and 8.8 kilogram per
hectare per year.

                                                                   6

    0  The roles and responsibilities of participating agencies need to be clearly defined prior to
       Negotiations. This issue was addressed through extensive consultations that led to the
       preparation of a Grant implementation agreement among the partner institutions, which
        sets out their respective roles and responsibilities during implementation. A draft of this
        agreement, along with an Operational Manual, was submitted to the Bank for review
        prior to Appraisal. A Grant implementation agreement and an Operational Manual,
        including financial accounting section, satisfactory to the Bank, were provided prior to
        Negotiations.

    0   Poor quality at entry may result in unrealistic expectations, delays and unsatisfactory
        achievement of the Project objectives. To address this risk, funds were made available by
        the GEF for the purpose of Project preparation. These funds financed detailed
        consultants'   services for the preparation of economic and financial analysis,
        environmental impact assessments, pre-feasibility studies and preliminary design (DDNP
        component).

    0   The early involvement in Project design of key stakeholders as well as the local
        communities i s critical to ensure ownership, build trust and ensure lasting commitment
        and collaboration. While socio-economic and local community development issues need
        to be carefully considered in the Project design, the rationale, benefits and objectives of
        the Project should be disseminated to all stakeholders early in the preparation process, if
        not through active participation, through effective public awareness programs.
        Preparation activities focused on ensuring quality and helped design a Project supported
        by the main stakeholders and by the population. The Project foresees further public
        involvement and provides for the development of public awareness, in particular through
        the dissemination and replication activities.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

The MOB as the sole implementation agency. The selection of M O B as the sole
implementation agency was considered due to: (i)the possible substantial reduction of nutrients;
(ii) factthatBudapestisconsideredintheJAF'asoneofthemainhotspots;and(iii)
    the                                                                                    MOB'S
good performance in implementing the ongoing MWP and its commitment to make available
counterpart funding for the proposed Project. This alternative was rejected because the
fulfillment of GoH's commitments towards the ICPDR and the development of the EU WFD
development agenda fall under the direct responsibility of the MOEW, as does the DDNPD.
Given their national mandate, the M O E W i s the appropriate agency for the preparation of the
dissemination and replication component.

Addressing only point-source pollution. A possible alternative was to focus exclusively on
point-source pollution such as municipal wastewater treatment and industrial discharges. This
alternative was rejected because of the interest shown by the GoH's interest in documenting the
impacts on nutrient reduction of floodplains and wetlands ecosystems such as the DDNP's, and
in getting the opportunity, while addressing two of the most important hot spots as identified in
the JAP, to compare the efficiency of nutrient reduction and cost effectiveness of the two
treatment approaches. While nutrient removal technologies are well understood and very
efficient, they represent an important incremental cost in terms of investments, operation and
maintenance. However, it i s generally accepted that wetland rehabilitation allowing wetland use
as nutrient traps requires significantly lower investments and Operation and Maintenance

                                                  7

(O&M) costs, while providing a very effective system to reduce nutrients pollution from non-
point sources and from large quantities of water.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Implementation Period: Five years, from FY 2007 to FY 2011.

Project Management Structure: The MOEW will have overall responsibility for managing
Project implementation, including Project oversight and reporting to the Bank, as well as for
inter-agency coordination between the two executing agencies. For overall Project management,
disbursement, supervision and reporting to the Bank and Hungarian authorities, the MOEW has
appointed a Project coordinator and established a small Project Management Unit (PMU) to
ensure quality and timely coordination. The MOEW has entered into a Grant implementation
agreement with the MOB, the WD and the DDNPD that defines the main roles and
responsibilities of each partner institution for the implementation of the Project. Under this
agreement, the day-to-day implementation and administration of components 1 and 2 i s
decentralized to separate executing agencies. Component 1 will be implemented by the M O B
and Component 2 by the WD, on behalf of the DDNPD, the final beneficiary of the investments,
through respective PIUS,fully integrated in these two institutions. Implementation of Component
3 will remain under the direct responsibility of the MOEW. To provide for inter-agency
coordination, a Project Steering Committee (PSC), composed of representatives of the main
institutions involved in its implementation, has been established.

MOEW, PMU: During Project preparation, the MOEW designated a qualified staff from its
Budget and Finances Department as Project coordinator, who will continue the existing
responsibilities during Project implementation. The MOEW has established a PMU to assist the
coordinator, staffed with six professionals: a coordinator's assistant, a financial analyst, a
procurement specialist and three environmental specialists. The PMU will oversee, coordinate,
 administer and monitor Project implementation, and will act as the Bank's counterpart for any
matter related to Project implementation. In addition, the PMU will coordinate Project
 management, monitoring and reporting, and will be directly responsible for implementing the
 dissemination and replication component.

Project Steering Committee: The PSC will                continue operating throughout Project
 implementation. It comprises representatives from the MOEW, the MOB, the WD and the
 DDNPD,including PMUdirector and heads of the PIU, MOB and PIU, WD. This committee is
 to bring the collective expertise of the sectors concerned, at the national, regional and municipal
 level, and of the stakeholders, to help ensure that Project implementation achieves its objectives.
 The PSC and will also work as a channel for the dissemination of experiences and lessons
 generated by the Project. The PSC i s chaired by a senior level official of the M O E W to ensure
 appropriate support. For these reasons, the establishment and appropriate staffing of the PSC was
 a condition of Negotiations.

 Project Zmplementation Unit-PZU, MOB: Implementation of the Budapest component will be
 managed by the PIU, MOB. This unit was established more than ten years ago to implement
 Projects financed by F I s . The unit i s composed o f a group o f staff who have substantial
 experience in the implementation of Bank-financed projects, through the ongoing MWP (Loan


                                                   8

4512-HU), which i s at an advanced stage of implementation. The unit will be responsible for the
technical and financial management of the Project component, and for handling procurement and
reporting requirements. The PIU, MOB will be advised in technical matters by the Public
Utilities Department of the MOB, which has experienced personnel. There i s a long and well
established cooperation between the M O B and the Budapest Municipal Sewerage Company
(BMSC), which has been involved in all stages of Project preparation. During the
implementation phase, the supervision of the works to be performed at the NBWWTPhas been
awarded to the BMSC, under a contract financed by M O B from its own funds. The M O B will
create a joint review team consisting of representatives of the M O B (Project Unit and Public
Utilities Department), the BMSC, and the Private Operator to monitor the implementation of the
works. The responsibility for investments remains under the responsibility o f the MOB until the
facilities are completed and commissioned. Responsibility for their operations and maintenance
will then be handed over to the BMSC.

Project Zmplementution Unit-PZU, WD: Implementation of activities under the DDNP
component, including the development of the M&E system, will be supervised by the PIU, WD,
acting as an agent on behalf of the DDNPD, whose staff has no experience in dealing with Bank-
or IFI-financed projects. This unit was established for the component's preparation, and it i s
composed o f a coordinator - a consultant was hired for that purpose - and seasoned professional
staff of the WD. The selection of the WD as an executing agency on behalf o f the DDNP i s
based on its experience in water project management, including projects financed by IFIs (other
than the World Bank), its knowledge of water management and of the area and its river basin
approach. On technical aspects the WD and the DDNPD will continue to work in close
cooperation during Project implementation. The DDNPD provides comprehensive knowledge of
the Park areas, ecosystem and biodiversity to the WD, which has expertise of water management
infrastructure and engineering. In order to minimize risks related to the lack of experience in
dealing with Bank-financed projects, a Project launch workshop, including training in Bank's
operational guidelines and Safeguard Policies, will be organized. Additionally, a detailed Project
Operational Manual, including the Project's operational procedures, as well as agreed
implementation and procurement plans, has been drafted and commented on by the Bank. The
PIU, MOB will provide assistanceto the PIU, WD, as appropriate.

Operational Flow: Each PIU will be required to fulfill Project requirements in regards to the
investment planning, procurement, supervision of works and purchases, financial management,
and for auditing and reporting to the PMU for its respective Project component. The above tasks
will be performed directly by the PMU for component 3. Approval for applications for
disbursement, withdrawal of Grant funds, and consolidated reporting to the Bank will be carried
out by the PMU in the MOEW and sent to the MOF or entity delegated by MOF for signature
prior to submission to the Bank. Main roles and responsibilities in regard to financial
management, flow of funds, disbursement, reporting, and execution and monitoring of the
Project's Environmental Management Plans are to be described in the Grant implementation
agreement. Additionally, detailed responsibilities for operational processes, rules and standard
forms and documents are to be spelled out in sufficient details in the Operational Manual. Drafts
of these two documents were submitted to the Bank for review prior to Appraisal, and comments
were provided. Revised versions of these documents, satisfactory to the Bank, were submitted
before Negotiations.




                                                9

Legal Arrangements: A GEF Trust FundGrant Agreement will be signed between the Republic
of Hungary and the Bank, acting as an implementing agency for the GEF. This Agreement will
include the provisions for the implementation of Components 2 and 3, as both the WD and the
DDNPD are under the direct responsibility of the MOEW. A Project Agreement is to be signed
between the Bank and the M O B for the purposes of Component 1. An amendment to the Loan
Agreement for Loan No. 4512-HU to authorize the use of loan savings and unallocated funds to
partially finance Component 1 of the proposed Project i s being submitted to the Board for its
approval on a no-objection basis, in compliance with OP/BP 13.25 on the Use of Project Cost
Savings.

2. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomeshesults

Monitoring and evaluation of the Project outcomes will be carried out separately for each
component. Concerning the MOB component, the proposed Project performance indicators will
be monitored by the BMSC and reviewed by the M O B prior to being reported to the PMU. As
part of the regular operations of the NBWWTP, the BMSC performs continuous measurements
of a set of technical and financial indicators. Technical Project performance indicators are
already being closely monitored by the BMSC, in accordance with Hungarian and EU
requirements.

For the DDNP component, a comprehensive M&E system will be put in place at the DDNP,
under the responsibility of the WD, in coordination with the MOEW, PMU. This system will
monitor the Project impacts in the DDNP, in terms of reduction of N and P, water quality and
environmental health, taking into account the efforts of the GoH to harmonize existing
monitoring systems and to integrate the provisions of the EU WFD in regard to wetlands. The
list of indicators to be included in the M&E system, including possible indicators species, will be
determined in the first stages of the Project, based on the results of the baseline study. Also, as
indicated above, the M&E system i s to be established prior to the execution of the works.

A simple management information system for Project M&E will be designed by the MOEW,
PMUto ensure the coordination and aggregation of the data, including reporting formats and the
 agreed monitoring indicators. Quarterly and consolidated annual reports including the use of
Project funds and Project impacts will be prepared by the PMU. Significant supervision by
 qualified Bank staff i s plannedduringthe start-up phase. A Mid-Term Review will be carried out
 to assess overall Project progress, introduce required changes, identify lessons learned, and
 disseminate good practices. This process will be closely coordinated with the review of similar
 projects in the Danube and Black Sea Programs, to allow for maximum benefits and knowledge
 sharing.

 3. Sustainabilityand Replicability

 Sustainabilitv. The M O B has demonstrated its commitment to the Project objectives through the
 implementation of the baseline investments and the approval of additional direct financial
 support beyond the GEF contribution. As part of the MWP, the Bank has financed the
 construction of the South Pest WWTP and the rehabilitation of the biological secondary
 treatment of the NBWWTP. These investments, along with the installation of tertiary treatment
 in the NBWWTP under the proposed Project, and the foreseen construction of the Central
 Budapest WWTP are included in the long-term comprehensive plan for wastewater collection


                                                 10

and treatment in Budapest. Tariff increases will be made as required to cover capital and
operational expenses requirements.

Inthe case of the DDNPcomponent, the long-term sustainability of Project benefits is linked to
the adequate management and maintenance of the restored wetlands in the Gemenc and Beda-
Karapancsa areas, both reported as hot spots in the JAP of the ICPDR. Such management and
maintenance will require sufficient institutional and financial resources, which the GoH has
committed to provide. A provision i s also made under the Project to support incremental Project
management costs of the WD, PlU on a declining basis while developing financial mechanisms
to finance the wetlands basic maintenance costs. The Project makes provisions for strengthening
capacity of local and regional implementing institutions and central administrations to ensure
that they acquire the needed managerial and technical skills and capabilities. Project
sustainability will be enhanced by actively involving local institutions during Project
implementation and by the preparation of a Special Area Management Plan, involving
stakeholders in the process.

Replicabilitv. As indicated above, the dissemination and replication component of the Project
will provide the means for developing an M&E system to properly assess Project results.
Comprehensive impact evaluation studies will be carried out. The results of these studies will
serve as a basis for the dissemination and replication activities. Inparticular, the component will
finance workshops, public communication campaigns and promotion of cost effective solutions
for nutrient reduction in other areas of Hungary and in other riparian countries.

4. Critical risksand possible controversial aspects

Lack of continuing commitment from the Government. Negligible, because of the need for
compliance with EUrequirements and the strong support from M O B for the Project. The risk of
lack of continued support for the DDNPcomponent was initially rated as significant on the basis
of previous disagreement between the DDNPD and the MOEW, which significantly delayed
confirmation of counterpart funds and the signing o f the PDF-B grant. However, because of
MOEW's overall responsibility in the preparation and implementation of the Project, and based
on the institutional arrangements made to support the Project, this risk has decreased to
negligible. Nevertheless, the Bank team will work closely with the MOB and M O E W to
maintain current support.

Consumers unwilling/unable to pay required tarifls levels. Negligible, because the increase
required in MOB'Swastewater tariffs as a result of the Project investments i s not substantial, and
studies show that the new tariffs should be affordable to most of the population (less than 4% of
the average household monthly income). As regards low income households and households
facing temporary difficulties, M O B has certain schemes already in place to provide financial
relief.

Institutional capacity to handle preparation and implementation. Negligible for the MOB. The
municipality has shown satisfactory capacity during preparation and implementation of the
MWP, financed by Loan 4512-HU, which has a more complex structure and larger requirements
than the proposed Project.




                                                11

Modest for the DDNPD. Despite being technically strong agencies, the implementing teams of
the WD and the DDNPD do not have experience in dealing with Bank-financed projects. To
decrease this risk, the Project provides for a launch workshop including training in the Bank's
operational guidelines, coaching from M O B to WD and DDNPD, and assistance from
specialized consultants for Project preparation, including procurement.

Capital investments at the NBWWTP are higher than estimated. Modest. Since the selection of
the technology as well as the final design are to be carried out as part of the procurement process,
there i s a risk that the bids result in higher than expected prices. However, cost estimates have
been carefully and regularly reviewed during Project preparation and have been found in line
with market prices. Additionally, the procurement process with a prequalification of firms and a
two-stage-bidding (ICB using the Bank standard bidding documents for Supply and Install) i s
expected to create the highest possible competition for such contract, as the design will be left to
the bidders to decide duringthe first phase. Thus, prices are expected to be in the low range.

Slow decision-making during implementation. Significant. The complex and rather bureaucratic
process of decision-making in Hungary has generated delays during Project preparation. To
decrease this risk, a Grant implementation agreement between the MOEW, the MOB, the WD
and the DDNPD has been prepared to define the roles and responsibilities o f each partner during
implementation. This agreement i s being complementedby an Operational Manual to describe in
sufficient detail the procedures and timeframe for the organization of procurement, financial
management, disbursement, auditing and reporting. Drafts of these documents have been
submitted to the Bank and comments have been provided. Final versions of these documents,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been submitted. Additionally, the formal establishment and
staffing of the PSC, under the leadership of the MOEW, will facilitate the exchange of
information, experience and lessons learned among the partner institutions. These arrangements
have been agreed at Appraisal. The PSC has been established and appropriately staffed before
Negotiations. Confirmation of these arrangements allowed reducing this risk to Modest.

Safeguards policies. Modest. Both the MOB and the WD have completed Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) reports that fulfill Bank requirements for their respective components prior to
appraisal (these have been published in Info-Shop). The M O B has already obtained
Government's approval of its EIA and the corresponding Environmental License, which i s
required by Hungarian legislation before the works can start. The WD, on behalf of the DDNPD,
i s workmg on the preparation of the additional assessment for the DDNP component, which i s
required to obtain the Environmental License by Hungarian regulations. Such assessment will be
completed on the basis of the detailed design of the rehabilitation works planned for the
wetlands. This assessment has been budgeted and will be implemented as soon as the Grant i s
 approved. As the process for the approval of such assessmentsby the Government has proven to
be rather lengthy in Hungary, execution of works under this component i s scheduled to start
 during the second year of Project implementation. A Panel of internationally recognized experts
on wetland rehabilitation and river dynamics will also be convened to examine the proposed
works. The GoH and the Bank will retain the authority to reject the financing of any work which
the Panel concludes that could have negative impacts. Additionally, these rehabilitation works
 will be implemented in stages, starting with the development of pilots, to allow for a better
 quantitative evaluation of the impacts. Notification to other riparian countries has been made
 within the scope of the Danube Commission and measures have been developed as part of the
EMPto protect NaturalHabitats. (See SectionD.6andAnnex 10for details).

                                                   12

5. Grant conditions and covenants

Effectiveness conditions:

The GEF Legal documents will become effective once the Bank has received evidence that the
Grant Implementation Agreement has been duly executed and Legal Opinions, respectively from
the Republic of Hungary attesting the validity and the binding nature of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant Agreement and of the Grant Implementation Agreement; and from the MOB attesting the
validity and the bindingnature of the M O B Project Agreement.

For the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement:

        (a)    The Recipient shall maintain throughout Project implementation the Project
Management Unit with adequate financial and human resources to ensure quality and timely
coordination.

        (b)    In order to ensure appropriate inter-agency coordination, provide overall
guidance, facilitate integration and address potential conflicts, the Recipient shall maintain
throughout Project implementation a Steering Committee chaired by a senior level official of the
MOEW and comprising representatives from the MOF, MOEW, the MOB, the DDNPDand the
WD.

        (c)    The Recipient, through the MOEW, shall cause the WD: (i)     to carry out, supervise
and monitor component 2 of the Project, including the development of a water quality
monitoring system to measure the impact of said component on the reduction of nutrients in the
DDNP; and (ii)upon Project completion, to transfer to the DDNP the ownership and the
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the facilities constructed, areas rehabilitated
and water quality monitoring system developed under component 2 in accordance with a time
action plan agreedby the Recipient and the Bank.

        (d)     Inorder to assess and assist the WD authorities inthe selection and monitoring of
the planned interventions under component 2, the Recipient, through the MOEW, shall ensure
that a panel of internationally recognized experts in the area o f wetlands restoration and
management shall provide appropriate advice and recommendations, all in accordance with the
Operational Manual.

        (e)     The Recipient, through the MOEW, shall take all action required to ensure that
the Operational Manual i s applied and followed at all times in the implementation, monitoring
and evaluation of components 2 and 3 o f the Project.

        (f)     The Recipient shall take all measures necessary on its behalf to carry out, or to
enable the WD, as the case may be, to carry out the measures identified under the Environmental
Management Plans at all times in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the
implementation of said measures i s suitably included in the Project progress reports to be
prepared by the WD.




                                                 13

       (g)     The Recipient, through the MOEW shall, commencing on November 30, 2006
and thereafter, not later than November 30 and May 31 in each calendar year and until Project
completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank a semi-annual progress report describing the
progress achieved in the implementation of components 2 and 3 of the Project during the
preceding calendar semester and the updated MOEW Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators for
the upcoming calendar semester.

       (h)     The Recipient, through the MOEW, shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of components
2 and 3 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof and review with the Bank,
by February 28, 2009 a mid-term report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of such
components and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure their efficient completion and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the
said report and the Bank's views on the matter.

For the MOB Project Agreement:

       (a)     The M O B shall maintain the PIU-MOB throughout Project implementation with
financial and human resources adequate to enable it to appropriately carry out its responsibilities
under component l o f the Project.

       (b)     The BMSC shall report to a joint review team formed by representatives of the
M O B and of the BMSC.

       (c)     The M O B shall take all measures necessary to carry out the measures identified
under the Environmental Management Plan for component 1 of the Project at all times in a
timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the implementation of said measures i s
suitably included inthe Project progress.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economic and financial analyses

As a stand-alone GEF Project, the principal economic evaluation criterion is the Project's
potential contribution to global benefits (see the economic and incremental cost analysis details
inAnnexes 9 and 15). For the MOB component, the baseline scenario for the Project includes the
rehabilitation of the NBWWTP and the control of untreated discharges from the sewerage
network, carried out during 2001-2005 under the MWP, but it does not include any specific
nutrient reduction actions, as such development i s not required under the EUDirective for Urban
Wastewater Discharges. The GEF Project fills this gap by financing the upgrading of the
NBWWTP to the tertiary level of treatment, to reduce nutrient discharges. For the DDNP
component, the baseline scenario i s business as usual, as no particular development of nutrient
trapping capacity i s required inthe DDNPto comply with the EUWFD.

Incremental costs: Baseline investment costs are estimated at about US$80 million of which
about US$27 million i s for the NBWWTP.The GEF Project will finance additional investments
of about US$32 million, of which GEF will provide US$12.5 million, the ongoing Loan 4512-




                                                 14

HUEUR5.9 million (US$7.7 million equivalent), the MOB US$10.4 million, and the MOEW
US$1.4 million.    4


Global benefits: The main expected benefits are the reduction in nutrient (N and P) discharges
into the Danube and consequently into the Black Sea. Over the 25-year period 2006-2030, the
total reduction in nutrient discharges i s estimated at 54,200 tons for the MOB component and
38,350 tons for the DDNP component. In terms of cost effectiveness, the unit cost of abatement
(estimated as the present value of the relevant annual capital and O&M costs) i s estimated at
US$1,060/ton for the M O B component and US$240/ton for the DDNP component. As indicated
above, as the impact of wetlands on nutrient reduction has not been systematically documented,
the unit cost of abatement for the DDNP component has been roughly estimated based on the
information provided during Project preparation. Details are provided in the Incremental Cost
Analysis inAnnex 15.

Financial analysis: The M O B and the BMSC, respectively the borrower and final beneficiary
under the ongoing Bank Loan (4512-HU), are in compliance with their financial covenants.
Financial statements are provided in Annex 5. A financial rate of return has not been calculated
for the Project given the nature of the investments which result in environmental benefits. A
financial return on investment i s not the main consideration in undertahng the investment.
However, as provided under the contractual agreement between the M O B and the BMSC, the
tariff formula provides for BMSC to recover any incremental operating expenses due to the
investment. The increment in tariff i s based on such cost-recovery. However, as seen above and
in Annex 15, the Project will yield significant economic benefits. For the MOB component, the
upgrading to tertiary treatment i s estimated to involve an incremental cash expense (HUF6.5/m3
for O&M and HUF 1.5/m3 for debt service) of about HUF 8/m3 of wastewater invoiced. The
required tariff increase i s about 4.5% over the current level of the average wastewater tariff. The
resulting new wastewater tariff i s estimated to remain affordable to most of the population
concerned. As regards low income households and households facing temporary difficulties,
MOB has certain schemes already in place to provide financial relief.                      For the DDNP
component, the Project i s estimated to result in an increase in O&M expenses by about HtJF 135
million per year, which represents about 26% of the 2005 DDNPD annual budget (HUF 529
million, US$2.7 million equivalent). This amount will be provided through budgetary transfers to
DDNPDby the MOEW.

2. Technical

M O B component. Although the proposed nutrient removal technology has been widely adopted
 inmany parts of the world, this will be only the second such use inHungary. It has already been
 implemented at the South Pest WWTP as part o f the ongoing MWP and both WWTPs fall under
the responsibility of the BMSC, which i s managed by a private operator having sufficient
 knowledge and experience of O&M of such facilities. The Bank's supervision at the design
 stage, through the procurement process, and during implementation i s critical for the success of
 the Project. Verification protocols for the operation of the new facilities have been discussed and
 agreed with MOB and BMSC representatives.



  The GEF leverage ratio i s 1:7.96(US$12.5 million provided by GEF and US$99.5 million provided as baseline
 investments and counterpart)

                                                       15

DDNPcomponent. DuringProject preparation, atechnical assessmentat the pre-feasibilitylevel
of restoration o f the two identified sites was carried out. The assessment found that the
development of a number of small interventions could significantly improve the average water
flow and the period of water retention in the area's wetlands, ponds and oxbows. Emphasis was
placed on ensuring that the restoration of wetlands maximizes the water flow through the system
in order to optimize nutrient trapping and improve ecological conditions and biodiversity. As
indicated above, in order to provide additional security and confidence to the authorities, the
MOEW will convene a panel of experts, with internationally recognized experience in this type
of intervention, to assist the DDNPD in the implementation of proposed works and follow up on
the impact they have on the Park's morphology and ecology. Additionally, the works will be
implemented in stages, starting with pilot areas. Foreseen interventions include localized
dredging, cleaning of the riverbed and culverts and construction of small scale facilities to
increase water retention (bottom weirs, sluices, pipe-culverts, etc.). Feasibility studies and
detailed design will be done in the course of Project implementation, following detailed field
surveys and investigations, for which provisions have been made under the Project.

3. Fiduciary

Procurement. Procurement under the Project will be limited to a small number of goods, works
and consultant services contracts. The major contract, representing 78% of the Project funds,
would be a Supply and Install contract for the constructiodinstallation of tertiary treatment
facilities in the existing NBWWTP, to be procured under International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) on a turn key basis. The procurement of this contract will be carried out by the PIU, MOB,
which has gained experience in Bank-financed projects in the successfully implemented MWP,
financed by Loan 4512-Ku. The PIU, WD has no previous experience in implementing Bank-
financed procurement. The requirements from this Project component are, however, limited to
only a few contracts of a very simple nature. An Action Plan has been prepared to minimize the
risks which have been identified, specially related to the lack of experience of DDNPD and WD
in implementing Bank-financed procurement. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually, or as required to reflect the changing Project implementation needs and improvements
ininstitutional capacity. (Detailed informationis included inAnnex 8).

Financial Management.       A Financial Management (FM) assessment was carried out for the
Project. The financial management arrangements of the project are acceptable to the World
Bank. (See Annex 7 for details).

Strengths & Weaknesses. The strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the Project FM
System (FMS) include the use to a great extent o f the existing financial accounting and
budgetary procedures in the implementing entities, and the extensive experience of MOB in
implementing similar Projects co-financed by IFIs (including the World Bank, EBRD, and EIB).
The specific risk identified during the assessment relates to the fact that the Project will be
implemented by three entities; the MOEW, the MOB and the WD, the latter being located
outside Budapest. However, this risk will be mitigated by the coordinating role of MOEW and
the fact that the WD falls under the responsibility of the MOEW. The MOEW and the WD have
assigned staff to carry out the incremental Project FMtasks. (For details, please see Annex 7).

Disbursement: The Department of Budget of MOEW will open one Special Account (SA) with
the Hungarian State Treasury in the currency of the GEF Grant. To facilitate payments through


                                                16

each of the implementing entities and to receive the share of their respective contributions to the
financing of the project, settlement accounts will be opened for each of the three implementing
entitiesheneficiaries. The MOB, MOEW and the WD will have to provide the full amount of
their respective contributions required to finance Project expenditures before the due date for the
payment of suppliers' invoice. Accordingly, Grant funds will flow from the World Bank to the
SA and then through settlement accounts to the suppliers. The MOEW will be responsible for
having the SA replenished from time to time, on the basis of withdrawal applications. (For
details, please see Annex 7). The associated proceeds under the Loan 4512-HU will remain in
the special account already established for that Loan for the purpose of parallel financing o f the
component under the MWP.

4. Social

Considering the nature and the location of the investments and the current socio-economic
situation, the World Bank concluded that no social impact assessment was needed. Local
communities, environmental associations and NGOs have been involved in the preparation of the
Project through public meetings and consultations carried out as part of the EIA preparation
process. Conclusions and recommendations were recorded in the EIAs. Special attention will be
given during Project implementation to maintaining a high level o f communication and
transparency with local stakeholders.

5. Environment

Impact Assessment. The major environmental objective of the Project i s to reduce nutrient
discharges into the Danube River and Black Sea and thus to achieve positive environmental
benefits, Separate EIAs were prepared for Component 1 and 2. Both EIAs, including the EMPs
have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory to the Bank. They were published in the Bank's
Infoshop on June 7, 2005. N o significant negative impact on the environment i s expected as a
result of Project implementation. Given the nature of the investments, the Project has been
classified as environmental category "B" (Partial assessment).

For the Budapest component, the MOB completed the EIA for its component in compliance with
the provisions of OP 4.01. As required, the EIA has been disclosed to the public and a summary
of the document has been published on the website of the MOB, in Hungarian and in English.
The EIA clearly indicates that no significant negative impact on the environment i s expected as a
result of the Project's implementation. Potential impacts on the environment of the investments
at the NBWWTP are exclusively limited to those that could occur during the construction phase
(noise, dust, etc.). Such potential impacts are well known and will be adequately controlled.
Appropriate measures have been included inthe EMP.

For the DDNP component, the WD, on behalf o f the DDNPD, completed the EIA in compliance
with OP 4.01 and presented i t in a public forum in March 2005. The final version o f the EIA
incorporating all comments received, including from the Bank Project Team, was made available
for public consultation at the public service offices of the WD in June 2005. Letters were sent to
the main stakeholders, including environmental associations and NGOs, to invite them to consult
 and comment on the document. The EIA contains a description of existing environmental
conditions in the two areas (Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa), including climate, hydrology, soil
 and water quality, groundwater and biodiversity, and it assesses the impacts on these conditions


                                                  17

from implementation of the Project, during the construction and operation phases. The EIA has
assessedpotential environmental negative impacts associated with dredging, changes in the local
hydrology, disposal of dredge materials, and increased flow of pollutants into the wetlands. The
EIA concludes that no significant negative impact i s expected if the measures included in the
EMP are implemented. Moreover, the rehabilitation of the wetlands is expected to improve the
ecological conditions of the ecosystem and increase biodiversity, as the quality of valuable
habitats will be improved. Positive ecological impacts are in particular expected with the quality
improvement of habitats for a number of migratory bird species of global importance, such as the
Ferruginous Duck (Aythya Nyroca), the White-tailed Eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla) and Black
Storks. Furthermore, the rehabilitation of the wetlands will help solve the desiccation problem
caused by the deepening of the Danube River bed, which has resulted in serious loss of wet
alluvial habitats over the years. As indicated above, the MOEW will convene an Experts Panel to
assist the WD and DDNPD authorities in the assessment and monitoring of the proposed
interventions. Additionally, the rehabilitation work in the Park will be implemented in stages,
starting with the development of pilots, in parallel with the development of the M&E system, to
allow for a better quantitative evaluation of the impacts. For more information on the biological
processes of nutrient trapping to take place in the DDNP and on their potential impacts on flora
and fauna, see Annex 18. The list of indicators to be measured as part of the M&E system will be
determined in the first stages of the Project, based on the results of the baseline study. Also, this
study will provide recommendations on the inclusion of indicators species in the M&E system to
measure its impacts on the ecology and biodiversity of the DDNP.

As indicated above, Hungarian regulations require that Environmental Licenses need to be
obtained on the basis of the EIA before works can start. This Environmental License has already
been obtained by M O B for the works planned under component 1. Therefore, works under this
component can start as soon as the Project i s effective. WD i s in the process of requesting the
Environmental License for the works planned under component 2. As part of this process, the
EIA will be updated to incorporate eventual additional environmental impact information on the
basis of the detailed design of the rehabilitation activities for the wetlands5. As this process i s
rather lengthy in Hungary, execution of works under this component i s scheduled to start during
the second year of Project implementation.

Environmental Management Plan (EMP). EMPs have been prepared for components 1 and 2.
Mitigation measures prepared under each EMP determine and address all relevant parameters,
impacts and mitigation measures, both during the construction and the operation periods, and
designate the responsible agency for their enforcement. In particular, for the DDNP component,
possible options for the handling and disposal of the dredged material have been considered, and
will be thoroughly examined as part of the detailed design. These measures include testing
materials to be dredged for potential contamination, physical isolation of the area during
dredging, reuse of dredged material where practicable, if found to be of acceptable quality, and
disposal of dredged material to an appropriate site according to its quality. Also, measures have
been developed as part of the EMP to protect natural habitats, including concentration of the
dredging and construction work during ecologically less sensitive periods of the year.
Contractors will be responsible to implement these precautions and measures, and their
implementation will be supervised by the WD, the DDNPD and the MOEW. These EMPs will


  The detailed design work has been budgeted but cannot start before the GoHhas assurance of financial support
under the Project.


                                                       18

be incorporated in the Project Operational Manual and its implementation will be monitored as
part of Bank supervision missions.

6. Safeguard policies

 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                       Yes             N o
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                           [XI             [I
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                      [XI             [ I
 Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                           [ I           [XI
 Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revisedas OP 4.11)              [ I            [XI
 Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                               [ I            [XI
 Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revisedas OP 4.10)               [I             [XI
 Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                [ I            [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                        [ I            [XI
 Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                          [ I            [XI
 Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                 [XI             11
Additional information and provisions made under the Project to ensure compliance with
applicable safeguards policies are described in Annex 10.

7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness

This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.




                                                19

                    Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                      HUNGARY: NUTRIENT REDUCTIONPROJECT

Hungary'sinvestment needs in wastewater treatment to comply with EUdirectives are estimated
at EUR4.0 billion over the next fifteen years. Budapest i s by far the most important point of
wastewater discharges in Hungary, and consequently of nutrient discharges. In particular, the
city generates respectively 45% N and 33% P of nutrient discharges from point sources in the
country. In 1999, the Hungarian Government prepared a long-term sewerage and wastewater
treatment plan, which covers the priorities for investment in wastewater treatment until 2015.
This plan includes the following investments for reducing nutrient discharges in the Danube: (a)
the development o f tertiary treatment for nutrient removal at the South Pest WWTP; (b) the
development of tertiary treatment for nutrient removal at the NBWWTP; (c) the completion of
the sewer network in all areas of Budapest; (d) the construction of the Central WWTP, to
complete the treatment of Budapest wastewater; and (e) the increase of landfill capacity for mid-
term sludge disposal by 165,000m3. Investments for the provision of tertiary treatment facilities
for these three plants represent about 30% of the investment allocated to wastewater treatment in
the plan, while the development of wastewater treatment infrastructure in Hungary represents
25% of the overall JAP plan. Although the Danube River i s not declared as a sensitive water
body according to the EUDirective, Hungarian authorities decided to reach tertiary treatment to
fulfill Hungary's commitments made towards the reduction of nutrient discharges to the Danube
and the Black Sea. The JAP includes the investment requirements for the reduction o f nutrient
discharges inBudapest among the five top priorities in the Plan.

In Hungary, provision of water and wastewater services falls under the responsibility of the
municipalities. In the past, the Government gave priority to the extension of drinlung water
services. Nowadays, the coverage and quality for such services are good in Hungary, and water
tariffs generally reflect the cost of service. Therefore, the Government recently shifted sector
priorities to increase wastewater collection and treatment (to biological secondary level of
treatment). In this regard, the M O B prepared the ongoing MWP, financed by a Bank Loan and
an EU Phare grant. This project includes substantial investments in collection system
development and improvement of both the NBWWTP and the South Pest WWTP. The project
included also the construction of a WWTP in Dunaujvaros, an important secondary Hungarian
city, which i s already completed. The South Pest WWTP discharges constituted the largest
source of pollution of the sensitive Rackeve-Soroksar-Danube Branch, which i s an important
recreational area for Budapest and i s classified as a "sensitive water body" as defined in the EU
Directive. It was therefore a priority to develop nutrient reduction facilities at the South Pest
WWTP. The development of tertiary treatment at the NBWWTP was a lower priority, as it
discharges directly in the Danube River, which i s not considered a "sensitive water body".

The Government strategy regarding nutrient reduction i s based on the following objectives: (a)
the establishment of a framework for sustainable use o f natural resources; (b) implementation of
cost-effective actions to meet the EUrequirements in regards to the WFD and the Directive on
Urban Wastewater Discharges; and (c) contribution to fulfilling Government's commitments
under international agreements, and in particular the Danube Convention established on June 29,
 1994, of which Hungary i s a founding member.




                                                 20

The Project i s fully consistent with the GEF Partnership on Nutrient Reduction for the Danube
and Black Sea Basins, as it addresses the highest priority transboundary issues identified in the
Strategic Actions Plans for the Danube River and the Black Sea. The Project complies with
eligibility criteria set for the Partnership, through a multi-focal approach, including investments
intwo focal points: advanced wastewater treatment for substantial discharges from metropolitan
areas, and restoration of wetlands to recover their function as nutrient traps. The Project will
follow-up on the substantial baseline investments financed in the MOB, through the ongoing
MWP.

The GoH and the MOB have demonstrated their commitment to reducing nutrient discharges
from the NBWWTP and in the Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa areas of the DDNP. To this end,
the Government obtained financial support from the GEF Strategic Partnership for Nutrient
Reduction in the Danube River Basin and the Black Sea. In addition to the GEF Grant, the M O B
will provide counterpart financing from its own funds and parallel financing from funds under
the Loan 4512-HU.

As mentioned above, Budapest is the principal source of nutrient discharges in the Danube.
Nutrients (Nand P) are responsible for the stimulation of aquatic growth and for contributing to
eutrophication of the Black Sea. Estimates show that the city of Budapest at the NBWWTPPlant
discharges about 2,000 t/yr of Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen and 450 t/yr of total Phosphorus into the
Danube. To reduce these discharges, the M O B has examined a number of technologies and has
submitted an application for a Preliminary Water License for three pre-selected technologies.
License was granted for the three examined technologies, which have been included in the
following technical options: (a) using conventional biological nutrient removal, with installation
of anoxic zones to improve settling of the sludge; (b) including Membrane Bio-Reactor (MBR)
technology in the existing aerated system; (c) constructing new MBR lines; and (d) completing
the present activated sludge system by a fix-bed process. As all these technologies are likely to
be protected by patents, the bid will be organized in two stages, the first to establish common
requirements for the offers, and the second, to compete in prices. The preparation of the
prequalification document i s well advanced.

A second Project area, the DDNP's Gemenc and B6da-Karapancsa region, i s identified by the
Environmental Action Plan for Hungary as an environmentally sensitive area, which could be
used to develop cost-effective nutrient reduction measures through the restoration of its
wetlands, thereby improving the quality of the Danube River. The DDNP, a protected zone of
50,000 ha, i s one of the areas with greater potential for this purpose (these wetlands covered
80,000 ha in the past). The Project will support the rehabilitation of about an additional 10,000
ha of wetlands and test their nutrient reduction capacity. The wetland restoration will take place
inthe Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa areas of the DDNP.The size of the area i s 27,800 hectares,
of which about 19,500 hectares acts as a floodplain and i s thus involved, at least during flood
events, in trapping part of the nutrients carried by the Danube. In the past, wetlands were
covering an area of about 80,000 hectares, providing higher capacity for regulating nutrient
quantities inthe Danube River.

As a result of numerous actions to regulate the river flow of the Danube, its riverbed has
deepened. Consequently, the inundation period in the adjoining floodplain (inundation area),
which i s today a protected nature reserve, and the frequency of floods have decreased. Flood
waves with the same water level inundate smaller floodplain areas than a few decades ago. The

                                                   21

degree of riverbed incision i s around 1.5 meters during the course o f 100 years. As a
consequence, the area i s becoming drier, wetland habitats keep shrinlung, and the nutrient
retention capacity of the ecosystem i s considerably diminishing.

The hydrological restoration of the Gemenc area of the National Park was started in 1998, in
order to reconstruct former wetlands. These activities are believed to have caused the reduction
of nutrient levels in the Danube. Stage Iof the revitalization of the "VCn-Duna" side branch and
the adjoining "NyCki-tb" was completed in 2001. Correspondingcosts, reaching HUF70 million,
were financed from the Environmental Fund administered by the Hungarian Government. As
part of the restoration a dam was pulled down. As a result, the "VCn-Duna" branch, which was
formerly dead, now functions again as a side-branch, improving water circulation and nutrient
retention capacity of the "NyCki-tb". For Stage 11, which further develops the previous activities,
another KUF 35.5 million has been granted from the Environmental Fund. The Project has been
launched, and initial steps for Project implementation have been made. The next steps would
include interventions in the neighboring flood areas: the so-called "Lassi" and "Decsi" water
systems, which represent an area of about 1,300 hectares. For these activities, the M O E W has
committed HLTF 46 million from the Environmental Fund. By improving the water circulation
and regimes in the area, a considerable proportion of the lost nutrient retention capacity will be
regained. Opening up of the "Kgdar-sziget" side branch i s also planned through a government-
funded Project, but the amount of necessary investments i s still to be determined.

Activities under the Project will contribute to increase the scope o f these interventions in the
Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa areas, with a special focus on development of nutrient trapping
capacity and improvement of the overall ecological conditions and biodiversity in the Park.




                                                 22

      Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                      HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT


                                                                                         Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                                 Project                         (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                    (Bank-financedprojectsonly)

                                                                                   Implementation      Development
 Bank-financed                                                                       Progress(IP)     Objective (DO)
 MunicipalWastewater                         Hungary -Municipal                           S               H S
                                             Wastewater Project (MWP)


 Other development agencies


IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)




                                                          23

                              Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                          HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

                                           Results Framework
                PDO                     Project Outcome Indicators        I      UseofProjectOutcome
                                                                                        Information
<ey Project development and global
mvironmental objective is:            lverall reduction of the nutrient    Refine JAP and implement the
i)toreduceBudapest'sdischargeof       low into the Danube River and the    integrated Danube River
iutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus)   3lack Sea of about 4000 tons per      nvironmental management strategy
nto the Danube River, and             mumat the end of the Project.         nthe region and the country to
:onsequently into the Black Sea;                                            levelop synergies and efficient use
'ii)toenhancethenutrienttrapping                                            ,f financial resources.
:apacity of Gemenc and Beda-
Karapancsa wetlands situated inthe
ower Hungarian part of the Danube
,...
River; and
,111)to serve as a model for similar
nutrient reduction initiatives in
Hungary and other Danube basin
Zountries.
     Intermediate Outcomes                 Intermediate Outcome              Use of Intermediate Outcome
                                                  Indicators                             Monitoring
Reductionof point-source nutrient     Annual reduction of nutrient          Revise the JAP updating priorities of
discharges from Budapest and          jischarges from the NBWWTP of         the ICPDR for point sources of
Hungary                               about 70% of Nitrogen and about       nutrient discharges
                                      50% of Phosphorus by the end of the
                                      Project.

                                      Average operational cost of the
                                      nutrient reduction process inthe
                                      NBWWTP
Reduction of quantity of nutrients    About 10,000 hectares of wetlands     Development of good practices for
flowing out of Hungary into the       rehabilitated in the DDNP at the end  wetland rehabilitation
Danube River                          of the Project.

                                      Annual water flow and quantity of
                                      nutrients (Nand P) retained by the
                                      DDNP wetlands increased by about
                                      40% each at the end of the Project.

                                      Average operational cost of the
                                      nutrient reduction process inthe
                                      DDNP wetlands

                                      M&Esystem fully operational
                                      Cost-benefit analysis of nutrient     Development of similar initiatives in
Replication strategy is inplace       reduction of wetland restoration       other cities and countries of the
                                      compared to WWTP tertiary              Danube River basin.
                                      treatment carried out

                                      Project experience and impact
                                      evaluation studies disseminated in
                                      the workshops held



                                                         24

Arrangementsfor results monitoring

Institutional issues: As indicated above, monitoring and evaluation of the Project outcomes will
be carried out separately for each component. Concerning the M O B component, the proposed
Project performance indicators will be monitored by the BMSC and reviewed by the M O B prior
to being reported to the PMU. As part of regular operation of the NBWWTP, the BMSC
performs continuous measurements of a set of technical and financial indicators. Technical
Project performance indicators are already being closely monitored by the BMSC, in accordance
with Hungarian andEUrequirements.

For the Park components, a comprehensive M&E system will be put inplace at the DDNP,under
the responsibility of the WD, acting as an implementing agency for the DDNPD, and in
coordination with the PMUof the MOEW. This M&E system will monitor the Project impacts in
the DDNP, in terms of reduction of Nand P, water quality and environmental health, taking into
account the efforts of the GoH to harmonize existing monitoring systems and to integrate the
provisions o f the EU WFD in regard to wetlands. The list of indicators to be included in the
M&E system, including possible indicators species, will be determined in the first stages of the
Project, based on the results of the baseline study. Also, as indicated above, the M&E i s to be
established prior to the execution of the works.

A simple management information system for Project M&E will be designed by the MOEW,
PMU to ensure the coordination and aggregation of the data, including reporting formats and the
agreed monitoring indicators. Quarterly and consolidated annual reports including the use o f
Project funds and Project impacts will be prepared by the PMU. Significant supervision by
qualified Bank staff i s plannedduringthe start-up phase. A Mid-TermReview will be carried out
to assess overall Project progress, introduce required changes, identify lessons learned, and
disseminate good practices. This process will be closely coordinated with the review of similar
projects in the Danube and Black Sea Programs, to allow for maximum benefits and knowledge
sharing.

Data collection: This will be carried out by the BMSC and the DDNPDfor components 1and 2
respectively, under the supervision of the respective PIUs and agencies in charge of the quality
control in Hungary.It will take into account the Hungarian andEUregulations inplace and to be
implemented, as well as the efforts to harmonize existing monitoring systems inHungary.

Capacity: For the M O B component, the municipality has shown satisfactory capacity during
preparation and implementation of the ongoing MWP, financed by Loan 4512-HU, which has a
more complex structure and larger requirements than the proposed Project.

Despite being technically strong agencies, the implementing teams of the WD and the DDNPD
 do not have experience in dealing with Bank-financed projects. To decrease this risk, the Project
provides for a launch workshop, coaching from MOB to WD and DDNPD, and assistance from
 specialized consultants for Project preparation, including procurement.

 Overall, no problems are expected in terms of capacity to monitor Project results. Additionally,
 funds will be made available under the Project to finance training and workshops to ensure that
 any potential problem will be adequately addressed.


                                                  25

_j

     3
     0




     -.    3 2
           25
     *z
      0    33:
     0     0 0

                  a

      W
      9




        $VI    z    z


5
m      z

.
3      z
ld

n
3




5
m      z

        z"



5
m
3
Y,
i


L       z"     E    2

                                    Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                          HUNGARY: NUTRIENT REDUCTIONPROJECT

Annex 4. Table 1. EstimatedProject Costsby Components(millionUS$)

            Project Components                    Local   Foreign        Total          %

  1: Developmentof tertiary treatment at the      9.70      13.70        23.40        73.2%
           NBWWTP (Budapest)

     2: Wetland Restorationin the DDNP
            a) Wetlandrestoration                 0.97      3.89          4.86        15.2%
b) TechnicalAssistance andMonitoring system       0.24      0.97          1.21         3.8%
             Total Component2                     1.22      4.86          6.08        19.0%

      3: DisseminationandReplication              0.08      0.33          0.41         1.3%

               Contingencies
                                     Physical     0.55      0.94          1.49         4.7%
                                          Price   0.22      0.38          0.60         1.9%
             Total Contingencies                  0.77      1.32          2.09         6.5 %

                                 Grand Total   I  11.77     20.20        31.97     1  100.0%

 Component1-Developmentof tertiary treatmentat the NBWWTP(Budapest).

 This component will finance works and equipment to upgrade the NBWWTPto the tertiary level
 of treatment for the reduction of nitrogen and phosphorous from nutrient discharges into the
 Danube River. The NBWWTP, which was built in 1973, has been rehabilitated under the
 ongoing Bank financed MWP. It i s being operated by a mixed-capital operator company, under a
 25-year concession contract, awarded in 1997 to a consortium of the Compagnie Generale des
 Eaux (now Veolia Water) and Berlinwasser. The Municipality of Budapest, assisted by
 consultants, prepared a feasibility study assessing three alternatives for this Project component.
 This feasibility study has been reviewed and approved by the WD who issued the required
 Preliminary License.

 Because most systems for tertiary treatment are likely to be protected by patents, and the
 solutions in each system are difficult to compare in a one-stage conventional bid, the MOB i s
 workmg on the preparation of a two-stage process, to permit equalization of proposals. The
 solution to be developed i s not specified at this stage and will be provided by the suppliers in the
 bids. The technical responsiveness of the solutions to be provided will be checked against its
 compliance with a set of precisely defined performance requirements (to be detailed in the
 technical specifications of the bidding documents), based on their technical and financial
 efficiency and their ability to comply with the EU Urban Wastewater Directive in terms of
 quality of effluents and the Hungarian regulation. After the selection process i s completed, the
 MOB will seek the final licenses from the WD. The prequalification documents are well
 advanced and prequalification i s expected to be completed prior to effectiveness. After the
 implementation of the nutrient removal phase the discharges of the NBWWTP in terms of Total
 NandTotal Pinthe effluent are expectedto bereducedby 68% and60%, respectively.




                                                       28

Component2- WetlandRestorationinthe Duna-DravaNationalPark.

This component will finance the rehabilitation of about 10,000 hectares of wetlands to develop
their nutrient trapping capacity within two identified areas, Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa,
located within the DDNP, directly along the course of the Danube River. The DDNP i s located
downstream from Budapest, which still discharges a significant proportion of its wastewater into
the Danube River without any treatment. Additionally, the surrounding areas upstream from the
Park are cultivated areas, and represent a source of non-point pollution of nutrients. This
component will test the efficiency of wetlands in trapping nutrients directly from the river. It will
establish an M&E system to measure the reduction of nutrients. This M&E system will be
developed in compliance with Hungarian regulations in regard to wetland monitoring. It will also
incorporate the quality assessment requirements under the WFD, thus supporting Hungary's
compliance with such requirements. In particular, parameters to be included in the M&E system
will be determined on the basis of the baseline survey to be carried out at the first stage of the
Project. The rehabilitation process will be implemented in stages, starting with the establishment
of one pilot ineach of the two areas for a period of one year.

A comprehensive baseline study will be carried out at the beginning of the Project to assess the
areas' environmental quality at the first stage of the Project, to help determine the precise
location of the two pilots, and to provide recommendations on the design and development of the
M&E system. Building on the results and lessons learned from the pilots, the rehabilitation will
then be scaled up. Early in the process, an Experts Panel will be convened by the MOEW to
assist the WD and the DDNPD authorities in the selection and monitoring of the planned
interventions. In parallel, the component will adapt a methodology of impact evaluation, using
local research organizations and universities. It will also include the development, in a
participatory way, of a DDNP Special Area Management Plan, including measures to best
accommodate authorized uses and protection measures in the Park area. Finally, this component
will include small provisions for financing incremental Project management costs for the WD,
PIU. This provision will cover the cost of the head of the WD, PIU, a consultant hired by the
WD for the component's preparation, and who will continue the existing responsibilities during
Project implementation.

The DDNP area includes floodplains and side branches covering about 20,000 hectares. The
Project includes their hydrological restoration as wetlands or floodplain (inundation) area.
Necessary investments will include some engineering works and earthworks for smaller dikes,
weirs and sluices, wetland monitoring and sampling equipment, and some localized dredging and
clearing. Additionally, laboratory instruments and operation control systems (computer hardware
and software) will be needed to establish the monitoring system. As a result, the drying of the
wetland habitat i s expected to stop and its degradation to reverse. Through the general
improvement of the natural ecosystems with adequate vegetation, the nutrient reduction capacity
of the wetland will increase. It i s estimated that the Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa regions will
have the ability to annually retain between 1390 and 1,730 tons of Nand between 76 and 92 tons
of P. For a detailed description of the qualitative biological processes of nutrient trapping to take
place in the DDNPand on their potential impacts on flora and fauna, see Annex 18.

A pre-feasibility study has been carried out in the following hydrological units of the Park, to
elaborate feasible and cost effective interventions to increase nutrient trapping capacity, while


                                                 29

taking into account environmental and biodiversity protection. The study recommended
implementing the interventions described below as part of the DDNP component of the Project.
Final design for these interventions will be prepared during Project implementation. Detailed
maps of these areas, identifying the different zones, are available in Annex 17.

 "Verhnka" water system, "Rez6ti-Duna". Area: 1,100 hectares.

Description: The Verhnka island was created at the end of the 19* century, by artificially cutting
across an over-developed bend, what i s today the "RezCti-Duna" side branch. The water surface
area of the 15 kilometres long side branch i s 206 hectares. Its upper and lower mouths
connecting it to the main bed are 3 kilometres apart. As a result of regulation, the branch i s
increasingly silted up, especially at its upper section and its confluence, with the water flow
being totally blocked at low water levels, and being less capable of supplying water to the
wetland habitats of the island.

Recommended intervention: Construction of a silt gathering device at the upper mouth. Building
a levee or a weir to holdback the water and dredging of the bed at the lower mouth.

 "Buvat" water system. Area: 614 hectares.

Description: There are several silted-up dead branches crossing the area. Their desired level of
water intake should be ensured from the neighbouring dead branches ("RezCti-Duna"             and
"GrCbeci-Duna").

Recommended intervention:
         Improve the linkage between the Keszeges-t6, the Lidia-tavak and Lidia-lapok to the
         RezCti-Duna, in order to allow more frequent floods.
         Improve the water transport at Zitony-tava and repair the collapsed culvert at Vajas-fok
         to stop the leakage by the old abandoned rail road.

 "B6da-Karapancsa'' water system. Area: 2,500 hectares.

Description: The major elements of this area adjacent to the Croatian border are the "Btdai-
Duna" and the "Belso BCda", comprising a 20 kilometre long system of side-branches. The areas
belonging to the two side-branches are separated by a flood-prevention dike. The "Belso-BCda"
i s situated on the flood-protected side. A small sluice separates Kiilso-BCda (outer BCda) dead
branch from the Danube; with the help of which, the water can be sustained at a constant level
averaging 3.2 meters.

Recommended intervention:
         Build a sluice (4.0m x 4.5m) to separate the Kiilso-BCda (outer BCda) from the Danube
         and dredge the pre-channel inner river stretch to transform this dead branch into a
         floodplain lake with a surface o f 75 hectares and a depth up to 5.0 meters;
         Inthe Belso BCda (inner BCda) deadbranch, remove the dividing barrier and increase the
         allowed water level;




                                                  30

       By making a large passage at the upper stretch of the channel linlung Mocskos-Duna
        dead branch, increase the water level with a small escape sluice and dredge the river
        stretch.



Water system at the Sib-mente canal. Area: 755 hectares.

Description: The area along the Si6-mente canal connecting Lake Balaton with the Danube i s
interwoven by various types of wetland habitats originating from the Danube's earlier riverbed
movements and from the cross-cutting of bends. In order to be able to maintain the high variety
of wetland plant species capable of retaining nutrients, it i s necessary to implement bed
corrections, and construct regulatory works and water-retaining barriers.

RecommendedInterventions:
        Improve the water intake conditions (frequency, accretion volume, level of retention)
        achieved through cleaning the connections to the river-bed and the internal connections,
        (profile extension, thalweg correction), through the implementation of controllable water-
        retention facilities (maneuverable locks, pipe culverts) inthe mouth profiles
        Sib mente ZZ.: Cleaning of the channel No. 1259; Construction of regulating sluice and of
        a pipe culvert at water body No. 1259 and at the mouth of Sziligy fok
        Sib mente ZZZ.: Bed cleaning at water body and channels No. 1254. Construction of a
        water flow regulating weir. Construction of a pipe culvert at section 0+105 of the water
        body No. 1254
        Sib mente VI.: Bed cleaning at water bodies and channels No. 1263 and No. 1265;
        Construction of water flow regulating weirs and construction of a pipe culvert at section
        000-010of the water body No. 1265
        Sib mente VZZ.: Bed cleaning at water body and channels No. 1268; Construction of a
        water flow regulatingweirs and of a pipe culvert at the mouth of Holt-Si6 and Si6
        Sib mente VZIZ.: Bed cleaning at the mouth; Construction of water flow regulating weirs
        and of a pipe culvert at the mouth of Holt-Si6 11and Si6.

 "Gemenc" water system. Area: 926 hectares.

Description: The most valuable central element of this water system i s the 30 hectares surface-
area Forg6 Lake. The lake i s connected with the "GrCbeci-Duna" side branch through a 2
lulometres long canal.

Recommended Interventions:
        Improve the water intake conditions (frequency, accretion volume, level of retention)
        through cleaning the connections to the river-bed and the internal connections, (profile
        extension, thalweg correction)
        Inthe Forg6 Lake (No. 1002), implementation of a double water induction,direction and
        restoration of the inter-basin diversion under the line road from the direction of north
        Cleaning of channel No. 1008. Construction of a water flow regulating device at the north
        side of Forg6-t6, construction of a pipe-culvert with double gate.



                                                  31

"BBtai-Duna" water svstem. Area: 1,430 hectares.

Description: The system i s named after the 6 lulometres long dead branch of 96 hectares surface
area. The island between the branch and the Danube River bed i s an area of high ecological
diversity, partially covered by forest, which i s frequently flooded.

Recommended Interventions:
   0    Biitai-Holt-Duna: construct a water flow control facility (decelerator) in parallel with the
        village and a weir or sluice at the lower railway bridge pillars section
   0    The optional severance of the Jaj-tanyai-tb from Bita water system. Contemplate the
        repair of an existing channel leading to the Siirosok (and the Danube).

"Fekete-erdei" water system, "GrCbeci-Duna". Area: 500 hectares.

Description: The area i s an islandborderedby the main bed and the side branch "GrCbeci-Duna".
It was-created in the 19" century, by cutting across a bend. The side-branch has 66 hectares
surface area. Its length i s 4 kdometres, and it i s connected to the main bed only by its confluent
end. It has become strongly silted up, with a developed eutrophication process.

Recommended interventions:
    0   To block the upper inlet of GrCbec in order to slow down the rate of sedimentation and
        dredge stretches filled with sediment
    0   In order to facilitate the improvement of water intake into lakes and swamps, namely
        Sulymos-tb, Akbs-hbkony, Doglott GrCbec, Kesel$s-(Ashs)-Duna           and Tehenes-lap, it i s
        essential to secure more frequent flooding of those sites through the water inflow and
        outflow of the channels.

 "Keriilo-Duna" water system. Area: 640 hectares.

Description: The determining element of water regime in the area i s the artificially created bed
with the name ,,Keriilo-Duna". It i s 8 kilometres long. During flood events, it can represent a
wetland of 9 hectares.

Recommended Interventions:
    0   Slight dredgingof the river-bed in order to increase the volume of the water body
    0   Improvement of the water supply of the wet habitat defended by the summer dike
    0   Restoration of 2 dike drains at the same location
    0   Repair of two pipe weirs at 000-450
    0   Construction of a damming weir.

 "BBli" water svstem. Area: 500 hectares.

Description: The central part of the area i s occupied by a strongly eutrophic, filled-up inner lake.
The surface area of the lake i s approximately 15 hectares. Its water supply i s regulated by the
canal connecting it to the "VCn-Duna" (Old-Danube), the neighbouring hydrological unit, which
has already been revitalised.



                                                    32

Recommended Interventions:
    0   Rebuild the culvert inthe dirt road above ground level at BBli-fok (lake)
    0   Dredge the entire stretch of BBli-fok and the bottom of BBli-t6 to ensure a more frequent
        and prevalent flooding of the lake
    0   Construct a water regulating weir or sluice at the inlet to BBli-t6.

Remark: Csorosz i s currently getting its water from NyCki-to, but it i s possible to develop
feeding from Simon-Duna, which will result in a more frequent, lower water supply. One of the
branches of Zsold-kasztil6 i s fed from the NyClu-t6. More frequent flooding can be ensured by
moderate dredging.

 "M6ricz-Duna" water system. Area: 360 hectares.

Description: The M6ricz-Duna branch and the associated water system cover an area of 48
hectares, which i s periodically flooded and have been considerably silted up, especially at the
confluent section.

Recommended Interventions:
    0   Construction of a weir at O+OOO

 "Nagy-Pandur" water system. Area: 1,200 hectares.

Description: The Nagy-Pandur Island i s a temporarily flooded area with forest cover, belonging
to the town of Baja and the village Szeremle. The area i s bordered by the main Danube and the
10lulometres long "Szeremlei-Duna" side branch of 84 hectares open surface area. On the island
there are 25 hectares of permanently flooded area and inner lakes, with water suppliedat times of
flood coming partly from the Danube and partly from the "Szeremlei-Duna" branch. The latter i s
strongly silted up, and the relative elevation of its bottom level i s relatively increasing as the
mainDanubebeddeepens.

Recommended intervention:
        Rebuilding of the confluence at the lower part o f Szeremlei-Sugovica and dredging,
        preferably, along the highly sedimented stretches. Alternatively, the entire dead branch
        may be subject to dredging.
        Improvement of the water supply into the water bodies at Pandtir-sziget through
        enhancement of the channels' water influx.

Component 3: Dissemination and Replication

This component will finance consultant services to carry out a comprehensive end-of-project
impact evaluation and results analysis study of the two interventions (tertiary treatment and
wetlands restoration), including a cost-benefit analysis. The results of these studies will serve as
a basis for the dissemination, replication and knowledge sharing activities. The component will
finance workshops, public communication campaigns and promotion of cost effective solutions
for nutrient reduction in other areas of Hungary and in other riparian countries. The project will
also link to the GEF Danube and Black Sea Regional projects, Danube Convention-supported
dissemination activities and the GEF-funded IW Learn initiative. In this regard, this component


                                                 33

will include setting up a Project website consistent with the GEF 1W:LEARN guidance,
participation of project staff in IW:LEARN activities, participation in at least two GEF
International Waters portfolio conferences, and participation in ICPDR and Black Sea
coordination meetings. The Project will also provide limited funds to finance a Project launch
workshop; auditing services; and training to strengthen WD for project implementation and to
build capacity of DDNPD staff for the efficient development and operation of wetlands for
nutrient trapping.




                                               34

                          Annex 5: ProjectCosts

          HUNGARY: NUTRIENT REDUCTIONPROJECT

                              CONTENTS

Table 1: Project Cost andFinancing

Table 2: Financial Results and Projections - Municipality of Budapest

Table 3: Financial Results and Projections - BMSC

Table 4: NBWWTP- Project Stand-Alone Income Statement Projections

Table 5: NBWWTPFinancial Operations - Impact of GEF Project

Table 6: Main Assumptions inFinancial Projections

Institutional Analysis - Municipality of Budapest

Institutional Analysis - BMSC

Institutional Analysis - DDNPD and WA




                                     35

Annex 5, Table 1: Project Cost and Financing

     Project Cost By         Total                                           Foreign
      Component and/or         U S               Local                    US $million
      Activity              $million          US $million

                                      Government Municipality         GEF       Associated
                                       (MOEW)        of Budapest                IBRDloan
      1:Development of
      tertiary treatment
      at the NBWWTP          23.40         0             9.70          6.50             7.20

      (Budapest)
      2: Wetland
      Restoration in the
      Duna-Drava              6.08        1.22             0           4.86              0

      National Park
      3: Dissemination
      and Replication         0.41        0.07           0.01          0.33              0

      Total Baseline
      cost                   29.88        1.29           9.71         11.69          7.20
      Physical
      Contingencies           1.49        0.06           0.49          0.58          0.36

      Price                               0.03           0.19          0.23          0.14
      (




           Interest during
             construction
            Front-end Fee
         Total Financing     31.97
                 Required                 1.38           10.39         12.50          7.70

'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$6.4 million, and the total Project cost, net of taxes, i s
US$25.6 million. Therefore, the share of Project cost net of taxes i s 80%.




                                                36

.-c
1.
L
3
0
a
v)

            m
            m




v)
=!    v)
      I-
      z
      W
      F
      v)
      W
      >
      z
      J
      2
      0
      z
      s
      z
      K


      v)
      W
      >
      K
      W
      v)
      W
      U

              Annex 5, Table 3: BMSC SummarizedHistoricalFinancialStatements
                                      -
                                         (HUF billion)

                                                    I999 2000 2001  2002   2003  2004
NCOME STATEMENTS
3perating revenues                                  14.4  17.0 18.5 20.2   20.2  25.7
Iirect cost of sales                                  7.3 8.0  8.7    9.8  11.2  11.8
ndirect cost of sales
 selling and marketing                                0.1 0.1  0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1
 administration                                       0.7 0.7  0.9    0.9   1.1   1.1
 other overhead                                       0.7 0.6   0.7   0.8   0.8   0.8
3ther revenues                                        4.4  5.5  7.5   6.1   9.7   8.8
3ther expenditures                                    5.0  7.7  8.3   7.4   9.7  13.6
    Total operating expenses                        13.8  17.1 18.7  19.0  22.9  18.5
Dperatingprofit
-.-inancia1revenues                                   5.0  5.4  7.3   7.3   7.0   7.2
                                                      1.0  0.9  1.1   0.8   0.7   0.9
Financial expenses                                         0.1        0.1   0.2   0.2
Financial profiVloss                                  1.0  0.8  1.1   0.7   0.5   0.7
Profitloss from ordinary activities                   6.0  6.2  8.4   8.0   7.5   7.9
Extraordinary revenues                                0.1  0.1  0.1   0.2   0.3   0.3
Extraordinary expenditures                            1.6  1.2  2.7   2.2   3.3   3.1
Extraordinary profiVloss                             -1.5 -1.1 -2.6   -2.0  -3.0  -2.8
Profit beforetax                                      4.5  5.1  5.8    6.0  4.5   5.0
Corporate tax                                         1.0  1.3  1.5    1.5   1.2   1.4
Profit after tax                                      3.5  3.8  4.3    4.5   3.3   3.6
BALANCE SHEETS
Intangible assets                                     0.1  0.1  0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1
Tangible assets                                      82.8 84.1 85.9  88.6   90.5  92.2
Long-term financial assets                            0.1  0.1  0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1
    Total long-termassets                            83.0 84.3 86.1  88.8   90.7  92.4
Inventories                                           0.2  0.1  0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2
Receivables                                           3.4  3.1  3.2    3.5   3.1   3.8
Securities                                            5.8  6.8  7.0    6.5   4.9   6.3
Liquid assets                                         0.8  0.5  0.5    0.7   1.6   1.5
    Total current assets                             10.2 10.5 10.9  10.9    9.8  11.8
Prepayments                                           0.4  0.3  1.2    1.6   2.0   2.8
     Total assets                                    93.6 95.1 98.2 101.3 102.5  107.0
Issued capital                                       70.0 70.0 70.0   70.0  70.0  70.0
Capital reserve                                      13.6 13.6 13.6   13.6  13.6  13.6
Retained earnings                                     2.6  3.9  5.1    6.6   8.3   8.8
ProfiVlossof the year                                 1.3  1.2  1.5    1.7   0.5   0.6
     Total shareholders'equity                       87.5 88.7 90.2   91.9  92.4  93.0
Provisions                                            0.9  1.7  1.7    2.4   1.2   2.7
Long-term liabilities                                 0.7  0.2  0.4                0.2
Current liabilities                                   1.4  1.2  1.5    1.1   1.5   1.8
     Total liabilities                                2.1  1.4  1.9    1.1   1.5   2.1
Accrued expenses and deferred income                  3.0  3.3  4.4    6.0   7.5   9.3
     Total equity and liabilities                    93.6 95.1 98.2 101.3 102.5  106.9
FINANCIALRATIOS
Operating margidoperating revenues (Yo)                35   32   39     36    35    28
Profit before tadoperating revenues (Yo)               31   30   31     30    22    19
Current ratio                                         7.3  8.8  7.3    9.9   6.5   6.5
Debt equity ratio                                    0.01 0.00 0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00




                                               39

            Annex 5, Table 4: NBWWTP Project Stand-AloneIncome Statement Projections
                                                  -
                                                           (000 US$)

                                                             2007       2008   2009  2010  2011  2012

A. PROJECT STAND-ALONE
REVENUES
Sewerage revenues                                            5277       5306   5298  5363  5441  5522
Other revenues                                                    0        0      0     0     0     0
  Total revenues                                             5277       5306   5298  5363  5441  5522
EXPENSES
Salaries                                                       238       252    268   283   299   315
Electricity                                                   1021      1052   1083  1111  1142  1174
Chemicals                                                     1214      1251   1288  1321  1359  1398
Sludge disposal (incl. transportation)                         221       227    234   240   247   254
Maintenance                                                     160       165   170   174   178   183
Other operating expense                                          50       52     54    55    56    58
Environmental levy                                            -376       -418  -498  -498  -498  -498
Water pollution charge                                            0        0      0     0     0     0
Rental fee                                                    2492      2465   2437  2410  2382  2355
Provisions for bad debt                                         106       106   106   107   109   110
  Total 0 & M expense                                         5126      5152   5142  5203  5274  5349
Depreciation                                                       0        0     0     0     0     0
  Operatingmargin                                               151       154   156   160   167   173
Interest expense                                                   0        0     0     0     0     0
  Net income before tax                                         151       154   156   160   167   173
Corporate tax                                                    24        25    25    26    27    28
   Net incomeafter tax                                          127       129   131   134   140   145



Note: Lease alternative rentalfee to be paid by the operator is included
                       -




                                                              40

              Annex 5, Table 5 NBWWTP Financial Operations Impact of GEF Project
                              -                           -
                                         (US$ 000)


                       2007    2008  2009    2010     2011   2012    2013    2014 Annually



NBWWTP operations
(without project)

Revenues               48675   50142 51653  52951   54476   56045    57760 59322     60722

0 & Mcash expenses     33999   34844 36697  37504   38438   39401    40393 42173     43034

Corporatetax            2059    1669  3352   3575     3740   3902     4065   4029     4169

 Net cash income       12617   13629 11604  11872    12298  12742    13302 13120     13519


Project operations

Revenues                5277    5306  5298   5363     5441   5522     5606   5624     5650

0 & M cash expenses     5020    5045  5036   5095      5165  5238     5315   5329     5350



NBWWTP operator
(with project)

Revenues               53952   55448 56951  58314    59917  61567    63366 64946     66372

0 & Mcash expenses     39019   39889 41733  42599    43603  44639    45708 47502     48384

Corporatetax            2083    1694  3377   3601      3767  3930     4094    4140    4200

  Net cash income      12850   13865 11841   12114   12547  12998    13564 13304     13788




                                          41

                          b        0     Ink70
                          N   Zc?
                          m      7 z     N - m
                          cu


                                   0
                                   0     Inloo
                                         c u - m
                                   7




                          cu
                          b   Zc?   0    m a 0
                                         N - m
                          In     r
                          cu       z

                          b         0    InIno
                          N    Lncu      N - m
                          In  0 -   0
                                    7
                          N



    0 0
    zmcu
      w I n
         z   0                      0    InIno
              (d                         N r m
             0                      z

I
                          b    y-!  0    m u 7 0
I                         N              N - m
                          In     -c 0)

3I                        cu
I
,
i                         cu
                          b    Zcu  In   I n m o
                                         c u - m
                          In     7  b
                          N



i                                   0     m L n 0
                          N
                          b    Lnc? In    N - m
                          In   0 7
                          N




                    iu



I




I
I

                        InstitutionalAnalysis Municipality of Budapest
                                               -
Legal Framework: Hungary's system of government comprises the State, 19 county
governments plus Budapest, and 3,148 independent local units organized as villages or towns.
Budapest i s further structured into 23 independent districts, each district having its own mayor,
city council and staff. O f the independent local units, 42 (including the Budapest districts) have a
population of 50,000 or more.

Key pieces of legislation govern Hungarian local government spending and revenue powers: the
1990 Law on Local Governments (Act No. LXV); the Law on Local Taxes (Act C of 1990), last
modified at the end of 1995; and the 1996 Act on Municipal Debt Adjustment (Law XXV of
1996), providing procedures for formal debt work out and bankruptcy reorganization for
municipalities.

Organizationand Administration: The 1990 Law on Local Government contains a chapter on
Budapest's governmental structure, recognizing its "special role and position" vis-8-vis central
government and other local governments. According to the law, Budapest has a municipal
government where each of the city's 23 districts has one seat on a General Assembly (city
council), and the remaining 65 council seats are elected at large. The Budapest municipal
government i s headed by a Lord Mayor, elected directly every four years, with the next election
in 2006. Deputy Mayors are appointed by the Lord Mayor subject to General Assembly
approval.

The Local Government law directs the Municipality to perform functions affecting the whole of
the city, including maintaining major roads and providing public transportation, police
protection, water and wastewater treatment, wastewater collection, wastewater disposal and
drainage. District government i s responsible for primary and secondary education and social
programs including day/elder care, andbirthand death registry.

Revenues: Budapest has two general revenue sources: funds from the central State budget and
"own source'' local revenues. Revenues received from the State fall into three major categories:
intergovernmental transfers, shared taxes and fees, and social security support.

Zntergovemmental Transfers. The four categories of budget transfer from State to local
government are: normative grants, targeted matching grants, addressed grants and other
relatively minor transfers.

Normative (unconditional) Grant. The normative grant i s an unconditional transfer composed of
two elements: (i)a HUF 2 million lump sum, provided to all local governments and (ii)an
amount based on "norms" and need indices. The norms are a function of standard per capita
services, a small matching grant (each HUF of tourism tax i s supplemented by two from the
State) and 18 expenditure related weights designed to estimate the demand and cost for
municipal services. From the grant, cost recovery for services i s just below 60% for most
operations of the Municipality.




                                                  43

Targeted (matching) Grants. Matching grants are provided for specific capital construction
projects determined by annual state priorities. The central funds are matched by a local
contribution, with the state generally providing 40% of project costs. Most wastewater projects
(except for Budapest and the largest cities) are fundedby matching grants.

Addressed Grants. Certain infrastructure projects for Hungary's larger cities, including the
ongoing Municipal Wastewater Project for Budapest, are funded by addressed grants (special
appropriations). Each year legislation i s passedearmarking the funds to specific projects.

Shared Tuxes and Fees. Local governments receive a share of personal income taxes collected
by the state. The local share ranges from 25 to 36%, according to a formula incorporating per
capita income and population. Budapest's share of personal income taxes i s divided between the
Municipality and the districts in a 60:40 ratio.

Other Centrally Earmarked Transfers. There are two other state transfers to the Budapest
budget: (i) social security contribution of pass-through funds to cover the cost of health
             a
institutions and (ii)
                    special "ad hoc" grants.

Revenues under Municipality control can be divided into two major categories: (i)       those from
current operations and (ii)from portfolio income and the sale of municipal assets.

Current Revenues. Municipal revenue from current operations consists primarily of local taxes,
together with relatively minor fees, fines and other income. The Law on Local Taxes grants local
government authority to levy five types of "own-source" taxes, up to maximum rates defined by
the law. In Budapest, the Municipality levies two of these taxes, and the balance are reserved for
the district governments. The taxes are:

Local Industrial Tux (general business turnover tux). This i s a tax levied by the Municipality on
all businesses operating within its limits. The tax i s 2% of gross sales revenue net of VAT, cost
of goods sold and the value of subcontractor services. Revenue from the general business tax i s
shared with district government. Budapest's rate i s the maximum allowed under the law.

Tourism Tux. The maximum rate i s 4%, or 300 HUFper person per night. Inits current version,
the tax applies to every night's stay at commercial lodgings; previously, the first night was
exempted, resulting in large losses due to short average stays by business people. The tax i s
collected and administered by the Municipality and shared with the local districts. The
Municipality retains 60%, which i s allocated equally to a tourism infrastructure fund and a
general fund.

Property Tuxes. Two types of property taxes may be levied by district governments: on
unimproved private and public land, and on improvements (private buildings, both commercial
and residential). The maximum rate on unimproved property i s 200 HUF per square meter, or
3% of "corrected value" (defined as 50% of observed market value). The percentage calculation
i s rarely used because of low turnover and unreliable price data. The maximum rate on
commercial and residential buildings i s 900 HUFper square meter, or 3% of corrected value.




                                                  44

Communal Tuxes. Communal taxes are charged at a flat rate per employee or per unit of housing.
The maximum rate i s 12,000 HUF per housing unit or 2,000 HUF per employee. This tax i s
available only to district governments.

Portfolio Income and Sale of Assets. Municipality of Budapest generates revenue from sales of
equity stakes in enterprises, securities transactions, sales of land and other assets, privatization of
housing, interest income, rental income, and profits from entrepreneurial activities. The
Municipality has significant holdings of shares in recently privatized utilities (Budapest Gas
Works, Budapest Electrical Works, the national grid), as well as compensation coupons and
securities, and plans to sell several unimproved lots and other real estate.

Borrowing capacity: A limit on municipal borrowing i s included in the legislation governing
Hungary's budget. Municipal debt service i s limited to 70% of "corrected' own revenues,
defined as local taxes, administrative fees, interest income, environmental fees and other specific
revenue of local governments less debt service. This definition excludes "current" revenue of
municipal institutions having discretion over their own income, and "capital" revenue other than
dividends and interest. Budapest's debt backed by sovereign guarantee i s not included in the
debt service limitation, but even without this exclusion, Budapest i s well within the prescribed
limits. Projections prepared by Budapest with the help of international consultants indicate that
Budapest will continue to remain within the limits specified at present.




                                                   45

         InstitutionalAnalysis BudapestMetropolitanSewerageCompany (BMSC)
                                 -

The Operatingand TechnicalSupportAgency          - BudapestMetropolitanSewerage
Company(BMSC)

Sewer construction was begun in the inner city of Budapest at the end of 18th century.
Wastewater collection nationwide, including Budapest, was a central government responsibility
until 1946, when an independent company under the control of the local council was established.
Since 1950, the company has been known as Budapest Fovarosi Csatomdzdsi Mzuvekor,
translation of Budapest Metropolitan Sewerage Company (BMSC). In 1993 it was transformed
into a public limited liability company. Water supply i s the responsibility of a separate company,
the Budapest Metropolitan Water Supply Company.

Ownership and Governance: BMSC is an Operating Company (OC). Its assets comprise
buildings,real-estate and operating equipment only. Prior to 1997, BMSC was 100% owned by
the Municipality. In 1996, it was registered and the newly registered company concluded a
public utility service agreement with the Municipality. The agreement specifies service
requirements and a formula for the annual adjustment of tariffs. In 1997, the Municipality sold a
25% share of the BMSC through an international competition to a private investor, a joint
venture of Generale des Eaux and Berlinwasser. The shares owned by the investor are preferred
shares which entitle the investor to a dividend equal to 18% of the par value of their shares. The
dividend i s calculated from the after tax profit. Any profits remaining after payment of the
private investor's preferred shares dividend then go to the Municipality. The shareholder's
agreement gives the investor the right to manage the BMSC for a period of 25 years. The
investor's management rights include a majority position on the Board of Directors and the right
to appoint the General Manager. Tariff-setting i s discussed below in the last paragraph in this
section.

Organization and Management: The Company is organized into two management centers--
technical and financial--with clear lines of hierarchical authority. Each center i s headed by a
deputy general manager. There are roughly six management levels, each employee reports to no
more than one manager, and responsibility i s delegated (within expenditure thresholds) so that
senior management involvement i s not required in lower level decisions.

The technical center i s divided into three sections: network, operations and investments. The
network section i s responsible for the sewer system, pump stations and associated equipment,
including repair, maintenance and reconstruction of sewers, surface drainage, river bank outlets
and hydraulic structures. The network section also operates sludge disposal facilities on Csepel
Island and in Csomad, and maintains the technical designs inventory. The operations group i s
responsible for wastewater treatment, including laboratory analysis o f samples, control of
industrial discharges and scheduled maintenance programs for wastewater treatment plants. The
investments department plans the company's capital improvements and manages their
implementation.




                                                46

InstitutionalAssessment: With the introduction of the private-sector led management starting
1997, BMSC has become a strong institution that has been successful in delivering dependable
sewerage and drainage services to the Municipality.

Management. The current management of the company has consistently sought to bring BMSC
management systems and practices closer to Western European accepted norms and standards
through upgrading the company's operational, financial and commercial management functions;
improvements in equipment, facilities and personnel skills;        enhancement of operational
efficiency through improved maintenance and replacement programs; financial planning and
control through improved information systems to provide a better basis for internal decision-
making; and improved commercial practices, including customer relations.

Operations. BMSC's operational staff i s competent. Company management follows a policy of
setting specific and achievable targets and standards. Areas addressed include customer service
obligations, system reliability, including improved inspection and monitoring programs; timely
preventive and routine maintenance; and reductions in obstructions and breaks inpipe networks.

Employment and Staffing. The company employs about 1,180 persons, down from 1,7 17 in 1997
when the new management took over. This represents an employee per thousands connections
ratio of 1.8 which the management intends over time to bring closer to ratios in similar sized
utilities in Western European countries. BMSC encourages the education and training of its
employees through company sponsored university education. Skilled worker and driver training
are provided, as are short courses for software/hardware applications.

Commercial Activities. For most customers, wastewater charges are a function of water
purchased. A computerized bill i s prepared b y the water company on behalf of BMSC. The bills
either are sent by the water company with automatic debiting of the customer's bank account, or
are transmitted to a private collection company (Dijbeszedo Rt), which prints the bills, and
collects and remits the fees. Dijbeszedo Rt also has contracts for the billing and collection of
other city services (water, gas, solid waste, district heating and insurance premiums). With
automatic billing, information on a customer's account i s available at any time. The collection
agency reports remittances and non-collected debts monthly. In both cases, sales revenue i s
recorded monthly and bank transactions entered daily. Wastewater customers with their own
water supply are billed by BMSC on the basis of self-declarations. BMSC has a two year
collection contract with the Dijbeszedo Rt. The contract stipulates a minimum 95.2% collection
effectiveness ratio. Dijbeszedo Rt transfers the total fee collected less any retention allowed
under the contract to the BMSC. BMSC keeps the operations part and transfers the investment
and rent parts to the Municipality.

Financial Management. The company has an experienced financial management team aware of
the value of timely and accurate information for decision-making. Concurrently with
improvements in the management information system, steps have been taken to improve the
content and quality of internal reporting and analysis.

Accounting and Internal Control. Company accounts are kept in formats required under current
regulations. Prior to 1997, in common with most Hungarian utilities, the focus in accounting



                                                47

was more on the production of financial statements and reports for regulatory, tax and control
purposes rather than as an aid to management decision-making. This has progressively changed
under the new management. The focus i s continually improving linkages between the different
financial, accounting and commercial subsystems to enable management to take an integrated
and fully informed view.

Wastewater Turifls. The company utilizes one tariff structure for all customers (domestic,
industrial, commercial) and does not take into account differential costs of service. The tariffs are
adjusted each year with the new tariff going into effect on January lSt.
                                                                       There are three parts to the
tariff: (i) depreciation of the sewerage system; (ii) investment fee for the construction of
           the                                           an
new facilities and the repayment of debt service on loans taken out by the Municipality for new
investments, e.g., the ongoing Bank Loan 4512-HU; and (iii) operating fee. Starting2003, an
                                                              the
environmental levy has been added as a surcharge to the tariff. The investment fee i s decided by
the Municipality and i s used only for replacement of or improvements to the system. The
operating fee i s proposed by the BMSC based on the formula in the utility services agreement
and i s subject to negotiation of the assumptions. The formula contains no allowance for a
management fee or a fixed profit. The profit, if any, results from the savings realized by the
investor over the year in operation of the system. BMSC has consistently realized a net profit
after tax for each year since 1999.




                                                48

              Institutional Analysis -DunaDrava National Park Directorate, and

    South-Transdanubian Environment Protection and Water Management Directorate

The Hungarian park system covers an estimated 485,000 hectares, of which about 58,400
hectares are wetlands. The Ministry of Environment and Water (MOEW) i s the designated
central government agency in charge of the national parks. Administration of the parks i s carried
out through 10 Directorates within the MOEW. Financing for the operations and maintenance o f
the parks i s provided through the central budgetary allocations for the Directorates. In some
cases, the Directorates are able to supplement these budgetary allocations with revenues derived
through other activities related to forestry, plant growing and horticulture, animal and fish
farming, game management, and tourism.

DunaDrava NationalParkDirectorate (DDNPD)

The DDNP covers an area of about 50,000 hectares of which about 19,500 hectares are
temporary (floodplain) or permanent wetlands. This includes the Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa
wetlands situated in the lower Hungarian part of the Danube river. Administration of the DDNP
i s carried out by the DDNPD, established in December 1995. Current responsibilities of the
DDNPDinclude, but are not limited to, the following:


     0   Maintenance of the Park, including wetlands;
     0   Operation and maintenance of facilities for nature protection and tourism;
     0   Monitoring, information gathering and control, activities related to Park protection and
         maintenance;
     0   Protection of flora and fauna;
     0   Forestry activities;
     0   Cooperation and coordination with municipalities and other local/regional bodies in tasks
         relatedto environmental protection, regional development planning; and
     0   Contribute to research involving nature protection, education, and information
         dissemination.

The annual budget of the DDNPD i s funded mainly through allocations from the central
government's budget. Its other sources of revenue are not very significant. For 2005, the
DDNPDbudget is HUF529 million (USD2.7 million).

The DDNPD has a total of 78 staff, 60 of whom have various degrees in biology, ecology,
forestry, etc. The staff has, on average, about 6 to 8 years of experience. To date, the DDNPD
has not been involved in large internationally financed projects, but it has some experience in
smaller projects of up to HUF 80 million (USD 400,000). In particular, the DDNPD does not
have, in-house, the type of water management expertise that will be required for the proposed
project. Consequently, the Government has decided to assign implementation management
responsibility for the implementation of the Park component (Component 2) of the Project to the
South-Transdanubian Environment Protection and Water Management Directorate as described
below.




                                                 49

South-Transdanubian Environment Protection and Water Management Directorate (WD)

The WD was established by Government decree in 1953. It i s defined as a regional state
organization and i s an independent legal entity. In 2004, guided in part by the need to bring
existing institutions more in line with the requirements of EU membership, the Government
initiated a restructuring of the WD.           Under this, new functions have been added, e.g.
environment protection activities, while some other functions, e.g. licensing activities, have been
transferred to a newly created Water Licensing Authority.              At present, the WD's main
responsibilities are to:
     0  Maintain, protect and regulate natural state waters in its jurisdiction;
     0  Fulfill tasks related to flood protection, environment protection, and water quality
        management;
     0  Fulfilltasks connected to hydrogeology;
     0  Collect primary data for carrying out its tasks and responsibilities for the State
        Environment Protection Information System;
     0  Operate laboratories for the fulfillment of the maintenance requirements of state water
        utilities, state waters and water utilities; and
     0  Cooperate with the water supervisory body in regards to supervision of water
        management.

The M O E W approves the annual work plan and budget of the WD. The W D ' s activities are
funded through three types of schemes: (i)core activities from the state budget; (ii)
supplementary activities from operational and institutional incomes; and (iii)entrepreneurial
activities (limited to 30% of total revenues) which are to be self-financing. For 2005, the central
budgetary allocation, through the M O E W budget, i s HUF 807 million (about USD 4 million)
which includes about HUF 700 million for administration, HlTF63 million for maintenance and
HUF44 million for investments. The WD supplements this through some revenues generated
from its entrepreneurial activities.

The WD i s headed by a Director appointed by the MOEW. The restructuring has resulted in a
 separation of the licensing activities and related staff to the Water Licensing Authority, created
for that purpose, and in a new organizational structure for the W D ' s remaining and added
functions.     The WD has four expert consultingladvisory departments (water reserve and
monitoring; environment and water utilities; water damage prevention; and watercourse
management) and six administrative and support departments or units (finance; project
management; information technology; internal audit; information and service; and Director's
 support). As a result of the restructuring, while new specialists were added, e.g. in environment
protection, there was a significant reduction in the total number of employees, part of which
transferred to the Water Licensing Authority. The WD currently employs a total o f 185 staff, 65
 of whom hold university degrees. More than half the staff has at least 10 years or more of
 experience with the WD. Over the years, the WD has acquired substantial experience in project
 implementation for water management projects funded either through central budgetary
 resources or international financing (e.g. EU Phare) where the WD functioned as implementing
 agency andor constructor.      As implementing agency, the WD's experience includes projects
 dealing with flood plain and reservoirs management (over 100ha), river regulation works, flood
 protection planning and management, water base protection schemes, surface and underground



                                                     50

water quality analysis, improvement and monitoring. The projects have ranged in size from
HUF 150 million (USD 770,000) to HUF 1,000 million (USD 5 million). In addition to the
proposed Project, the WD i s also involved in the preparation of other activities, including
Interreg programmes of various sizes. In particular, the WD i s acting as lead expert advisors for
the development of compliancewit the requirements under the EUWater Framework Directive.

As regards implementation of the DDNP component of the GEF project, under the Grant
implementation agreement between the MOEW, MOB, DDNPD and WD, the responsibility for
implementation of the DDNP component has been assigned to the WD, acting as an
implementing agency on behalf of the DDNPD. For this purpose, a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) has been set up within the WD. The PIU was involved in the preparation of the
component. It consists of a coordinator (an experienced and qualified consultant was appointed
for this purpose) and five staff drawn from the existing staff of the WD that cover the
engineering; procurement; financial management; monitoring and water management; and
environmental protection aspects of implementation. The PIU will also be responsible for
implementation of the Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) system to be installed under the project.
A detailed Operational manual has been prepared to assist the PIU in project implementation.
Training, including familiarization with Bank procurement rules, and financial management and
reporting requirements, will also be provided through a Project Launch Workshop that i s planned
to take place inthe first months following Grant effectiveness.

To enable proper coverage of the incremental operational and monitoring expenses of project
implementation, funds have been provided under the Project to supplement those available for
this purpose under the WD budget.




                                                51

                           Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                     HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

Zmplementation Period: The Project would be implemented over a period of five calendar years,
from 2006-2011, covering the Fiscal Years 2006 to 2011.

Project Management Structure: The MOEW will have overall responsibility for managing
Project implementation, including Project oversight and reporting to the Bank, as well as for
inter-agency coordination between the two executing agencies. For overall Project management,
disbursement, supervision and reporting to the Bank and Hungarian authorities, the M O E W has
appointed a Project coordinator and established a small PMU to ensure quality and timely
coordination. The MOEW has entered into a Grant implementation agreement with the MOB,
the WD and the DDNPD that defines the main roles and responsibilities of each partner
institution for the implementation of the Project. Under this agreement, the day-to-day
implementation and administration of components 1 and 2 i s decentralized to separate executing
agencies. Component 1 will be implemented by the MOB and Component 2 by the WD, on
behalf of the DDNPD,the final beneficiary of the investments. Implementation of Component 3
will remain under the direct responsibility of the MOEW. To provide for inter-agency
coordination, the Project's institutional arrangements include the establishment of a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) composed of representatives of the main institutions involved in its
implementation.

MOEW, PMU: During Project preparation, the MOEW designated a qualified staff from its
Budget and Finances Department as Project coordinator, who will continue the existing
responsibilities during Project implementation. The MOEW has established a PMU to assist the
coordinator, staffed with six professionals: a coordinator's assistant, a financial analyst, a
procurement specialist and three environmental specialists. The PMU will oversee, coordinate,
administer and monitor Project implementation, and will act as the Bank's counterpart for any
matter related to Project implementation. In addition, the PMU will coordinate Project
management, monitoring and reporting, and will be directly responsible for implementing the
dissemination and replication component.

Project Steering Committee (PSC): The PSC will continue operating throughout Project
implementation. It comprises representatives from the MOEW, the MOB, the WD and the
DDNPD,including the PMUdirector andheads of the PIU, MOB andPIU,WD. The PSCplays
an important role in the Project. It i s to bring the collective expertise of the sectors concerned, at
the national, regional and municipal level, and of the stakeholders, to help ensure that the Project
achieves its objectives. The PSC, which was established prior to Negotiations, will also work as
a channel for the dissemination of experiences and lessons generated by the Project.

Project Implementation Unit-PIU, MOB: Implementation activities for the Budapest component
will be managed by the PIU, MOB. This unit was established more than ten years ago to
implement Projects financed by IFIs. The unit i s composed of a group of staff who have
substantial experience in the implementation of Bank-financed projects, through the ongoing
MWP (Loan 4512-HU), which i s at an advanced stage of implementation. The unit will be
responsible for the technical and financial management of the Project component, and for



                                                   52

handling procurement and reporting requirements. The PIU, M O B will be advised on technical
matters by the Public Utilities Department of the MOB, which has experienced personnel. There
i s a long and well established cooperation between the M O B and the Budapest Municipal
Sewerage Company (BMSC), which has been involved in all stages of Project preparation.
Duringthe implementationphase, the supervision of the works to be performed at the NBWWTP
has been awarded to the BMSC, under a contract financed by M O B from its own funds. The
M O B will create ajoint review team consisting of representatives of the M O B (Project Unit and
Public Utilities Department), the BMSC, and the Private Operator to monitor the implementation
of the works. The responsibility for investments remains under the responsibility of the M O B
until the facilities are completed and commissioned. Responsibility for their operations and
maintenance will then be handed over to the BMSC.

Project Zmplementation Unit-PZU, WD: Implementation of activities under the DDNP
component, including the development of the M&E system, will be supervised by the PIU, WD,
acting as an agent on behalf of the DDNPD,whose staff has no experience in dealing with Bank-
or IFI-financed projects. This unit was established for the component's preparation, and it
consists of a coordinator - a consultant was hired for that purpose - and seasoned professional
staff of the WD. The selection of the WD as an executing agency on behalf of the DDNPD i s
based on its experience in water project management, including projects financed by IFIS(other
than the World Bank), its knowledge of water management and of the area and its river basin
approach. On technical aspects the WD and the DDNPD will continue to work in close
cooperation during Project implementation. The DDNPD provides comprehensive knowledge of
the Park areas, ecosystem and biodiversity to the WD, which has expertise of water management
infrastructure and engineering. In order to minimize risks related to the lack of experience in
dealing with Bank-financed projects, a Project launch workshop, including training in Bank's
operational rules and Safeguard Policies, will be organized. Additionally, a detailed Project
Operational Manual, including the Project's operational procedures, as well as agreed
implementation and procurement plans, has been drafted and commented on by the Bank. The
PIU, MOB will provide assistance to the PIU, WD, as appropriate. Preparation of basic
engineering designs and works supervision will be carried out by consultants. As the lead-time
requirements for the approval of the required environmental licenses for the DDNP component
could extend to about eighteen months, execution of works under this component i s scheduled to
 start late during Project implementation.

 Operational Flow: Each PIU will be required to fulfill Project requirements in regards to the
 investment planning, procurement, supervision of works and purchases, financial management,
 and for auditing and reporting to the PMU for its respective Project component. Approval for
 applications for disbursement, withdrawal of Grant funds, and consolidated reporting to the Bank
 will be carried out by the PMUin the MOEW and sent to the M O F or entity delegated by MOF
 for signature prior to submission to the Bank. The main roles and responsibilities in regard to
 financial management, flow of funds, disbursement, reporting, and execution and monitoring of
 the Project's Environmental Management Plans are described in the Grant implementation
 agreement. Additionally, detailed responsibilities for operational processes, rules and standard
 forms and documents are spelled out in sufficient details in the Operational Manual. Versions of
 these documents, satisfactory to the Bank, were submitted by Negotiations.




                                                53

Legal Arrangements: A GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement will be signed between the Republic
of Hungary and the Bank, acting as an implementing agency for the GEF. This Agreement will
include the provisions for the implementation of Components 2 and 3, as both the WD and the
DDNPD are under the direct responsibility of the MOEW. A Project Agreement is to be signed
between the Bank and the M O B for the purposes of Component 1. An amendment to the Loan
Agreement for Loan No. 4512-HU to authorize the use of loan savings and unallocated funds to
partially finance Component 1 of the proposed Project i s being submitted to the Board for its
approval on a no-objection basis, in compliance with OPBP 13.25 on the Use of Project Cost
Savings.




                                              54

             Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                      HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

The Financial Management (FM) assessment was performed in April 25-27, 2005, prior to
Project Appraisal. The FM arrangements of the Project meet the World Bank's fiduciary FM
requirements.

Strengths & Weaknesses. The strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the Project F M S
include the use to a great extent of the existing financial accounting budgetary procedures in the
implementing entities, and the extensive experience of MOB in implementing similar Projects
co-financed by I F I s (including the World Bank, EBRD, and EIB). The specific risk identified
during the assessment relates to the fact that the Project will be implemented by three entities
MOEW, MOB and WD, the latter being located outside Budapest. However, this risk will be
mitigated by the coordinating role of MOEW and the fact that the WD falls under the
responsibility of the MOEW. The MOEW and the WD assigned staff to carry out the incremental
Project FMtasks.

ImplementingEntities

The MOEW has overall responsibility for program implementation. MOEW and Ministry of
Finance (MOF) will work closely together to ensure that the Program i s adequately funded
throughout its life with transparency and clear accountability, and that the necessary
arrangements are put in place to ensure satisfactory coordination, implementation, monitoring
and auditing for the Project. The Project will be managed and coordinated by designated staff
worlung in existing organizational units of MOEW. MOEW itself will be responsible for direct
implementation of the Dissemination and Replication component.

The MOB i s the implementing entity for the Budapest component. Within the organization of
the Municipality, the PIU, M O B i s responsible for the day-to-day coordination and
administration of all investment projects implemented by the Municipality with international
assistance (grants and Loan proceeds from IBRD, EBRD, EIB, EU). The PIU MOB i s working
in collaboration with the Public Utilities Department, which takes care of the financial and
technical aspects of the Project, in addition to other investment projects in the sector. However,
PlU, MOB will be responsible for all financial aspects of the Budapest component. Thus, all
financial management, disbursement and procurement management under the grant activities
will be implemented by the PIU, MOB, in accordance with Bank guidelines.

Regulations concerning the operation, organizational structure, duties and powers of the MOB
 are described in Act No. LXV of 1990 on Local Governments (hereinafter referred to as the Act
on Local Governments) and in General Assembly Decree No. 7/1992 (111. 26.) concerning the
Rules of Procedure of the MOB, enacted on the basis of the authorization granted under the
 aforementioned law (hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure).




                                                 55

Budapest has a two-tier local government system: it consists of the Municipal Government and
the District Governments. The special weight and national role of the capital city and its two-tier
government system requires regulations differing from the overall one. The Municipality and the
District Governments are not subordinated to one another. Concerning their basic rights as
defined in the Constitution and in law they are equal, but they differ in their specific duties and
powers. Due to the vast population and area of the capital, it i s reasonable that most basic and
administrative services are provided for the citizens at the district level.

However, the Act on Local Governments provides, as a fundamental principle, that the M O B
shall perform the duties and exercise the rights of a local government which concern the whole
of the capital or more than one district, or if they relate to the special role o f the capital in the
country. Inorder to avoid possible disputes relating to jurisdiction and problems of operation that
may arise thereof, the Act on Local Governments stipulates that any act specifying duties and
powers for local governments shall also define, in respect of the capital, whether it i s the
obligation of the City or of the District government, to fulfill certain duties. In accordance with
the Act on Local Governments, it i s possible for the City and the Districts to agree on taking over
duties from one another and assuming the other's powers.

To be able to fulfill the above duties, the MOB has been provided with own assets; it i s
subsidized from the central budget and it i s entitled to collect revenues of its own, of which the
most important i s the right to impose local taxes.

The Act on Local Governments offers the opportunity to establish associations to facilitate more
efficient management of municipal tasks. The City, the Districts, as well as the local
governments outside the capital may participate in such associations. Agglomeration associations
may be set up with the local governments outside Budapest, in particular to harmonize public
transportation, water management, the containment of catastrophes, public and communal
investment projects, as well as the organization of services in the vicinity of Budapest providing
education, health and social care.

The PZU, WD will implement the DDNP component on behalf of the DDNPD. The proposed
interventions consist mostly of dredging and construction of flow regulating devices in the
Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa areas of the DDNP. The PlU WD i s operating as a regional
governmental organization, a separate legal entity, under the supervision of the MOEW. WD i s
responsible for flood protection, environment and water quality-protection activities. The policy,
organizational structure and financing of the activities are regulated in the organizational and
operational regulations.

FZow of Funds: The Department of Budget of MOEW will open one Special Account (SA) with
the Hungarian State Treasury in the currency of the GEF Grant. To facilitate payments through
each of the implementing entities and to receive the share of their respective contributions to the
financing of the project, settlement accounts will be opened for each of the three implementing
entitiesheneficiaries. The MOB, MOEW and the WD will have to provide the full amount of
their respective contributions required to finance Project expenditures before the due date for the
payment of suppliers' invoice. Accordingly, Grant funds will flow from the World Bank to the
SA and then through settlement accounts to the suppliers. The MOEW will be responsible for
having the SA replenished from time to time, on the basis of withdrawal applications. The


                                                  56

associated proceeds under the Loan 4512-HU will remain in the special account already
established for that Loan for the purpose of parallel financing of the component under the MWP.
(Detailed chart presenting the flow of funds and documents i s presented in an Appendix to this
Annex).

Staffing. The Project will rely on the existing staff in MOEW, MOB (including PIU), and WD.
MOEW's staff will be responsible for collection and consolidation of reports from other
implementing entities. The financial staff of the implementing entities has proven experience in
the accounting and reporting of budgetary expenditures. Additionally, M O B staff including the
PIU, have proven experience in implementation of projects co-financed by IFIs.             The WD
assigned staff to be responsible for contract monitoring and Project reporting for the purpose o f
the DDNPcomponent.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. The accounting books and records of the implementing
entities are maintained on modified cash basis (i.e. liabilities are recorded at the date of invoice
acceptance). Each implementing entity will record transactions in their accounting books and
records in accordance with normal accounting procedures according to Hungarian regulations
applicable for budgetary units.

The MOEW documented the Project's FM arrangements in the Operational Manual for the
Project. This document describes Project-specific procedures, roles and responsibilities of the
various FM staff in all implementing entities, eligibility of expenditures, flow of funds,
applicable budgetary procedures for withdrawal applications, sample formats of the financing
agreements between MOEW, MOB, WD and DDNPD, F M R s reporting requirements with the
deadline for their preparation, and the Project's auditing arrangements.

Internal Audit departments of the MOEW, MOB and WD will be responsible to perform the
internal audit function according to the annual plan as approved by the management of the
entities. Additional assurance could be gained if internal auditors include the Project in their
audit plans. However audit plans are established individually in each implementing entity and
therefore the World Bank i s not able to rely solely on such audits for its fiduciary purposes.

ExternalAudit. MOEW will organize the annual audits of the financial statements for the entire
Project. The audit of the Project financial statements will be performed annually by an auditor in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The audit shall be carried out in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing and the Project financial statements
together with the auditor's report will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
the each fiscal year. The terms of reference acceptable to the Bank were attached to the minutes
of negotiation. The short list of auditors will be submitted to the Bank prior to the end of each
fiscal year, and only those accepted b y the Bank shall be included in the short list. The cost of
the audit will be financed from the GEF Grant.




Audit Report                                     Due Date
Project Financial Statements prepared for Within six months of the end o f each fiscal
fi                                                ear and also at the closing of the roject


                                                 57

Reportingand Monitoring. MOEW will be responsible for submission of consolidatedF M R s on
quarterly basis within 45 days of month-end incorporating the information submitted by
implementing entities as well as annual Project Financial Statements subject to external audit.
PIU, M O B will assist MOEW in compiling the inputs from implementing entities into a
consolidated report. However, MOEW will be ultimately responsible for verification of the
consistency o f the information in the FMRs, reconciliation of the SA statements, reconciliation
of the disbursements/expenditures as recorded by the Bank, and the final acceptance of F M R s .
The first F M R s will be submitted to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the first
calendar quarter after the Effectiveness date. The F M R s will be used for Project monitoring and
supervision. Agreed formats of the FMRs were attached to the agreed minutes of technical
discussions, and were confirmed at Negotiation.

Information Systems. Each of the implementing entities (MOEW, MOB, WD) uses various
computerized financial accounting systems. All the Project transactions will be entered on
separate analytical codes within these systems maintained by each implementing entity, to track
the use of the Project funds. Additionally all the transactions of the SA and the three settlement
accounts will be done within the State Treasury System. The entire Project will have a separate
appropriation under the budget chapter. However the systems are not able to generate FMRs or
disbursement reports automatically.     The F M R s will be complied manually using the Excel
spreadsheets.Due to the relatively low volume of transactions, such an approach i s acceptable.

DisbursementArrangements

Disbursement of Funds from the World Bank. There would be one SA for the Project opened
by MOEW and three settlement accounts opened for each of the three Beneficiaries. All accounts
will be opened in the Hungarian State Treasury. Grant funds will flow from the World Bank to
the SA and then through settlement accounts to the suppliers in line with existing State Treasury
procedures.

The Project will use traditional disbursement methods. Statement of Expenditures will be used
for expenditures incurred on all contracts which do not require The World Bank's prior review.
For all other contracts, disbursement will be made on the basis of Summary Sheet with full
documentation. Tahng into account the fact that the Project will finance investment contracts of
high value, and no direct payments will be used, it is justified to allow the limit of the SA up to
 10% of the total Grant amount. Thereafter, MOB and WD will rely on the MOEW for the
transfer of funds from the SA to the settlement account (both kept in the Hungarian State
Treasury), on the basis of suppliers' invoices with confirmed delivery. Inparallel M O B and WD
will transfer their own contributions to the settlement account and notify the M O E W that the
own contributions were transferred in full. After the grant funds are made available in the
settlement account, beneficiaries will submit the payment order (with required supporting
documents) to the State Treasury in order to make the payments to the suppliers. Grant funds
will not be kept in the settlement account on an ongoing basis but it will be funded in sufficient
time to allow for prompt payment to suppliers. All original source documentation supporting
Statements of Expenditures and Summary Sheets shall be kept by implementing entities, and
made available for review by auditors and the Bank staff until one year from the receipt of the
final Project audit report.


                                                58

Disbursement Categories              Indicative Cost GEFFinancing      Financingpercentage
                                     inmillion USD   inmillionUSD        from GEF Grant
Goods, Works and Consultants'            23.40             6.50               upto 80%
Services under Component 1:
Development of tertiary treatment at
the NBWWTP (Budapest)
Goods, Works and Consultants'             6.08             4.86                  80%
Services under Component 2:
Wetland Restoration inthe Duna-
Drava National Park
Goods and Consultants' Services           0.41             0.33                  80%
and Training under Component 3:
Disseminationand Replication
Unallocated                               2.09             0.8 1
Total Project Cost                        31.97            12.50                 39%

Supervision Plan. During Project implementation, the Bank will review the Project's FM
arrangements in two main ways: (i)   review the Project's quarterly FM reports and the annual
audit report; (ii)
                 during the Bank's missions, review the Project's financial management and
disbursement arrangements to ensure compliance with the Bank's requirements. As required, a
Bank-accreditedFinancial Management Specialist will assist in the supervision process.




                                               59

                              Appendix to the Annex 7 -Nutrient ReductionProject
                                          Seauence and Flow of Documents and Funds


                                for advance, deposits,recovery            deposits)
                                                                                                          SpecialAcc. inthe State
                                  ----------_--____                World Bank                                  Treasury inUSD
                 Finance                                                                          bl
                                                                                                                              ~
                    4                                         y                                             e -
                                                                                                    c - c -

                     I                                                                       c - e -
                                               iv. Quartyb?consolidatcd
disbursement- for iktial advance,
a. WithdrawalApplikation for grant
                                               proje,ci fcports- FMl i s        .-- I -



furtherreplenishme+ of Special                                             4- P'aynientorder to transfer
Account,recovery process.                                                  the funds liomSA to
                     I
                     I                           .-
                     I .
                     I                                    .-.-      c -
                                                                 c -       settlementaccounts.
         L"""":-=                       .-          r .

                                              c -
                                           c -



                                                                                  5. Transfer of funds to
                                                                                  settlement accounts
                      1I   1              I




                      I     1
                      1     1
                      I     1
                      I   1
                      I   1
                      I     1
                      I     1
                      I     1
                      11    11iii.Monthly rcporton
                      I     8 utilization of funds
                      1     1
   1. i\pplication forj     I SOEor SS. And
                            I
   funds for project        I quarterly FMRs
                      I     I
   expenditureswith         I
   supporting         I     1
                      I     1         2. Payments order to transfer
   documentation      j     j         own contributionto scttlciiient            -  3. Transfer of own
                                                                                    contribution
                                                           MOB,MOEW,                                                    r
                                                                                                                        1


                                                                accniintq
                                   __------------------____________________-_-                              MOB,MOEW,
                                                                                                    b       WD inthe State
                      I     1
                      I     1                                                                                   Treasury
                      I     1




   rendcrcd           I     1
                      Il    1
                            l i.Signingoj'thc
                      1I    1 contrac'ts



                                                                                                          Contractors' bank
                                                                                                          Accounts




                    Flow of funds     -b                         Flow of documents      _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ _ _ b

                                                                              60

                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                    HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

A. General
Procurement for the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines:  Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the GEF Trust Fund Grant and Project Agreement. For
bidding and contracting of consulting firms, the Project executing agencies would use standard
Bank documents; for National Competitive Bidding (Works), for Shopping, ECA regional
sample documents; and for individual consultants, national standard documents satisfactory to
the Bank.

The general description of items under different expenditure categories i s provided below. For
each bidding package to be financed by the Grant, the procurement method, the need for
prequalification, estimated cost, prior-review requirement and time-frame have been agreed
between the Recipient and the Bank Project team, and are detailed in the Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the changing Project
implementation needs and improvements in procurement capacity.

Procurementof Goods and Works: Goods and Works represent most of the total Project cost.
They are packaged as follows: (a) the constructiodinstallation of tertiary treatment facilities in
the existing NBWWTP. The turn-key contract for this plant will be procured under International
Competitive Bidding method (ICB), using the Bank standard bidding document for Supply and
Install (Two Stages). There will be pre-qualification of firms. The estimated cost i s US$ 23.4
million; (b) the rehabilitation of wetlands to develop trapping capacity for nutrients in the
DDNP, through earth moving and installation of water flow controllers. These works include
several civil works contracts estimated to cost less than US$2,000,OOO equivalent per contract, to
be awarded under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure taking into account broad
compatibility with Bank's guidelines as included in the Legal Agreement using Hungarian NCB
documents translated into English language for a prior check of broad consistency. The
aggregate cost of these contracts i s estimated at US$3.125 million. (However, subject to the
estimated cost being updated higher than the NCB threshold, one additional similar works
contract may have to be awarded under ICB procedure for US$1.25 million). Six very small
minor works contracts (estimated aggregate: US$490,000) estimated to cost less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract would be awarded on the basis of three or more written
quotations (Shopping for works). The BMSC has been awarded a contract for the supervision of
the constructiodinstallation of tertiary treatment facilities in the existing NBWWTP.Therefore,
to avoid conflict of interest, neither the Private Operator managing the BMSC nor its affiliates
will be allowed to participate in the bidding for the construction of tertiary treatment facilities.
Additionally, following the Bank's advice, the M O B will create a committee consisting of
representatives of the MOB (Project Unit and Public Utilities Department), the BMSC, and the
Private Operator to monitor the implementation of the works.

Selectionof Consultants: Consulting services represent about 5 % of the total Project cost and
include several assignments to be contracted with individual consultants for support of Project
implementation management training and workshops. Two contracts estimated to cost US$


                                                 61

 270,000 would be awarded using Quality and Cost Based (QCBS) Selection method for design,
 preparation of specifications and bidding documents, and supervision. The same method will be
 used to award the development of DDNP Special Area Management Plan (US$ 250,000). One
 contract might be awarded usingLeast Cost (LCS) Selection method. Other Consultant contracts
 with firms would be awarded using the selection method based on the Qualifications of
 Consultants (CQS) for the preparation and implementation of replication and dissemination
 (three contracts), and for three other contracts listedbelow under Section E.2 o f this Annex.

 B)Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to ImplementProcurement.

 Project implementation management would be under the responsibility of the MOEW. A Project
 Steering Committee with representatives of the MOEW, the MOB, the WD and the DDNPDhas
 been set up for advisory and coordination purposes. The M O E W has appointed a Project
 coordinator, to lead a Project Management Unit involving six other people from different
 departments of the MOEW. Implementation activities for the Budapest component will be
 supervised and controlled by the M O B through a Project Implementation Unit - PIU, MOB. The
 implementation activities for the DDNPProject component will be under supervision and control
 of the WD through a Project Implementation Unit - PIU, WD. The implementation of the
 dissemination and replication component will be with the PMU, MOEW.

 An assessment of the capacity of both PIUs, as well as of the PMU, to implement the Project's
 procurement was carried out on February 4, 2005. The risk assessment of the system's capacities
 to implement procurement has been rated as average. The PIU, MOB has gained experience in
 dealing with Bank-financed projects through the implementation of the ongoing MWP financed
 by Loan 4512-HU, which has been successful. The PIU, WD has no previous experience in
 implementing Bank-financed procurement. The procurement requirements from this Project
 component, however, are limited to a few contracts of a simple nature. The implementation of
 the following Action Plan will help minimize the risks which have been identified, especially
 those related to the lack of experience by DDNPDND in implementing Bank-financed
 procurement.

                                  Objective                     Time-frame
~Description
 Procurement                      Identify eventdwork flow      Appraisal
 PladPackaging
 Draft Operational Manual         Define operational rules      Negotiations
 Project Launch Seminar           Traiddisseminate rules        Prior to disbursement
 Procurement Ex-Post              Supervision                   Two in the Project
 Reviews                                                        Implementationperiod, to
                                                                be scheduled.
 Administrative Support to        Assure satisfactory           Appraisal
 the PMUat MOEW                   supervisiodcontrol.




                                                    62

C) Procurement Plan.

Both executing agencies have prepared Preliminary Project implementation schedules and
procurement plans covering the foreseen implementation period (2005-10). These procurement
plans have been updated and annexed to the Operational Manual.

D)Frequency of ProcurementSupervision.

The participation of a procurement specialist at least once a year inBank supervision missions i s
recommended.

E)DetailsofProcurement Arrangements InvolvingInternational Competition.

1.Goods, Works andNonConsultingServices.

(a) List of contract packages to be procuredfollowing ICB and direct contracting:

    0   Contract: Constructiodinstallation of tertiary treatment facilities inthe existing North
        Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant.
        Estimated Cost: US$ 23.4 million.
        Procurement Method: ICB; two stages.
        Prequalification: yes
        Domestic Preference: N o
        Review by Bank: Prior
        ExpectedBidOpening Date: May 2006
        Comments: technical andbidpreparation i s advanced.

(b) Direct Contracting: not planned.

                   Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                         Million US$ (1)




             Total                  26.38         3.34      2.25                     31.97
                                   (8.03)        (2.68)    (1.80)                   (12.50)




    related to (i)
                managing the Project.



                                                    63

2. Consulting Services

   (a) L i s t of consulting assignmentswith short-list of internationalfirms:

   -   Two contracts estimated to cost respectively US$ 150,000 and US$ 120,000 will be
       awarded using Quality and Cost Based (QCBS) Selection method for design, and
       preparation of specifications and bidding documents on one hand, and subsequent
       construction supervision of the works in the DDNP on the other hand. (First expected
       submissionof proposals:March2006)
   -   Three contracts for (i)    Design and Development of a Monitoring System (US$ 80,000)
       (ii)  Baseline study and licensing support (US$ 120,000), and (iii)  Development of impact
       evaluation technology (US$ 80,000) will be awarded using Selection method based on
       Consultants' Qualifications (CQS). (First expected submission of proposals: January
       2006)
   -   Six Consultant contracts with firms will be awardedusing the selectionmethod based on
       Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) for (i)the preparation and implementation of
       replication and dissemination, (ii) training and Project launch workshop, and (iii) impact
       evaluation and cost-benefit analysis (estimate: US$ 325,000 for the six). (First expected
       submissionof proposals: January 2006)

                      Table Al: Consultant SelectionArrangements (optional)
                                              MillionUS$


   Expenditure
     Category             QCBS      QBS     SFB        LCS        CQ          Other  N.B.F.   Total
                                                                                              cost
     A. Firms              0.70               -                  0.81           -      -       1.so
                          (0.56)              -          -       (0.65)         -             (1.20)
   B. Individuals                             -                     -         0.16     -       0.16
                                              -                               (0.13)          (0.13)
       Total               0.70               -          -        0.81         0.16    -       1.67




                                                 64

                Appendix 1to the Procurement Plan: Prior Review Thresholds

Thresholds for prior review are specified hereafter as Appendix 1to the initial Procurement Plan
for the starting year of implementation, and may be revised after one year. The updates issued by
the Bank are to be construed as Appendix 1to the current Procurement Plan replacing previous
Appendix 1.

Thresholds for prior review are set as follows for the first year:

A). Goods and Works. The following contracts are subject to the Bank's prior review as set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1to the Guidelines:
1.      all ICB contracts;
2.      all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more; and
3.      the first two contracts procured under NCB (regardless of contract value), and first two
under Shopping as well as under Minor Works (S or MW).

B). Consulting Services. With respect to consulting services, prior Bank review will be required
for all terms of reference for consultants. Contracts for services estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$ 100,000 or more for firms and US$ 50,000 or more for individuals, and the first two
contracts under CQS, FBS and LCS are subject to Bank's prior review as set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1to the Guidelines (CQS Method may be used for contracts estimated to
cost less than US$200,000 equivalent).

C). All other contracts are subject to post review, in a ratio of one contract infive.

                   Table 8: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                   Contract Value                             Contracts Subject to
                               Threshold (Method)         Procurement             Prior Review
   Expenditure Category                 (US$)                Method                   (US$)
 1. Works                          Over 2,000,000              ICB                      All
                                 less than 2,000,000          NCB                2 first contracts
                                  less than 100,000          s (Mw)              2 first contracts
 2. Goods                           Over 300,000               ICB                      All
                                   Up to 300,000              NCB                2 first contracts
                                  Less than 100,000             S                2 first contracts
 3. Services (local and             Over 200,000              QCBS                      All
 foreign firms)
                                  Less than 200,000            CQ                above 100,000
                                  Less than 200,000            LCS                above100,OOO
                                  Less than 100,000             IC                above 50,000




                                                   65

                              Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                         HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

1. Economic

The key development objectives of the Project are: (i)to reduce Budapest's discharge of
nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorous) into the Danube River, and consequently into the Black
Sea; (ii)  to enhance the nutrient trapping capacity of Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa wetlands
situated in the lower Hungarian part of the Danube River; and (iii)               to serve as a model for similar
nutrient reduction initiatives in Hungary and other Danube basin countries. These objectives will
be achieved through: (i)the development of tertiary treatment (nutrient removal) at the
NBWWTP; (ii)the rehabilitation of wetlands in the Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa areas of the
DDNP; and (iii)the establishment of a comprehensive M&E system for water quality and
environmental health to measure the reduction of nutrients. The Project will also finance
dissemination activities to foster replication in Hungary or in other parts of the Danube River
basin.

The economic analysis in this annex should be read in conjunction with the detailed Incremental
Cost Analysis o f the Project which i s presented in Annex 15.

Broad sectoral goals and baseline: See Annex 15.

Incremental cost and financing:              See Annex 15.

Global benefits: See Annex 15.

Cost-Effectiveness: See Annex 15.

Economic benefits: Incremental benefits are valued at US$ 5 per kg of nutrient reduction.6
Incremental capital and O&M costs are net of taxes. The projection period i s 25 years (2006-
2030). On this basis, the economic rate of return (ERR) i s estimated at 22% for the Budapest
component and 72% for the DDNP component.                           The high rate of return for the DDNP
component, however, has to be viewed with caution given the relative lack of quantitative
evaluations of impacts for wetlands. Details are inthe attached Table 1.



  Current estimates of the value of nutrient reduction range from US$2/kg to about US$9/kg for N and up to
US$22/kg for P. Therefore, the estimate of US$5/kg appears rather conservative. This figure of 5 US$ per kg has
been adopted on the basis of available references, such as: 47 SEWkg ($5.58/kg) and 112 SEWkg ($13.30/kg) for
the marginal cost of the reduction of nitrogen and phosphorous to coastal waters, as proposed by K. Elofsson (Cost
efficient reductions of stochastic nutrient loads to the Baltic Sea, Paper presented at the 7th Ulvoe conference 19-21
June 2000), $2/kg proposed by G. Constantinides (Cost-Benefit Analysis Case Studies in Eastern Africa for the
GPA Strategic Action Plan on Sewage. UNEP, 2000); 62 SEWkg ($7.36/kg) proposed for the marginal benefit of N-
reduction proposed by I.M.Gren and H. Folmer (Cooperation vs. Non-Cooperation in Cleaning of an International
Water Body with Stochastic Environmental Damage: The Case of the Baltic Sea. Swedish University of Agricultural
Sciences, Uppsala, September, 2001), and 11.50 E W k g as the critical emission "tax" level for the removal of P
from detergents, as proposed by I.Ijjasz (Reducing Phosphorus in the Danube Basin Workshop, Hungary, 1995). In
more recent studies, the US EPA established a benchmark for the cost-effectiveness o f nutrient removal of $4 per
pound of nitrogen ($8.8/kg) and $10 per pound ($22/kg) of phosphorus (Federal Register / Vol. 68, No. 29 /
Wednesday, February 12,2003 / Rules and Regulations).


                                                           66

                                Annex 9, Table 1 Economic benefitsestimation
                                                   -
                                                     (US$ 000)

                         2006       2007      2008    2009    2010    2011     2012     2013     2014   Annually
                                                                                                        2015-
                                                                                                        2030

Budapest
component
Incremental capital
cost                    -1872       -7488    -6926    -2434
Incremental O&M
expenses                            -5020    -5045    -5036   -5095   -5165   -5238     -5315   -5329       -5350
Incremental
economic benefits                                    12320 12320 12320 12320 12320 12320                    12320
Net economic
benefit                 -1872     -12508    11971      4850   7225     7155    7082      7005     6991       6970

Economic rate of
return (ERR)             22%

                                     ~~~      ~                   ~~




 DDNP component
 Incremental capital
 cost                    -100         -729   -1798    -1652    -581
 Incremental O&M
 expenses                             -700     -700    -700    -700    -700     -700     -700     -700        -700
 Incremental
 economic benefits                                             9130    9130     9130     9130     9130       913C

 Net economic
 benefit                 -100       -1429    -2498    -2352    7849    8430     8430     8430     8430       843C

 Economicrate of
 return (ERR)             72%

Note: Base economic     lue of nutrient reduction assumed to be USD 5/kg of reduction.
NBWWTP component: Total project cost (including taxes and duties) = USD 23.4 million; taxes and duties = 20%;
cost excluding taxes and duties = USD 18.72million
DDNP component: Total project cost (including taxes and duties) = USD 6.08 million; taxes and duties = 20%; cost
excluding taxes and duties = USD 4.86 million

Sensitivity Analysis: Estimates of the economic value of nutrient reduction range between US$
2/kg to US$ 9/kg for nitrogen (N) and up to US$ 22//kg for phosphorus (P) in different studies.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that, at the lower end value of US$ 2/kg, the ERR for the
NBWWTP becomes negative while that for the DDNP component drops to 33%. At the upper
end values of US$ 9/kg for N and US$ 22/kg for P, the ERRSfor the two components are
estimated at 51 % and 111% respectively. For the NBWWTP component, the break-even point
(NPV=O) i s reached at an economic value of nutrient reduction of about US$3.5/kg.                       For the
DDNPcomponent, given the relative uncertainty about the amount of reductions to be achieved,
sensitivity analysis indicates that the ERR would remain above 40 % even if the amount of
reduction (in tons) i s lower than expected by up to 50%. Furthermore, the ERR would remain
about 20% even if both the amount of reduction (in tons) i s lower than expected by up to 50%,
and the economic value per unit of reduction drops to US$2.5/kg. See Table 2 for details.




                                                         67

                                               O r r
                                               O C U N
                                               y a m
                                                 E $

                      cocoo
                      m c u r
                      y     w
.-E0
.-E
c                     ZCUrn
                      L o c o b

c
a                     y % Q
W
c
a
e
aJ
:
E

.-0
 E
 E
 0
W0

 L h
.-In0
- 0
 0 0

 a n
 2 2
4
.-.-.->a
c*                                            m o
                                              N O    Q)
                                                     N
                                                     PP
c                                             Y Y

$E
 ..               N                           0
                             b
                             N
N                 b                           z
 aJ              2
5
 I-
 m                                            '        I
 cr-
 aJ
 X        n                              c
 E         .-E0                          m
 2          c                            Q
            0
            '0
            a
            2
            c
           .-EaJ
            c
            L
            S                     r
            E                     0
            c                     0
            0          v)         U
            5nto
            m          a,
                       v)          f
                  I    K           ?
                    v) a,
                  -0
                  0 X  a      e
                              c
                              aJ   !
            3     I           2E   Y4
            c     .-ma a,
                      50           I
            vm      z
            W     -m -m       .-VE  I
            v)    c. w              I
            4       K K
            0                 0     f
            3
            s       EE a,
                       E      0
                       L      aJ    I
                  - - zaJ
                    0 0       c 4
                    K K            U

             o m m      I
             ocoa
             yCUln
               N r




     :m                ;I!;
0 0        0 0
N O  Q)          Q)
? ?  Eu
    2      N O
           ? ?   Eu
                 f
     I            I



0
E!         0
           E!          69 -


'          '              N


                           I-

Financial (see Annex 5)

Financial rate of return (FRR): An FRR has not been calculated for the Project given the
nature o f the investments which result in environmental benefits and externalities. A financial
return on investment i s not the main consideration in undertalung the investment. However, as
provided under the contractual agreement between the M O B and the BMSC, the tariff formula
provides for BMSC to recover any incremental operating expenses due to the investment. The
increment intariff i s based on such cost-recovery.

Financialassessment of the participatingentities: The M O B i s a borrower under the ongoing
Bank Loan 4512-HU for the MWP and had earlier been a borrower under Loan 3093 for the
Urban Transport Project. Budapest has generally followed a prudent fiscal and financial policy,
and has been successful in raising funds in European bond markets. It has also followed an
active policy of divestiture of assets through privatization with the revenues from these sales
being directed largely to developmental, including infrastructure, investments. Budapest, with
the help of international consultants, has prepared forward-looking financial plans, updated each
year, including detailed financial projections (a summary i s provided in Annex 5).            The
projections indicate that Budapest would continue to be able to meet its debt service obligations
in a satisfactory manner. The BMSC is the beneficiary under Loan 4512-HU. UntilNovember
1997, BMSC was a joint stock company owned by Budapest. In November 1997, Budapest
entered into an agreement with a consortium of two foreign utility operators General des Eaux
(of France) and Berlinwasser (of Germany) under which Budapest transferred 25% of the share
ownership and the management of the company to the consortium. The Bank has been in touch
with the company through Project supervision under Loan 4512-HU. Operations of the company
have been satisfactory and the company has realized a profit each year since 1999 (a summary of
the financial statements i s provided in Annex 5). The DDNPDfalls within the jurisdiction of the
MOEW. Revenues of the DDNPD are derived primarily through budgetary transfers from the
MOEW.

Incremental 0 & Mexpenses and tariffs: For the NBWWTP, the annual incremental 0 & M
expenses on account of the addition of tertiary treatment have been estimated at about US$ 5
million equivalent (HUF 975 million). For BMSC as a whole, with a total invoiced volume of
about 154 million m3 per year, this implies a per m3 incremental 0 & M expense o f about HUF
6.5/m3. Annual debt service on the loan amount of US$ 7.2 million (HUF 1440 million) i s
estimated to amount to about HUF 1.5/m3. The total incremental expense for the NBWWTP i s
therefore estimated at about UF8/m3 which represents an increase of about 4.5% over the
existing level of average wastewater tariff (about HUF 173/m3) and of about 2.3% over the
existing level of the average water and wastewater tariff. The resulting new tariff i s projected to
remain affordable for the population (less than 4% of the average households' monthly income).
For the DDNPD, the incremental expenses associated with the Project are estimated at HUF135
million per year which represents 26% of the 2005 DDNPD annual budget (HUF 529 million,
US$2.7 million equivalent).       This amount will be provided through budgetary transfers to
DDNPDbythe MOEW.




                                                70

                               Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                     HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

 SafeguardPoliciesTriggeredby the Project                            Yes                N o
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                             [XI                [I
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                        [XI               [XI
 Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                            [ I               [XI
 Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)               [I                [XI
 Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                [ I               [XI
 IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                [I                [XI
 Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                 [ I               [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                         [I                [XI
 Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                             [ I              [XI
 Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                  [XI                [I

EnvironmentalAssessment(OP/BP4.01).
N o significant indirect or long term negative impact on the environment i s expected as part of the
Project, which, given the nature of the investments, has been classified as environmental
category "B".

The M O B completed the environmental assessment report for its component for which it
received Government's approval. The WD, on behalf of the DDNPD, completed an EIA for the
DDNP component. As the process for its approval is rather lengthy in Hungary, the Project
provides for a late start of implementation for the DDNP component, to take place after the
Government's approval for this EIA i s obtained, incompliance with Hungarian regulation.

The EIAs and other studies carried out during preparation clearly indicate that no significant
negative impact on the environment i s expected as a result of the Project's implementation. For
the Budapest component, potential impacts are exclusively limited to those that could occur
during the construction phase (noise, etc.) which will be adequately controlled (the EMP
includes measures to this end). For the DDNP component, the EIA has identified potential
environmental negative impacts associated with dredging, changes in the local hydrology,
disposal of dredge materials, and increased flow of pollutants into the wetlands. The EIA
concludes that no significant negative impacts are expected if the precautions foreseen under the
EMF are followed. Moreover, the rehabilitation of the wetlands is expected to improve the
ecological conditions of the ecosystem and increase biodiversity, as new valuable habitats will be
created. Positive ecological impacts are in particular expected with the creation of additional
habitats and nesting places for a number of migratory bird species o f global importance, such as
the Ferruginous Duck (Aythya Nyroca), the White-tailed Eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla) and Black
Storks. As indicated above, the Ministry of Environment will convene an Experts Panel to assist
the WD and DDNPD authorities inthe assessment and monitoring o f the proposed interventions.
Qualitative aspects of the biological processes to occur in the DDNP in regards to nutrient
trapping and their possible consequences on the ecology and biodiversity are detailed in Annex
18.

Environmental Management Plans have been prepared for each o f the aforementioned
components, and mitigation measures have been proposed. The Mitigation Plan prepared under


                                                 71

each EMF identifies and addresses all relevant parameters, impacts and mitigation measures,
both during the construction and operation periods, and identifies the agency with designated
responsibility for its implementation and for its enforcement. In particular, for the DDNP
component, possible options for the handling and disposal of the dredged material have been
considered and will be thoroughly examined as part of the detailed design. These measures
include testing materials to be dredged for potential contamination, physically isolate areas
during dredging, reuse dredged material where practicable if found to be of acceptable quality,
dispose of dredged material to an appropriate site according to its quality, and concentrate the
dredging and construction work during ecologically less sensitive periods of the year.
Contractors will be responsible for implementing these precautions and measures, and their
implementation will be supervised by the WD, the DDNPD and the MOEW. The distribution of
responsibilities for the implementation and monitoring of these EMFs will be incorporated inthe
Grant implementation agreement between the MOEW, the MOB, the WD and the DDNPD.
Additionally, these EMPs will be incorporated in the Project Operational Manual and its
implementation will be monitored as part of Bank supervision missions.

Natural Habitats(OP/BP 4.04)
On the basis of the conclusions of the EIAs, the Project i s not expected to have any significant
conversion (loss) or degradation of natural habitats, particularly in the DDNP. The DDNP i s
currently flooded periodically (several times a year) by the Danube River. The Project will
increase water retention and expand the areas of permanent wetlands. Specific provisions have
been included in the EMP to ensure that these works are carried out talung into consideration the
functioning of these habitats so as to avoid disturbing migratory species or reduce biodiversity.
Populations of selected endangered species will be monitored during and beyond the Project life
as part of the Park monitoring system to be established. Consistent with the Safeguards meeting
and comments received, the Project Team took all necessary measures to comply with the
OP/BP, inparticular inthe EMPs.

Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) and InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP4.12)
The investments financed by the Project will not affect any known archeological or historical
site, nor will it affect indigenous people or require resettlement or purchase of land.

Safety of Dams(OP/BP 4.37)
N o dams higher than 15 meters are located within the Project area and no upstream dam
infrastructure failure could impact the plannedinvestments.

Pro-iectson InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP7.50).
The Project i s expected to have a positive impact on the water quality of the Danube, which i s an
international waterway. In addition, riparian countries which are signatory members of the
Danube convention have been informed of and have.discussed the Project within the scope o f the
Danube Commission, which has included it in the priority list of the Joint Action Program.
Therefore notification to the riparian countries as part of OP7.50 has been waived for this Project
via Memo from the E C A RVP dated March 18, 2005.

No other Safeguard Policy is triggered.




                                                  72

                        Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                    HUNGARY: NUTRIENT REDUCTIONPROJECT

                                                   Planned                   Actual
PCNreview                                         10/08/2004                12/08/2004
InitialPID to PIC                                                           11/24/2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                         11/24/2004
Appraisal                                         06/07/2005                10/12/2005
Negotiations                                      11/21/2005                02/17/2006
BoardRVP approval                                 1/21/2006
Planned date of effectiveness                     2/15/2006
Planned date of mid-term review                   12/15/2007
Planned end of implementation                     12/31/2009
Planned closing date                              12/31/2011

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the Project:
As indicated above, the MOEW has been given overall responsibility for the preparation and the
implementation of the Project. It will be directly responsible for the coordination and the
implementation of the dissemination and replication component. The M O B and the WD, on
behalf of the DDNPD,are responsible for the preparation of components 1and 2, respectively.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the Project included:

Name                                                    Title                        Unit
Xavier Chauvot de Beauchkne            Water & Sanitation Specialist, TTL          ECSIE
Manuel Marifio                     Lead Water & Sanitation Specialist, co-TTL       ECSIE
Emilio Rodriguez                                    Consultant                     LCOPR
David Sislen                             Senior Infrastructure Economist           LCSFU
IwonaWarzecha                        Senior Financial Management Specialist        ECSPS
Andreas Rohde                                Senior Sanitary Engineer               ECSIE
Salim Benouniche                          Senior Procurement Specialist            ECSPS
Suman Mehra                               Country Program Coordinator              ECCU7
Christine Castillo                              Operations Analyst                 ECCU7
Claudia Pardifias Ocafia                          Senior Counsel                   LEGEC
Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner                          Finance Officer                  L O A G l
Maria Teresa Lim                                 Program Assistant                  ECSIE

Bank funds expended to date on Project preparation:
     1. Bank resources:
    2. Trust funds:
    3. Total:

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval:
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost:



                                                 73

                           Annex 12: Documents in the Project File
                    HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT


Extension of the North Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant: I1Stage, Nutrient Removal.
Estimation of Investment and Operation Costs for Technological Alternatives (Hydrochem Kft.
Vitulu Innosystem Kft.) Mai 2003

Nutrient Removal Extension of North Budapest Wastewater Treatment Plant -Financial and
Economical Analysis (Oko Inc.) February 2005

Nutrient Removal Extension of NorthBudapest Wastewater Treatment Plant -Environmental
Impact Assessment (Imsys Ltd.) February 2005

Reduction of Nutrient Discharges Project -DDNP Component - Environmental Assessment and
Public Consultation (VITUKIKht/ VTK InnosystemLtd.)March 2005

Reduction o f Nutrient Discharges Project - (DDNP) Pre-Feasibility Study, Financial and
Economic Analysis (DHV Hungary Ltd.) March 2005




                                              74

                                    Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                              HUNGARY: NUTRIENT REDUCTIONPROJECT

                                                                                                         Differencebetween
                                                                                                         expectedand actual
                                                      Onginal Amount in US$Milhons                         disbursements

Project ID  FY     Purpose                          IBRD      IDA       SF      GEF    Cancel   Undnb   Ong       Frm Rev'd

PO08497     2000   MUN WASTEWATER                    3160      000       000     000     000      811     8 73       8 03

                                              Total  31 60     000       000     000     000      &#      8-74       $&




                                                     HUNGARY
                                                STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                             HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                               InMillions of US Dollars


                                                      Committed                               Disbursed

                                                     IFC                                     IFC
        FY Approval   Company               Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic.  Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic

        1990          FHF                   0 00      0 11      0 00       0 00     0 00      0 11    0 00       0 00
        2001          HEECPZ                1200      0 00      0 00       0 00     0 00      0 00    0 00       0 00

                              Totalportfoho  1200     0 11      0 00       0 00     0 00      @>a$    0 00       0 00




                                                           75

                            Xf H
                           0'3




      206    447   IC07   1091
      250    226    247   228
      422    444    657   e77
      n . 1  228    21 8  213
      232    192    159    153




.OB    4  a   4 8    4 1
 I"
 i o   44     4 9    4 3
      133    IC14   106




      161     5 9    5 1
      423    272    316
             198    24 1
      31.7   509    644




      -28     3 1   379   -in8
      -i8     5.0    4 9      5 4
              6 7    5 4      5 8
       0 0    4 2    29       4 2

                                                                  I

       202       6 8    3.6
5.0    26.7      4.6    2.5




          56      97     97
          55      07     %3
         103      101    99



                              Current a~c#untbaiancc!to GDP (*..}

      '19,932 GB.210  71,158
      19.953  69,303  73,044
         -22  -3,084  .1,w

      -1,691  .6.072  -6,775
         200      315   104


       6,528  10.730  13,404
      -5,016   -1.889 -4.947


              15.W    18.W3
5 0 1  125.7   2026    199.1



        1991




                                        I\




                  77

                              Annex 15: IncrementalCost Analysis
                      HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT


BroadSectoralDevelopmentGoalsandthe Baseline

Background: Hungary joined the EU in May 2004 and i s in the process of adapting its
regulatory framework to meet the requirements under EUDirectives, including those in regards
to water quality and environment.       Along with other countries that joined the EU in 2004,
Hungary has been given a period of ten years to achieve full compliance with the EUDirectives.
The Government's priorities in regards to the sector are therefore governed by the need to meet
the EUrequirements within the specified time frame. Hungary i s also a signatory to the ICPDR
created in October 1998. As such, it i s committed to international cooperation for the protection
of the Danube River and the Black Sea.

Status of the sector: Water supply in Hungary generally functions well. Water service levels
are high, ownership and management in the sector have been decentralized to the local
governments, and most tariffs reflect the cost of service. The Government's principal objectives
in the sector are to: (i) the gap between water supply coverage, and wastewater collection
                          close
and treatment; (ii)  keep water and wastewater services affordable; and (iii)      increasingly reach
full compliance with the relevant EU Directives.            For Hungary, investment in additional
wastewater facilities, particularly treatment facilities, i s by far the largest aspect of compliance
with the EU Directives.       The Government, in dialogue with the EU and other institutions
including the World Bank, has guided resources towards investments that are local and /or
national priorities (including improvement of water quality in the Danube basin) and which also
help Hungary move towards compliance with EUrequirements.

Budapest i s by far the most important source point of nutrient discharges inHungary. As such, it
has been included within the top priorities in the first JAP of the ICPDR. Development of the
wastewater treatment infrastructure in Hungary represents about 25% of the overall investment
program under the JAP. Alternative solutions to achieve nutrient reduction, including wetlands,
and in particular, floodplain solutions, are also considered. The DDNP, a protected area of
27,800 ha includes about 19,500 ha o f wetlands. In the past, these wetlands covered about
80,000 ha but the area has been drastically whittled down by conversion of land to agricultural
use.   The DDNP, particularly its Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa sections, lies close to the
southern body of the country where the Danube exits Hungary. Because of its characteristics and
location, it i s the area with the largest nutrient reduction potential in Hungary, and capable of
eliminating large amounts of nutrients from agricultural and other diffuse uses.

Baseline: In recent years, the Government has initiated a number of wastewater treatment
related investments. In the case of Budapest, this includes expansion and upgrading of two
WWTPs for North Budapest and South Pest respectively (these investments were financed in
part by the Bank through Loan 4512-HU).           The South Pest WWTP was expanded from a
capacity of 72,000 m3/day to 120,000 m3/day, and upgraded to provide nitrogen and phosphorus
removal, and biogas recovery. The NBWWTP was expanded to a capacity of 200,000 m3/day
and includes secondary treatment; however, nutrient removal facilities were left for



                                                  78

implementation in the future (when it was planned to add more high-rate primary sedimentation
tanks, fixed-bed filters, and chemical dosing for phosphorus removal). The estimated total cost
of the investment was about US$ 80 million of which US$ 31 million was for the South Pest
WWTP, US$27 million for the NBWWTP, and US$22million for complementary investments.
This i s taken as the Baseline for the proposedProject.


              Indicator                  South Pest WWTP                  NBWWTP
    Wastewater discharged                  90,000 m3lday                152,000 m3lday
    BOD discharged                          1,350 kglday                 20,600 kglday
    Nitrogen discharged                      900 kglday                  9,230 kglday
    Phosphorus discharged                    90 kglday                    775 kglday

Incremental Cost: Although the Government i s keenly aware of its commitment to cooperate in
improving the environmental situation and transboundary impacts of pollution in the Danube
River, and consequently, the Black Sea, it i s prevented from pursuingthese goals as rapidly as it
would like by the lack of sufficient funds. Under the current EUdirectives, tertiary treatment i s
not a requirement for discharges into the Danube River. Therefore, as regards the important
nutrient reduction investments (extension to tertiary treatment for the NBWWTP and wetlands
restoration in the DDNP),unless complementary financing i s available from external sources, the
Government's financial constraints would prevent it from undertaking the investments until such
time as it has funds available for the purpose.       This would indefinitely delay the nutrient
reduction activities and result in continued pollution of the Danube and the Black Sea. The
entire cost of the Project (estimated at US$ 32 million) i s therefore taken as additional to the
Baseline. For details, please see Table 6 and 8 below.

Global Environmental Objective and the GEF Alternative

The global objective i s to reduce the discharge of nutrients into the Danube River and thereby to
reduce nutrient loads into the Black Sea.

Under the Baseline discussed above, the Government i s unlikely to be able to allocate sufficient
financial resources to address the growing pollution effects from nutrient discharges into the
Danube River which will also result in negative transboundary and global environmental
consequences including:


    0    endangered marine ecosystems and habitats
    0    endangered coastal ecosystems
    0    risks and adverse impacts of biodiversity
    0    development of algae populations
    0    declining marshlands of global importance

 GEF alternative: To minimize the nutrient discharges and consequent eutrophication of the
wetlands and marine areas, the GEF alternative proposed includes investments that will
 significantly reduce nutrient loads o f the wastewater discharged into the Danube River and into
the Black Sea. Availability o f a significant GEF Grant contribution will enable the Government


                                                 79

to complete the financing required to launch the early implementation of the environmental
protection interventions. The local contribution to the Project i s expected to be about US$11.8
million of which about US$10.4 million would be from the Municipality of Budapest and
US$1.4 million from the Government.          An amount of US$7.7 million equivalent (Euro5.9
million) will be made available from the reallocation of loan savings and uncommitted funds
under the Bank's Loan 4512-HU (for the MWP). The balance of US$12.5 million i s to be
provided through the GEF Grant. The investments proposed under the GEF alternative are the
following:


    0  Upgrading of the NBWWTP to the tertiary level of treatment for nutrient reduction (N
        and P);
    0  Rehabilitation of wetlands and the development of nutrient trapping capacity in the
        Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa regions of the DDNP; and
    0  Establishment of monitoring systems to measure nutrient reduction, improvement of
       water quality, and impacts on ecology andbiodiversity.

GEF financing i s expected to be used in conjunction with associated complementary financing
for each of the components (see Table 5).

The Project investments are expected to result inthe following reductions in nutrient emissions:




                      NBWWTP                        Budapest               Hungary point sources
                                                                                 emissions

Components    Current      After Project  Current       After Project  Current      After Project
N(Vyr)         3,370       1,075 (68%)    7,150         4850 (32%)      15,900      13,600 (14%)
p(Vyr)         280         110(60%)       985           820 (17%)      3,000        2800 (6%)


Annex 15, Table 3: Estimatednutrient reduction in the DDNPcomponent (intondannum).

                    Estimated reductions inDDNP         Total nonpoint sources emissions inHungary
Components          Current            After Project    Current               After Project

N(Vyr)              3,770              5,500 (46%)      29,300                27,300 (6%)
p(Vyr)               190               280 (49%)        4,000                 3,900 (2%)


As a result of the Project, total point and non-point source nutrient discharges from Hungary are
expected to be reduced by about 9% for Nand 4% for P, as indicated inTable 4 below.




                                                 80

Annex15, Table 4: Project impact on Hungary nutrient discharges (in tondannum) compared to




Additionality: The measures under the proposed interventions are additional to the Baseline.
These actions will complement existing and planned activities.        Specifically, the additional
activities are designed to improve international waters quality and reduction of pollution from
municipal sources, wildlife management of the wetlands, restore precious habitats, and secure
long-term biodiversity protection of both marine and marshland areas. Incorporation of the
proposed alternative will ensure the conservation of globally unique biodiversity by integrating
biodiversity protection with the improvement of quality of life.

Expected outputs and globalbenefits: These are the following:

    0   significant reduction innutrient discharges inthe Danube River basin and the Black Sea;
    0   improving the quality of the Danube River providing benefits to downstream areas;
     0  restoration of highpriority wetlands with benefits for biodiversity of the ecosystems; and
     0  demonstration effects for other potential investors in Hungary as well as other countries
        inthe region.

Cost and Financing Plan

The total cost of the GEF alternative i s estimated at US$ 32 million and i s expected to be
financed as follows:


           Component                    Total   GEF Government Municipality               Parallelfinancing
                                         cost             (budget)       of Budapest       through IBRD
                                         and                                              Loan No. 4512-HU
                                      financing
   Development of tertiary
   treatment at the NBWWTP              25.04   6.96           0             10.38               7.70
   (Budapest)
   Wetland Restorationinthe
   Duna-Drava National Park              6.50   5.20         1.30               0                 0

   Dissemination and
   Replication                           0.43   0.35         0.07             0.01                0
  I                                 1          I      I                I                I
      Total                             31.97   12.50        1.37            10.39               7.70
  Above amounts include contingencies.


                                                 81

Benefits-Global Environmental Effects

 Annex 15, Table 6: Matrix of global environmental benefits and incremental costs (GEF
                                         comDon
                                Baseline              Alternative          Incremental global
                                                                         environmental benefit

                       tmplementation of        Extension of             Reduce nutrient loads
                       wastewater treatment     NBWWTPto tertiary        .nto the Danube and the
                       activities up to levels  treatment and wetlands   Black Sea; protect and
                       required to comply with  restoration in the       restore endangered
                       EUdirectives             Gemenc and Beda-         marine ecosystems and
                       (secondary treatment)    Karapancsa areas of the  habitats; increase of
                       and investment in        DDNPtogether with        biodiversity
                       wetlands restoration     associated Project
                       only as and when         monitoring activities
                       fundingbecomes
                       available

 cost                  US$80 million of         US$25.0 million for      US$108million for
                       which US$ 27 million     the NBWWTP and           the NBWWTPand
                       for the NBWWTP           US$6.5 million for       US$79 million for the
                                                the DDNP                 DDNP

 Development of        N o further extension of Extension to tertiary    Reduce nutrient
 tertiary treatment at treatment from the       treatment                discharges into the
 the NBWWTP            current level (secondary                          Danube and thereby
  (Budapest)           treatment)                                        reduce nutrient loads
                                                                         for the Black Sea

 Wetland Restoration No action leading to       Wetlands restoration     Reduce nutrient
  inthe Danube-        further degradation of   and development of       discharges into the
  Drava National Park the wetlands              nutrient trapping        Danube and thereby
                                                capacity                 reduce nutrient loads
                                                                         for the Black Sea;
                                                                         improve protection of
                                                                         ecology and
                                                                         biodiversity

  Dissemination and    No action                Establish proper         Contribute to efficient
  replication                                   monitoring system, and    and effective use of
  component                                     arrangements for          allocated resources
                                                dissemination and         under the Project;
                                                facilitating replication  demonstration effect
                                                                          for future projects



                                              82

 Cost Effectiveness

             Annex 15, Table 7: Nutrient (Nand P) reduction and cost-effectiveness

                                        Projected         Financial costlunit  Total annualized cost of
I                                         quantity        reduction            nutrient reduction
                                          reduced
                                        (tondyear)         (US$/7zg) (US$/ton) (000 US$) (million HUF)
~




 Development of tertiary
 treatment at the NBWWTP                    2,464             1.06      1,059    2,296          448
 (Budapest)

 Wetland Restoration inthe
 DDNP                                       1,826             0.24       241      370            72
I   Total                                   4,290             0.62       621     2,666          520
 Note: Over the period2006-2030,
 92,554 tons at a total cost (inPV terms) of US$ 66.7 million.




                                                           83

           Annex 15, Table 8: Incremental cost-benefitfor the period 2006-2030

   Incremental effects            Total             Budapest          DDNPcomponent
       (2006-2030)                                 comDonent

Vitrogen reduction (tons)        87.014               50.600               36.414

Phosphorus reduction              5,540                3,608                1,932
[tons)
   Total (tons)                  92,554               54,208               38,346

Incremental economic
benefits(PV at US$5/kg             187                  108                  79
of nutrient reduction
over 25 years) (US$
million)

Incremental abatement
costs (PV of annual               66.7                 56.0                  10.7
capital and operating
costs over 25 years) (US$
million)
Cost per unit of nutrient
reduction (US$/kg)                0.62                  1.06                 0.24

Total annualized cost
(capital+operating  cost)         0.27                  0.23                 0.04
per inhabitant (US$ per
capita)

GEFinvestment cost per
inhabitant (US$ per capita)        3.15                 2.50                 0.65




                                           84

                                 Annex 16:STAPRosterReview
                     HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

Context information: In accordance with GEF guidelines, a Scientific and Technical Advisory
Panel (STAP) review of the Project has been performed by Dr. Cristobal Felix Diaz Morejon,
member of the STAP roster of the GEF. The below STAP report has been received June 7,2005.
It confirmed the scientific soundness and technical quality of the Project and provided
comments, which have been incorporated in the present PAD and associated Project documents,
in compliance with Bank procedures. The comments and answers to the question raised by the
STAP reviewer are also available at the end of the present Annex.


Originaltitle: HUNGARYNUTRIENTREDUCTION(GEF)Project Review 1                 -
ExpertReviewerSTAP/GEF:Dr. Crist6balF6lix DiazMorej6n
Date:June 1,2005


    1. Introduction

The Project i s of utmost importance for the European environment, taking into account its
benefits for sanitation improvement in Budapest, reducing the nutrients (mainly N and P) to the
Danube River and Black Sea. The sanitation sector has been less benefited than that of drinlung
water in most countries in the world, and Hungary i s not an exception. Hence the importance to
develop this kind of projects, with replicability possibilities in other riparian countries, if results
are as foreseen.

Key Issues

    2. Scientificandtechnicalsoundnessof the project

The project has an acceptable scientific and technical baclung, although tending more to
technical soundness. It i s perhaps advisable to propitiate the inclusion in it of the scientific
community and universities, thus giving a strong scientific support to the necessary research in
the design, implementation and follow-up stages, specially monitoring and evaluation activities.

However the following comments are valid:
    .   The improvement of treatment in wastewater treatment plants on the North (including the
        addition of tertiary treatment), the South, and in the future the construction of other one
        in the central part of Budapest, will undoubtedly improve the city sanitation and the
        reduction of nutrients rich in Nand P effluence inthe Danube River and, subsequently, in
        the Black Sea. Three technologies are mentioned for the license process for the tertiary
        treatment in the Northern Plant (NBWWTP), but without an in-depth analysis of the
        technical considerations of convenience according to the wastewater quantity and
        characteristics. Thus it i s very difficult to make a potential analysis of technological
        alternatives. With their own use characteristics, the 3 technologies mentioned have
        demonstrated good results in different parts of the world, but at different scales (quantity




                                                 85

   and quality of wastewater to be treated). The activate sludge system by a fix-bed process,
   although it i s the many countries.

   It is not very clear whether the municipal wastewaters to be treated inthe treatment plants
   are only domestic or also include industrial wastewaters, an aspect that has to be
   explicitly reflected and explained in the text. In the latter case, the existence or not o f
   heavy metals content should be takes into account, because they are very difficult to
   eliminate by conventional treatment methods. In the case of domestic wastewaters, the
   special treatment of foams from detergents and soaps for various home uses should also
   be accounted for, since they contain chemicals that are very difficult to eliminate in the
   treatment.

   The results and recommendations established in the Environmental Impact Assessment
   (EIA) are very important. The EIA was adopted by the government for Budapest
   Component conducted by M O B y WD. It i s unfortunate that the main findings and
   recommendations were not included inthe Draft. Isuggest their inclusion.
   For the National Park Component the representative WD on behalf of DDNPD i s
   worlung in the preparation of the required evaluation. This will require a stringent work
   because o f the implications wetland restorations (11) may have over the environment in
   terms o f affectation and biodiversity variation, the potential creation in the future of
   anaerobic conditions as a result of systematic accumulations of considerable volumes of
   nutrients rich in N and P, that with time may lead to swampy conditions through
   eutrophication processes and GHG emissions. Apart from the potential impact on the
   Danube itself and riparian countries, if changes and negative impacts due to variations in
   the conditions initially expected by the Project, there should be special attention on the
   Beda-Karapancsa area given its proximity to Croatia. Attention should be also given to
   cases of "Fekete-erdei",      "GrCbeci-Duna"    wetland with advanced eutrophications
   processes, and "Bali" whose central part i s occupied by a strongly eutrophic, filled-up
   inner lake.

rn The Project Operational Manual should be acquired without delay for its various
   components and a strict follow-up of it future implementation.

   Monitoring and Evaluation should have first priority, because there are negative cases o f
   projects, since they are later steps inthe Project, there was less or no money for them and
   they were partially or totally ignored, with natural disasters that could have been avoided
   with systematic monitoring and evaluation.         In the case of the wetland restoration
   monitoring system in Duna-Drava National Park (Annex 4. Table 1. Estimated Project
   Costs by Components, page 13), taking into account the necessary volume of research
   and the follow-up required for a comprehensive evaluation, including biodiversity, water
   quality, bottom sediment studies and other. Isuggest a percentage increase for monitoring
   and evaluation (0.7 %), since 250 Meuros i s actually very little.

3. Identificationof the global environmental benefits and/or drawbacks of the project.
The global environmental benefits for Europe, Hungary - specially Budapest - and the
riparian countries in this part of Danube are clearly reflected, as well as for the Black Sea,
because of the reduction of nutrients rich in N and P entering into the river, with the



                                             86

   treatment plant improvement located in the North and South of Budapest and the water
   systems.

   4. Project's context within GEF goals, operational strategies, program priorities, GEF
       Council guidance and the provisions of the relevant conventions.

 The Project context perfectly classifies within the GEF objectives and its operational strategies,
 program priorities, and guidelines of the GEF Council. It clearly articulates with the European
 Union Water Directives, and specially those having to do with the Danube River and the Black
 Sea, as well as with the European Union Directive for the discharge of urban wastewaters, and
 the provisions of the Bucharest Convention (1985) and the Sofia Convention (1998), the
 strategic plans of the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River, and the
 UNDP/GEFPartnership on Nutrient Reductionfor the Danube and Black Seabasins.

 In the Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues (page 20) it may perhaps be necessary to deepen on
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), since the creation of water systems will change the natural
 habitats. This i s also valid for Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), since there i s no
 explanation or what will be done with landowners working in agriculture, because it i s not
 explained.

Foreseen supervisions by qualified personnel of the World Bank (as GEF implementing agency)
and GEF teams i s essential, not only during the start-up phase but during the implementation,
especially the field visits where each components of Project will be analyzed.

    5. Regionalcontext

In general, the analysis of regional context is adequate, approaching essential elements and
actors. However it will be good to add that, at national and local levels, additional benefits will
be obtained with an improved water quality in the Danube River and the Black Sea together with
a better quality of life inthe population.

    6. Replicabilityof the project

The Project will be perfectly replicable in other areas of Hungary, riparian countries, and other
parts of the world, if the initial foreseen results are obtained.

    7. Sustainability of the project

The Project intends to achieve sustainability with an element of great importance in every
country - the reduction of pollution. In this case, the reduction of nutrients rich in N and P
arriving to the Danube River and later to the Black Sea, with the improvement of existing
wastewater treatment plants, and an ambitious rehabilitation plan of a former wetland through 11
water systems restoring the National Park former conditions.

However, results useful, the following comments on the Project as a whole are relevant:

    0   It i s important to really take into account, not only the technical, operative and
        maintaining costs, but too the social costs when service tariffs are established, in
        correspondence with the characteristics of the population of North and South wastewater
        treatment plants.



                                                    87

 It i s necessary to comply with what i s established in the Consumers unwillinghnableto
 pay required tariffs levelsin Point 5 Critical risksand possiblecontroversial aspects
  of C. Implementation (page 16), that mechanisms "are already in place    r.. .1 forany cross
 -subsidiesthatwouldberequiredtoprovideservicestothepoor", ifwehopetheProject
  reaches the intended economic, social and environmentalrepercussions.

0 The relationship between sustainability and water management i s often viewed in terms
  of the exploitation of natural systems for water treatment. Ponds, reed beds, and wetlands
  have consequently been granted extensive coverage as potentially sustainable solutions to
  water management problems. However, it i s important to recognize that engineered water
  treatment technologies are not, in themselves, a threat to sustainable water management.
  Where there i s room for improvement i s in the wise design and implementation of
  technology.
  For this reason we must research to study, and deepen into the variant of establishing 11
  water systems the lower part of the Danube River in Hungary, since their long-term
  effects maybe negative. It would be trying to reconstruct something destroyed by men
  themselves and it while never be as originally conceived by Nature. That i s why Ibelieve
  a pilot water system should be built in each zone:   "  BCda - Karapancsa   ''y Gemenc ",
                                                                                   "
  where the impact on the environment and the consequences of accumulating of nutrients
  rich in N and P may be studied in depth. That i s why in Point 2 Isuggested the
  intervention of the scientific community and the universities, creating multidisciplinary
  research groups.

0 It will be useful inthe future, together with the construction the Central new wastewater
  treatment plant, and even in the already constructed ones, to work in the capacity of the
  types of technologies to recycle grey and black waters at the neighborhood, street or even
  household level thus offering new opportunities for the design o f comprehensive water
  supply and sewerage network that will allow smaller physic and treatment dimensions in
  wastewater treatment plants (in a household level, for example, sand filters and physical
  filtedmembrane systems for recycling bathhhower water and even the wastewater from
  kitchens). This consideration has large economic, social and environmental advantages.

0 Project sustainability should be viewed comprehensively with an integral management
  for the entire region. Thus it would be important to include:
       -  variant analysis for possible reuse of treated wastewaters( for example in
          agriculture for irrigation, in municipalities for irrigation of gardens, parks, and
          other uses) with important savings of water inthe sources;
       -  the use of possible sludge arising in wastewater treatment plants (for example, in
          agriculture as fertilizer, if it does not contain heavy metals or other hazardous
          substances; or inthe production of energy);
       -  the gradual reduction in the application of inorganic fertilizers rich in N and P,
          that constitutes non-point sources of pollution to the Danube River; with the
          consequent savings, utilizing organic fertilizers as compost, biofertilizers and
          others.
  These possible applications may be considered inthe financial analysis, because they will
  result inincomes from the Project

0 Other aspects about sustainability were raised in Point 2.


                                             88

Secondary issues

    8. Linkages to other focal areas

This Project has links with the focal areas of Biodiversity, Land Degradation, and even with
Climate Changes, if we take into account the emissions in wastewater treatment plants and if the
possible adverse effects described above inwater systems occur (Point 2).

    9. Linkages with other programs and action plans at regional or sub-regional levels

They are well described inthe Draft Project.

    10. Other beneficial or possibleenvironmental damaging effects

All important issues were described inPoints 2 and 7.

In the Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring (pages 9 -12), in the part on Monitoring
(Table: Arrangements for results monitoring, page 11), Isuggest to include in the Intermediate
Outcome Indicators: Quantity of treated wastewaters reused; Variation in the number of
existing species inwater systems; Average of Nand P contained ineach water system/ha.

    11.Capacity building aspects

These aspects are described in generic form without a very clear and defined plan, of what i s
intended. Iinsist inthe need of worlung together with the scientific community and universities.

    12. Innovativenessof the project

Some aspects may be reflected in Point 5 Lesson learned and reflected in the Project design
(pages 10 y 11) and in Point 6 Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection (pages 11y 12)
inB Project description.

However the main innovation i s the application in a complex Hungarian region, within the limits
of the capital and a National Park, an improvement of wastewater treatment systems, and the
application of wetlands. These are well known technologies used in other parts of the world.




Dr.CristdbalFelix DiazMorejdn
STAP/GEF Expert




                                               89

               Response by the Project Team to comments and answers
                      to the questionraised by the STAP reviewer

This i s to acknowledge that Ireceived your excellent and very well written STAP review
report on the design of the aforementioned Project. We have incorporated your comments in
the document and discussed them with our Hungarian counterpart during our mission there. I
just have the following comments on some of the points you raised.

Point 2:

    Ifullyagreewithyouonthefactthatuniversityandtheresearchcommunityshouldbe
    involved in a study to help in the wetland rehabilitation in the Gemenc and Beda-
    Karapancsa areas of the Park. Provisions have been made under the Project to finance the
    development of an impact evaluation methodology, in addition to the contracts for final
    designs, baseline study. This study should serve as a basis for the design and
    development of the Monitoring and Evaluation system. This study i s foreseen to be
    implemented by searchers or university involved in such activities or similar activities in
    Hungary.

    The technology to be developed i s not decided yet, and since the treatment technologies
    referred to in the feasibility studies are only indicative at this stage, they have not been
    described in details in the document. Since these technologies are likely to be protected
    by patents, and in order to guarantee competition, the turn key contract will be procured
    based on technical specifications that will allow the widest range of technical solutions to
    be applied, while takmg into account the operation and maintenance (O&M) costs. O f
    course, thorough technical review will be performed in the process, in particular at the
    end of the prequalification stage, to make sure that the technical specifications allow
    reaching the appropriate level of treatment, that these technologies demonstrated good
    results while minimizing the O&M costs.

    The impact evaluation you are referring to and the potential implications in terms of
    creation of anaerobic conditions which might lead to eutrophication and GHG emissions
    will be studied as part of the aforementioned study. Mitigations measure for potential
    negative impacts will be added to the Environmental Management Plan of the Park
    component.

    As indicated above, Monitoring and Evaluation will be given the right level of attention.
    A baseline study will be prepared, an impact evaluation methodology will be developed
    and a M&E system will be implemented, taking into account your comments. Altogether,
    about 250,000 Euro equivalent (USD320,OOO) will be allocated to these aspects, which
    represents more than 6% of the component amount. This percentage looks rather on the
    high side, compared to other projects in the Bank. Additionally, preparation of the
    development of the M&E system will take place at the early stages o f the Project and not
    at the end, giving the priority to the M&Eo f the activities to be implemented inthe Park.




                                              90

Point 4:

   Regarding your mention on the Annex 10, we will deepen on the Natural Habitat in the
   Environmental Management Plan, based on the results on the baseline, final design and
   the impact evaluation methodology results. As indicated in the Environmental Impact
   Assessments, the Project i s expected to improve the habitats of a number of species,
   including some protected species and migratory birds. Additionally, the dredged material,
   which good quality has just been confirmed, will be used as game island to prevent
   animals from drowning during the flood events. Concerning the Involuntary Resettlement
   Safeguard Policy, the national park i s property of the state and no agriculture i s taking
   place within the park boundaries. This i s the reason why there i s no mention of any
   agricultural activity within the Park.

   In addition to regular supervision missions, and in order to provide additional security
   and confidence to the authorities, the MOEW will convene a short team of experts, with
   internationally recognized experience in the type of interventions to be developed, to
   review the proposed works and follow up the impact they have on the park's morphology
   and ecology.

Point 7:

   Ifullyagreewithyourcommentonthepossibledevelopmentoftechnologiestorecycle
   grey and black waters at the street or household level, however, this i s outside the scope
   of this Project.

Point 10:

   Inregardto the indicators, we agreed duringthe last mission with the indicators proposed
   by the authorities to focus on a limited number of monitoring indicators that can be easily
   measured.

Point 11

   Detail plan of activities and associated terms of reference for the capacity Building
   aspects will be prepared before Project Effectiveness, based on the identified needs at that
   time.




                                            91

                                              Annex 17: Maps
                       HUNGARY: NUTRIENT REDUCTIONPROJECT


                        Map 1: Gemenc area of the DunaDrava National Park7

                    Map 2: Beda Karapancsa area of the DunaDrava National Park




  These two maps are the property of the WA. Written authorization to use and publishthese maps has been
received and filed. They have been cleared by the Cartography Department of the World Bank.


                                                       92

Map 1: Gemenc area of the Duna Drava NationalPark




 2. "Buvat"water system                7. "Feketeerdei"water system,"G&be&Duna"  11."Nagy-PandW water system
 4. Water system at the S i k n a l    8. "KerCil6-Duna"water system
 5. "Gemenc"water system               9. "BAli"water system




                                                            93

Map 2: Beda Karapancsa area of the Duna.- National Park
                                       Drava




                                        94

  Annex 18: Biological Processesof NutrientTrappinginFloodplainsand Wetlands
                    HUNGARY: NUTRIENTREDUCTIONPROJECT

Introduction:

Wetlands perform many important biochemical functions in watersheds in relation to nutrients
(Nitrogen and Phosphorus). Among these are sediment trapping; nutrient removal, storage and
release; and transformation of inorganic nutrients to organic forms. Floodplains and temporary
wetlands, like Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa areas of the Duna-Drava National Park, can also be
highefficiency purifiers, duringbothflood anddry periods. Studieshave shown that, under optimal
conditions, floodplains and temporary wetlands can make a significant contribution to reducing N
and P loads entering the wetlands carried in surface water. Permanent wetlands and wetlands used
as nutrient filters at the discharges of wastewater treatment plants indicate retention rates of up to
90% of nitrates and up to 50% of phosphorous which transit through them. However, to date, the
impacts of natural floodplains and temporary wetlands on nutrient reduction have not been
systematically documented. Hence, the outcomes remain difficult to predict in quantitative terms.
The purpose of this annex i s to describe in simple and qualitative terms the complexity of the
processes expected to take place in the Project areas in relation to nutrient reduction. Inparticular,
it will focus on the biological processes andtheir impacts onbiodiversity. However, as indicatedin
the Project description, the proposed Project intends to develop knowledge and scientific data to
better understand such solutions and facilitate their replication.

Processesaffectingnutrientreductioninfloodplainsandwetlands

Nutrients entering a wetland carried in surface water may be in dissolved or particulate (suspended
sediment) form, and may exist as organic and inorganic compounds. Organic N or P compounds
are in either dissolved or particulate form. Inorganic compounds occur primarily in solution, as
nitrate (NO3- ) or ammonium (N&+) for N, and as orthophosphate (H2P0i and PO:-) or
phosphate-containing minerals suspendedin the water column for P. Once inthe wetland, nutrients
are exposed to complex combinations of physical (water flow, depth, sedimentation, filtration,
absorption), chemical (denitrification) and biological (nutrient reduction through aquatic micro and
macrophytes and the roots of terrestrial vegetation) processes involvinga large number of dynamic
parameters. These processes result in retention, cycling and release of nutrients, as indicated in
Figures 1,2, and 3. Major processes affecting retention, cycling and release of nutrientsin wetlands
are described inTable 1below.




                                                                      ~~


Figure 1: Simplifieddiagram of the Phosphorus cycle inwetlands
 (Source:Phosphoruscycling in wetlands, a fact sheet of the Soil and Water Science Department, Florida Cooperative
ExtensionService,Instituteof FoodandAgricultural Sciences,University of Florida. Published: July 1999.)
                                                          95

                        Inputs                        Light
                   1 I




Process          Effect on Nitrogen compound                      I Effecton Phosphorus compound
Diffusion         Driven by the concentration gradient, dissolved forms o f Nand P can be transferred from
(Physical         surface water to soil solution (porewater) and vice versa, diffusing from a region o f high
process)          concentration to regions o f lower concentration.
Plant uptake   1I Inorganic forms are taken up by plants either rooted inthe soil or floating inthe water,
(Biological       including algae.
process)
Litterfall       Deadplant tissue (e.g., leaves and stems) falls from the live plants and collects at the soil
(Physical         surface to form a litter layer, also known as detritus.
process)
Sedimentation Particulate matter (inorganic and/or organic sediment) entrained inthe water column settles
(Physical         out, due to the reduced water velocity, shallow water depth and filtering action of emergent
process)          vegetation, and collects on the soil surface.

                                                         96

                  3rganic matter, including plant detritus, organic sediments and peat, i s broken down by a     1
 (Biochemical     variety of microorganisms that utilize organic carbon as a source of energy. Organic
 process)         :ompounds, such as proteins and amino acids, are broken down to smaller organic
                  molecules, bothparticulate and dissolved, and ultimately to ammonium (NH43for Nand
                  xthophosphate for P, which may be utilized either as a nutrient by the microorganisms or
                  jiffuse back into the soil or water.
                  Under high-pH conditions in the wetland
 volatilization   floodwater, concentration of the un-ionized
 (Chemical        form of ammonia (NH3)becomes appreciable
 process)         compared to NH4+, and may be releasedto
                  the atmosphere as ammonia gas. This process
                  is not usually a major factor for Ncycling in
                  most wetlands, but can lead to substantial N
                  losses for poorly buffered waters with high
                  photosynthetic activity (due to the associated
                  daily increase inpH).
                  Microbial conversion (by Nitrosomonas and
 (Biochemical     Nitrobacter spp.) of reduced inorganic N
 process)         (NH43to    the oxidized nitrate form. This
                  process occurs inaerobic, or oxygenated,
                  regions o f the wetland, usually confined to
I-                the surface water and the top few millimeters
                  o f the underlying soil.
 Denitr$catio     Microbial conversion (e.g., by Pseudomonas
                  spp.) of nitrateto nitrogen (N2) gas and, to a
 (Biochemical     lesser extent, nitrous oxide (N20),which are
                  lost to the atmosphere. The releaseof nitrous
                  oxide i s of particular concern, becauseof
                  ozone-layer impacts. Denitrification occurs
                  only inthe anaerobic, or oxygen-depleted,
                  regions of the wetland that typically exist
                  below the soil surface.
                  Retention of Nin the soil by adsorption           This general term i s applied to the
 Adsorption       occurs through the process of cation              processesof adsorption of the
 (Physicochem     exchange, whereby the ammonium ion                orthophosphate ion by clays and iron or
                  (NH4+)s weakly boundto soil particles by
                           i                                        aluminum oxides (chemisorption) inthe
                  electrostatic attraction. Most soil profiles are  soil, and precipitation of PO4 with either
                  negatively charged, so the corresponding          iron and aluminum oxides or dissolved
                  retention of nitrate (N03.) i s rare.             calcium, to form solid compounds (Fe- and
                                                                    Al-phosphates or Ca-phosphates) in the
                                                                     soil or water column. These phosphate
                                                                    minerals are potentially very stable inthe
                                                                     soil, affording long-term storage of
I                                                                  Iphosphorus.
 Burial and       Partially decomposed plant detritusand other organic matter is gradually buried and
 peat accretion   incorporated into the soil profile. The buried material representing the portion of organic
  (Physical       matter that i s more resistant to decomposition. It becomes highly decomposed and
 process)         compressed, forming peat (Le., peat accretion). This process takes decades to take place.



  results in gaseous losses of N from the ecosystem. Highly favorable environmental conditions for
  denitrification are commonly found in wetland soils. The existence of an aerobic- anaerobic
  interface near the wetland soil surface greatly facilitates the coupling of nitrification and
  denitrification, which allows removal of inorganic N as both nitrate and ammonium.
  Comparatively, the capacity of wetlands for P removal is limited, as there i s no loss mechanism for
  P inwetlands that is analogous to denitrification. Therefore, P tends to accumulate in wetlands at a
  higher rate than does N. However, precipitation of phosphate minerals can provide a significant


                                                         97

sink for P in wetlands with large stores or inputs of iron and aluminum (low-pH wetlands) or
calcium (high-pHwetlands).

The vast majority of nutrients in wetlands are in organic form, contained either in the vegetation
(live plants), plant detritus, macrofauna, microorganisms, soil (soil organic matter or peat) or water
(dissolved organic compounds or suspendedsediments). Although wetlands may remove and store
substantial quantities of nutrients, they also can potentially release a significant quantity to
downstream ecosystems. In particular, wetlands' functions may change seasonally. During the
growing season of the vegetation, late spring, summer and early fall, emergent and submerged
aquatic plants take up large quantities of nutrients from water and sediment. Algae and floating
plants absorb nutrients from surface water. These plants essentially convert the wetland into a
"nutrient sink," by taking nutrients from the water and sediment and retaining them as plant
material. By taking up and holding nutrients during the summer, wetlands decrease the possibility
of contamination downstream (Figure 4).




                            . -                .
                               '  a ,   8         P I         .
                                          I .   . , q--  . ,,
                                                           I     , _ ' ' , -
                                                                     a    .

                                             , '

                                           Figure 4. Nutrient Sink

However, this process reverses when these plants die. Then, decomposition and litterfall take place,
generating a large portion of nutrients to return to the water and sediment. During this period (in
late fall and early spring), wetlands serve as a nutrient source when water flows from the wetlands
to ecosystems downstream (Figure 5).




                         . . ..
                                   ,     . . . .         _ . ..:
                                          Figure 5. Nutrient Source

In most cases nutrients are recycled within the wetland. Emergent and submerged plants bring
nutrientsfrom the sediment into the water column, acting as "nutrients pumps." Algae and floating
plants serve as "nutrient dumps" by taking nutrients from the water and depositing them back inthe
sediment when they die and settle on the bottom. The cycle breaks when nutrients are removed
                                                     98

from the wetland system, occurring when nutrient-richwater flows out of the wetland. The release
of nitrogen gas to the atmosphereby denitrification, ammonia volatilization or possibly nitrification
of ammonia also causes nutrientsto be lost.

Major factors influencing the efficiency of nutrient retention capacity of floodplains

Efficient management of the above processes is critical to ensure proper nutrientretention, enhance
biological processestransforming nutrients into biomass, and avoid potentialnegative impacts such
as release of nutrientsor maintaining optimal conditions for flora and fauna. The efficiency of such
biological processes linked to nutrient retention in floodplain ecosystems i s determined by two
main multi-factor parameters:
(i)      The volume of water entering the ecosystem; and
(ii)     The active vegetation biomass within the ecosystem.
The water flow in the ecosystems i s of utmost importance, more specifically the volume of water
current and its speed. On the one hand, the water inflow provides the necessary reduction-oxidation
(redox) potential for the photosynthesis; on the other hand, the river provides nutrients to the
vegetation biosynthesis. Since the concentration of nutrients in the Danube river waters remains
quite stable all year around, the nutrient retaining capacity is in proportion to the volume of water
delivering redox potential directly, and the amount of suspended solids in the river waters
indirectly, provided that the water velocity is sufficiently low to allow the suspended solids to
settle.

The other critical parameter regulating the retentioncapacity i s the volume of vegetation biomasses
characterizing the floodplain, as it i s in proportion to the level of nutrient intake. The nutrient
retaining capacity of the ecosystems will be optimal when the inundated areas of the floodplain are
covered with vegetation and when the flooding episodes are taking place during the seasonal
growing period of the vegetation cycle, when nutrient consumption is at its peak. However, the
water depths should be shallow enough to permit the vegetation to continue its biosynthesis, even
during long submersions.

On the one hand, through the restoration of the oxbows inthe Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa areas
of the Park, more water will enter the floodplain during flood events. On the other hand, the
development of small water regulation works intends to slow down the flow of water exiting the
floodplain. As a result, temporary wetlands will be created from time to time, creating suitable
conditions for the retention of nutrient loads of the Danube River and subsequently the Black Sea.
In the process, both the ecology of the riverside habitats and the quality of the water leaving the
floodplain are expected to improve. To reach suchresults, it i s critical to integrate the specificity of
the vegetation throughout the Project area, to take into account their relative capacity to trap
nutrients and their potential limitations.

Specificity of the Gemenc- and BCda-Karapancsa floodplains

Over the last 125 years, records have shown a decrease of the water level of the Danube River by
1.6 to 1.8 meter. The cause of this decrease i s the numerous hydraulic works to regulate the flow of
the Danube River. As aresult, the number and frequency of flood events in the Gemenc- and BCda-
Karapancsa floodplains have considerably decreased, leading to a general drying of the areas.
Additionally, the flood events are shorter in time and the flood waves of the Danube River are
likely to occur at any period of time during the year. However, the probability i s higher during the
6 month periodbetween February and July than inthe period between August and January.

The floodplains of Gemenc- and BCda-Karapancsaare habitats of a large variety of flora and fauna,
which has adapted to regular floods and related sedimentation followed by dry periods. Inaddition,
the hydrology and ecology of the Park has been modified by various human interventions. A

                                                   99

significant portion of the forests occupying the floodplain of the Park are composed of non-
indigenous tree species (e.& about 50% in BCda-Karapancsain 2002) such as acacias and poplars.
All woodlands are managed in the area. Nowadays, the natural vegetation of the Gemenc
floodplain i s represented by riverine willow scrubs, riverine willow-poplar woodlands, riverine
oak-elm-ash woodlands to a lesser extent, and wetland euhydrophyte, reed, typha and sedge
communities. The nature conservation value of the flora is high: 30 rare, protected species have
been described from the region so far, a number of which are growing in the woodlands (see
Appendix Ito this Annex). Higher frequency of flooding events are expected to be beneficial for
forestry (natural and cultivated), as increasedland desiccation represents athreat to some species.

Interms of fauna, the number of specialized andrare species of birds,bats, fishes, amphibians and
other aquatic species is much larger than that of common species in the Gemenc and Beda-
Karapancsa areas. Altogether 198 bird species were detected in the Gemenc and BCda- Karapancsa
areas of the Park. That represents 52 % of the total number of 377 species described in Hungary
until now. The number of species nestling is 124 in this area, including the Ferruginous Duck
(AythyaNyrocu), the White-tailed Eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla) and Black Storks, representing 62 %
of the number o f total nestling species in Hungary. About 40 % of the strictly protected species are
found in the Lower Danube stretch, according to ornithological observations (DEME, 2003). In
addition, the Park harbours two species of rare fishes (Perca jluviatilis and Gymnocephalus
cemuus), three "International Red Data Book" amphibians, and a strictly protected otter (Lutru
lutra),which population i s considered stable.

The Environmental Impact Assessment of the Park component, carried out during Project
preparation, concludes that no significant negative impacts are expected if the measures included in
the Environmental Management Plan are implemented. Moreover, the rehabilitation of the
wetlands i s expected to improve the ecological conditions of the ecosystem and to increase
biodiversity, as new valuable habitats will be created. Positive ecological impacts are inparticular
expected with the creation of additional habitats for a number of migratory bird species of global
importance. Furthermore, the rehabilitation of the wetlands will help solve the desiccation problem
causedby the deepening of the Danube River bed, which has resulted in serious loss of wet alluvial
habitats over the years. Nevertheless, given the outstanding importance of the Park in terms of
biodiversity and nature conservation, proper attention should be paid to monitor the possible
impacts of the Project on the ecology and biodiversity of the area. In this regard, as part of the
baseline study, selected indicators species will be identified. They are to be included in the
Monitoring and Evaluation system of the Project, which i s to be implemented early in the process
and prior to the investments. Monitoring of such indicator species i s to be introduced in the list of
performance indicators of the Project, to ensure that their populations remain stable and serve as an
early warning system for any threats to that stability.




                                                 100

           Appendix 1to Annex 17: listof endangeredspeciesidentifiedinthe Park




1.      A).      LIST OF PROTECTEDPLANT SPECIESDESCRIBEDINTHE GEMENC
                                     AREA (SZARVAS,2003)


1.      Listera ovata                                16.     Equisetum hyemale
2.      Carex strigosa                               17.     Vitis sylvestris
3.      .Orchis purpurea                             18.     Marsilea quadrifolia
4.      Crataegus x degenii                          19.     Senecio palodosus
5.      Scilla vindobonensis                         20.     Leucojum aestivum
6.      Cephalantera damasonium                      21.     Salvinia natans
7.      Nymphaea alba                                22.     Clematis integrifolia
8.      Crategus nigra                               23.     Trapa natans
9.      Carpensiumabrotanoides                       24.     Epipactis helleborine
10.     Dactylorhiza incarnata                       25.     I r i s sibirica
11.     Cephalanthera longifolia                     26.     Dryopteris carthusiana
12.     Acorus calamus                               27.     Dryopteris dilatata
13.     Platanthera bifolia                          28.     Nymhoides peltata
14.     Gentiana pneumonanthe                         29.    Orchis militaris
15.     Ophioglossumvulgata                           30.    Platanthera clorantha

B).     List of fish species found in main riverbed (l),               connected backwaters (2), and
disconnected standing waters (3) inthe Gemenc area.
Black boxes common, grey boxes rare, x historical data (GUTI, 2001). Where no indication i s
given, the presence of the fish species i s suspected but was not be documented as part of this study.

                   Fishspecies                             1               2      31
                   Eudontomyzon mariae
                   Acipenser ruthenus
                   Acipenser giildenstaedti
                   Acipenser nudiventris
                   Acipenser stellatus
                   Huso huso
                   Hucho hucho
                    Oncorhycus mykiss
                    Umbra krameri
                   Esox lucius
                   Rutilus rutilus
                   Rutilus pigus Virgo
                    Ctenopharyngodon idella
                    Scardinius
                    erythrophthalmus
                   Leuciscus leuciscus
                   Leuciscus cephalus
                   Leuciscus idus
                   Aspius aspius
                   Alburnus alburnus

                                                   101

?ishspecies
{licca bjoerkna
Lbramis brama
Lbramis ballerus
ibramis sapa
limba vimba
'elecus cultratus
rinca tinea
7hodrostoma nasus
3arbus barbus
3arbus meridionalis
?obi0 gobio
7obio albipinnatus
Dseudorasboraparva
Phodeus sericeus amarus
7arassius carassius
Tarassius auratus
Syprinus carpio
Fiypophtalmichthys molitrin
4ristichthys nobilis
'Misgumusfossilis
Cobitis taenia
Silurus glanis
4meirus nebulosus
4meiurus melas
4nguilla anguilla
Lata lota
Lepomis gibbosus
Micropterus salmoides
Percafluviatilis
 Gymnocephalus cemuus
 Gymnocephalus baloni
 Gymnocephalus schraetzer
 Stizostedion lucioperca
 Stizostedion volgense
 Zingel zingel
 Proterorhinus marmoratus
 Neogobiusfluviatilis
 Neogobius kessleri
 Neogobius syrman




                           102

