           Document of
        The World Bank


                                 Report No: 60008-HU




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER


             ON A


PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING


               OF


  NUTRIENT REDUCTION PROJECT
             LOAN



            TO THE


     REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY




        MARCH 22, 2011
                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



MOEW   Ministry of Environment and Water

MOF    Ministry of Finance

MORD   Ministry of Rural Development.




          Regional Vice President:        Phillipe Le Houreau
                 Country Director:        Peter C. Harrold
         Sector Manager / Director:       Wael Zakout
                                      1
Task Team Leader:       Sanyu Lutalo




                    2
                      HUNGARY NUTRIENT REDUCTION PROJECT
                                    P074971
                                  CONTENTS

                                                                                                                       Page
A.   SUMMARY................................................................................................................ 3
B.   PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................. 3
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 3




                                                             3
                         NUTRIENT REDUCTION PROJECT

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

SUMMARY
This Restructuring Paper is to seek the approval of the Country Director to introduce
changes in the Hungary, Nutrient Reduction Project, TF-55978, P074971 and any
accompanying amendments to the project's legal documents. The proposed changes
specifically relate to the transfer of implementing agency responsibilities to the legal
successors of the original agencies following Hungary's restructuring of relevant
Government Ministries.

The Government of Hungary, through its letter of February 2, 2011, has officially
informed the Bank of restructuring of its Ministries pursuant to Government resolution
2097/2006 (V9). The specific changes were laid down in Act XLII of 2010 on Hungarian
Ministries, which entered into force in May 2010. According to this legislation, where
any legal regulation issued prior to entry into force of this Act mentions the Ministry of
Environment and Water, it shall be construed as the Ministry of Rural Development.
Consequently the ministerial tasks relating to the project are transferred to the Ministry of
Rural Development. Pursuant to Section 2 Sub-Section (1) of the same Act there was a
similar change in the Ministry of Finance, which signed the original Agreement in May
2006, whereby duties were transferred to the new Ministry of National Development and
the Ministry of National Economy. Relevant responsibilities of the former Ministry of
Finance have therefore been transferred to the latter.

Implementation activities for the project are otherwise continuous and organizational
units and employees within the relevant Ministries engaged in the project have been
transferred to the Ministry of Rural Development.

PROJECT STATUS
The development objectives of the project are: (i) to reduce Budapest's discharge of
nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) into the Danube River, and consequently into the
Black Sea; (ii) to enhance the nutrient trapping capacity of Gemenc and Beda-Karapancsa
wetlands situated in the lower Hungarian part of the Danube River; and (iii) to serve as a
model for similar nutrient reduction initiatives in Hungary and other Danube basin
countries.

The project was approved on April 18, 2006. Progress towards achievement of the
development objectives is currently rated Moderately Satisfactory because although the
completion of the tertiary treatment plant at the north Budapest Wastewater Treatment
Plant (Component A) was implemented in a highly satisfactory manner and has resulted
in a reduction in Budapest's nutrient discharge into the Danube, progress with respect to
implementation of the Wetland Rehabilitation contract (Component B) has been slow.
Reasons for the slow progress are linked to procurement related delays, delays linked to

                                             4
the bureaucracy in obtaining relevant environmental and other licenses in line with
Hungarian law, and seasonal flooding of the project area, which has made it impossible to
start construction until the waters recede. Implementation is expected to resume by the
end of March 2011. An end of project evaluation workshop is planned for the fall 2011
prior to project closing, to discuss key lessons from Components A and B of the project,
which will be disseminated in the region in order to serve as a model for similar nutrient
reduction initiatives in Hungary and other Danube basin countries.


PROPOSED CHANGES
Institutional Arrangements: The proposed changes would involve introduction of
amendments to the project's legal documents to reflect official transfer of implementing
agency responsibilities from the former Ministry of Environment and Water to its legal
successors the Ministry of Rural Development. Relevant duties of the former Ministry of
Finance would also be transferred to its legal successor, the Ministry of National
Economy.




                                            5
