Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 055978-HU 
 
MOB Project Agreement 
 
(Nutrient Reduction Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
(Acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility) 
 
and 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST 
 
Dated May 15, 2006 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 055978-HU 
MOB PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 15, 2006, between the INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as 
an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of 
grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as 
participants of the GEF, and the MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST (MOB). 
WHEREAS (A) by the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Republic of Hungary (the Recipient) and the Bank, the 
Bank has agreed to make a GEF Trust Fund Grant available to the Recipient in an 
amount equal to twelve million five hundred thousand Dollars ($12,500,000) on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, but 
only on condition that the MOB agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B) 
by an Implementation Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient, the MOB, the DDNP and the WD, a portion of the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant provided for under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement will be made 
available to the MOB on the terms and conditions set forth in the said Implementation 
Grant Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the MOB, 
in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Recitals to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any 
of the MOB’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
“MOB Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed 
performance indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the 
MOB under Part A of the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of Part A 
of the Project and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved; and 
(c) 
“Project Implementation Unit of the MOB” or  “PIU-MOB” means the 
Unit established by the MOB within its Mayor’s Office under the provisions of the MOB 
Loan Agreement and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of Part A the Project 
Section 2.01. 
(a)  The MOB declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate economic, engineering, technical and water management 
practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors as stipulated in the 
Bucharest Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea Against
 
Pollution and the 
Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the MOB shall otherwise agree, the MOB shall carry out Part 
A
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
MOB shall update the Procurement Plan for Part A of the Project in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan for  
the Bank’s approval. 
Section 2.03. 
(a)  The MOB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the MOB Project Agreement and Part A of the 
Project. 
Page  5
-
3
-
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the MOB shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and the MOB, a plan to ensure the future 
sustainability of Part A of the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the MOB on said plan. 
Section 2.04. 
The MOB shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Implementation Grant Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the MOB 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating or waiving the Implementation Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. 
The MOB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the performance by the 
MOB of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Implementation Grant 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
 
Management and Operations of the MOB 
Section 3.01. 
The MOB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, economic, environmental, and technical 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. 
The MOB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. 
(a)  The MOB shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A of the 
Project. 
Page  6
-
4
-
(b) 
The MOB shall: 
(i) 
facilitate the auditing of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above and Section 4.01 of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank,, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
Schedule 1 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on 
the basis of statements of expenditure related to Part A of the Project ,MOB shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
provide information so that such reports and statements of 
expenditure may be included in the audit for each Fiscal Year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the MOB’s reporting obligations set 
out in paragraph 1 of Section C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the MOB shall prepare 
and furnish to MOEW a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds under Part A of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of Part A of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
Page  7
-
5
-
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned 
implementation of Part A of the Project; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR for Part A of the Project shall be furnished to the MOEW 
with sufficient time to enable the MOEW to prepare and submit to the Bank the FMR for 
the Project not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date. The FMR for Part A of the Project shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR for Part A of the Project shall be furnished to the 
MOEW with sufficient time to enable the MOEW to prepare and submit to the Bank the 
FMR for the Project not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the previous FMR for Part A of the 
Project until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 5.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the MOB 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the MOB 
thereof. 
Section 5.03. 
All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 6.01. 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
Page  8
-
6
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Municipality of Budapest: 
 
Municipality of Budapest 
 
Mayor’s Office - PIU 
 
P.O. Box 1 
 
H-1364 Budapest 4 
 
Republic of Hungary 
 
Cable 
address: 
     Facsimile 
 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF  
 
 
(36-1) 327-1811  
 
BUDAPEST 
 
Section 6.02. 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the MOB, may 
be taken or executed by the Mayor of the MOB or such other person or persons as the 
Mayor shall designate in writing, and the Mayor shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03. 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  9
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Budapest, Republic of Hungary, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(Acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global 
Environment Facility) 
 
By: /s/ Daniela Gressani 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF BUDAPEST  
 
By: /s/ Gabor Demszky 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding and the following additional provisions: draft NCB documents shall be provided 
to the Bank in English for its review and prior no-objection. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Page  12
-
10 - 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s prior review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  13
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
 
Section A:
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Implementation Unit of the MOB
(a)  
The MOB shall be responsible for the technical and financial 
management of Part A of the Project and the carrying out of the procurement, 
payment and reporting responsibilities. 
(b)  
Specific implementation activities for Part A of the Project shall be 
vested in the PIU-MOB.  To those ends, the MOB shall maintain the PIU-MOB 
throughout Project implementation with financial and human resources adequate 
to enable it to appropriately carry out its responsibilities under Part A of the 
Project.     
(c) 
The MOB has contracted the supervision of the works under Part 
A
of the Project to the BMSC.  To this effect, the BMSC shall report to a joint 
review team formed by representatives of the MOB and of the BMSC.   
(d) 
The PIU-MOB shall assist the PMU and the PIU-WD by providing 
information for the proper implementation of the Project. 
Section B:
Implementation Modalities
1. Operational 
Manual
The MOB shall take all action required to ensure that the Operational Manual is 
applied and followed at all times in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of 
Part A of the Project. 
2. 
Environmental Management Plan for Part A of the Project
The MOB shall take all measures necessary to carry out the measures 
identified under the Environmental Management Plan for Part A of the Project at 
all times in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the 
implementation of said measures is suitably included in the Project progress 
reports to be prepared pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section C of 
this Schedule. 
Section C:
Reporting on Progress and Mid-Term Review
Page  14
-
12 - 
1. Progress 
Reporting
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the MOB shall, commencing on November 30, 2006, and thereafter, not later 
than November 30 and May 31 in each calendar year and until Project completion, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a semi-annual progress report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing, in accordance with the MOB 
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the progress achieved in the implementation of 
Part A of the Project during the preceding calendar semester and the updated Monitoring 
and Evaluation Indicators for the upcoming calendar semester. 
2. Mid-Term 
Review
The  MOB shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the MOB Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about November 30, 2008, a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by February 28, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part A of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
