                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                 APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                  Report No.: AB7230
 Project Name           WBG - PRDP Support V
 Region                 MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
 Sector                 Central government administration (64%);Sub-national
                        government administration (12%);Energy efficiency in Heat and
                        Power (12%);Other social services (12%)
 Project ID             P129742
 Borrower(s)            PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
 Implementing Agency    PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
 Date PID Prepared      March 11, 2013
 Date of Appraisal      January 24, 2013
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval Expected May 23, 2013

1. Country and Sector Background
A sharp reduction in donor budget support in recent years has brought to prominence the Palestinian
Authority’s (PA's) efforts to strengthen its fiscal position and reduce reliance on donor aid for financing
recurrent budget expenditures. In addition to measures aimed directly at enhancing public revenues and
reducing inefficiencies in public expenditures, which are critical to fiscal sustainability, other measures
aimed at laying the institutional foundations for improved governance and transparency in the public
sector, which the PA is conducting, are equally important not only for fiscal sustainability in the long
run, but also for enhancing the quality of services provided by the government and for economic growth
and development. Given substantial constraints to the growth of the tradable sector of the economy
related to the political situation in the Palestinian Territories (e.g., various restrictions on economic
activity imposed by the Government of Israel and the political division between the West Bank and
Gaza), further rapid reduction in donor aid inflows would hurt the outlook for economic growth.

2. Operation Objectives
The proposed operation aims to support the PA in strengthening its fiscal position and reducing reliance
on donor assistance for recurrent expenditures. Specifically, DPG V will support the following aspects
of the PA’s National Development Plan: (a) strengthening the fiscal position by undertaking reforms to
(i) increase government revenues, (ii) improve the efficiency of public expenditures, and (b) lay out the
institutional foundations for improved governance and transparency in the public sector.

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement
The Development Policy Grant V, as envisaged in the 2012-2014 Interim Strategy of the Bank for
assisting the West Bank and Gaza , is a key instrument aimed at supporting the PA's strategic priorities,
but also providing essential financing for the Palestinian Authority's budget. The operation aims to
assist the Palestinian Authority in implementing some of the core areas of its National Development
Plan (NDP) 2011-2013 and efforts to address some of the recently emerged priorities in addressing the
above-mentioned fiscal challenges. Specifically, the PA is taking measures to boost domestic revenue
performance, in particular aimed at improving collection efficiency and compliance; it is also taking
measures to contain growth of the public wage bill, as well as to improve efficiency of social assistance
and health benefits; at the same time it is reforming the public procurement system and increasing
transparency of public finances. This operation was designed to support those efforts. The financial
significance of this operation is not only in that it provides US$ 40 million in Bank financing, but that it
directly leverages the support of other donors through the multi-donor PRDP Trust Fund in the amount
close to US$ 200 million.
4. Financing
This operation will provide US$ 40 million in grant financing for the budget of the Palestinian
Authority. The entire proceeds of this operation will be disbursed in a single tranche.

5. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The PA Ministry of Finance will be the main implementing agency for the operation. It will also be
responsible for coordinating activities with other relevant organizations within the PA (mainly Ministry
of Health and Ministry of Social Affairs). As has been the established practice with the previous
development policy grants, the Ministry of Finance will continue producing regular quarterly progress
reports.

Bank staff located in the World Bank’s West Bank and Gaza office, in Jerusalem, will continue regular
dialogue and monitoring activities focusing on the impact outcomes of the program. They will also
conduct formal supervision missions. The review will be largely based on the results framework and a
set of specific monitoring indicators, which are currently being finalized in together with the PA
Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the overall status of the Government’s program will be
monitored to determine whether the actions supported by the proposed operation have been met.


6. Benefits and Risks

Benefits
The operation is expected to contribute to enhanced fiscal sustainability and increased efficiency of
public expenditures. It will also support strengthening of the public procurement and broader finance
management systems. The operation will also provide critical financing for the budget of the Palestinian
Authority, which due to a number of restrictions on economic activity and various other uncertainties,
continues to rely on substantial and predictable inflows of donor aid.

Risks
The risks that may affect the implementation of this operation and, more broadly, the entire
government’s program are relatively high. The NDP’s success depends on parallel actions by the PA,
the Government of Israel (GOI) and the donor community.
The key risks are:
     Highly volatile and uncertain political situation.
     PA’s dependence on large levels of donor aid to finance recurrent budget expenditures.
     Lower than expected economic growth due to external and internal stressors.

6. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

No negative poverty and social impacts are expected as a result of this operation. Over the medium-
term, the reforms supported by this operation are expected to translate into augmented fiscal space for
essential poverty-reducing programs and improved prospects for employment opportunities in the
private sector. Measures aimed at increasing government revenues combined with measures to reduce
inefficiencies in public expenditures will increase the fiscal space for essential poverty-reducing
expenditure programs. Improved fiscal management is also an important requirement for economic
growth and job creation. The measures supported by this operation to strengthen the public procurement
process should reduce the procurement costs and thereby increase the fiscal space for essential public
services; these reforms should also enhance business opportunities for more domestic companies and
consequently support growth and employment of the private sector. This would have a positive poverty
and social impact. Other Public Financial Management (PFM) reforms supported by this operation are
expected to have similar positive effects
Environmental Aspects

The DPG V operation will not have significant effects on the country's environment, forests and other
natural resources. The environmental and natural resource implications are driven to a large extent by
the nature of an operation. In the proposed operation, none of the prior actions as listed in the policy
matrix will have environmental impacts or risks. Additionally, the proposed DPGV does not have any
investment lending subcomponent involving physical investment. None of the Bank’s safeguard policies
are triggered by the proposed operation.

7. Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Orhan Niksic
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5366+253
Fax:
Email: oniksic@worldbank.org
Location: Gaza, West Bank and Gaza (IBRD)

Borrower
Contact: Mr. Hussein Jaloudi, Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Ramallah, West Bank
West Bank and Gaza
Tel: (970-2) 240-0650 Fax: (970-2) 240-0595
mofirdg@palnet.com

8. For more information contact:

The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
