                      PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                                 <Date>
                                                                               Report No.: AB7184
                                                (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


 Operation Name                       WBG - PRDP Support V
 Region                               MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
 Country                              West Bank and Gaza
 Sector                               Central government administration (64%);Sub-national
                                      government administration (12%);Energy efficiency in Heat
                                      and Power (12%);Other social services (12%)
 Operation ID                         P129742
 Lending Instrument                   Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                          PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
 Implementing Agency                  PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
 Date PID Prepared                    November 27, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal          February 7, 2013
 Estimated Date of Board              March 21, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision            Following the concept note review, the decision was taken to
                                      proceed with the preparation of the operation.


       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement


A sharp reduction in donor budget support in recent years has brought to prominence the
Palestinian Authority’s efforts to strengthen its fiscal position and reduce reliance on donor aid
for financing recurrent budget expenditures. In addition to measures aimed directly at enhancing
public revenues and reducing inefficiencies in public expenditures, which are critical to fiscal
sustainability, other measures aimed at laying the institutional foundations for improved
governance and transparency in the public sector, which the PA is conducting, are equally
important not only for fiscal sustainability in the long run, but also for enhancing the quality of
services provided by the government and for economic growth and development. Given
substantial constraints to the growth of the tradable sector of the economy related to the political
situation in the Palestinian Territories (e.g. various restrictions on economic activity imposed by
the Government of Israel and the political division between the West Bank and Gaza), further
rapid reduction in donor aid inflows would hurt the outlook for economic growth.

The Development Policy Grant V, as envisaged in the 2012-2014 ISN, is a key instrument aimed
at supporting the PA's strategic priorities, but also providing essential financing for the
Palestinian Authority's budget. The operation aims to assist the Palestinian Authority in
implementing some of the core areas of its National Development Plan (NDP) 2011-2013 and
efforts to address some of the recently emerged priorities in addressing the above-mentioned
fiscal challenges. The financial significance of this operation is not only in that it provides US$
40 million in Bank financing, but that it directly leverages the support of other donors through
the PRDP Trust Fund in the amount close to US$ 200 million.

       Proposed Objective(s)

The proposed operation aims to support the PA in strengthening its fiscal position and reducing
reliance on donor assistance for recurrent expenditures. Specifically, DPG V will support the
following aspects of the PA’s NDP: (a) strengthening the fiscal position by undertaking reforms
to (i) increase government revenues, (ii) improve the efficiency of public expenditures, and (b)
lay the institutional foundations for improved governance and transparency in the public sector.


       Preliminary Description


The proposed DPG V is a standalone operation, but it was nevertheless designed with a medium
term reform perspective and it builds upon the reform progress achieved by the previous four
DPGs in several policy areas. The operation will support the following specific reforms the PA is
currently undertaking:

      Strengthening domestic revenue performance by supporting measures to increase tax
       compliance.
      Improving the efficiency and sustainability of public expenditures in the areas of
       public wage bill management, social assistance and healthcare.
      Laying institutional foundations for improved governance and transparency in the
       public sector by: (i) continuing efforts to build modern public procurement institutions
       and processes; (ii) strengthening the PA’s cash management capacity; (iii) improving the
       coverage and transparency of public revenue and expenditure reporting; (iv) modernizing
       the land registration system to reduce land registration costs and strengthen municipal
       finances.



       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

A more extensive Poverty and Social Impacts Assessment will be carried out as the preparation
of DPG V progresses. A preliminary assessment shows that DPG V will have positive poverty
and social impacts working through several different channels.

Over the medium-term, the reforms supported by this operation are expected to translate into
augmented fiscal space for essential poverty-reducing programs and improved prospects for
employment opportunities in the private sector. Measures aimed at increasing government
revenues combined with measures to reduce inefficiencies in public expenditures will increase
the fiscal space for essential poverty-reducing expenditure programs. Improved fiscal
management is also an important requirement for economic growth and job creation. The
measures supported by this operation to strengthen the public procurement process should reduce
the procurement costs and thereby increase the fiscal space for essential public services; these
reforms should also enhance business opportunities for more domestic companies and
consequently support growth and employment of the private sector. This would have a positive
poverty and social impact. Other PFM reforms supported by this operation are expected to have
similar positive effects

Environment Aspects

The DPG IV operation will not have significant effects on the country's environment, forests and
other natural resources. The environmental and natural resource implications are driven to a large
extent by the nature of an operation. In the proposed operation, none of the prior actions as listed
in the policy matrix will have environmental impacts or risks. Additionally, the proposed DPG
IV does not have any investment lending subcomponent involving physical investment. None of
the Bank’s safeguard policies are triggered by the proposed operation.


       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                               ($m.)
Borrower                                                                                 0
Special Financing                                                                       40
Borrower/Recipient                                                                       0
IBRD                                                                                     0
Others (specifiy)
                                                                       Total            40

       Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Orhan Niksic
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5366+253
Fax:
Email: oniksic@worldbank.org
Location: Gaza, West Bank and Gaza (IBRD)

Borrower
Contact: Mr. Hussein Jaloudi, Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Ramallah, West Bank
West Bank and Gaza
Tel: (970-2) 240-0650 Fax: (970-2) 240-0595
mofirdg@palnet.com

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
