Report No. PIC5393
Project Name            Argentina-Provincial Reform Adjustment Loansr-ora) 
Salta, Tucuman, Rio Negro and San Juan
Region                        Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                        Infrastructure
Project ID                    ARPE51694-San Juan
Borrower                      Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency           The Implementation Units in the Ministry
of Finance of the four beneficiary provinces.
Date PID prepared             June 24, 1997
Appraisal Date                April 11, 1997
Proposed Date of              July 29, 1997
Board Presentation
Background
1.      Argentina's public sector is highly decentralized. The 24
provincial governments (See 1/) are responsible for 45% of public sector
expenditures, a share that is higher than in many Latin American
countries. In 1995, the Argentine provinces undertook 97% of basic
education, 92% of health and 84% of welfare outlays. On the revenue
side, provinces collect only 18% of the public sector revenues.
Their "own-source revenues" average only 37% of provincial
expenditures. The gap between expenditures and revenues is filled
by transfers and shared revenues, mostly block grants. The central
government is constitutionally responsible for monetary and foreign
policy but has little leverage on the way the provinces manage
their finances, borrow, or deliver public services. Matching grants
are seldom used. Earmarked funds are transferred from the nation to
finance provincial welfare and housing programs. Only recently has
the federal government requested counterpart funds from the
provinces for these programs.
2.      Fiscal Performance. Provincial fiscal performance has often
been poor. During the 1980s, high inflation rates, lack of
budgetary discipline, easy access to borrowing and reliance on the
central government for transfers and bailouts all contributed to
persistent fiscal deficits. The situation improved briefly in 1992
(due to the Convertibility Plan, associated Tanzi effect, and a
major national tax effort) but has deteriorated sharply since. The
national crisis of 1995 aggravated the critical situation of the
provinces. Provincial revenues dropped 5% in real terms, provincial
expenditures failed to adjust, and the provincial deficit reached a
record high of US$3.5 billion or 1.3% of GDP, about half of the
consolidated public sector deficit. Out of 24 provinces, only four
had balanced fiscal accounts. Most of the others faced important
liquidity shortages, increased borrowing, accumulated arrears. Some
provinces resorted to printing their own money.



3.      In 1996, the provincial fiscal situation improved. Revenues
recovered with economic activity, expenditures were curbed in
response to increased fiscal discipline. On the one hand, the
central government increased its selectivity in bailing out
bankrupt provinces, leading to severe social problems whenever
public workers were not paid. On the other hand, the generation of
Governors who won the 1995 elections promising major reform changes
were now ready to move forward. In the context of increased
confidence, some large provinces were successful in issuing debt
abroad and refinancing their expensive domestic debt.
4.      Structural Reforms: During 1992 and 1993, the Federal
Government negotiated two agreements with the provinces to promote
structural economic changes. The provinces agreed to improve own-
source mobilization, restructure provincial taxes and eliminate
distortionary taxes, privatize public enterprises, including the
provincial banks and utilities, deregulate the provincial economy,
and transfer the provincial pension funds to the national system.
In exchange, the federal government guaranteed a shared-revenue
floor to each province, sheltering them from any down swings in
revenue. It also provided a Transformation Fund which helped
finance those reforms and provide technical assistance and advisory
services.
5.      Progress was achieved in many areas (See 2/). As of May 1997,
34 out of 82 provincial public enterprises had been privatized, 18 out of
the 31 provincial and municipal banks were fully privatized, and
many others are currently being privatized. Many provincial utility
services are now run by the private sector. Many of the
distortionary provincial taxes have been removed, and eight
provinces have transferred their pension funds to the national government.
Provincial Reform Programs
6.      In 1996, the federal government recognized the need for a
second phase of provincial reforms. These reforms would help the
Governors to improve efficiency in public spending, reduce the size
of their central administrations, secure and maintain fiscal
balance, reduce debt stock and debt service to manageable
proportions, and enhance responsiveness, quality and equity in the
provision of social services. Several governors had requested Bank
technical and financial assistance to carry out these types of
actions. During the Country Assistance Review in November 1996, the
Argentine Government gave high priority to Bank assistance for the
reform of selected provinces in the context of a structural
adjustment operation. The Bank's report (See 3/) on the Argentine
provincial finances provided the analytical framework for the operation.
7.      Selection of the provinces: The national government and the
Bank jointly agreed on the eligibility criteria and the focus of
the program. The loans would be available to provinces that: (i)
have introduced significant structural reforms in terms of size of
the provincial government and privatization of major public banks
and other enterprises; (ii) have accepted the transfer of the
provincial pension funds to the national system; and (iii) have
- 2 -



demonstrated ability and political commitment to further reforms.
8.      On the basis of the above criteria and taking into account
the support from the Legislature, four provinces were selected --
Salta, Tucuman, San Juan and Rio Negro. The first three are poor NW
provinces with per capita incomes ranging from $3,600 to $5,000,
well below Argentina's average of US$8,120. Rio Negro is more well-
off, but has shown great determination in tackling an apparently
intractable situation in terms of debt and overstaffing. Together,
the four provinces account for 6t of Argentina's GDP and 10t of the
country's population.
9.      The provinces differ in resource base. Salta and Rio Negro
are well endowed with minerals and hydrocarbons. Tucuman, San Juan
and Rio Negro have an important agro-industrial sector oriented to
the export of fresh fruits, sugar and citrus. All have attracted
substantial private investment in the last three years, under the
deregulation stimulus of the new administrations. The ongoing
reforms will work toward more efficient and competitive economies.
Under the leadership of these reform-minded Governors, the
provinces have demonstrated a strong commitment to reform. The
support of a favorable legislature will help the speed of the
reforms. The provinces also differ in political affiliations --
Salta and San Juan's Governors are from the national governing
party, while the Governors of Tucuman and Rio Negro come from the
opposition.
Loan Objectives
10.     The objective of these loans is to help the four provinces to
deepen the reforms and restructure their governments so as to
ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services
(notably social services) within fiscally sound policies.
11.     Coordination with Multilateral Institutions. The Bank has
worked closely with the IMF in the design and supervision of
adjustment operations in Argentina, in formulating country
strategy, and in economic and sector work. The IMF shares our
concern regarding the need to help improve the provincial fiscal
situation. Bank staff will coordinate with the IMF to ensure the
compatibility of this loan with the adjustment program negotiated
with the IMF. The IDB has cofinanced the Public Sector Reform Loan,
Provinces I and the Provincial Bank Privatization Loan. The
proposed operation would complement the IDB's provincial work since
it is directly financing the provinces of Buenos Aires and Mendoza.
The Bank has also had the full collaboration of the IFC, which
joined some of the preparation missions.
Loan Description
12.     The proposed loans would support the provinces as they
implement their reform programs with a series of fiscal,
administrative and social measures. The central government would
onlend to each province the counterpart funds equivalent to the
loan amounts which are proposed: US$75 million for Salta; US$100
-3 -



million to Tucuman; US$75 million for Rio Negro and US$50 million
for San Juan. Each loan would be disbursed to the Central
Government, with rapid transference of the local counterpart funds
to the provinces according to pre-agreed payment instructions
approved by the Bank and under onlending terms agreed with the Bank.
13.     Borrower and Loan Amount. The borrower of the four adjustment
loans would be the Argentine Republic. The beneficiaries will be
the provinces as indicated above. The amounts were determined as a
function of the population of the province, needs of adjustment and
depth of each program. Disbursements for each loan would be
conditioned on Board approval (effectiveness ) and subsequent
positive evaluations of the compliance of provinces with reform
actions agreed during negotiations. While the formal tranche-
release actions will be limited to key measures, the full program
of each province is detailed in the draft Letters of Provincial
Reform (LPR).
14.     Tranche disbursement. Given the various stages of reform in
each of the participating provinces, the Bank's support has been
packaged in four separate loans. The loans will first disburse--as
provincial compliance is confirmed--into a fund to be managed by
the National Ministry of Economy, the fund borrower. The fund will,
in turn, quickly disburse the agreed tranches to the complying
provinces. The first tranche disbursement would be released
promptly after loan effectiveness, since actions required for
disbursement will have been implemented prior to Board
presentation. The second tranche disbursements would be released in
about 12-18 months, depending on the speed of the reform following
a positive review of the second (and third, in some provinces)
tranche compliance.
Environmental Aspects
15.     The provincial reform programs will not have adverse
environmental impacts. The loan has been classified in the "B"
environmental impact category due to the possible effects that the
decentralization of public hospitals may have in handling hospital waste.
1/   Including the city of Buenos Aires, which is larger in population
than most provinces.
2/   The Bank assisted these reforms with several loans:
Provincial Development Loans I and II and the Provincial Reform
Loan I have helped the federal government to begin promoting
provincial reforms. The ongoing Provincial Bank Privatization
Loan helped the provinces to privatize their banks and the
Provincial Pension Reform Loan supporting the transfer of the Pension
Funds from provincial governments to the central government.
3/   Argentina Provincial Finances Study - Issues in Fiscal Federalism,
July 12, 1966, Report No. 15487-AR.
- 4-



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 4, 1997.
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental
1.      The loan will assist four reforming provinces in Argentina to
restructure their public sector and increase the efficiency and
responsiveness of the services provided in a fiscally sound
context. The reform in the social sectors--to improve the
efficiency of educational and health services--includes the
decentralization of selected provincial public hospitals. The loan
has been classified as Category B due to the possible effects that
the decentralization of public hospitals may have in handling
hospital waste.
2.      It was agreed that each province would provide the Bank with
an evaluation of the existing facilities and institutional
regulatory framework concerning the disposal, transport and
treatment of pathological waste, recommendations for improvement
and inclusion in the legal procedures that will precede the
transformation of selected public hospitals into autonomous
hospitals. For each hospital that will be prepared for
decentralization, an environmental audit (acceptable to the Bank)
will be undertaken before decentralization. The waste management
within each of these hospitals will be evaluated so as to assess
the adequacy of the waste destruction equipment, transportation and
disposal practices of pathological wastes. The decentralization
contracts will ensure proper management of pathological wastes,
proper design and operation of pathological waste destruction
units, and proper transportation and disposal of these wastes
outside the hospitals. The Provincial Health Sector Loan (PRESSAL)
will assist the provinces to implement the new autonomous hospitals
and will ensure the proper conduction of the environmental audits
as well as the proper incorporation of the recommendations in to
the process of hospital autonomy. PRESSAL and the provincial
Ministry of Health will prepare waste management manuals
(acceptable to the Bank).
3.      The provincial governments are fully committed to
environmental protection and will review and revise the legal and
institutional framework -- which includes the government agency in
charge of environmental control -- of the management of the
hospital and pathological waste. The governments are committed to
implement the improvements in the legal and institutional framework
which will be needed, in agreement with the normal rules and
standards, accepted in the Republic of Argentina, to ensure the
adequate collection, transport, treatment and final deposit of the
pathological waste.
-6-



