Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20698
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PROVINCIAL REFORM - SALTA
(LOAN 4219-AR)
June 30, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Peso
US$1 = ARG$1
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANSES               -     National Administration of Social Security
CAS                 -     Country Assistance Strategy
CPI                 -     Consumer Price Index
EGB                 -     Educaci6n General Basica (General Basic Education)
ERR                 -     Economic Rate of Return
GDP                 -      Gross Domestic Product
GPP                 -      Gross Provincial Product
HPA                       Hospitales Publicos Auto-Gestionados (Autonomous Public
Hospitals)
IBRD                -      International for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                 -      Implementation Completion Report
IDB                 -     Inter-American Development Bank
IFC                 -     International Finance Corporation
IMR                 -     Infant Mortality Rate
LPR                 -      Letters of Provincial Reform
MCBA                -     Municipality of the City of Buenos Aires
MDP I               -     First Municipal Development Project
MDP II              -      Second Municipal Development Project
MSP                 -     Ministry of Public Health
NBI                 -      Necesidades Bcisicas Insatisfechas (Unsatisfied Basic Needs)
OSP                        Obra Social Provincial (Provincial Health Insurance)
PAMI                -     Health Fund for the Elderly.
PDP I               -     First Provincial Development Project
PDP II              -      Second Provincial Development Project
PIS                 -     Provincial Insurance Institute
PRESSAL             -      Provincial Health Sector Development
PRISE                     Programa de Reformas en el Sector Educacion (Reform
Program on Health Sector)
PRL                 -      Provincial Reform Loan
PRLII               -      Second Provincial Reform Loan
PRODYMES            -      Higher Education Reform
PRODYMES I          -      Secondary Education Reform I
PROMIN              -     Maternal and Child Health
SAL                 -     Structural Adjustment Loan
Vice President                      Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director                    Ms. Myrna Alexander
Sector Director                     Mr. Guillenno Perry
Task Manager                        Mr. Mark Hagerstrom



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN - SALTA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface                                . . 4
Part  I.    Project Implementation Assessment
A.           Statement of Objectives              .5
B.           Achievement of Objectives .................... , .    8
C.    Public Finance .11
D.    Education .....                                              13
E.  Health .16
F.           Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation        18
G.           Project Sustainability: Likely .20
H.    Bank Perforance .21
I.           Borrower Performance .22
J.           Assessment of Outcome .23
K.    Future Operation .24
L.           Lessons of Experience .                               24
Part' II.    Statistical Annex
Table 1:            Summary of Assessments .26
Table 2:            Related Bank Loans .28
Table 3:            Project Timetable .29
Table  4:           Cumulative Loan Disbursements .29
Table 5:            Status of Legal Covenants .30
Table  6:           Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................... 31
Table  7:           Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .31
Table 8:            Bank Resources: Missions .32
Table 9:            Salta's Policy Matrix .34
Table 10:           Changes in Own-source Revenues by Province .36
Table 11:           Change in Personnel Expenditures by Province .37
Table 12:           Evolution of Current Account Balance by Province .    38
Table 13:           Change in Stock of Debt by Province .39
Table 14:           Change in the Fiscal Performance Indicators .40
Table 15:           Education: Monitoring Indicators .41
Table 16:           Health: Monitoring and Impact Indicators .42
Annex A:            Letter of Provincial Reform .......................................,43
Annex B:            Institutional Assessment ................             51
Annex B:            Creditworthiness ..........                           61
3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



INTENSIVE LEARNING IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TO SALTA
(Ln. 4219-AR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Provincial
Refonn Loan to the province of Salta, Argentina, for which Loan 4219-AR in the amount of
US$75 million equivalent was approved on August 26, 1997 and declared effective on
December 22, 1997. The loan was disbursed in two tranches of US$45 million and US$30
million on December 24, 1997 and September 3, 1999 respectively. The loan closed on
December 31, 1999 as expected. It was disbursed in its totality, thus no balance was
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Cecilia Zanetta (consultant), with Olympia Icochea
(Institutional Development) under the supervision of Mark Hagerstrom, Task Manager
(LCSPR), and reviewed by David Rosenblatt (LCSPR), John Underwood (LCSPR), and
Geoffrey Shepherd (LCSPR).
Preparation was begun in August 1999, following the new Bank guidelines for an
intensive learning ICR. It is based on information in the project files and discussions with
government at the national and provincial levels. Stakeholder workshops were conducted
with provincial authorities and technical staff in each of the sectors to assess the scope and
impact of the reforms, and the relevance of institutional facts in implementation and
sustainability. Missions were fielded with specialists from outside the Region to review
issues in fiscal performance and creditworthiness (David Vetter, Cons), health (Simon Blair,
ECSHD), and education (Luis Pisani, Cons), with the participation of technical staff for the
relevant federal ministries. In addition, the Borrower, and the province, contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by actively contributing its views, providing background material,
and ample support whenever needed. It was agreed with the Borrower that its formal
written contribution would be made following the evaluation of the other PRL2 programs
for San Juan (Loan 4220-AR) and Rio Negro (Loan 421 8-AR), which are scheduled to close
at the end of FY00.
4



Part I
Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement of Objectives
1.    Towards the end of 1994, Argentina was already experiencing the benefits from
the ambitious reform program implemented by the Menem administration after it took
office in July 1989. Swift and far-reaching reforms targeted at reducing the role of the
state in the economy, tackling fiscal imbalances, and achieving price stability had been
implemented successfully. The success of the reform program was evidenced by the
substantial improvements in the country's economic performance: inflation rates were
drastically cut from a monthly rate of 200 percent in 1989 to an annual inflation rate of
3.9 percent in 1994, growth rebounded to an average of 7.7 percent over the 1991-94
period, and fiscal balance was achieved at the federal level by 1994.
2.    However, the financial crisis that resulted from the Mexican devaluation in
December 1994 pointed out the vulnerability of the reform program. Investors' reduced
confidence in Argentina, together with higher international interest rates, contributed to
net capital outflows. As a result, GDP fell 2.8 percent and unemployment soared to 18
percent during 1995. The government took prompt measures to control the crisis by
cutting expenditures, raising main tax rates, and taking measures to enhance the liquidity
of the banking system. Moreover, with the support of the Bank and IDB, a package of
US$1.1 billion was made available in support of the Convertibility Plan. This backing
helped to restore confidence in the economy and the financial sector.
3.    By the end of 1995, the Argentine economy had recovered and was well out of a
recession. Economic growth reached 5.5 percent in 1996, and inflation (CPI) was
practically nil. The need to deepen the adjustment effort, particularly among provincial
governments, had now become obvious to the federal government. Provincial reform was
critical to ensuring the sustainability of the government's stabilization program, since
most provincial governments continued to be a source of fiscal imbalance accounting, for
a deficit of 1.2 percent of GDP in 1995.1 Improvements in fiscal performance at the
provincial level had been mostly cyclical, reflecting the increase in transfers from the
center rather than a sustained effort to reduce expenditures and improve resource
allocation. Ensuring a sustained fiscal balance at the provincial level continued to be a
major challenge for the government and for the success of the stability program.
Moreover, provincial governments were ill prepared to fulfill their role as efficient
service providers, thus seriously endangering the productivity and competitiveness of the
country's economy.  The adjustment strategy at the federal level included the
decentralization of health and secondary education to provincial governments. In 1994,
provincial governments accounted for 38.5 percent of all public expenditures and were
"Argentina Country Assistance Strategy," Report No. 16505-AR, April 24, 1997.
5



responsible for 96.5 percent of public spending in basic education and 74 percent in
health care.
4.    Provincial reform was not a new item on Argentina's reform agenda. Since 1991,
the national government had launched a concerted effort to promote fiscal adjustment in
the provinces. Within its own direct jurisdiction, the national government's efforts were
aimed at correcting distortions within the revenue-shared system, including the reduction
of discretionary transfers, and at eliminating Central Bank rediscounts for provincial
banks, a traditional source of provincial deficit financing. To promote reform within the
jurisdiction of sub-national governments, the national government sought the Bank's
assistance in developing a lending portfolio that provided both technical and financial
support to sub-national governments' efforts to stabilize their public finances, reform
their administrations, and increase their efficiency as providers of public goods and
services.
5.    The first generation of IBRD operations targeted at sub-national governments
were the First Provincial Development Project (PDP-I) and Municipal Development
Project (MDP-I) and subsequent follow-up operations--PDP-II and MDP-II.3  These
loans were multi-sector operations covering all provinces to provide, at a minimum,
support for institutional strengthening and, for those satisfying creditworthiness criteria,
financing for investments linked to sector reforms and improved fiscal performance. In
time, these loans were complemented by a series of sector investment operations aimed at
improving the efficiency of delivering secondary education, public health, provincial
roads, water supply, and agricultural services and infrastructure. In terms of reform, the
multi-sector operations had been successful in strengthening the weak technical capacity
of provincial and municipal governments and introducing the concept of rewarding good
fiscal performance. However, they were not suitable for providing the necessary
financial support to those provinces willing and able to implement major structural
reforms. The Provincial Reform Loan (PRL) was designed to fill in this gap.
6.    Targeted at a group of reform-minded provinces, the PRL was aimed at deepening
the fiscal reforms underlying macroeconomic stability and enhancing the capacity of the
provincial governments to fulfill their increasingly-important role as providers of public
goods and services. To accomplish these objectives, the operation was designed as a
quick-disbursing adjustment loan with conditionalities both at the federal and at the
provincial levels. The loan's proceeds were used to capitalize a Transformation Fund,
established by the national government in April 1993 to promote structural adjustment in
the provinces.  Under the framework of the Transformation Fund, the national
government established individual agreements with each of the participating provinces,
determining in each case the measures to be taken by the provincial governments, their
needs for technical and financial support, and the terms for repayment. The national
government, in turn, was responsible for maintaining an adequate macroeconomic
framework. The PRL operation in concert with the complementary Provincial Bank
2     "Argentina: Provincial Finance Study," Report No. 15487-AR, July 12, 1996.
3     The Inter-American Development Bank co-financed the First Provincial Development Project and
the Second Municipal Development Project.
6



Privatization and the Provincial Pension Reform loans were highly successful in
deepening public sector reform among participating provinces. Some of their specific
accomplishments under the PRL include the reduction of 55,000 provincial agents, the
privatization or concessioning of 48 provincial enterprises, the privatization of nine
provincial banks, and the transfer of eight provincial pension funds to the national social
security system.
7.    The Second Provincial Reform Loan (PRL-2) came as the next step in the
progression towards more direct interaction with selected, reform-minded provinces.
Targeted directly to individual provinces that had demonstrated their willingness and
ability to implement reforms, the PRL-2 was conceived as a more agile lending tool
tailored to fit the reform programs of individual provinces, thus avoiding the
administrative bureaucracy of programs administered at the central level and increasing
borrower ownership.
8.    The PRL-2's specific objective, as stated in the Report and Recommendation of
the President (Report No. P-7136-AR, July 30, 1997) was to help four Argentine
provinces--Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan, and Tucuman--to reform and restructure their
governments so as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services,
particularly in health and education, within fiscally sound policies. To accomplish these
objectives, the PRL-2 was structured as four quick-disbursing adjustment loans to the
individual provinces to support fiscal adjustment combined with structural reform in the
social sectors. The operation was to finance the adjustment cost of the provincial
programs and to provide technical assistance and analytical support to the provinces. The
PRL-2 was fully consistent with the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
defined a strategy towards the provinces that focused on reform and sector investment
operations aimed at deepening reforms in selected provinces by improving the efficiency
of social expenditures.4
9.    According to the eligibility criteria and the focus of the program that had been
agreed between the national govermment and the Bank, the PRL-2 loans were available to
provinces that: (i) had introduced significant structural reforms in terms of the size of the
provincial government and the privatization of major public enterprises; (ii) had accepted
the transfer of the provincial pension funds to the national system; and (iii) had
demonstrated ability and political commitment to further reforms. On the basis of these
criteria, four provinces were selected for piloting this approach: Rio Negro, Salta, San
Juan, and Tucuman. These provinces represent a diverse pool in terms of their main
demnographic and socio-economic indicators, economic base, and the political affiliation
of the provincial administrations Together, they account for 6 percent of Argentina's
GDP and 10 percent of the country's population..
10.   The borrower of the four adjustment loans was the Argentine Republic, which in
turn was to onlend funds equivalent to the loan amounts to each province. The amount of
each loan was determined as a function of the population of each province, its adjustment
needs, and the depth of each program. Tranche conditionality was also tailored to match
4     "Argentina's Country Assistance Strategy," Report No. 16505-AR, April 24, 1997.
7



the depth and pace of reforms in each participating province. Disbursements for each
loan were conditioned on Board approval (i.e., loan effectiveness) and subsequent
positive evaluations on the compliance of the loan conditionality agreed with each
province. While the formal tranche-release actions were limited to key measures, the
operations supported an ambitious reform program in each of the participating provinces
that were detailed in the Letters of Provincial Reform (LPR) drafted by each province.
11.   Salta was one of the four participants in the PRL-2. A relatively poor province
from the NW, Salta had a per capita income of about $3,800 in 1995, less than half
Argentina's average.5 It accounts for 1.3 percent of Argentina's GDP and 2.8 percent of
the country's population. A stellar performer under the PRL, the province had already
developed an ambitious reform and modernization program under the leadership of the
reform-minded Governor Romero. During 1996, Salta implemented a set of key reforms
aimed at fiscal adjustment. Some of the early accomplishments of Salta's reform efforts
included the reduction of more than 10,000 provincial agents and the privatization of the
four provincial enterprises and the provincial bank. The PRL-2 was designed to help
Salta carry its reforms a step further, providing critical support to the implementation of
social sector reforms while sustaining a sound fiscal performance.
12.   The loan amount for Salta (Loan 4219-AR) was US$75 million, to be disbursed in
two tranches of US$45 million and US$30 million respectively. The first tranche was to
be released after loan effectiveness, since the actions required for disbursement had been
implemented prior to Board presentation. The second tranche was to be released within
12 to 18 months, depending on the pace of the implementation of the agreed actions. The
conditions required for disbursement included actions aimed at enhancing: a) the
province's fiscal performance; b) efficiency in the education sector; and c) efficiency in
the health sector (see Policy Matrix, Table 9). These specific conditions supported the
overall reform program set forth by the province in the Letter of Provincial Reform
(Annex A). A complete set of monitoring instruments was also defined at negotiations,
including: a) fiscal targets to assess progress (i.e., personnel as a ratio of net current
revenues, current balance and debt stock as percentage of current revenues); b) the
mechanics of a Public Expenditure Review Program; and c) a set of performance
indicators.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
13.   Salta's PRL-2 has been very successful in providing ongoing support to the
province's reform program. This success is reflected in Salta's fiscal performance, which
is well above the average fiscal performance of Argentina's provincial sector as a whole
in terms of all the main fiscal indicators.6 The success of the reforms undertaken in Salta
has resulted in the province's improved creditworthiness, with the Standard & Poor's
report recognizing Salta's achievement and praising the province's "strong commitment
to fiscal austerity".7
5     Argentina's average GNP per capita in 1995 was US$7,700 (Argentina's CAS, 1997).
6     For a detailed description, see para. C.30.
Standard & Poor's, Rating Report: Provincial de Salta, March 2000.
8



14.   The impact of PRL-2 on this performance is evidenced by  the general
improvements of all PRL-2-provinces as a group, as compared to no-PRL-2 provinces
during the 1996-99 period (Tables 10-13). The average change in own-source revenues
for PRL-2 provinces was 18 percent between 1996 and 1999, compared to 9 percent for
non-PRL-2 provinces (see Table 10). Similarly, PRL-2 provinces showed an average
increase in personnel expenditures of only 8 percent between 1996 and 1999, compared
to 17 percent for the remaining provinces (see Table 11). The performnance of PRL-2
provinces in terms of both revenues and expenditures was also reflected in a strong
improvement in current account balance, which improved from a consolidated average
annual level of -$310 million for the 1995-96 period, to a only -$17 million in 1998-99.
(see Table 12). Finally, the performance of PRL-2 provinces was also clearly superior
with respect to the provincial debt, with PRL-2 provinces increasing their stock of
provincial debt by an average of only 3.6 percent during the 1996-99 period, compared to
30 percent for the remaining provinces (see Table 13).
15.   The PRL-2 has also provided a valuable road map to guide the participating
provinces in its efforts to introduce reforms in the health and education sectors. Salta has
been particularly effective in implementing reforms designed to improve the quality and
effectiveness of social spending in both education and health. The impact of the PRL-2
goes beyond Salta, as its demonstration effect has been key to show other provinces the
feasibility of implementing ambitious reform programs-even in poor provinces-and
the corresponding pay-offs.
1 6.    It is important to point out that the success of the PRL-2 is closely linked to that
of other loans. In particular, the PRL-2 builds upon the technical and institutional
capacity built by the PDP-I and II at the provincial level. It also carries one step further
the efforts towards provincial reform that began under the PDP-I and II and that were
later deepened under the Provincial Reform, the Provincial Bank Privatization, and the
Provincial Pension Reform loans. Moreover, the PRL-2 has demonstrated the potential
complementarities between adjustment and sector operations by articulating provincial
sector objectives within the framework of sound fiscal performance. In this way, the
PRL-2 served to reinforce and promote the objectives of sector loans in education8 and
health.9
17.   Macroeconomic Policies: Substantial Achievement.   Clearly, as a pilot
involving only four provinces representing 10 percent of Argentina's population, PRL 2
in and of itself was not expected to have a major direct impact on the country's fiscal
situation, however, the PRL-2 has demonstrated that the provinces can make an important
contribution to the further consolidation of Argentina's macroeconomic stability. In the
9      The specific objectives of the two education loans are as follows: a) IBD's PRISE supports
reforms on the education sector; and b) IBRD's PRODYMES I promote the decentralization and
improvement of secondary education.
9      The specific objectives of the four IBRD health loans are as follows: a) the Social Protection
Project protects high priority federal social expenditures; b) PROMIN promotes maternal-child care
programs; c) PRESSAL, a pilot project, introduces the concept of self-managed hospitals in the context of a
broader sector reform; and d) the Health Insurance Reform Project addresses efficiency and equity issues
related to Obras Sociales Nacionales.
9



case of Argentina, the link between fiscal balance and macroeconomic stability is a
particularly important one due to the strict restrictions on currency emission established
by the Convertibility Law. By putting pressure on the balance of payment, persistent
fiscal deficits at the provincial level can be a source of strain on the money supply and
the financial system, thus reducing the credibility of the government's long-run ability to
maintain the Convertibility Plan. The PRL-2 has contributed towards improving fiscal
balance in the four participating provinces by reducing large deficits in current spending,
as noted above, from -$310 million on average annually during the 1995-96 period to
only -$17 million for the 1998-99 period. This performance compares well to the overall
consolidated accounts of the provinces, where the current balance declined for $75
million in 1995-96 to -$690 million in 1998-99. (see Table 12).
18.   The challenge of reducing the public deficit in the provinces is compounded by
the important role that provinces play in the provision of social services--education and
health--which are critical to the country's long term economic growth and poverty
reduction. Within this framework, the PRL-2 has also effectively contributed towards the
stabilization of Argentina's economy and the sustainability of the overall reform program
by supporting the implementation of measures conducive to reorienting provincial public
spending in ways that increased productivity and efficiency in the delivery of services
while strengthening fiscal positions.   Tables 15 and  16 show  the significant
improvements in efficiency that have been achieved in education and health in the case of
Salta.
19.   Financial Objectives: Substantial Achievement.  In the case of Salta,
significant savings have resulted from increased efficiency in the functioning of the
public sector in general, and of the social sectors--i.e., health and education--in particular.
Some of these savings are described below for each of the individual components. They
include savings in the payroll of the provincial administration corresponding to a
reduction of more than 4,500 public sector positions, improved monitoring of teachers'
absenteeism and licenses with annual savings of approximately US$11 million, and the
implementation of payroll system for education with estimated annual savings of US$19
million.
20.   Public Sector Reform: Substantial Achievement. This is the area in which the
operation has made- its central contribution. It has successfully accomplished its original
objectives by effectively supporting reforms aimed at improving the quality of health and
education services in the participating provinces within a framework of sound fiscal
responsibility. As a result, Salta has consolidated its fiscal situation and is at the
forefront of public sector reform in the health and education sectors. Now in its second
term, the Romero administration is pushing forward with its reform program with the
continuing support of the legislature, focusing on those areas in which reforms that
lagged behind, such as the reform and modernization of the Provincial Insurance Institute
(PIS), and incorporating important new elements into the program, such as municipal
reform.
21.   A detailed analysis of the factors affecting the implementation of each component
and the achievement of their specific objectives follows below.
10



C.    Public Finance
22.   Achievement of Objectives:   Satisfactory.   Salta's fiscal situation  had
experienced rapid deterioration during the first part of this decade. Weak public
administration had led to rapid growth in current expenditures and serious fiscal
imbalances, marked by excessive public employment and borrowing. In 1995, the
provincial deficit reached 4 percent of current revenues (excluding discretionary
transfers), the wage bill absorbed 73.4 percent of the provincial current revenues, and the
debt stock/ current revenue ratio was almost 73 percent (see Table 14). Due to lack of
resources, capital expenditures were financed by the earmarked transfers from the central
government and by commercial debt guaranteed with shared revenues. Payment arrears
represented 35 percent of total debt at the end of 1995 (see LPR, Annex A).
23.   When the Romero administration first took office in December 1995, it embarked
in a far-reaching and ambitious reform program aimed at reestablishing provincial fiscal
balance, increasing tax collection, reducing current government expenditures, and
reducing provincial debt (see LPR, Annex A). In the framework of the PRL, Salta
successfully took the critical steps towards fiscal adjustment, privatizing the provincial
bank and four provincial enterprises, and setting in motion an administrative reform
program. Under the PRL-2, the province pledged to implement structural reforms in the
social sectors-health and education-within a framework of fiscal soundness.
24.   The specific fiscal objective adopted by Salta for 1997-99 in the framework of the
PRL-2 was to achieve a sustained fiscal balance through *improvements in tax
administration and better spending. In particular, Salta expected to reach: (a) a decline in
their wage bill to a sustainable 65 percent of net revenues by the end of the program; (b) a
positive current balance beginning in 1997; (c) increased current savings to enable the
province to finance a higher share of public investment; and (d) a reduced debt stock both
in absolute terms and as a share of revenues. The province was highly successful in
attaining its objectives, as demonstrated by its ability to meet the agreed performance
benchmarks and its fiscal performance compared to other Argentinean provinces. In
particular:
25.   Civil Service Reform: Personnel expenditures in Salta represented 86 percent of
net current revenues in 1995.10 In its initial steps towards reform, the province took
several measures leading to a reduction of 8.5 percent of the wage bill in 1996. During
1997-99, the government continued to implement a program for rationalizing public
sector employment by means of a privatization program, early retirement, outsourcing of
peripheral services, natural attrition, etc.   This program  has been  successfully
implemented, achieving a net decrease of permanent staff of 4,553 by mid-1999 from that
budgeted in 1997. This achievement surpasses the initial target of 2,900 positions.
10     For the purpose of the fiscal targets, "Current Revenues" are calculated as (i) revenues from taxes;
(ii) non-tax revenues from the sale of goods and services and from property rentals; and (iii) revenues from
federal revenue-sharing transfers (fondos de coparticipaci6n; excluding those from Fondo Nacional de la
Vivienda, from Fondo Especial de Desarrollo Electrico del Interior and for the financing of public works
expenditures. "Net Current Revenues" excludes revenues that are transferred by the Province to its
municipalities.
11



26.   These efforts have enabled the province to lower its personnel salary and benefits
expenditures to 61 percent, thus surpassing the loan conditionality for the disbursement
of the second trance requiring a level of provincial public sector personnel salary and
benefits expenditures equal to no more than 65 percent of provincial public sector net
current revenues. Moreover, adjustments in the structure of expenditures have been
important in allowing the province to respond to an unanticipated decline in revenues
during 1999 and to still be able to achieve a surplus in current spending.
27.   Fiscal Balance: In agreement with the conditionality for the release of the second
tranche, a current account surplus of US$15 million was achieved during the six
continuous months of December through May 1999. Subsequently, however, with the
downturn in the economy and increased election year spending the fiscal situation
deteriorated and the overall balance for the year was -$24 million, or about 3 percent of
current revenues. Additional tightening measures were adopted in late 1999 and during
the first quarter of the year 2000 a balance in current spending has been regained.
28.   Debt Stock: As of July 1999, the principal outstanding of public provincial debt
has been reduced to 70 percent of current revenues collected during the first twelve of the
preceding thirteen months, as required by the loan conditionality. Despite this
achievement, Salta is still saddled with a large, poorly-structured debt in which the
coparticipacion guarantee has not been used effectively. So far, market conditions have
not allowed a more effective restructuring of the debt stock. Salta is currently taking
steps to refinance US$100 million of short-term debt with a 10- year bond to reduce the
impact of future debt service. (See Annex C: Creditworthiness.)
29.   To ensure the sustainability of transparent and responsible fiscal practices, PRL-2
conditionality also required that the province pass in the Legislature a Financial
Discipline Law based on five principles: (i) all annual provincial public sector budgets to
be balanced; ii) debt not be used to finance provincial public sector current expenditures;
iii) provincial public sector revenue and expenditure records and accounts to be audited
and made publicly available; iv) personnel salary and benefits expenditures not to exceed
65 percent of net current revenues; and iv) principal outstanding of provincial debt not to
exceed 70 percent of current revenues. The province has successfully met this condition.
The new provincial constitution, promulgated in April 1998 under Article 70 and
regulated in May 1999 requires the provincial public sector to meet all these conditions,
which it has been doing during 1999. The sanctioning of this law provides an important
element to help the province sustain its prudent fiscal course.
30.   The overall success of the actions taken by Salta is also evident when comparing
Salta's fiscal performance relative to that of the other provinces. Tables 10 through 13
show that Salta's performance during 1996-99 was substantially better than the median
for all provinces in terms of the changes in own-source revenues, personnel expenditures,
and stock of debt. Specifically, the increase in own-source revenues between 1996 and
1999 was 28 percent, compared to a median of 11 percent for non-PRL-2 provinces
(Table 10). This increase is particularly impressive given the fact that Salta has
decentralized both the vehicle and property taxes to the municipalities and the province is
taking additional steps to gradually eliminate another two distortionary taxes -- the
12



payroll and stamp taxes -- while reducing the rate of the turnover tax. In terms of the
change in personnel expenditures, Salta's performance is highly impressive relative to
olher provinces, with an increase of 1.6 percent between 1996 and 1999, compared to a
median increase of 14 percent for non-PRL-2 provinces (Table 11). Finally, an equally
impressive performance can be observed with respect to the debt stock. While Salta
reduced its stock of debt by 3.8 percent between 1996 and 1999, the median for non-
PRL-2 provinces was an increase of 20 percent. (Table 13. Due to this outstanding fiscal
performance, international banks now consider Salta to be creditworthy. Although its
debt is still high and poorly structured, Salta's other financial ratios are generally
favorable. Having privatized its bank and public enterprises, and having transferred its
pension fund to the national government, Salta has few contingent liabilities (see Annex
C: Creditworthiness).
D.   Education
31.   Achievement of Objectives: Highly Satisfactory. The challenges that Salta
faced in education are similar to those of other provinces. Personnel expenditures
dominate the education budget, leaving little room to finance non-personnel inputs and
investment. The quality of education is poor, while average costs per student are high
due to low student/teacher ratios and disproportionate use of temporary and substitute
educational personnel. Teachers often abuse the leave system and their pay is unrelated
to teaching quality or effective classroom hours. These problems are compounded by the
fact that a significant increase in educational demand is expected due to demographic
growth and extension in compulsory education from six to nine years, as mandated by the
National Education Law.
32.   With the support of the PRL-2, Salta has developed a reform program for the
education sector aimed at ensuring the extension of mandatory education and improving
access to the poor within current budget constraints. The specific actions implemented
between 1997 and 1999 fall into four areas: (i) improving the management of human
resources; (ii) improving efficiency in primary and secondary schools; (iii) reforming the
system of private sector incentives; and (iv) restructuring the teacher training institutes.
33.   Management of Human Resources: The province has implemented a major re-
engineering of its administration system within the education sector. The three basic
pillars have been: a) the consolidation of parallel administrative regimens and the
redesign of administrative procedures; b) the implementation of a new payroll system;
and c) the outsourcing of the control system of sick leave and absenteeism. As a result of
this re-engineering, all teachers teaching in public schools are now under the same
administrative regime, including those who used to depend on the national government
prior to the decentralization of education. The time savings (and consequently, the
savings in personnel) resulting from the redesign of administrative procedures have been
outstanding. For instance, the time required to officially appoint a teacher has been
reduced from one year to just ten days. Similarly, the time required to obtain an
employment certification has been reduced from six months to just ten minutes! The
implementation of the new payroll system, which is now running parallel to the
provincial system for its final testing, has also been very successful. Annual savings
13



from the elimination of irregular payments such as duplications, non-existent positions,
etc. are estimated at approximately 10 percent of personnel costs in the education sector
(or approximately US$19 million).'" Finally, as a result of the implementation of a
privately-run control system, absenteeism and sick leaves have been reduced from 17
percent and 15 percent in 1996 to 5 percent and 6 percent respectively in 1999. The
estimated annual savings resulting from these reductions are of US$11 million.'2
34.   Education Efficiency. The province has also made significant progress towards
improving the efficiency in primary and secondary schools through the consolidation and
elimination of small classes, with the consequent increase in student/teacher ratios and
decline in unit costs. As a result of these actions, the province has met the loan
conditionality requiring a student to teacher ratio of 19:1 at the primary level including
the ninth grade.
35.   Private Sector Incentives: As agreed under the framework of the PRL-2, Salta
has adopted an improved formula to allocate public subsidies to private schools. The
new formula, developed in conjunction with a committee representing different
stakeholders within private education, was designed to promote equity, quality and
efficiency, based on the number of students, share of the teaching staff with university
titles, costs per student, equipment, and level of fees. This fornula is currently applicable
for schools representing 65 percent of private school students, but not for schools that had
previously not received subsidies nor for secondary private schools decentralized by
federal law, which are guaranteed certain levels of transfers by the terms of that transfer.
The province, within its budgetary possibilities, will seek to include schools not receiving
subsidies in order to provide incentives for their improvement. The change in the subsidy
formula has allowed the province, within its original budget allocations, to make better
use of these subsidies by extending them to more schools, promoting more efficient
levels of enrollment, and targeting subsidies to schools serving poor students. Poor
schools have benefited most, as their subsidies have increased.
36.    Restructuring Public Teacher Training:  It was estimated that the number of
teacher training institutions in Salta was more than double the number needed, as their
graduates could not be absorbed by the educational system.13 Accordingly, the province
has closed ten of the thirty public teacher-training institutes and seven technical institutes.
Prior to this initiative, the training institutes were graduating annually eight students for
each opening, thereby wasting fiscal resources and training people for non-existent jobs.
The curriculum in the remaining institutes is being updated to respond to the newly-
created needs of the federal education reform.
"1     This estimate is based on a total budget for education of US$230 million for 1998 and 1999, with
personnel accounting for 83 percent of the total budget, and savings of approximately 10 percent of
personnel expenditures.
12     This estimate is based on US$19 million in salaries for substitute teachers during 1996 and a
reduction in teacher leaves from 14.77 percent in 1996 to 6.05 percent in 1999. Personnel costs are based
on data from "Argentina: Improving Health and Education in Salta," Sept. 24, 1997.
13    "Argentina: Improving Health and Education in Salta," Sept. 24, 1997.
14



37.   Levels of Expenditure in the Education Sector: The actions implemented under
the PRL-2 have enabled the province to reduce the level of salary and benefits
expenditures for the period from June 1998 to May 1999 to 83 percent of total sector
spending, bettering the initial target of 85 percent. As agreed under the PRL-2, Salta has
niade available for public education US$230 million in 1998, and US$231 million in
1999, both substantially higher than the US$180 million budgeted for 1996. Moreover,
the province has allowed savings from personnel expenditures to be used to cover non-
personnel costs within the sector and actual expenditures have not been shifted from
investment to current expenditures.
38.   Efficiency in Education: Table 15 summarizes some of the improvements in the
education sector that resulted from the educational reforms implemented under the PRL-
2. These improvements are: a) a reduction in absenteeism from 17.4 percent in 1996 to
5.3 percent in 1999; b) a reduction in the percentage of substitute teachers from 14.8
percent in 1996 to 6 percent in 1999; c) an increase of 118 percent in system capacity,
from 70,000 students in 1996 to 150,000 in 1999; and d) a reduction in the per capita
annual cost of secondary education per student from US$828 in 1995 to US$732 in 1999.
T hese improvements represent outstanding gains in efficiency, as the system capacity
was doubled with a less than 30 percent increase in spending.'4  However, increased
efficiency reflects just a portion of the far-reaching reforms implemented by Salta in the
sector. Aimed at significantly improving the quality of its education system, the province
has embarked on a major redesign of the entire curricula to meet the requirements of the
National Education Law. At the same time, the province is promoting the administrative
(lecentralization of schools and a system of incentives that promote innovation and self-
improvement among teachers while offering them opportunities for training and
continuing education. The reforns implemented under the PRL-2 have supported Salta's
ambitious education reform by generating additional resources to finance non-personnel
inputs, to better motivate teachers, and to focus on poverty areas where additional
attention was needed.
39.   Lessons from the education reforms: Salta's success in the implementation of
education reforms underscores the importance of several factors, including: a) the need to
have a champion with a vision of the sector; b) the central importance of the training and
institutional strengthening component; c) the importance of having some previous hands-
on experience for decentralization efforts to succeed; and d) the importance of using
participatory mechanisms, such as in the design of the new subsidy formula for private
schools. The individual actors in education, such as the Ministry of Education and the
PRL-2 Executive Director, were key to the success of the reforms in this sector. These
actors or "champions" had a vision for the sector and were successful in conciliating the
requirements of the national education reform with the province's own needs. The
emphasis on teacher training and curricula support was also critical to the success of the
reforms, helping in the trickling down of the overall vision and developing support
among the teachers for the reform  program.  The experience in education also
14    Increased spending is estimated at approximately US$80 million (US$50 million from increased
education budget between 1996 and 1999; US$19 million from saving from new payroll system; and
US$ 11 million from reduced teacher absenteeism).
15



underscores the importance of having previous "hands-on" experience. Some school
principals had already developed some hands-on experience in administering resources
that were being transferred directly to them by the national government under the "Plan
Social," which proved a valuable element to support the province's decentralization
efforts. Finally, the participation of the main stakeholders in the design of the new
formula allocating subsidies to private schools permitted the early resolution of potential
conflicts related to its implementation and the acceptance of the new allocation criteria as
legitimate.
E.    Health
40.   Achievement of Objectives: Satisfactory. There is a large scope for improving
the health status in Salta and the other Northwest provinces. Infant and maternal
mortality rates are higher than the national mean. Mortality causes include long-standing
public health diseases associated with underdevelopment and poverty. Malnutrition and
diarrhea remain among the principal causes of death of children 1-4 years old.
41.   Poor health statistics are, to a large extent, the result of structural deficiencies in
the province's health delivery capacity. The health system is predominantly hospital-
based, with hospitals being managed primarily by the provincial government. Most
hospitals are obsolete and lack basic maintenance, both in terms of equipment and
physical facilities. Internal inefficiencies are magnified by the lack of accountability of
hospital directors. As decision-making is highly centralized at the level of the Provincial
Ministry of Health, hospitals have limited authority to achieve improvements in
efficiency. Public hospitals are also inefficient, with low occupancy rates averaging only
57 percent, low personnel productivity and low quality of care. Hospital care dominates
the budget of the sector. Personnel costs absorbed 82 percent of the health budget in
1996, leaving little room for essential complementary inputs. The size and salary of
personnel are not under the control of the hospital authorities, and there is no motivation
to budget and use resources efficiently. In addition, there was no targeting of the poor
and no cost recovery.
42.   Under the framework of the PRL-2, Salta developed a reform strategy aimed at
promoting the progressive separation of the provision of health services and public
financing. This basic objective translates into actions in three areas, as follows, by: (a)
the establishment of self-managed hospitals; (b) the strengthening of the Provincial
Insurance Institute (Instituto Provincial del Seguro-IPS); and (c) the extension of health
insurance coverage for the poor using money now allocated to public hospitals.
43.   Self-Managed Hospitals:  The transformation of public hospitals into self-
managed (or autonomous) hospitals is a central pillar in the program towards increasing
efficiency in the sector. The concept of self-management implies that public hospitals are
to be financed by the sale of services to private and public insurance providers rather than
by direct budget lines from the Ministry of Health. As the resources generated by these
self-managed hospitals are to remain in the hospitals, self-management is expected to be
conducive to cost recovery and improved efficiency.
16



44.   On December 1, 1998, the regulatory decree for Law 6841 was enacted for eleven
hospitals, thereby converting them legally into self-administered hospitals, which are to
collect revenue exclusively on the basis of per capita demand through a new payment
system, retain the majority of their collected revenues, and apply to their employees a
remuneration system including merit-based bonuses. These hospitals account for 72
percent of public hospital beds and 74 percent of public hospital discharges. Further, the
province is in the process of deepening the reform beyond that originally contemplated
by the program by granting autonomy to the two largest hospitals and three smaller ones,
which would give them full control over their property, personnel and goods. This
initiative has empowered hospital directors to put in place systems aimed at improving
quality and efficiency in the provision of services.
45.   Considerable improvements can already be observed in terms of management
systems, quality control, etc. Similarly, the required information system to identify
patients' health coverage is up and running in the hospitals. However, it is important to
point out that there has been no significant financial impact, with cost recovery being less
than 1 percent in the self-managed hospitals. The main reasons for this disappointing
performance are the chronic arrears of the IPS. Unless the IPS regularizes its payments
and the hospitals start seeing some monetary rewards for their increased performance, the
sustainability of these hospitals can be jeopardized. The existence of legal restrictions on
income generation options, such as renting space for private sector operations (see institutional
evaluation), and the lack of training in hospital administration skills of hospital
management staff have also contributed to their poor performance in terms of their ability
to increase revenues. Moreover, developing mechanisms for automatic payments in
coordination with ANESS and the major insurance providers can be better done at the
provincial and national levels. It would also be important to disseminate the results and
lessons learned in those self-managed hospitals that had a very successful experience,
such as the Padilla Hospital in Tucuman.
46.   Provincial Insurance Institute (IPS): Under the PRL-2, the province has installed
amd is implementing an improved information system to keep records on accounts of
beneficiaries of the IPS. The required information system is running and is being applied
to both the traditional beneficiaries (provincial public employees) as well as the newly
insured indigent population.  However, as mentioned above, the IPS has been a
bottleneck in the reform process within the health sector, jeopardizing the process of
implementing self-managed hospitals as a result of its large payment arrears. There are
still significant actions that need to be taken in relation to the IPS, including its structural
reorganization. The recent liquidation of the commercial insurance component of the IPS
(with the corresponding funding of its financial liabilities) demonstrates the intention of
the Romero administration to tackle this challenge
47.   Provincial Health Insurance:  One of the objectives of the PRL-2 was the
establishment of a Provincial Health Insurance integrating the resources of the IPS and
the budget funds of the Ministry of Health, which in turn would enable the coverage of
non-insured poor people. The province has established and is administering a provincial
health insurance system to provide coverage for a basic health care package to all
indigent residents of the province who are unable to pay for health care through any other
17



means. Through the provincial "obra social" the resident indigent population is being
provided with health insurance covering a basic health care package. Under the system,
the poor are treated on a par with the general population, are provided with
documentation of their rights, and a complaints desk and hotline have been set up to help
insure proper implementation of the system. The province is now implementing a census
of the indigent population. The census has been completed for the capital area. However,
its completion in rural areas is still pending.
48.   Levels of Expenditure in the Health Sector: As required under the PRL-2, the
province has preserved the level of expenditures in the sector. Annual budgets for public
health have been US$135 million in 1998 and US$123 million in 1999, substantially
higher than the 1996 budget of US$116 million. Similarly, the annual budgets for the
Provincial Obra Social have been US$89 million and US$100 million for 1998 and 1999
respectively, higher than the 1996 budget of US$55 million. Moreover, the savings have
been retained by the sector to cover investment costs, bonuses, and supplies, have been
available when needed, and have not been transferred.
49.   Efficiency in the Delivery Public Health: The actions taken in the health sector
have resulted in the improvements in quality and efficiency in the delivery of services.
As shown on Table 16, average waiting times have decreased consistently, the occupation
rate has increased, the same as personnel output. Similarly, the sector personnel salary
and benefits have been reduced from 82 percent to 73 percent of provincial public health
sector expenditures between 1996 and 1999, bettering the PRL-2 initial target.
50.   Lessons from the health reforms: In the case of health, the actions supported
under the PRL-2 were at the forefront of the reform strategy being formulated at the
national level.  Thus, some important lessons were learned that are now being
incorporated in related sector operations, such as the "Health Insurance for the Uninsured
Project." Some of these lessons are: a) the proper functioning of the Obra Social
Provincial is a pre-requisite for the successful implementation of self-managed hospitals;
b) the regulatory and legal environment of the hospitals should be compatible with the
reform's objectives; c) there must be flexibility in human resource management; d) there
is a strong need for training in business administration for hospital managers; and e) it is
necessary to educate the public about the meaning and the scope of the reforms being
implemented. For instance, the reform program and its objectives were purposely
distorted during the 1999 election campaign. In the case of the Provincial Health
Insurance, the opposition publicized it as a way to exclude poor people from provincial
hospitals, quite the opposite of the true intent of the reform.
F.    Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
51.   The loan was implemented roughly at the pace at which it was anticipated, with
the second tranche being released approximately 20 months after loan effectiveness. All
fiscal targets were satisfactorily met despite the downturn in the economy during 1999.
Some of the factors that affected the implementation of the reforms sought under the
PRL-2 are detailed below:
18



52.   Outstanding political support: In the case of Salta, strong political support at
different levels of the provincial government was one of the key factors contributing to
the success of the PRL-2. The reform program counted with the full support of the
governor as well as the legislature. The reforms in each of the sectors also received the
full support of the Finance, Health, and Education Ministers. The experience in the
education sector was particularly successful in terms of overcoming the resistance of the
lower layers of a highly complex institutional structure (see Annex B: Institutional
Assessment).
53.  Importance of preparatory sector work: The policy actions outlined under the
PRL-2 benefited from the in-depth ESW on social sectors prepared at the same time as
theses loans for the same provinces. The Provincial Finance Report (Report No. 15487),
prepared July 1996, provided the basis for the initial dialogue on provincial fiscal reform
and for the discussion on major issues in the design of fiscal federalism in Argentina.
The report was shared with all governors and discussed in the Senate. The policy reforms
that have been prepared by the provinces were amply discussed in that report, which
provided a very useful introduction to the current work with the provinces.
54.   Sector reforms: Provincial reforms in health and education benefited from and
complemented national initiatives, particularly in health, and was able to call on support
from an array of Bank (and IDB) sector investment operations available to assist in
imnplementation. In education, the PRL-2 has complemented the IDB-financed PRISE
and the IBRD-financed PRODYMES I, which provide technical support to the provinces
to improve the management of the education sector.  In health, the PRL-2 has
successfully complemented other ongoing Bank loans to the health sector, namely
PRESSAL, PROMIN and Health Insurance Reform Projects.  The PRL-2 has also
promoted the concept of self-managed hospitals in the four participating provinces, a key
objective of the PRESSAL and, more importantly, has tied its implementation to a
broader health finance reform agenda. Finally, while the Health Insurance Reform
Project is addressing efficiency and equity issues pertaining to "Obras Sociales
Nacionales," the PRL-2 has confronted similar issues in relation to the "Obras Sociales
Provinciales" and has helped provincial governments develop a public health insurance
fund to finance coverage of the currently uninsured, mostly the poor. The relatively
fragile institutional capacity of the provinces and the depth and complexity of the reform
program called for -sustained technical assistance as a prerequisite for sustainability and
success. The assistance to the education reform program was provided by the IDB-
financed PRISE and by the Bank-financed PRODYMES. In health, the Bank-financed
PRESSAL continued the assistance provided during preparation of the program.
55.   National framework for fiscal reform. Along with specific sector-level reforms
promoted by the federal government, the Salta effort benefited from a consistent system
of fiscal incentives at the national level that combined a hard budget constraint and
federal resistance to providing bailouts, with proactive programs to support state reform.
In Argentina, a set of critical actions was implemented during the 1992-1996 period,
including the signing of the Fiscal Pacts, the elimination of quasi-deficit financing
through Central Bank rediscounts and provincial banks, and support for transferring
19



provincial pension funds to the national government, and privatizing provincial banks and
public enterprises, and institutional strengthening for financial and tax administration
56.   Fiscal targets and economic downturns: Despite the sharp decrease in provincial
revenues resulting from the economic downturn during 1999, Salta was able to
successfully meet all its fiscal targets. However, the conditionality to maintain sector
budgets (i.e., education and health) at the same absolute levels of 1996 or higher put
additional strains on the provincial finances.
57.   Institutional assessment:  The PRL-2 took into consideration institutional
arrangements for service delivery that encompass voice, competition, and hierarchy. In
education, for example, the re-design of the criteria to allocate subsidies to private
schools introduces incentives for increased competition and improved quality among
private schools. Likewise, the school management decentralization promoted a greater
participation from parents and the community. In the case of health, the establishment of
a provincial health insurance for the poor, combined with the establishment of
autonomous hospitals, provided mechanisms for competition among public institutions
and citizen participation. The province implemented accountability mechanisms and
institutional arrangements during the implementation of the reforms. In the case of Salta,
there was an excellent fit between the PRL-2's institutional arrangements and the
characteristics of the province, mainly in terms of its well-aligned power structure and
state institutions.  The solid political support, in conjunction with the institutional
arrangements discussed above, has been key to the success of the program. (See Annex
B: Institutional Assessment.)
G.    Project Sustainability: Likely
58.   Sustainability: Likely. The operation's objectives have been met and important
reforms have been successfully implemented. In the case of Salta, the sustainability of
these reforms is likely, as they have continuing political support from the governor and
the legislature, which were re-elected last December. Also, Salta's fiscal position is
sustainable in the medium and long run, with a level of provincial debt that can endure
short-time fluctuations of financial markets. It is important to guarantee the continuing
implementation of basic management tools, such as cadastre, financial management, and
tax administration, to help consolidate the improvements in the fiscal situation. Also, it is
important to foster accountability and participatory mechanisms for the population to
voice their position about the reforms' benefits. In this regard, the province has taken an
important step by setting in motion a mechanism for routine citizen input regarding the
quality of the services provided by any provincial unit (Decree 3062; July 6, 1999).
59.    Reforms in the education sector are well advanced and are already trickling down
to individual schools. Providing training and technical support to teachers has been an
important component of the reform strategy, which in turn has contributed to build
support for the reforms among teachers. The decentralization efforts promoted under
Salta's broader education reforms have successfully built over the foundations of the
"Plan Social" which, by transferring resources from the national government directly to
the schools, has given school principals hands-on administrative and management
20



experience. Also, in the case of transfers to private schools, the criteria were defined
collaboratively with representatives of private schools interests, which make them more
likely to be sustained over the medium and longer term.
60.  In the case of the health sector, the reforms are still to be further consolidated. A
stumbling block has been the reform and modernization of the "Obra Social Provincial."
Although the specific disbursement condition has been met, a broader reform of this
entity is still pending. Moreover, the larger arrears it has with self-managed hospitals
have seriously undercut these hospitals' potential for economic incentives. Other actions
that can contribute to increase the sustainability of the reforms in the health sector
included: a) training in business administration for the management staff of self-managed
hospitals; b) coordination of efforts at the provincial and national levels to develop
automatic payment mechanisms with ANSES and large health care insurance providers;
and c) development of a public education campaign educating health care providers and
the public at large on the objectives and benefits of the reform efforts.
H.   Bank Performance
61.   Project Identification: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank correctly identified the
need to focus resources on selected provinces with demonstrated willingness and ability
to implement reforms. It also identified the window of opportunity provided by reform-
minded administrations both at the national and provincial levels. Finally, the Bank also
identified correctly the need to promote reforms in the social sectors-education and
health-in a framework of fiscal soundness. These two sectors are central to the medium
and long-term success of any provincial reform strategy, as they represent between 40
and 45 percent of the provincial budgets. Moreover, the services in these two sectors are
key in determining the level of human capital development of the province in the medium
and long term.
62.   Project Preparation: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's performance was highly
satisfactory with respect to the sectoral and technical aspects of the operation, identifying
an ambitious but feasible Policy Matrix that operationalized the major aspects of the
government's reform strategy towards the provinces. The Bank worked in close
collaboration with individuals in the national and provincial governments and maintained
a high degree of coordination between the PRL-2 and other Bank operations, both
provincial and sector loans. During loan preparation, the Bank visited the four provinces
that met the eligibility criteria and had the support of the federal government.
63.   Project Appraisal: Highly Satisfactory. Out of the four PRL-2 provinces, Salta
had without any doubt the best conditions to succeed. It had already demonstrated a
strong performance in the PRL, had strong political support from both the executive and
legislative powers and a fiscal situation that, although in need of improvement, was not
structurally flawed.
64.   Project Supervision: Satisfactory. SAL operations pose a challenge in terms of
supervision, as they require both precision and agility. The Bank worked closely with the
Borrower, assessing the overall evolution of the provincial finances, as well as
21



monitoring the progress towards reform in health and education. The supervision team
forged a close relationship with provincial authorities through periodic visits and a fluid
communication. The geographical proximity of the supervision team-located in Buenos
Aires as opposed to D.C.-has contributed to such fluid communication. Once the
tranche conditionalities were met, the Bank moved quickly to accelerate the
corresponding disbursement.  The Bank also sought informal agreements with the
provincial government to ensure consistency with other operations, such as the
compromise to the revitalize the implementation of the provincial cadastre and the
financial management system.
I.    Borrower Performance
65.   Project Preparation:  Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's work had the full
collaboration of both the province and the federal government. Staff from the Ministries
of Interior, Economy, Education, and Health participated in the preparatory work,
ensuring not only that the proposed policies were consistent with the national policies but
also that the provinces could count on the support of the federal government during the
implementation of the reforms.
66.   Salta had a strong ownership of the reform program, illustrating the ideal case in
which a Bank operation fully supports provincial objectives. The highly transparent and
participatory approach used by Salta in proposing and seeking approval of their reform
programs have contributed to the ownership and support of the program. Most of the
reforms have been subjected to the scrutiny of the legislature. Public input has been
actively sought using television as well as public hearings for the discussion of specific
reforms (e.g., privatizations and concessions).
67.   Project Implementation: Highly Satisfactory. The supervision of the program
was entrusted to an Executing Unit located in the province's Ministry of Finance,
reporting directly to the governor. In addition, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministries
of Education and Public Health were also active participants. At the national level, the
Ministry of Economy contributed to the implementation of the program by undertaking
the supervision of the fiscal and debt components. The performance of the Executing
Unit was highly satisfactory, serving as an effective interface between the different
actors, including the Governor, the provincial ministries, the Bank, and the executing
units of other related projects. The supervision team was kept well informed of all
relevant developments-both progress and occasional difficulties-that took place during
the implementation of the program. Adequate documentation was made available to
support the request for each tranche.
68.   The province demonstrated  a strong  internal cohesiveness during  the
implementation of the PRL-2, articulating political support from the top with a strong
ability to implement at the lower levels. This fluidity was particularly noteworthy in the
education sector, which despite its complexity, was amalgamated in its reforms efforts by
a uniting vision.
22



69.   Compliance with Covenants: Satisfactory. Compliance with legal covenants
was satisfactory. Over the life of the project, compliance with the stipulated covenants
ancd agreements was met.
J.    Assessment of Outcome
70.   Overall rating: Satisfactory. The project objective has been met, as the PRL-2
has provided effective financial and technical assistance to Salta in its efforts towards
continuing reform and restructuring. The PRL-2 has been highly successful in promoting
the strengthening of Salta's fiscal situation. Moreover, the operation has promoted the
implementation of important reforms in the health and education sectors aimed at
ensuring an efficient and responsive delivery of public services within fiscally-sound
policies. To this effect, the PRL-2 has articulated successfully the various Bank-
supported education and health loans to modernize Salta's social sectors, improve their
efficiency, and protect the poor.
71.   Some of the specific achievements of the PRL-2 include: a) Salta's superior fiscal
performance over the 1997-99 period relative to other provincial governments in terms of
own-source revenues, personnel expenditures, and stock of debt;'5 b) the reduction of
more than 4,500 provincial agents; c) the enactment of a Financial Discipline Law; d)
savings of approximately US$30 million accrued from the implementation of a human
resource management system and a privately-run absentee control system in education; e)
significant improvements in efficiency within the education and health sectors;'6 f) an
improved allocation of subsidies for private education; g) restructuring of public teacher
training institutions; i) the implementation-including the enactment of the necessary
changes in the legislation-of self-managed hospitals; and j) the establishment of a
Provincial Health Insurance System for the poor.
72.   Salta is a clear success story. The ambitious set of reforms supported under the
PRL-2 succeeded as a result of a unique combination of strong political support from
both the Governor and the provincial legislature, as well as a solid leadership in each of
the individual sectors, particularly in provincial finances and education. The PRL-2
effectively capitalized on this window of opportunity by providing intense technical
assistance and helping the province to develop a sound roadmap in terms of the reform
strategies to be adopted in the different sectors. As a result, Salta is now well positioned
to access private financial markets, to attend the needs of the more poor segments of its
population, and to compete more effectively in the world's economy (see Annex C:
Creditworthiness). The impact of the PRL-2 goes beyond Salta, as its demonstration
effect has been key to show other provinces the feasibility of implementing ambitious
reform programs-even in poor provinces-and the corresponding pay-offs.
15    For a detailed description, see "Achievement of Objectives," paragraph B. 13.
16    For a detailed description, see "Efficiency in Education," paragraph. D.38 and Table 15; and
"Efficiency in Public Health," paragraph. E.49 and Table 16.
23



K.   Future Operation
73.   Numerous discussions and field visits have been carried out following
disbursement of the final tranche and the closing of the loan, with the participation of
staff from the national ministries of Economy, Education and Health. The provincial
administration, which was reelected last year remains fully committed to the reform
program. 17
74.   Public Finance. As noted above, has moved to tighten its fiscal performance
during late 1999.   However, to enhance its fiscal situation and to improve
competitiveness over the medium terms, the province still needs to restructure its debt
and to reorient local taxation from pro-cyclical distortionary taxes such as the turnover
tax and the stamp tax to more stable and less regressive taxes such as the property tax. It
also needs to complete the modernization of its financial management system.
75.   Education. The province continues to move forward on all fronts. The one major
problem in delays in improving the financial and human management system because of
problems with the supplier is being resolved.
76.   Health. The new system of self-managed hospitals appears well entrenched,
although more staff training is required. More worrisome is the continued poor
performance of the Provincial Obra Social. Payment delays to the hospitals have not
allowed them to move more rapidly from historic-based budgets reducing incentives for
efficiency. This weak performance also threatens the health insurance for the poor
program system being channeled through the Obra.
L.   Lessons of Experience
77.   Quick-disbursing loans supporting a well-defined set of reforms can be
effective tools in promoting structural adjustment at the sub-national level. The
specific advantages of direct provincial lending using SALs are twofold: i) they can
address the needs of individual provinces more specifically; and ii) they can introduce a
critical mass of economic incentives that can effectively accelerate the pace of the reform
process within individual provinces.
78.   For the reforms to be sustainable, a consistent system of incentives has to be
in place at the national and provincial levels. A clear strategy towards the provinces
on the part of the national government, such as the determination to avoid bailouts of
fiscally-irresponsible provincial governments, is a prerequisite for broader state reform
among sub-national governments, particularly fiscal adjustment.
79.   Capitalize on potential windows of opportunities. Having a reform-minded
administration at both the federal and provincial governments opens a significant window
17 An exit letter was provided to the province analyzing these efforts with recommendations for improving
implementation, and is found in the project file.
24



of opportunity for reform. To capitalize on such opportunities, the Bank's technical
assistance and sector work are critical at early stages, during the design of the reform
program.
80.   The success of SAL loans depends on a combination of factors, among the
most important of which is strong political support. In the case of Salta, the ambitious
set of reforms supported under the PRL-2 succeeded as a result of a unique combination
of strong political support from both the Governor and the provincial legislature, as well
as a solid leadership in each of the individual sectors, particularly in provincial finances
and education.
81.   Provincial SAL operations require strong coordination across sectors to
ensure that policy conditionality reinforce the strategies adopted in each sector. At
the country level, it is necessary to ensure the cooperation of the different national
Ministries, such as Health and Education. Within the Bank, it is necessary to develop
both formal and informal mechanisms of consultations across divisions.  This
coordination is key not only during the design stage but also during implementation to
ensure that the related sector operations can provide adequate technical and financial
support for specific actions.  Such an approach is facilitated under federal systems if
there are national programs from which the sub-national governments can receive needed
technical assistance.
It is important to enhance public participation and to educate the general public on
the goals and objectives of the reforms to ensure their success and sustainability. A
better job at documenting and ensuring the benefits of those reforms with a strong social
impact, such as the Provincial Health Insurance and self-managed hospitals, needs to be
undertaken to ensure a wider support for the reforms, which would in turn increase the
chances for their success and sustainability.
82.   Provincial reform efforts benefit from an overall framework of incentives for
improving fiscal performance and the presence of national-level reform initiatives in
relevant sectors.
83.   Quick-disbursing loans directed to sub-national governments can be effective
complements of sector reforms and operations. If properly coordinated with sector
strategies, provincial SALs can promote sector objectives by boosting political will to
take key sector actions in the sector. This is particularly important in the case of
Argentina, where the provinces play an overwhelming role in providing public services in
education and health. Operational, then a standing TA operation may not be the most
convenient.
84.   The combination of effective sector leadership for reforms and participatory
mechanisms in the design and implementation of reforms can be a powerful tool for
pursing institutional change and overcoming bureaucratic resistance.
25



Table 1
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives   Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not
Applicable
Macro Policies                  /
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives            V
Institutional Development                           _
Physical Objectives                                                  I
Poverty Reduction           _      _
Gender Issues                                                        .1
Other Social Objectives                                              /
Environmental Objectives                                             /
Public Sector Management                                                   l
Private Sector Development                                           /
Other
B. Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability          Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Bank Performance                Highly        Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                    a             ._l
Preparation Assistance            v
Appraisal                         V
Supervision                                       /
26



D. Borrower Performance
Borrower Performance        Highly          Satisfactory        Deficient
Satisfactory                                     l
Preparation                    /
Implementation                 /
Covenant Compliance            I
Operation (if applicable)                         .                          l
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of Outcome    Highly     Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Highly
Satisfactory                              Unsatisfactory
27



Table 2
Related Bank Loans
Loan                           Purpose             Year of Approval             Status
Preceding operations
3877-AR Provincial         Provincial PS and            1995                   Ongoing
Development Loan II            Reforms
3860-AR Municipal          Municipal Reform             1995                   Ongoing
Development II
3826-AR Provincial         Provincial Reform            1995                    Closed
Reform Loan
4218-AR Provincial         Provincial Reform            1997                   Ongoing
Reform (Rio Negro)
4220-AR Provincial         Provincial Reform            1997                   Ongoing
Reform (San Juan)
4221-AR Provincial         Provincial Reform            1997                   Closed
Reform (Tucuman)
Following operations
Provincial Reform          Provincial Reform            FY00                   Proposed
(Catamarca)
Provincial Reformn         Provincial Reform            FY01                   Proposed
(Cordoba)
Provincial Reform          Provincial Reforrn           FY01                   Proposed
(Buenos Aires)
28



Table 3
Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification                                             April 8, 1997
IM (Project Concept
Document)                                                                    l
Preparation                                                                  l
Appraisal                                                  April 11, 1997
Negotiations                                              June 9-10, 1997
Letter of Provincial Reform                                July 10, 1997
Board Presentation                                        August 26, 1997
Signing                                                 November 21, 1997
Effectiveness                                           December 22, 1997
First Tranche Release                                   December 24, 1997
Midterm Review                                                 n.a.
Second Tranche Release                                   September 3, 1999
Third Tranche Release                                          n.a.
Project Completion                                       September 3, 1999
Loan Closing                    December 31, 1999       December 31, 1999
Table 4
Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Cumulative               FY97    FY98    Y99
Disbursements
Appraisal Estimate         45.0     75.0    --
Actual                     45.0     45.0     75.0
Actual as % of Estimate    100%     60%     100%
Date of final disbursement: September 3, 1999.
29



Table 5
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present                       Description of                         Comments
Type    Status                         Covenant
Provincial actions described in Schedule C of the Loan
LA         2.02 (d)  13       C       Agreement (all of which have been agreed to by the Province Complied with
(ii)                       and are consistent with the Borrower's policy framework
regarding provincial reforms) have been taken in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank. If, after said exchange of
views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not
been fulfilled and, within 90 days after such notice, such
conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof
LA         3.01 (a)  13       C       The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the Complied with.
request of either party or of the Province, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement. The
Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan
Agreement, cause the Province to participate in such exchanges
in views with the Borrower and the Bank.
LA         3.01 (b)  13       CD      Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every three    Complied with
months from the Effective date to the Second Tranche Release  delay
date, the Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the
Subloan Agreement, cause the Province to furnish to the Bank
for the Bank's review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such details as the
Bank shall reasonable request.
LA         3.01 (c)  13       C       The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any Complied with.
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan
which would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the
Program, including any action specified in Schedule 3 of the
Loan Agreement.
LA         3.01 (d)  13       C       The Borrower shall, as allowed by the termns of the Subloan Complied with
Agreement, cause the Province to assist in, and provide all
information required for, the preparation of the report referred
to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, as said Section
9.07 (c) is amended pursuant to Section 1.01 (e) of the Loan
Agreement.
Covenant Types:
I = Accounts/Audits                                  8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/generate revenue from      9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10 = Project implementation not
3 = Flow and utilization of Project funds                covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                              11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the project                    budgetary or other resource
or executing agency                                   allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                          12 = Sectoral or cross-sectorrl policy/
7 = Involuntary resettlement                            regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied                                CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially                         NC = Not complied with
30



Table 6
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.      Key Implementation Indicators in President's        Estimated        Actual
Report
See tables 9, 15, and 16.
=~~~~~~~~ ___ _
Table 7
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned             Revised               Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle
Weeks   US$'000   Weeks   US$'000   Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to Appraisal               n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.    20.3      $73,531
Appraisal-Board                        n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       6      $24,145
Negotiations through Board Approval    n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       2       $5,337
Supervision                            n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.     18.1    $49,900
Completion (WPA costs)                 NA    $70,000                             X    $33,0292"
T'OTAL Direct Costs                                                                    $103,012
TOTAL WPA Costs                                                                       $33,0292
Includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.
31



Table 8
Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating
Number                    Specialized     Impleimentati   Develop-met
Stage of      Month/          of       Days in       Staff Skills         on         Objectives      Types of
Project        Year        Persons      Field       Represented "       Status                     Problems/Status
Cycle
Identification         December        7      12             PS, SS, ED, PS         n.a            n.a              n.a
2-14, 1996                           P,S,E,P
Appraisal              April 1997      7       14            TM, EcF, C,C          n.a.           n.a.              n.a.
__________  ________        ~ED, PS, C, C_                      _ _  _ _ _
Appraisal through                                                                   n.a            n.a              n.a
Board Approval
Supervision
I             December       8            3        TM, EcF, SS,                           S        Effective 12/22/97;
10-12,                             ED, SS, PS, C, C
1997                                                                               First Tranche
disbursed on
12/214/97.
February       1           2        TM                     HS             HS         The province is
1998                                                                              implementing its
program as initially
agreed and no
deviations from the
initial schedule are
foreseen.
Ill           Jun.1 8 '98     5                    TM, HDSL, EcF,       No PSR         No PSR
SD, PS
IV             Nov. 12 -      1           7         C                   No PSR         No PSR
18, 1998
V             December        6           2        TM, SS, PS, EcF,        s              S         Second Tranche
17-18,                             ED, C                                           release pending
1998                                                                              implementation of
sector refonns in
education and
health.
VI             March'99       5                    TM, PS, EcF,                                            . ,
_______ ______ ____   __ ______   ______ _   ____ ______ H It, C
VIl            March '99      3                     TM, HDSL, C                            s
32



Table 8
Bank Resources: Missions (cont.)
Performance
Rating
Number                   Specialized     Implementati   Develop-met
Stage of      Month/         of       Days in       Staff Skills        on         Objectives     Types of
Project        Year       Persons      Field      Represented "       Status                    Problems/Status
Cycle
Vni             August        2                   TM, HDSL               s              S        Second Tranche
1999                                                                            slightly delayed due
to institutional
development
required for
implementing the
far-reaching social
sector reforms,
particularly in
health.
Conditionality for
Second Tranche met
in September 1999.
Completion             October        3           2        TM, C, PSM                           s
1999                           I
Completion             May 2000       3           1      J PSM, EcF, Hlt   ]      s             s
Completion             June 2000      2                    lED
1/ Mission leader.
2/ Key to specialization:
A. Sr. Public Enterprise Specialist
B. Legal Counsel
C. Sr. Country Economist
D. Principal Financial Management Specialist
E. Consultant
F. Sr. Country Officer
G Tax Administration Specialist
H. Task Manager
33



Table 9
Salta's Policy Matrix
Activity                                Accomplished               Second Tranche
General Condition            Legal opinion confirming the
constitutionality of the reforms included
in the program and conditions of tranche
disbursement
PUBLIC FINANCE
Fiscal Balance               Agreement on targets for the program  Six-month Current Account Surplus at
least at US$15 million equivalent
Agreement on values and control
mechanisms
Reduction in Personnel Cost  Identification of components of civil  Personnel Cost is equal to no more than
service reform                        65% of net current revenues
Conversion of Public        Implementation of planned reduction in    Second phase of restructuring/
Employment                   public sector positions (1,000 positions)    downsizing
Debt Stock                   Agreement on overall decline of debt  Debt stock is equal to less than 70% of
current revenues
Enactment of Law of Financial
Discipline as mentioned in the LPR
Public Expenditure Program   Agreement on the composition of       External auditing of the Provincial
until 1999                   program and structure of social sector  Public Accounts; public disclosure of
expenditures consistent with the      audit reports.
objectives of the program, as explained in
the Letter of Provincial Reform
EDUCATION POLICY CHANGE
Improve Administration of    Prepare new leave system and approved
Human Resources              legal instrument; froze automatic wage
increases
Obtained legislative authorization and
invited for bids for the new sick leave
control of public school teachers
Draft new teaching system Law (Ley
6830)
Sector Budget                                                      For each fiscal year, make available an
education budget at the real 1996 level
or at least $210 million equivalent,
whichever is higher. Allow savings in
personnel cost to be used to cover non-
personnel items. Safeguards in place to
maintain education budget.
Increase Educational         First consolidation completion        Consolidation in primary schools leads
Efficiency                   Approved new organization (POF);      to a student/teacher ratio = 19:1 for
allowed savings in personnel to stay in  public primary schools levels up to and
the sector                            including the 9"' grade
Management of Sector and    Agreement on the budget for the sector    Personnel cost to be lowered to 85% of
Promotion of Decentralized    and on 3-year PEP                    the provincial education budget
Education
Private Sector Participation   Launched study of alternatives for private  New system of subsidies for private
school subsidies taking into account  schools in effect
equity and efficiency objectives
Conversion of Teacher       Interrupted admissions program to      Closure of 10 Teachers Training
Training                     transform schools                     Institutes and implement six
"Tecnicaturas"
34



Table 9 (cont.)
Activity                               Accomplished                        Second Tranche
HEALTH REFORM COMPONENT
Autonomous Hospitals        Enacted Law 6841 (defining the        Ten public hospitals are made
autonomous hospitals) and defined    autonomous
calendar for HPA implementation.
New payment system is implemented in
Identification of public hospitals to be  the HPA
decentralized and the auxiliary services to
be outsourced                         HPA retain the majority of revenues and
can use a system of bonus by
Change employment laws and allow     performance.
HPA employees to be under private
sector contract                      Apply to their employees the regime
referred to in Article 24 of Provincial
Law 6841, which may include the
provision of merit-based performance
bonuses
Provincial Health Insurance,  Plan to create a Provincial Insurance  New Provincial Health System into
Extending Health Coverage   Institute or similar agency to ensure  effect
insurance for poor people
Identification of a substantial number of
beneficiaries of the new insurance system
Obra Social Provincial (OSP)  Plan to improve structure of OSP    System to control beneficiaries in effect
Separation (via privatization) of
commercial insurance and life insurance
of OPS
Sector Budget               Agreement on Budget Envelope          Make available an annual health budget
equal to at least 1996 level or $108
million, whichever is higher. Budget for
OSP should be made available at 1996
level or $30 million equivalent,
whichever is higher
Reduction in personnel cost to no more
than 82% of health sector expenditures
Savings in personnel costs retained in
the sector to finance investment and
other inputs. Safeguards in place to
______________________    _________________________________     maintain   health  budget.
35



Table 10
Change in Own-Source Revenues by Province
1996-1999
(US$'000)
1996       1997       1998        1999      Growth
_____ _____ _____ ____   _____ ____   _____ ____   _____ ____ 96-99
Santiago del Estero      65,268.9   82,945.3    93,122.7    89,521.5  37.2%
Talta                   115,031.6   130,543.0   133,560.1 i146,925.9   27.7%'
Chubut                   56,520.3    62,132.3    58,8806     71,286.9   26.1%
Jujuy                    47,018.9   54,386.4    57,336.9    58,547.6   24.5%
Neuquen                 132,708.2   140,177.0   169,465.2   160,948.3   21.3%
Mendoza                 323,570.0   375,560.0   397,346.6   386,386.6   19.4%
Tucw'nAn              1-5-0,007.7 1_6_6,957.0 1__7931.J 179,1b679  1_9_,4%/
G.C 6.A.              2,313,880.4  2,455,772.9  2,770,523.8  2,759,651.    19 .3%
San Luis                 74,630.0    80,534.5   85,262.7    88,251.9   18.3%
Santa Fe                729,067.1   875,844.2   925,895.8   854,374.4   17.2%
SanJuan                  79313.6    9100,1682    9432.4
Tradeluego               39,586.    41,521.9    44,401.0   44,699.0
Catamarca                35,843.6    38,690.7    40,438.3   40,123.1   11.9%
Formosa                  22,573.4    27,911.9    30,800.6    25,152.7   11.4%
Buenos Aires          3,867,915.3 4,510,173.6  4,716,413.4  4,263,831.2   10.2%
Rio Negro               124,120.0   129,720.8  47,5026   135,428.2   7i.1
La Pampa                 90,357.1    93,004.0   104,933.9    97,447.4   7.8%
Corrientes               67,331.6    72,563.6    75,756.1    67,860.0   0.8%
C6rdoba                 863,597.5 ' 849,752.0   911,557.6   843,971.8   -2.3%
Entre Rios              286,124.7   298,434.0   302,739.3   275,826.6   -3.6%
Santa Cruz               63,108.9    63,404.6    64,701.2    59,343.1   -6.0%
Chaco                   110,166.2   111,982.3   104,471.8    99,814.9  -9.4%
Misiones                117,050.1   120,185.0   113,727.5   100,662.7  -14.0%
La Rioja                 27,142.6    23,634.2    22,119.0    22,354.0  -17.6%
Total                                 ...                            11.8%
9,801,934.1 10,897,220.0 11,650,443.3 10,961,949.5   11.8%
Median                                                               12.4%
100,261.7   102,493.2   104,702.9    98,631.2
Mean                                                                 10.7%
P408,413.9   454,050.8   485,435.1   456,747.9
P5RL-2  Provinces     __ _ _ _   ,__ _ _    ,__ _ _    ,__ __ _
Sub-Total                                                17.8%
468,472.9   518,609.8   560,549.3   551,894.4
Median      ,,,,*                                      16.7%
119,675.8   130,131.9   140,531.4   141,177.1
Mean   117,118.2   129,652.5   140,137.3   137,973.6   17.6%
NON PRL-2-Provinces
Sub-Total 9,333,461.2 10,378,610.2 11,089,894.0 10,410,055.0   11.5%
Median   100,261.7   102,493.2   104,702.9    98,631.2   10.8%
Mean   466,673.1   518,930.51  554,494.7  520,502.8   9.3%
Source: National Office of Coordination with the Provinces; Undersecretariat of Economic
Relations with the Provinces.
36



Table 11
Change in Personnel Expenditures by Province
1996-1999
(US$'000)
1996       1997       1998        1999     % Growth
___________________ _   __________   __________   __________   __________    1996-1999
Rio Negro               391,865.3  383,550   386,949.7  377,392.7  -3 ,7
Salta                   467,3659   458,324.3 -4672,830.6    7,787__16
San Luis             ,2     9      197,060.8   190,119.6  210,770.1   3.7%
G.C.B.A.              1,651,547.0  1,723,283.9  1,656,577.5  1,773,834.4   7.4%
Formosa                 347,055.5  355,518.4   371,674.0  374,157.7   7.8%
Catamarca               266,694.9  275,998.5   273,247.5  288,622.1   8.2%
La Pampa                209,927.1   218,574.6   223,913.7   229,874.8   9.5%
Chubut                  283,924.0   290,411.2   306,942.0   311,120.8   9.6%
La Rioja                288,136.1   287,490.9   295,882.2   316,330.3   9.8%
Tucumn _507,8Z5.0    3 8,785.0   522,370.0 -                5737      9.9%
Santiago del Estero     3617 ~46   372,161.0   389,984.8   4 3.
Jujuy                   330,783.6   327,063.8   368,708.9   367,393.2   11.1%
Mendoza                 638,084.0  645,900.0   672,985.9   721,261.1   13.0%
Santa Cruz              265,534.4   281,665.9   290,760.8   307,157.6   15.7%
Entre Rios              551,511.6   568,595.7   597,095.8   641,568.3   16.3%
Chaco                   505,987.0   526,144.0   557,466.4   593,271.7   17.3%
C6rdoba               1,052,753.7  1,180,495.2  1,213,418.0  1,239,332.6   17.7%
Santa Fe              1,185,451.1  1,213,386.1  1,291,094.5  1,409,732.2  18.9%
Misiones                360,666.1   405,300.0   415,800.0   447,383.3   24.0%
San Juan                317,479.8  347f1257   386,195.0  400,344,7
Tierra del Fuego        171,090.8   189,423.0   211,024.0   217,022.6   26C8%
Neuquen                 418,022.8   430,313.5   481,871.2  542,518.3  29.8%
Corrientes              364,833.0   439,106.4   475,024.6   481,445.0   32.0%
Buenos Aires          3,610,484.0 3,991,144.3  4,793,804.3  5,333,295.8   47.7%
Aggregate                                                            22.1%
14,752,157.4 15,646,808.1 16,835,740.8 18,018,224.4
Median                                                               12.1%
363,338.8   394,428.0   402,892.4   424,561.4
Mean                                                                 15.5%
614,673.2   651,950.3   701,489.2   750,759.4
PRL-2-Provinces            ,          ,
Sub-Total                                                7.5%
1,684,536.0  1,727,771.0  1,758,345.3  1,810,393.1
Median                                                 5.7%
429,615.6   420,940.2  424,890.2  437,531.7
Mean                                                  8.5%
421,134.0   431,942.8   439,586.3   452,598.3
NON-PRL2-Provinces
Sub-Total                                                24.0%
13,067,621.3 13,919,037.1 15,077,395.5 16,207,831.3
Median                                                 14.4%
361,255.4   388,730.5   402,892.4   424,561.4
Mean                                                 16.9%
Mean 1  653,381.1   695,951.9   753,869.8   810,391.6   _ -
Source: National Office of Coordination with the Provinces; Undersecretariat of Economic
Relations with the Provinces.
37



Table 12
Evolution of Current Account Balance by Province, 1994-99
(USS'000)
Jurisdiction           1994       1995        1996       1997        1998       1999
TOTAL      957,238    -157,484    308,771   1,610,061   422,740  -1,800,328
G.C.B.A.            312,996     225,888     -62,722     83,271    493,538     220,446
Buenos Aires        784,238     781,486     -18,009    574,227    -356,105  -1,298,018
Catamarca            -84,496    -42,640     -9,108      11,058     22,388      15,513
C6rdoba             -99,769     -58,214    222,081     236,811    168,722      82,768
Corrientes           -10,751    -19,961     52,508      26,708     -19,044    -67,851
Chaco                15,156     -66,331     16,601      32,489     -5,508     -87,303
Chubut               -23,216    -29,377     -1,749      19,243     -55,277    -47,454
Entre Rios           12,495     -42,386     64,810     130,021    101,324      24,870
Formosa             -21,958     -42,262     -3,129      17,702     17,549     -43,651
Jujuy                -50,551    -115,025    -32,276    -57,193    -111,916    -108,380
La Pampa             32,924      25,532     30,932      54,492     43,251      23,141
La Rioja           -135,347    -207,596    -171,687    -117,509    -145,407    -197,263
Mendoza             189,415     -85,733    -80,511     -39,765    -36,180     -48,861
Misiones              3,674     -14,210    -63,567      -4,985    -18,414     -89,508
Neuquen              35,423     -49,458     99,027     144,410    -19,698    -107,924
Rio Negro           -61,713    -166,650    -117,693    -72,982    -54,701     -55,121
Salta                 7,478     -31,059     37,149      50,489     16,524     -24,045
San Juan            -187,602    -157,237    36,873      45,470     30,200     -23,303
San Luis             80,473     112,248    152,666     185,213    209,456     161,846
Santa Cruz           35,041      -3,928     89,118      18,422    -67,643     -87,966
Santa Fe            192,965     -35,581     89,093     226,926    142,390     -64,349
Santiago del Estero  -33,924     35,635     76,553     127,044     84,825      76,460
Tucuman               5,510     -85,097     -62,587    -25,067     67,558       7,791
Tierra del Fuego    -41,225     -85,528     -35,603    -56,436     -85,092    -62,167
38



Table 13
Change in Stock of Debt by Province, 1996-98
(US$'000)
Province         To December   To December         To June         Growth         % Growth
1996           1998            1999            96-99           96-99
ALL PROVINCES               17,255,725      18,780,014      19,936,462    2,680,740.53         15.5%
Santiago del Estero          389,613          333,014         278,678     (110,935.20)         -28.5%
G.C.B.A. (includes debt to  2,554,100        2,435,400      2,323,400     (230,700.00)         -9.0%
cornpensate (1)
La Rioja                     506,033          462,890         471,565      (34,467.72)         -6.8%
SJ   s 424,893  -   405,093     399,602       (25,291.00)         -6.0%
La Pampa                      83,810           81,76 8   .    78,972        (4,838.49) .-5.8%
Salta                        667,695          517,882         546,138      (21,559.32)         -a8%
Mendoza                     1,069,352        1,013,905       1,058,424     (10,928.43)         -1.0%
Entre Rios                   608,083          600,921         637,518      .29,434.53           4.8%
C6rdoba                     1,155,347        1,205,692      1,221,742       66,395.31           5.7%
Buenos Aires                3,275,412        3,142,100      3,544,400      268,988.00)          8.2%
TucumAn               -      931-,255         982,041        1,033,436     102,180.92          11.0%
f ormosa                     723,769          768,222         812,548       88,779.03          12.3%
Chubut                       344,445          474,552         412,487       68,042.47          19.8%
Jujuy                        594,605          676,222         717,751       123,146.12         20.7%
Rio Negom                    738,83                            4,6         207,778.14          2.&1%
Catamarca                    323,322          402,359         434,980      111,658.24          34.5%
Misiones                     538,973          720,513         782,161      243,187.91          45.1%
Corrientes                   717,836          948,491       1,044,478      326,642.05          45.5%
San Luis                      59,981           88,449          88,355       28,373.52          47.3%
Tierra del Fuego             133,119          161,296         225,934       92,814.68          69.7%
Chaco                        667,125         1,020,112      1,187,535      520,409.79          78.0%
Neuquen                      268,736          400,914         508,446      239,709.68          89.2%
Santa Fe                     496,632          931,542        1,004,754     508,121.95         102.3%
Santa Cruz                    82,750          137,046         176,548       93,798.36         113.4%
Stock of Debt    17,255,721  18,780,014       19,936,462         2,680,741           15.5
Median        553,334     638,572          677,634            90,797            16.0%
Mean         718,988    782, 501          830,686           111,698           28.1%
PRL2-Provinces
Stock of Debt     2,662,678    2,774,604       2,925,787         263,109              9.9%
Median        653,265     693,735          746,374          40,311               3.6%
Mean         665,670    693,651           731,447          65,777              7.35;
NON-PRL2-Provinces
Stock of Debt    14,593,043  16,005,410       17,010,675         2,417,632           16.6%
Median        522,503     638,572          677,634            90,797            20.2%
Mean         729,652     800,270          850,534          120,882            32.3%
Note: (1) Includes 1.458,5 millions of debts to be compensated by the National Government.
Source: National Office of Coordination with the Provinces; Undersecretariat of Economic Relations with the Provinces.
39



Table 14
Change in the Fiscal Performance Indicators, 1995-98
Fiscal Performance Indicators                  1995      1996      1997      1998      1999
Own-Source Revenues / Current Revenues'        14.5%     15.9%     17.3%     17.0%     18.6%
Personnel / Current Revenues                  73.4%     64.5%     60.6%     58.8%     60.2%
Current Account Balance / Current Revenues    -4.5%      5.1%      6.7%      2.1%      -3.0%
Stock of Debt (US$ Million)                     500       568       495        518       546
Stock of Debt / Current Revenues              72.7%     78.4%     65.5%     65.8%     69.3%
' Excluding Discretionary Transfers.
Source: Ministry of Economy and Public Works, 1999.
40



Table 15
Education: Monitoring Indicators
Monitoring Indicators                                |   1996        1999
I. Improved Administration of Human Resources
Percentage of Personnel Costs in total budget in Education  92.54%  84.99%
Percentage of absenteeism in the central administration  17.42%     5.28%
Percentages of substitutes                              14.77%      6.05%
I. Increased Educational Efficiency
Percentage of sections with a student / teacher ratio = 19:1  0%    97.41%
Percentage of investment in EGB IlIl and "polimodal" in total    30.14%  28.12%
educational budget                                      30.14_    28_12_
Number of students in EGB IlIl and 'polimodal"          69,729      152,464
Ill. Decentralization of Educational Institutions
Number of schools in the secondary level included in the    l         12
pilot                                                     01
Per capita cost in secondary schools (annual cost)       $828        $732
IV. Private Sector Development
Percentage of schools that abide by the norm              Na        49.67%
Percentage of additional enrollment in schools under the   
new system                                           __________Na   6.39%
V. Restructuring of Teacher Training Institutes
|Number of institutes closed                                     f     5
Percentage of budget reduction due to closure of the higher         2.5%
leducation institutes_
Source: PRL-2 Executive Unit; Salta
41



Table 16
Health: Monitoring and Impact Indicators
Monitoring and Impact Indicators                        1996        1999
1. Monitoring Indicators
1. Self-Managed Hospitals
Relative share of self-managed hospitals in terms of:
.  Consultations                                    6.66%       7.27%
*  Total expenditures                               13.35%      13.82%
2. Payment Mechanism
Relative share of payments by the new system (contracts) in  n.a.  1.04%'
total expenditures
3. Human Resources
Percentage of Personnel expenditures in total expenditures  82.36%  72.67%
II. Impact Indicators
1. Targeting of subsidies
Percentage of the population without coverage cover by the  4       47.6%
Health Secretary             _4                                 l
2. Service Quality
Average waiting time between recommendation and actual  6.9 days    4.5 days
surgery in self-managed hospitals
Rate of inter-hospital mortality rate in self-managed hospitals
*  San Bernardo                                      7.3%       6.77%
.  Dr. A. Oflativia                                  1.5%       1.93%
3. Efficiency in Health
Percentage of bed occupation                            58.8%      63.87%
Average days of hospital stay                          6.1 days    5.16 days
Percentage of Personnel with respect to total expenditures  82.36%  72.67%
Expenditures / Personnel                                10.79       12.81
Office visits / personnel                               286.93     373.43
Period August-December 1999.
Source: PRL-2 Executive Unit; Salta
42



Annex A:
Letter of Provincial Reform
Annex A:
Letter of Provincial Reform
Province of Salta
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM
Translation
June 10, 1997
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn
1.    This letter describes the main objectives of the reform program of the Province of Salta
as well as the actions to be taken in the areas of public finance, education and public health. To
implement this reform, the Provincial government requests the financial and technical assistance
of'the World Bank. Below is the description of the main components of the program.
Background
2.    Salta is a relatively poor province in the Northern Argentina. Its permit income was
about $3,800 in 1995, ranking 15th in Argentina and less than half the Argentina's average. It
accounts for 1.3 percent of Argentina's GDP and 2.8 percent of the country's population.
3.    In the first part of this decade, the fiscal situation of the province deteriorated rapidly.
Weak public administration led a to rapid growth in current expenditures and serious fiscal
imbalances, marked by excessive public employment and too much borrowing. In 1995, the
provincial deficit reached 4% of current revenues, the wage bill absorbed 88% of the provincial
net revenues and the debt stockirevenue ratio was above 75%.
4.    Due to lack of resources, capital expenditures were financed by the earmarked transfers
from the central government and by commercial debt guaranteed with shared revenues. Payment
arrears represented 35% of total debt at end-1995.
5.    On the social sectors, the province faced serious problems. Poverty levels were quite
high -34% of the residents had unsatisfied basic needs (NBI), and performance in both health and
education was low despite the high share that these sectors had in the budget. Rural infrastructure
and water supply are still major bottlenecks to address the poor conditions in the rural areas.
Recent Developments and Initial Adjustment
6.    Salta's economic development has not been sufficient to improve the conditions of the
population and reduce the level of poverty. The province is strategically positioned to take
advantage of the substantial gas and mineral deposits but it needs an efficient provincial economy
in order to compete under an open trade framework. The provincial government is committed to
create the favorable conditions of development within the budget limits, favor private initiative
and social justice. My support of a favorable Legislature has been key for the speed of
implementing the proposed reform.
43



Annex A:
Letter of Provincial Reform
7. In 1996, the Provincial Government took the first steps aimed at restoring fiscal balance and
reducing the size of the government. These measures included:
* Wide privatization program of public enterprises, including the provincial bank and the
electricity utility; elimination of the "Consejo General de Educaci6n", closure of the water
department, advanced in the privatization of the water utility (Obras Sanitarias), and
outsourcing of several activities (e.g., Department of Architecture, Water and Irrigation).
* Reconversion of the public sector payroll with cuts in average wages, early retirement for a
substantial number of pubic sector workers; and elimination of wage "premiums".
Transference of the Provincial Pension Fund to the National government Creation of a
Regulatory Board to oversee the concessions of public services to the private sector.
* Reduction of municipal transfers by 3%.
* Enactment of Law 6838 which rationalizes the procurement system of the province.
8.     As a result, the fiscal situation has improved significantly. In 1996, the province reached
a current surplus of about I percent of the current revenues. The province paid its arrears and
renegotiated the outstanding debt. In the social sectors, important steps were taken to improve
the efficiency and equity of service delivery. Infant mortality has fallen from 28.7 per thousand
in 1995 to 25.9 per thousand in 1996 and the rate of malnutrition declined by 13% in the
population below two years of age. Health consultations increased from 1.7 million in 1995 to
2.43 million in 1996.
The Reform Program of the Province of Salta
9.     The strategy of the Provincial Government is to reduce the role of the public sector in the regional
economy, promote participation of the private sector, and restructuring the provincial government to ensure
an efficient and responsive delivery of public services. For the period 1997-99, the reform program
includes five components.
10. On the public finance front, the program includes
* improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on own-source
revenues;
* civil service reform and reduction in personnel expenditure, with structural reforms of
selected sectors; and
* rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government while ensuring no
cuts in the budgetfor the social sectors.
11.   In the social sectors, the objective is to improve efficiency and focus on demand and
poverty reduction aspects, while promoting major involvement of the private sector.
* Education reform will ensure the extension of mandatory education and implementation of the,
"polimodal" as well as guarantee access to the poor within current budget constraints. Priority
actions include: (a) increasing the, student/teacher ratio and the participation of staff teaching
actively in total staff, (b) reduce the disproportionate use of temporary substitute education
personnel; (c) improve the incentives for quality achievement; (d) increase participation of the
private sector; and (e) reduce administrative costs.
* Health reforms will improve efficiency and equity in the health sector, notably by separating the
provision and the financing of public h@ services, increasing cost recovery, consolidating
44



Annex A:
Letter of Provincial Reform
hospital facilities, reducing excessive staff and reallocating resources to non-personnel
expenditures, improving targeting to the poor and increasing health insurance coverage (within
the current health budget constraints).
Public Finance
12.   The provincial government is committed to obtain a sustained fiscal balance by the end of
1998 and to abide by strict creditworthiness rules. In particular, it intends to (a) obtain a current
surplus every year; (b) reduce the, personnel expenditures to 65% of net current revenues; (c)
assure fiscal surpluses large enough to reduce the debt stock to a sustainable level (less than 70%
of the recurrent revenues) while keeping investment levels an adequate levels: (d) maintain the
debt service at an adequate level even if this will be possible only after the debt stock is
completely refinanced and restructured.
13.   The fiscal objectives and benchmarks are shown in Table DI (in Annex to this Letter).
We estimate that is possible to increase the current revenues and cut the expenditures in personnel
in a stable manner. The instruments to be used to this end are the following:
(a) Improved Tax collection and Administration
14.   The provincial government is committed to improve its tax collection and administration.
Ihe revenue increases that will be obtained will partly offset the impact of reducing the tax rate
on the turnover tax and of progressively eliminating two distortive taxes -- the stamp tax and the
payroll tax. The final outcome will be an evident improvement in the structure of the provincial
tax system in terms of economic efficiency and of equity.
15.   In this context, Salta's tax revenues would increase from Arg. $101.9 million in 1996 (net
of the effect of the tax amnesty) to $106 million in 1997, despite the lowering of the tax rate on
Ingresos Brutos from 3.5% to 3%. In 199!), tax revenues would reach $142 million. This takes
already into account the lowering of the rate of the Tax on Ingresos Brutos from 3% to 2.5% as
wvell as the reduction in the stamp tax base, and other smaller taxes.
1 6. The province will also try to collect delinquent taxes, whose stock totals 65 million pesos.
17. The main measures include:
*  Improved identification of taxpayers, including a census of urban property and
verification of economic use; and collaboration with the National Direcci6n General de
Impuestos to update information and share tax payer registers.
*  Reform of the Tax Department with focus on monitoring and auditing.
*  Outsourcing tax collection (processing and collection).
*  Tax simplification and revision of the Fiscal Code.
*  Coordination of tax Policies with the municipalities to improve collection of the urban
property tax and improve the design and the structure of municipal taxes.
* Completion of the project of modernization of the system of cadaster.
b) Personnel Expenditures and Civil Service Reform.
18.   Personnel expenditures in Salta represented 86% of net revenues in 1995. To help the
province's fiscal recovery, the government has implemented several measures, which have led to
45



Annex A:
Letter of Provincial Reform
a reduction of 8.5% of the wage bill in 1996. During 1997-1999, the government program
envisages measures to promote the transference of public sector staff to the private sector by
means of a privatization program, early retirement, outsourcing of peripheral services and
Attrition In this way we believe it will be possible to eliminate the social cost of the restructuring
while achieving the objectives of the government.
19.    Training services will be made available to the workers who stay in the public
administration as well as those entering the private sector. To take advantage of the knowledge
and experience in the private sector, the training will include inter-alia the offer of "vouchers" for
beneficiaries to use them in line with the market signs and their personnel preferences. The direct
costs of the program are estimated at about $5.3 million.
(e) Rationalizing Public Expenditure
20.    The government will continue the policy of granting no subsidies to public, enterprises
(now mostly   privatized) and will ensure that public spending will be oriented to priority
sectors having in strict criteria of economic and social justification.
21.    Capital expenditures will increase from $92 million (12% of total expenditures) in 1996
to $183 million in 1998 and $179 million in 1999. Part will be financed by the provincial public
savings. The remaining is financed by earmarked transfers from the center. The planned level of
investment expenditures would be reduced to the extent that the anticipated financing sources do
not materialize.
22.    The stock of debt will decline from $541 million in 1996 to $471 million in 1999. New
borrowing will be exclusively allowed to refinance old debt, finance amortization, or finance well
justified projects.
23.    The Two-year Public Expenditure Plan mirrors the priorities of the government, e.g.
social sectors, poverty alleviation, including education, health, potable water and environment.
All investment projects will have adequate justification, with the ERR at least at 10%.
24.    To ensure the continuity of the process of transparency and budgetary accountability, the
government will propose and pass in the Legislature a Financial Discipline Law based on four
principles: (i) balanced annual budgets with current surplus - no borrowing will be permitted to
finance current expenditures; (n) annual external auditing by independent auditors; (m) credit
ratings by external enterprises; (iv) limits in the debt stock below 65% of recurrent revenues; (v)
cuts in personal costs below 65% of net current revenues; (vi) public works will be procured in
line with the new law of procurement of the province.
3.2 Education
25.    Education in the Province of Salta faces multiple challenges.  On the one hand, a
significant increase in educational demand is expected due to demographic growth and extension
in compulsory education from 6 to 10 years. On the other is the need to improve the efficiency
and the education quality all within the budget constraints.
26.  Salta's Ministry of Education has began implementing several actions, namely
* freeze of automatic increases by time;
reorganization of the "planta funcional" for primary education;
46



Annex A:
Letter of Provincial Reform
*  interruption of enrollment in the teacher training institutes;
  preparation of a new system of annual and sick leave
* first draft of a new Estatuto del Educador.
27.   In the next few years, the government will deepen and expand the generation of savings
and investment. The reform of the provincial government unfolds into five programs. They are
expected to generate savings (hence capacity of investment) in the order of $20 million, while
lowering the share of personnel costs to 85% of the educational budget. The five programs aim at
(i) improving the administration of the human resources; (ii) improving the efficiency of the
sector; (iii) promote decent on of the sector; (iv) extending incentives to the private sector and (v)
restructuring the teacher training institutes.
* To improve the human resource administration, the government will implement an
administration system of to help manage education infrastructure and human resource;
reform the leave system; implement a new teacher system (Estatuto Docente) and a new
wage scale (based on performance rather than on years of services). The government
expects to save about: $4 million in the management of central administration and $7
million in the reduction of leave and control of absenteeism.
* To improve the efficiency of the system the government will promote a better utilization of
the primary schools.; and secondary education schools, although substantial investment may
be needed to adapt these schools to larger classes. It is expected that the student: teacher
ratio will fall to 19: 1. Savings are estimated at $ 10 million.
*  To improve the do.-centralization of education, the province will implement: a management
model al: school level; a pilot compensatory program for schools in risk zones; another pilot
program to support to quality teaching. The government intends to start with two small
prograns of $3 million each
* To promote the development of the private sector, the government will change the present
system of subsidies based on teachers to a system based on students, providing in this way a
better criteria to assign the $13 million now spent in subsidies to the private schools. The
new system will be based on the cost per student. We believe that a system more equitable
will a)low the development of new capacities and improve the education quality. A
diagnosis of the situation of the private schools will be prepared in line with the
development of a formula to apply.
*  To reconvert the Teacher Training Institutes the government will (i) prepare a strategy to
train teachers and (ii) reduce the training capacity representing savings of about $4.5
million.
28.   Monitoring system. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services
tendered to the community, the government of Salta will use a system. of indicators (Table D5 in
Annex) to monitor the way the reform progress and its impact on the education quality and school
coverage.
3.3 Health
29.    The provincial government t is aware of the challenges it faces to improve the health
status of Salta's population. On the one hand, infant mortality rate (IMR) is higher dm the
national average. On the other hand, its maternal mortality rate is almost twice the national mean.
Nutrition and diarrhea remain among the principal causes of deaths of children 14 years old.
47



Annex A:
Letter of Provincial Reform
30.   Several problems require short and long term solutions: (i) thepublic hospital system is
inefficient - presently the average occupancy rate is low (571/.) and so is personnel productivity;
(ii) over 90% of the Ministry of Health (MOH) budget is allocated to pay for salaries, leaving
little for complementary inputs for good quality care; (iii) hospital authorities have no authority
over the size and salary of personnel (the legislature and existing laws determine these
parameters) and thus do not feel responsible for results and have little motivation to use resources
efficiently.
31.   In addition, subsidies to public hospitals are not targeted to the poor. There is no timely
information system for checking health insurance membership. More importantly, public
hospitals do not have any incentive to recover costs (these represent less dm 0.5% of the total
spending) and make sure that the poor get good quality service.
32.    The Obra Social provincial is to modernize its operations. It needs a computerized
information system that would allow on-line control and authorization of billing charges for
health services and keep track of its membership. In addition, the Obra Social Provincial will
change its payment system from fee-for-service to capitation to reduce cost, while at the same
time establishing an effective regulatory framework to protect its members.
33.    Provincial current per capita spending on the public hospital system -- intended to
provide the poor access to medical care - is more dm twice the average per capita contributions
that other Obras Sociales in the province, receive. This suggests that it will be feasible to provide
health insurance coverage to the poor, as well as the choice between public and private providers,
using the same or less amount of money now being spent on public hospitals.
34.  Demands for good primary health services in some areas are not being met due to lack of
personnel and the organization of doctors' work.
35. There is need to improve the budgetary practice to allow greater transparency regarding the
distribution of public spending on health, particularly in regard the share of primary care.
36.    Reform Program. The main objective of the Govemment's program for the health
sector is to increase the efficiency and efficacy of the provincial health system, contributing to the
objectives of fiscal adjustment and improving the access of the poor to quality services. This
program demands, as key factors, the following: (i) maintain the sector budget in real terms at
least to the level of 1996, and (ii) transfer to the hospitals the authority to change the resource
allocation between human resources and goods and services, within the budgetary envelope
allocated to the sector.
37. The reform proposal includes:
I.     restructuring of the public sector through i) transformation of public hospitals into
public autonomous hospitals; ii) reorganization of the Ministry of Health (with a change
in the role of this); iii) outsourcing of general services and iv) privatization of the
commercial insurance of the Provincial Insurance Institute.
II.    targeting of public subsidies to the poor through the extension of the OSP to those who
are not formally covered, maintaining the budgetary limits,
III.    change in the model of pubic health with the introduction of a new incentive system to
improve the efficiency and transparency of the transactions in the sector.
48



Annex A:
Letter of Provincial Reform
38. To obtain these goals, the government will take measures in five areas:
a)     Establishment of Autonomous Hospitals - the province will create 10 hospitals, which
will be autonomous (6 de level III y 4 de level IV) by the end of 1998 and financed by the sale of
services to the public and private insurance. The Provincial Law 6841 (March 21, 1996) will be
used. The implementation calendar includes 3 hospitals of level IV (San Bernardo, Ofiativia y
Oran) in early 1998 and one hospital level W and 6 of level HI (Tartagal, Embarcaci6n, Cafayate,
Cachi, General Guemes, Rosario de la Frontera y Metan).
b)  Provincial Health Insurance. The province will create a provincial institution that will
guarantee ' the extension of a basic package of health insurance, with 100% coverage for the
poor. The province will use the Provincial Insurance Institute as the base for the Provincial
Medical Insurance. The initial medical program will be defined by end of 1997. The
measures are supported by this initiative in the provincial law 6841.
c)  Privatization of commercial insurance now handled by the Instituto Provincial del Seguro.
d)  New payment system for suppliers of services based on per-capita adjusted by case-mix.
e)  Restructuring of the Ministry of Public Health (MSP). Following the implementation of
the Provincial Health Insurance and autonomous hospitals, the Health Ministry will change
in its role from direct provider to regulator and provider of public goods.
39.    These measures will have the following impact: (a) transference of 2,800 workers of 10
hospitals from the Ministry of Public Health staff to HPA or private sector contracts; (b)
outsourcing of general services (725 persons):, (c) delinking 36 employees from the current
commercial insurance and reductions in the MSP. A set of indexes (Table D6) will be used to
monitor the way the reform progresses.
41).   Financial needs: The following support will be required in support of the above reform: $
1 0 million to rehabilitate the infrastructure and equipment of 3 hospitals of level IV. ($1 1 million
have been requested under Provinces I and 2.); $ 4 million to strengthen the provincial public
insurance in information technology, census, and identification of users and improvement of
physical conditions; and $ 250,000 to support the developments of private suppliers.
41.    The provincial government will receive from the Provincial Program (PRESSAL) the
technical assistance needed to implement the program of reform described for the Public health
System.
42.    Monitoring System: To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of ft services
rendered to the community, the government of Salta will use a system of indicators (Table D6 m
Annex) to monitor the way the reform program and its impact on the quality and coverage of the
public health system.
4. Impact of the Reform Program in Environment
43 . Given the nature of the rt.-form program its implementation should have no negative impact on the
environment. However, the province will undertake environmental audits for the hospitals included in
rara. 38, financed by the technical assistance of PRESSAL and before the transformation of the
Akutonomous Public Hospitals. The terms of reference, the proposed consultant, and his/her report will
need to be satisfactory to the Bank. The recommendations will be included in the contracts of transference
49



Annex A:
Letter of Provincial Reform
and the constitution of the Autonomous Public Hospitals. The government is fully committed with
environment protection and is obliged to review and revise the legal and institutional framework which
includes the government agency in charge of the environmental control - of the management of the hospital
and pathological waste. The government is committed to implement the improvements m the legal and
institutional framework which will be needed, in agreement with the normnal rules and standards, accepted
in the Republic Argentina, to ensure the adequate collection, transport, treatment and final deposit of the
pathological waste.
5. Justification for the request of World Bank Assistance
44.    Allow  me to underline three reasons which justify the importance our provincial
government gives to the support of the World Bank. First, I would like to mention the
importance of the financial support which will allow the financing of the adjustment costs and
priority outlays. Second, I would mention the technical and professional support receive form
your staff. Third, the fact that the Bank is supporting our program of reform gives us the
confidence on the quality of our own program and will help us to a the private investors of
Argentina and other countries.
6. Letter of Provincial Reform of Salta
45.    In line with the above, the provincial government agrees that the National Government
includes, in the Loan Agreement to be signed with the World Bank, one Annex with the, details
on the objectives considered in the Provincial Development Letter and referred to in the Policy
Matrix attached.
Sincerely,
Dr. Juan Carlos Romero
Governor
50



Annex B
Institutional Assessment
Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
1.    This report reviews the relevance of institutional factors in project implementation and
outcomes. It focuses on the capacity of the institutional arrangements to affect incentives governing
policymaking and service delivery, and the fit between these arrangements and the institutional
capabilities of the province. The evaluation also includes an assessment of the sustainability of the
reforms and their impact on the province s' institutional development. The evaluation draws from a
desk review of the loan's main documents, and fieldwork based on interviews with key officers and
stakeholder consultations during two two-day missions to the province of Salta.
Objectives and Reform Incentives
2.     The primary objective of the PRLII was to support the efforts of Salta to reform and
restructure its government so as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services,
particularly in health and education, within fiscally sound policies. The strategy was to enhance
governance by beginning to reorient the role of the state toward that of a partner in promoting
market-led growth and as a facilitator and regulator of social services. The reforms encompassed
public finance and administration, education and health and addressed issues related to public
fiscal management and provision and financing of social services. Table I summarizes by sector
the objectives and actions in restructuring, institutional strengthening, and institutional
arrangements (i.e., rules, norms, procedures) for policy-making and service delivery.
3.    An important objective was to provide incentives for policymakers and public agents. As
such, the Financial Discipline Law would act as a hard budget constraint governing the size and
use of budgetary resources. Likewise, budget reform sought to protect social sector budgets and
allow them to retain savings that could then be spent on investment. Further, institutional
arrangements for service provision, were aimed at enhancing the state's ability to efficiently meet
common content and performance standards for social service delivery. These arrangements
comprised a combination of voice, competition and hierarchy mechanisms. For example, in
education, the criteria for allocating transfers to private schools was to promote competition
among these schools for improving efficiency and the quality of education. Likewise, school
management decentralization aimed at enhancing schools' performance by promoting greater
participation from parents and the community. In health, the arrangements called for a separation
of supply and demand for services, with autonomous hospitals and health insurance for the poor,
in order to provide competition to increase efficiency and quality.
3.    Regarding policymaking, institutional arrangements had as ultimate goal to provide
incentives that govern the way decisions are made and policies implemented by public agents.
For example, the Financial Discipline Law would act as a hard budget constraint governing the
size and use of budgetary resources. Likewise, the legislative authorization to allocate reform
savings on non-personnel items aimed at governing the allocation of budgetary resources within
social sectors. Institutional arrangements for service provision, on the other hand, aimed at
enhancing the state's ability to efficiently meet common content and performance standards for
social service delivery. These arrangements comprised a combination of voice, competition and
hierarchy mechanisms. In education, the reform on the subsidy-allocation-criteria to private
schools involved competition among private schools for accessing to more subsidies, and thus, to
generate incentives for improving quality of education. Likewise, school management
51



Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
decentralization aimed at enhancing schools' performance by promoting a greater participation
from parents and the community. For the case of health, the establishment of a provincial health
insurance for the poor combined with the establishment of autonomous hospitals intended to
provide mechanisms for competition among hospitals and citizen participation at the medium
term. In so far as the poor could use their insurance to choose hospitals, in other words to vote
with their feet, incentives to improve the quality of services would be generated.
4.     Although these arrangements were mostly adequate to generate the incentives pursued,
additional mechanisms consonant with and supportive of the institutional arrangements might
have been considered, such as transparency and accountability mechanisms to help make these
new rules binding. By establishing costs and punishment to both bureaucrats and politicians for
violating these rules, these mechanisms could have enhanced their commitment to comply with
them. To illustrate this point, table II provides a group of examples of accountability and
transparency mechanisms that could have complemented the institutional arrangements proposed
by the project. These mechanisms would also have an important role in the sustainability of the
reforms as it is discussed below. Moreover, to enhance the sustainability of these reforms, the
project could have engaged a broader range of interlocutors into the design and implementation of
the institutional arrangements. This was the case with the process followed by the Ministry of
Education into the design and implementation of the new formula for subsidy-allocation to
private schools (see box). Further institutional arrangements could also have been integrated in
the monitoring phases of the project. The performance indicators designed by the project, for
example, did not include consumer surveys or other participatory mechanisms (e.g., professional
associations' surveillance) could have also been included into the project's performance
indicators.
Institutional Arrangements in the
Implementation of the New Subsidy Criterion for Private Schools
To design the new criterion for allocating subsidies to private schools, the Ministry of Education
created an ad-hoc commission conformed by all private schools associations, teachers, parents, and
public officials. Together, they agreed on the new allocation criteria that should be included in the
new financing formula -- efficiency, equity, quality and infrastructure - and on the indicators to
measure them. In addition, they established sub-commissions to resolve particular aspects of schools'
regulatory and legal environment to be modified for the implementation of the new financing
mechanisms. Relevant actors like teachers' union and academicians were invited to participate in
these sub-commissions in order to look for options that could reduce conflict of interests. Also, the
calendar of implementation of the new formula was discussed and agreed by all parts, including the
sequence of the reduction or increase of the new subsidy to schools. These mechanisms also
permitted to generate additional options to offset the cost of the reforms.  For example, the
implementation of the formula gave flexibility to schools to choose their own teacher body, which
was an important issue in religious schools. Also, the fact that the formula benefited those schools
with a high enrollment concentration of students at risk had an important effect on the acceptance of
the new subsidy.
The transparency and accountability of the new formula was extended to the mechanisms employed
in selecting new schools to benefit from public subsidies. The schools interested in receiving subsidy
should expose their reasons vis-a-vis their contribution to the children's education (e.g., quality of
inputs) in a public hearing opened to all citizens. Thus, the opportunities for allocating subsidies in an
arbitrary way have been eliminated.
52



Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
5.     To conclude, the PRL II was innovative in including institutional arrangements for
policymaking and service delivery reforms that were not considered in other adjustment sector
ref'orm or investment loans. In this way, the project contributed to generate incentives for
achieving higher levels of efficiency in service delivery and sound fiscal performance. However,
these instruments required to be complemented with accountability and transparency, and
participatory mechanisms to enhance the binding capacity of these arrangements, its feasibility
and sustainability. Nevertheless, the province was capable of compensating this flaw, by
designing its own accountability and transparency mechanisms, and establishing additional
institutional arrangements for the implementation and monitoring phase of the project.
Institutional Capability
6.     The implementation of new institutional arrangements required an active participation
and alignment of the institutions governing the state, politics and society. For example, the
establishment of the Financial Discipline Law required the approval of Congress, and thus, the
alignment of different political preferences and incentives. Likewise, the reform actions aimed at
introducing efficiency criteria in the use and allocation of resources required that the institutions
at the state level (e.g., public sector practices, routines, tradition and codes of behavior installed
within the public bureaucracy) supported the new administration mechanics. Also, the reforms
that dealt with the access and quality of social services were subject to scrutiny under the
society's paradigm on the role of the state and to be supported or opposed accordingly. In this
way, the provinces' institutional context became a key factor for a successful implementation of
the reforms. Thus, Salta's successful performance in implementing and achieving the reform's
actions and objectives, particularly in the sectors of public finance and education was supported
by the provincial institutional context of the province. In other words, the province presented
sulfficient institutional capability in terms of the rules and incentives and institutional capacity to
imaplement the reforms. Similarly, institutional factors as going to be discussed below, were the
miain cause for the partial achievement of the objectives pursued by the health sector reforms.
7.      Political institutions in Salta largely supported the necessary political ownership and
feasibility for implementing the reforms. The reform effort enjoyed support from both the party and
key economic groups, and was seen as an option to the economic chaos and governance crisis left by
thie previous administration period - a provincial aristocratic-based party. The governor capitalized
on the long-established status of his party in the political arena and his position within that party due
to his political background - he inherited his father's political achievements - and status in the party
- he is the party's president. Another factor that enhanced the political feasibility of the reforms was
the fact that the ruling party had majority in Congress. This facilitated the approval of the laws
required to implement the reforms. Finally, the political power of the governor allowed him
sufficient flexibility to appointment sector ministers based on their expertise and allegiance to the
reform program, and not to appease particular political interests. Thus, the political disagreements at
the bureaucratic level were minimized.
8.     When the reforms were launched, the government had already been immersed in
rnodernizing the public administration in order to generate the adequate state institutions for a
successful implementation of the reform. The governor capitalized on its political control to
introduce measures and techniques that enhanced the efficiency and accountability of the public
sector, particularly on the areas of public finance and education. Moreover, the Ministry of
Finance was given authority to set the rules in terms of spending and resource allocation. Also, a
Secretary of External Financing was created to establish a close coordination between the
Ministry of Finance and the sector ministries and other public agencies. Furthermore, the
pressure put on the ministries to show rapid results on reform implementation, provided clear
53



Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
signals toward the bureaucracy of the executive's commitment on the reform. Therefore, in
addition to enhance the institutional capacity of the sector, these measures supported the
necessary rule and policy credibility conditions for reform implementation.
9.     Nevertheless, the implementation of the reforms challenged in some cases the planning
and resolution capacity of the province. The reforms, given its systemic approach, required the
alignment of all components in the system, including for example the regulatory and legal
environment. However, they demand particular skills and additional institutional arrangements
reforms that were not always readily available in the province. For example, the interviews with
hospital directors revealed that they were not able to revert norms and agreements related to the
hospital administration and financing and that imposed serious drawbacks to a implementation
the model successfully. Also, they could not generated adequate institutional arrangements to
offset the pervasive incentives of remitting patients to the private sector due to the greater
profitability that medical staff has there. The restrictions imposed on equalizing staff's salaries
with those prevalent in the market, having higher control in human resource management and
implementing revenue-generation options such as renting hospital facilities, impacted negatively
on the capacity of the reform to accrue benefits. Likewise, the low resolution capacity of
complementary institutions to align with reform's objectives generated serious handicaps on their
achievement. For instance, the control of the insurance funds administration by medical staff,
generated incentives for its managers to prioritize the payments to private providers in detriment
of the public hospital. Also, previous agreements on the rate to be paid for PAMI (the health
insurance for the elderly) patients, which constitute an important proportion of the patients pool
of public hospitals, reduced the revenue flows to hospitals. Although, the PRL II coordinated
with other Bank's loans to provide the necessary technical assistance, the low control of the
province regarding its provision, generated problems related to the adequacy of its timing and
relevance.
10.    Social institutions, understood as the rules and capacities that shape the population
interaction, had also a role in the implementation of the reforms. Salta's civil society responded
positively to the new types of relationships brought by the reform such as those requiring higher
participation on governance issues. This situation did not only facilitate the implementation of
reforms but also enhanced their sustainability by guaranteeing the necessary legitimacy from the
population. Good cases of this are the school decentralization reform and the school private
subsidies reform.  The decentralization experience at the pilot level showed a complete
involvement of both parents and community in the definition of the education project since the
launching of the reform. Regarding the reform on the financing-criteria to private schools, the
capacity and attitudes of stakeholders to overcome particular interests in pro of counting on a
better instrument for allocation of resources, permitted to obtain a sound new subsidy formula. In
sum, the social capital of the province, in addition to the legitimacy given to the governor
administration were key in the implementation of the reforms.
Reform Sustainability and Impact on Institutional Development
11.    Sustainability: Sustainability is closely related to legitimacy of the reforms, which that
they are considered by both government and society actors as the best option and that there is
acceptance of the benefits and costs of the reforms. Thus, including main stakeholders and other
relevant actors during the design and implementation of reforms can be important in helping to
promote sustainability. As discussed above, Salta followed this pattern when implementing the
reforms.  Also, institutional strengthening actions and inflow  of additional resources for
upgrading the sector helped to build ownership among staff in sector ministries. In addition, the
government's decision to sequence the reforms as a strategy to achieve agreement among main
54



Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
stakeholders and opposition parties also had an important effect on reform's sustainability.
Before launching the reform on autonomous hospitals, for example, the Ministry of Health
iniformed the population and stakeholders about the objectives and contents of the reform. The
ministry also decided to wait for the correct timing, such as an after-election period, to establish
agreements with the opposition on reform implementation issues. Furthermore, public finance
and education were able to show benefits very soon after initiating the reforms, which had a
salubrious impact on the reform program as a whole.
12.    The presence of evaluation and accountability mechanisms also contributed to the
sustainability of the reforms. Each sector generated its own monitoring and evaluation indicators
to measure the progress of the reform and, in some cases, were made available to the population.
In the case of health, these indicators helped to show the efficiency and quality of the services
delivered and to help make staff accountable for their performance. The government is in the
piocess of implementing a survey of public services, which would enhance the accountability of
the sector to the citizens and generate an additional mechanism for participation. Finally, the fact
that most of these reforms have been established through laws had an increasing effect on the
costs of reverting them by the opposition or other stakeholder groups. The voice mechanisms that
are being created would also reinforce the costs to reverse the reforms.
13.   Impact: Whether the institutional changes introduced by the PRL II had an impact on the
province 's institutional development, depends on the consolidation of new rules of the game for
policy-making and service delivery. Thus, an individual study is required to evaluate those issues.
H;owever, the observations and information obtained strongly suggest that the PRL II reforms did
have an important impact on the province's policymaking and service delivery institutions.
According to the interviews, the institutional arrangements for pursuing fiscal discipline
coDnsolidated the level of policy credibility at the public sector level as this policy is now abided
by all sectors. Likewise, the new criterion on budget resource allocation has proved that
investment in goods and infrastructure is key for improving the quality of service-delivery.
Similarly, the new institutional arrangements implemented to enhance the efficiency in human
resource management in the education sector has established new rules and standards on the
rights and obligations in the administration of personnel. Given the benefits observed with the
introduction of the Competitive Fund of Subsidies to Private School, there is a consensus by
public officers and private providers that subsidies should be allocated in a transparent way and
that they should generate incentives for improving schools' performance. Although school
decentralization has been implemented at a pilot level, it has consolidated the availability of
optional school management models. Finally, in spite of the limitations discussed with the
implementation of the reforms on autonomous hospitals, they may have increased the
expectations on the capabilities of public hospitals to enhance its performance and attract more
resources to the sector.
Lessons Learned from the Institutional Evaluation
15. Institutional reforms can be facilitated by improvements in institutional capacity: The
previous efforts of the province of Salta in modernizing the public administration by improving
the stock of human and physical resources and management tools facilitated the implementation
55



Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
of the reforms. On the contrary, the low institutional capacity in Tucuman posed constraints in
terms of time and competence to carryout the reforms.
16. Institutional reforms benefit from a participatory approach: This was the case with the
implementation of the new subsidy formula to private schools in Salta and the reform on
autonomous hospitals in Tucumin. The participatory approach facilitated the resolution of the
constraints that appeared during implementation and provided options to resolve the potential
conflicts
17. Transparency and accountability. Institutional reforms aimed at introducing incentives for
improving the performance on policymaking and service delivery, can benefit from accountability
and transparency mechanisms to help make them binding: In Salta, sector ministers had to show
the Ministry of Finance that their fiscal management was aligned with fiscal goals, which helped
to avoid problems during implementation.
18. Institutional strengthening actions are key for a successful reform implementation: The
efforts made by the PRL II to provide technical assistance by capitalizing on other loans proved
to be crucial for reform implementation. Likewise, when this support could not be provided on a
timely manner, it had a negative impact on the pace of the implementation of the reforms.
19. Given the complexity of institutional reforms, the appointment of key staff with a vision on the
reforms along with political support had an important effect on the chances on implementing the
reform: Substantial progress on reform implementation was obtained when there was a champion
leading the reform, with vision and access to the governor. This was the case in the education
sector in Salta and in the health sector in Tucumin.
56



Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
Table I
Institutional Arrangements of the PRL-2
Sectors/Area   Reform           Reform                                Reform Actions
Components       Objectives                Institutional                Institutional
Strengthening/Modernization      Arrangements
and Restructuring
Public Finance and Administration
Policymaking   Tax              To promote higher  - Improved identification of  - Tax simplification and
Administration    reliance on own-    taxpayers, including a census of  revision of the Fiscal Code.
Reform           source revenues by  urban property.             - Outsourcing tax collection
improving tax     - Establishment of inter-agency  (processing and collection).
collection and    coordination mechanisms.      - Coordination of tax
administration.   - Completion of the project of   policies with municipalities
modernization of the system of  to improve collection of the
cadaster.                    urban property tax and
improve the design and
structure of municipal taxes.
- Reform of the Tax
Department with focus on
monitoring and auditing.
Personnel        To enhance the     - Strengthening financial    - Privatization.
Expenditures and  public sector's   management.                  - Outsourcing of peripheral
Civil Service    productivity and   - Providing training to staff .    services.
Reform           efficiency.        - Establishmnent of early
retirement program.
Rationalizing    To enhance                                      - Establishment of a
Public           allocative                                      Financial Discipline Law.
Expenditures     efficiency.                                     - Establishment of ERR of
at least of 10% as a criteria
of justification for
I ___________ I____  I__________________  I______________________________   investm ent  projects.
Education
Policymaking   Inprove Sector   Ensure the                                      - Agreement on budget
Budget           extension of                                    envelopes & introduction of
Management       mandatory                                       multi-year program.
education and                                   - Legislative authorization
implementation of                               so that savings in personnel
the "polimodal" as                              costs could be applied to
well as guarantee                               non-personnel items.
access to the poor
within budget
constraints.
Human resource   Enhance the level   - Implement a new personnel    - Issuance of decree
management       of efficiency and    administration system.     rationalizing the pay and
reform,          productivity in the                             benefits of teachers' leave.
use of human
resources.                                      - Implement a new Teacher
Statute.
- Outsourcing the control of
public teachers sick leave.
57



Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
Sectors/Area   Reform           Reform                                  Reform Actions
Components       Objectives                 Institutional                Institutional
StrengtheninglModernization        Arrangements
and Restructuring
Increase the     Promote a better                                 - Implementation of new
efficiency of the   utilization of the                            structures -plantas
system.          primary and                                      organicasfuncionales to
secondary schools.                               reduce the student/teacher
ratio.
Restructuring    Reduce the         - Prepare a strategy to train  Implementation of the
Teacher Training  inefficiencies    teachers.                     Nation's accreditation
Institutes       encountered in     - Reduce the training capacity.   system.
teacher training.
Service        Decentralization   - To improve      - Implement a pilot           - Implement a pilot
Delivery       of Secondary     quality of          compensatory program for     management model at the
Schools          education.         schools in risk and to support   school level.
teacher quality.
Development of   To introduce                                     - Establishment of a
the Private      incentives for                                   Competitive Fund that will
Sector           private schools to                               assign resources based on
increase                                         per-student formula.
enrollments.
Health
Policymaking   Sector Budget    To improve the                                   - Agreement on the sector
efficiency of the                                budget envelope &
health system and                                introduction of multi-year
target the benefits                              program.
to the poor within                               - Legislative authorization
the                                              so that savings in personnel
Constraints of                                   costs could be applied to
fiscal discipline.                               non-personnel items.
Restructuring of  To change its role   - Transference of workers from   - Outsourcing of general
the Ministry of   from direct       the Ministry of Health staff to   services.
Public Health.    provider to       HPA or private sector contracts.
regulator and
financer of public
goods.
Service        Autonomous       To improve                                       - Law defining the
Delivery       Hospita1s        allocative and                                    autonomous hospitals and
productive                                       calendar of implementation,
efficiency.                                      including inter alia: (a)
administrative and fmancial
decentralization; (b)
legislation that allow
flexible contracting of
human resources.
-New payment system based
on basic service-package
and capitation formula.
58



Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
Sectors/Area   Reform           Reform                                 Reform Actions
Components       Objectives                 Institutional               Institutional
Strengthening/Modernization        Arrangements
and Restructuring
Provincial       To improve the     - To establish and maintain a    - Establishment of a
Health Insurance  access of the poor   roster of beneficiaries to  Provincial Health Insurance
to quality services.  identify all potential    Institute to manage the
beneficiaries of the fund.   provincial health fund to
provide coverage to the
poor.
Privatization of                    - Implementation of system to    - Policy to introduce
commercial                          control beneflciaries.        competition among Obras
insurance.                                                        Sociales Provinciales.
- Plan to improve structure
OSP. Separation (via
privatization) of commercial
insurance and life insurance
components of IPS.
59



Annex B:
Institutional Assessment
Table II
Examples of Accountability and Transparency Mechanisms
for Policymaking and Service Delivery
Sector/Area     Reform Component  Institutional Arrangements         Accountability/Transparency
I                    I                           I            Mechanisms
Public Finance
Po.iymakig                          Financial Discipline Law    - Sector outcome contracts.
Policymaking                           Financial Discipline Law    - Publication of budget allocation results
on the press.
Education
Service Delivery   Decentralization of    Implementation of a pilot  - Establishment of performance
Secondary Schools    management model.          contracts among school main actors.
- Publication of school budgets and
school performance results.
Development of the    Establishment of a         - Publication of cost per student vis-A-vis
Private Sector       Competitive Fund            average school performance results.
- Establishment of public hearings to
expose reasons for requesting public
subsidies.
Health
Service Delivery   Autonomous          Flexibility in the contracting   - Clarity of purpose and tasks of hospital
Hospitals            and management of human    staff.
resources.                 - Establishment of performance
indicators including customer service
surveys to assess staff's performance.
60



Annex C
Creditworthiness
Annex C
Structural Reform And Fiscal Adjustment in Salta:
Their Impact on Creditworthiness
1.    One of the ultimate objectives of the Bank's reformn strategy towards the
provinces to improve their creditworthiness so provincial governments are eventually
able to meet their financial needs through private credit markets. Therefore, one of the
key questions in assessing the success of the PRL and PRL-2 focus on the impact of the
reforms on provincial creditworthiness. This annex explores this particular question by
assessing the impact of the reforms on fiscal performance, level of debt, debt servicing
capacity, etc., as well as other issues that affect creditworthiness in the medium and long
term, such as poverty, economic competitiveness, transparency, etc.
Part I:
Impact on Fiscal Performance and Provincial Creditworthiness
2.    Creditworthiness: Today Salta is considered creditworthy, even by international
banks such as Dexia. In fact, Dexia's credit committees in New York and Paris recently
approved a credit envelope of US$10 million for Salta. Although its debt is still high
and poorly structured, Salta's other financial ratios are generally favorable. Having
privatized its bank and public enterprises, and having transferred its pension fund to the
national government, Salta has few contingent liabilities.
3.    Salta's creditworthiness is the result of the strong program of structural reform
andc fiscal adjustment implemented by Governor Romero after he took office in 1995. As
a result of these reforms, the province has restored its fiscal balance. Standard & Poor's
has recognized Salta's achievement and praised the province's "strong conmmitment to
fiscal austerity".18 With the reform program well under way, Governor Romero has in
recent years focused his efforts in promoting the provincial economy and opening new
markets for its products. His remains politically popular, and was reelected in May 1999
for a second term, which is a favorable indicator of the sustainability of the reforms.
4.    Fiscal performance: The analysis of Salta's financial performance shows that the
reforms undertaken have had a very positive impact on the provincial accounts.
However, although Salta has done an excellent job on its structural reform and fiscal
adjustment, it is still saddled with a large, poorly structured debt in which the
coparticipaci6n guarantee has not been used effectively.19 Market conditions have not
allowed a more effective restructuring of the debt stock.
5.    Current expenditures: Salta's performance during 1996-98 has been at or above
the median for all provinces in terms of the changes in own-source revenues, and
18    Standard & Poor's, Rating Report: Provincial de Salta, March 2000.
19    Coparticipaci6n refers to the automatic transfers that the provinces receive from the national
government within the framework of the current revenue-sharing system.
61



Annex C
Creditworthiness
personnel expenditures. Specifically, the increase in own-source revenues between 1996
and 1998 was 16 percent, the same as the median for all provinces. This increase is
particularly impressive given the fact that Salta has decentralized both the vehicle and
property taxes to the municipalities and the province is taking additional steps to
gradually eliminate another two distortionary taxes -- the payroll and stamp taxes -- while
reducing the rate of the turnover tax. In terms of the change in personnel expenditures,
Salta's performance is highly impressive relative to other provinces, with an absolute
decrease of 1.8 percent between 1996 and 1998, compared to a median increase of 8.4
percent for all provinces as a whole.20
6.    This positive trend in fiscal performance is expected to continue in forthcoming
years, as the province continues to implement its reform program to increase provincial
revenues, as well as to increase the efficiency of expenditures while lowering overall
outlays.
7.    Financing of capital investments: According to Standard & Poor's, the province
invested over US$500 million in capital expenditures from 1995 to 1999. S&P also
reports that the total private investment in the province was over US$1,900 million
between 1996-1999. Capital expenditures were mostly financed with debt and, to a lesser
extent, with surpluses. Privatization proceeds (US$50 in 1996 and US$24 in 1997) and
federal transfers (grants of US$46 million in 1996, US$36 million in 1997 and US$28
million in 1998) were the two other important sources for financing capital expenditures.
8.    Stock of debt: Salta's stock of debt has risen moderately over the last 3 years.
The increase in debt is mostly the result of the ongoing implementation of reforms. The
evolution of the stock of debt has been as follows: US$486 million as of Dec. 31 1997;
US$500 million as of Dec. 31 1998; and US$596 million as of Dec. 31 1999. In 1998,
the province received a disbursement of US$45 million for the PRL-2. Note that without
this loan, the stock of debt would have decreased by US$29 million. In 1999, the stock
of debt increased by US$91 million and can be explained as follows: US$30 million were
from the second tranche of the PRL-2; US$40 million are due to the creation of anti-crisis
fund, and the remaining US$21 are related to various investments.
9.    Debt service: The province faces heavy debt service payments over the next five
years. This is because the outstanding debt carries high interest rates and because 56
percent of the total debt falls due before 2004. In order to reduce the impact of future
debt service, Salta is planning to refinance US$100 million of short-term debt with a 10-
year bond secured with 9 percent of coparticipaci6n. The S&P rating for the senior
tranche is AA- (local scale rating). The issue should take place in April 2000 and will be
placed together with Argentine pension fund. The tables below presents the debt service
before and after the expected refinancing and the net effect of the refinancing. The
province has also awarded to Santander/Lehman a mandate for an international bond
issue secured with oil royalties to refinance an additional US250 million worth of debt.
The timetable for the issue is not yet known.
20    Based on data on consolidated provincial finances fro the period 1996-98 from the Ministry of
Economy.
62



Annex C
Creditworthiness
Interest rates structure
Interest rates %       <7%  [7%c <1o% 10%< <12  >12%    Total
___I11                       2  27%  j  20%    42%
Maturity Profile
Repayment before      Dec-01   Dec-04  Dec-05  Dec-07  Dec-20
% of loans             9%      56%     56%     88%    100%
10.    Coparticipaci6n  revenues pledged:   The cash analysis of coparticipaci6n
pledged shows that there is a high level of over-collateralization of the outstanding debt.
Over-collateralization is the difference between the legal analysis of the coparticipacicn
pledged (i.e. what the different loan agreements stipulate) and the actual amount of
coparticipaci6n needed to cover the debt service. The province has a high level of its
coparticipaci6n legally pledged. Prior to the refinancing, the level of coparticipacion
legally pledged was around 96 percent for the year 2000. This amount decreases sharply
to 56 percent in 2004 as a series of loans come due. The projected refinancing will have
a positive impact on the level of coparticipaci6n pledged in the short term. After the
refinancing, the level of coparticipaci6n pledged should fall to 90 percent in 2000 but
would increase to 62 percent in 2004. This is because the province will substitute short-
term loans secured with high level of coparticipaci6n and loans secured with 100 percent
of coparticipaci6n with a long-term bond secured with 9 percent of coparticipaci6n. In
acddition, the refinancing will bring more transparency in the use of the coparticipaci6n as
a guarantee because the province will replace debt secured with 100 percent of
coparticipaci6n with a bond secured with a fixed percentage. In the year 2000, over-
collateralization is estimated at 16 percent before refinancing and 13 percent after
refinancing.
Projected Debt Service (US$ million)
2000     2001     2002  i 2003       2004
(a) Before refinancing            143       141      1231      10C       75'
(b) After refinancing1 137                  13       1         88        75
(b-a) Net effect of refinancing    12       3i        15       12       (16
* Assumption . debt is refinanced on July,1,2000; bond yield is 13%, the loans refinanced are the loans taken in
1999
63



Annex C
Creditworthiness
Part II:
Impact on Factors Affecting Creditworthiness
11.   Provincial creditworthiness in the medium- and long-term is affected by many
factors beyond fiscal performance. Some of these factors include the province's ability to
provide for the needs of the population, its ability to compete in world markets, its overall
credibility and transparency, etc.
12.   Poverty: In Salta, as in so many other provinces, the problem before the reforms
was not so much the lack of money, but the high inefficiency in resource allocation.
Salta made a concerted effort to improve the overall efficiency of its public sector with
emphasis on the health and education sectors that absorb about half of the provinces total
resources. These efficiency gains can produce significant improvements in service
delivery without significant increases in expenditures.
13.   Thus, these reforms and increased efficiency will enable Salta to take full
advantage of the re-distributive character of the coparticipaci6n system. Although
Salta's per capita product is low, its public sector's revenue per capita is high due to its
very favorable coparticipaci6n and other federal transfers received. For example, in
1998, the total current per capita revenues in the Municipality of Buenos Aires (MCBA;
US$1,041) were just 47 percent higher than those of Salta (US$708) even though
M.C.B.A.'s per capita Gross Provincial Product (GPP) is over four times higher than
Salta's. Salta's per capita current revenue in 1998 was slightly higher than that of the
province of Buenos Aires, even though Buenos Aires has a per capita GPP over 1.5 times
that of Salta. Thus, the reforms make it possible for Salta to better address problems of
poverty with existing resources.
Province       Total    As % of Salta's
Per Capita    Per Capita
Current      Current
Revenues     Revenues
MCBA          1,041          147%
Salta               708           100%
Buenos Aires        659            93%
14.   Economic competitiveness: Unfortunately, it is hard to establish the impact of
the reform program on economic competitiveness with the fragmentary data available,
except in the energy sector. During preparation of PRL-2, the International Finance
Corporation assessed private sector development in the provinces and identified potential
areas for direct IFC participation, notably in energy, mining sector, and agro-business.
But we only have data on energy. Governor Romero's policies of promoting industrial
activities in Salta have attracted major, private-sector investments in energy.
15.   In the energy sector, the achievements have been remarkable. The gas production
increased 5 times during the 1995-99 period to reach 15.5 million cubic meters in 1999.
The major projects include the completion of one gas-powered, electric generation plant
64



Annex C
Creditworthiness
that exports energy to Chile, and of two new gas pipelines, exporting gas to Chile. In
addition, Salta started exporting to the South of the country, substituting thereby the
former Bolivian gas export. In 1999, the growth in the oil and gas sector generated an
additional US$6.6 million (21.9 percent) in hydrocarbon royalties for the province. The
projections are encouraging. According to provincial estimates, oil and gas royalties
should reach US$81 million in 2004. Excluding potential new exports to Paraguay and
Brazil, gas production should more than double in the next five years.
16.   The agro sector is another example of the province aggressive policy of export
diversification to countries outside its usual markets via cooperation agreements.
17.   Transparency and governance: The government of Salta has pursued a highly
transparent and participatory approach in proposing and seeking approval of their reform
programs.  Most of their reforrns have been subjected to parliamentary scrutiny.
Governor Romero has adopted a strong interactive approach with the public through
television as well as public hearings for the discussion of specific reforms (e.g.,
privatizations and concessions). Salta had also contracted with the University of Salta to
carry out a series of studies on tax issues and discuss them with municipal and national
goverrrnent officials. In addition, the province had agreed to do all procurement in
accord with the more transparent and economic procedures of its recently revised
procurement law.
113.   The province could be more effective in disseminating information on the
provincial taxes, including the base, the rate (current rate and ceiling if any), and
estimates of the evasion rates. This information is very important for private investors in
sub-national papers, as it indicates the provincial government's potential for increasing its
revenues. It also indicates the strength and the level of diversification of the economic
base. In the case of Salta this is particularly important because the province shows a very
good resilience to the crisis (provincial tax revenues remain at their 1998 level) when for
mnost jurisdiction provincial tax revenues decrease by 8-10 percent.
19.   Budgetary process, accounting, reporting, and auditing procedures: Salta's
provincial reform programn has made its budgeting and accounting practices much more
transparent and reliable. In addition, by privatizing its bank and enterprises, and also
transferring its pension fund to the national system, Salta has eliminated its biggest
sources of contingent liabilities. In both 1999 and in 2000, the province approved its
budget before the onset of the fiscal year.
20.   To ensure the continuity of the process of transparency and budgetary
accountability, PRL-2 conditionality also required that the province pass in the
Legislature a Financial Discipline Law based on five principles: i) all annual provincial
public sector budgets be balanced; ii) debt not be used to finance provincial public sector
current expenditures; iii) provincial public sector revenue and expenditure records and
accounts be audited and made publicly available; iv) personnel salary and benefits
expenditures not to exceed 65 percent of net current revenues; v) and principal
outstanding of provincial debt not exceed 70 percent of current revenues. The province
has successfully met this last condition. The new provincial constitution, promulgated in
65



Annex C
Creditworthiness
April 1998, under Article 70, and regulated in May 1999 requires the provincial public
sector to meet all these conditions, which it has been done during 1999. The sanctioning
of this law provides an important element to help the province sustain its prudent fiscal
course. Clearly, this law represents a very significant improvement in transparency and
governance.
21.   Additional steps can be taken to improve Salta's overall credibility and
transparency, including: i) auditing by an independent private auditor; ii) financial data
and reports could be more widely disseminated, maybe posting it on the province's web
site; and iii) reports should explain clearly how to interpret the results, especially for the
stock of debt data.
22.
World Bank User
AASalta_lCR.doc
06/23/00 2:07 AM
66



