Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4219-AR
Loan Agreement
(Second Provincial Reform Loan -- Salta)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 21, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4219-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 1997, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank):
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated June 10, 1997 from the 
Argentine Republic’s Province of Salta (the Province) describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustment of the public finances and 
public education and public health sectors of the Province (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Province's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has indicated to the Bank that the actions and conditions 
set forth in the Program and in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, described therein as 
agreed between the Province and the Bank, are consistent with the Borrower’s national 
policy framework regarding provincial reforms, which policy (without mandating 
specific numerical targets) encourages provinces of the Borrower to, inter alia:  (i) 
achieve and maintain balanced provincial public sector budgets; (ii) decrease the 
ratio of provincial public sector personnel expenditures to provincial public sector 
net current revenues; (iii) maintain or decrease the ratio of provincial public sector 
debt stock to provincial public sector current revenues; (iv) not incur debt to 
finance provincial public sector current expenditures except under certain limited 
circumstances; (v) in general improve their provincial public sector fiscal, 
financial, accounting and budgetary discipline in a manner consistent with their 
constitutions; (vi) participate in the National Public Investment System (Sistema 
Nacional de Inversión Pública); and (vii) in a manner consistent with national 
policies, achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness with regard to provincial 
public expenditures, particularly in the health and education sectors, all in an 
effort to widen the scope and increase the quality of provincial participation in said 
sectors for the benefit of underprivileged segments of the population;
Page  2
(C)
the Borrower has expressed its commitment to lend to and for use by the 
Province funds in local currency in amounts equivalent to the Loan amounts disbursed 
by the Bank; and
  (D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Province by making the Loan 
to the Borrower in two tranches as hereinafter provided, thus allowing the Borrower to 
lend to the Province the funds in local currency referred to above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
" ‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.  Except as the Bank and the 
Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in such territories; or (b) for 
the 
purpose of any payment to person or entities, or for any import of 
goods, 
if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Payment Instructions" means the instructions, from the Borrower to the 
Borrower’s financial agent:  (i) which contain the terms of the model payment 
instructions contained in the Subloan Agreement (as hereinafter defined); and (ii) 
pursuant to which said financial agent is instructed to transfer to the Province funds 
in local currency in amounts equivalent to the amounts of the Loan disbursed by the 
Page  3
Bank;
(c)
"Second Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the 
Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Sections 2.02 (d) (i) and 2.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement have been met; and
(d)
"Subloan Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and the 
Province, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby the Borrower agrees to lend to the 
Province funds in local currency, in amounts equivalent to the amounts of the Loan 
disbursed by the Bank, and to disburse such funds in local currency to the Province 
according to the procedures set forth in model Payment Instructions which form part of 
such agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
seventy-five million Dollars ($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its 
central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Deposit Account.  The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be 
deposited in the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $45,000,000, unless:
(i)
at least six months have passed since the Effective Date; and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank:  (A) with the progress achieved by the 
Province in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with 
the objectives of the Program; and (C) that the provincial actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (all of which have been 
agreed to by the Province and are consistent with the Borrower’s 
policy framework regarding provincial reforms) have been taken in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after aid 
exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the 
Borrower that the applicable conditions referred to in this 
paragraph have not been fulfilled and, within 90 days after such 
notice, such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then the Bank 
may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Page  4
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party or of the Province, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
The Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause the 
Province to participate in such exchanges of views with the Borrower and the Bank.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every three months from 
the Effective Date to the Second Tranche Release Date, the Borrower shall, as allowed 
by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause the Province to furnish to the Bank for 
the Bank’s review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views, and, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan 
Agreement, cause the Province to exchange views, with the Bank on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
Page  5
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause the 
Province to assist in, and provide all information required for, the preparation of 
the report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, as said Section 
9.07 (c) is amended pursuant to Section 1.01 (e) of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after each 
disbursement of Loan proceeds, disburse to the Province funds in local currency 
equivalent to the respective amounts of each such disbursement.  Such disbursement to 
the Province shall take place according to the terms of the Subloan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
The Subloan Agreement has been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so 
as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, proper disbursement of local currency 
amounts to the Province as required by Section 3.03 of this Agreement, or so as to 
make the interest and principal repayment terms set forth in the Subloan Agreement 
significantly different, in the opinion of the Bank, from those set forth or referred 
to in Article II of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program;
(b)
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Province in the 
carrying out of the Program;
(c)
the Subloan Agreement has been entered into; and
(d)
the Payment Instructions have been issued by the Borrower to its 
financial agent.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinions 
(one from the Borrower and another from the Province) to be furnished to the Bank, 
namely that the Subloan Agreement entered into in satisfaction of the condition set 
forth in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and the Province and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Province in accordance with the terms of such Subloan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date of February 23, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes 
Page  6
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Page  7
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112              -
Alcoholic beverages
121              -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122              -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525              -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
          -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718           718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728.43           -
Tobacco processing
machinery
897           897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths'
wares (including 
set gems)
971              -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 2003
through November 15, 2012
     3,750,000
_______________________
 * 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 
(d) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Public Finances
1.
The Province has attained, for the period covered by any six continuous months 
among the nine months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, a 
provincial public sector current account surplus of at least $15 million equivalent.  
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
unless the text indicates otherwise, "provincial public sector" means all 
components of the provincial (non-municipal) public sector for which funding is 
allocated as part of the annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by the 
Province’s legislature; and
(b)
"current account surplus" means the amount by which provincial public 
sector current revenues (i.e., (i) revenues from taxes; (ii) non-tax revenues from the 
sale of goods and services and from property rentals; and (iii) revenues from federal 
revenue-sharing transfers (fondos de coparticipación; excluding those from Fondo 
Nacional de la Vivienda, from Fondo Especial de Desarrollo Eléctrico del Interior and 
for the financing of public works expenditures)) exceeds the amount of provincial 
public sector current expenditures (i.e., expenditures incurred for payment of 
personnel, expenditures incurred for the production of public sector goods and 
services, expenditures incurred for interest on public sector debts and transfers for 
which there is no consideration).
2.
The Province has attained, for the period covered by the first four of the five 
months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, a level of provincial 
Page  9
public sector personnel salary and benefits expenditures equal to no more than 65% of 
provincial public sector net current revenues.  For purposes of this Schedule, "net 
current revenues" has the same meaning as does "current revenues" in paragraph 1 (b) 
of this Schedule, except that "net current revenues" excludes revenues which are 
transferred by the Province to its municipalities.
3.
The Province has complied with its provincial public sector staff 
rationalization program set forth in the Province’s June 18, 1997 letter to the Bank.
4.
The principal outstanding of provincial public sector debt (as of no earlier 
than 30 days prior to the Second Tranche Release Date) is equal to or less than 70% of 
provincial public sector current revenues collected during the first twelve of the 
thirteen months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date (for purposes of 
this paragraph, "current revenues" has the same meaning as in paragraph 1 (b) of this 
Schedule).
5.
There must be in effect for the Province, and must have been complied with up to 
the Second Tranche Release Date, a financial discipline law requiring, inter alia, 
that:
(a)
all annual provincial public sector budgets be balanced;
(b)
debt not be used to finance provincial public sector current 
expenditures;
(c)
provincial public sector revenue and expenditure records and accounts be 
audited, promptly at the conclusion of each fiscal year, by external, independent and 
qualified auditors, and the reports of such auditors on said audits be made publicly 
available promptly after their issuance;
(d)
for each fiscal year, the level of provincial public sector personnel 
salary and benefits expenditures equal no more than 65% of provincial public sector 
net current revenues (as "net current revenues" is defined in paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule); and
(e)
principal outstanding of provincial public sector debt not exceed 70% of 
annual provincial public sector current revenues (for purposes of this subparagraph, 
"current revenues" has the same meaning as in paragraph 1 (b) of this Schedule).
6.
The Province has had its provincial public sector revenue and expenditure 
records and accounts, for the latest fiscal year to conclude prior to the Second 
Tranche Release Date, audited by external, independent and qualified auditors, and 
made the reports of such auditors on said audits publicly available (even if the law 
referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule began to apply only for fiscal years after 
said latest fiscal year).
Public Education Sector
7.
The Province has attained, for the period covered by any twelve continuous 
months among the fifteen months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, 
a level of provincial public education sector personnel salary and benefits 
expenditures equal to no more than 85% of provincial public education sector 
expenditures.  For purposes of this paragraph, "provincial public education sector 
expenditures" means those of the Province’s Ministry of Education, as well as those 
incurred for public school works and maintenance.
8.
The Province is implementing a formula for awarding provincial public subsidies 
to private schools in the Province.
9.
The Province has permanently closed ten teacher training institutes (Institutos 
de Formación Docente) administered by the Province and six technical institutes 
(Institutos de Tecnicatura) administered by the Province (without compensating for 
said closures by expanding other, or opening new, institutes).
10.
The Province has attained and thereafter maintained a student to teacher 
(including all teaching staff positions) ratio of no less than 19:1 for public primary 
school levels up to and including the ninth grade.
11.
There must have been and must be in effect for the Province, for each fiscal 
year beginning after the Effective Date (up to and including the fiscal year during 
which the Second Tranche Release Date falls), annual budgets for the provincial public 
education sector which:
Page  10
(a)
make available for use in the provincial public education sector an 
annual amount equivalent, in real terms, to at least the annual amount budgeted for 
said sector for fiscal year 1996 (or equivalent to at least $210 million, whichever is 
higher);
(b)
allow savings, of amounts originally budgeted by the legislature for 
provincial public education sector personnel salary and benefits expenditures, to be 
used to cover non-personnel costs in said sector; and
(c)
during the fiscal years covered by said budgets, maintain availability 
for use in the provincial public education sector of all funds budgeted for said 
sector, without permitting that such funds be transferred for use in other sectors, 
without permitting that such funds be shifted from investment cost line items to 
current expenditure line items and without in any other manner permitting that such 
funds be unavailable whenever the time comes to make actual payment for budgeted 
items.
Public Health Sector
12.
The Province has attained, for the period covered by any twelve continuous 
months among the fifteen months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, 
a level of provincial public health sector personnel salary and benefits expenditures 
equal to no more than 82% of provincial public health sector expenditures.  For 
purposes of this Schedule, "provincial public health sector" means the Province’s 
Ministry of Public Health and self-administered hospitals referred to in paragraph 14 
of this Schedule.
13.
There must have been and must be in effect, for each fiscal year beginning after 
the Effective Date (up to and including the fiscal year during which the Second 
Tranche Release date falls), annual budgets for the provincial public health sector 
which:
(a)
make available for use in the provincial public health sector an annual 
amount equivalent, in real terms, to at least the annual amount budgeted for said 
sector for fiscal year 1996 (or equivalent to at least $108 million, whichever is 
higher);
(b)
make available for use by the Province’s Obras Sociales an annual amount 
equivalent, in real terms, to at least the annual amount budgeted for said Obras 
Sociales for fiscal year 1996 (or equivalent to at least $30 million, whichever is 
higher); 
(c)
allow savings, of amounts originally budgeted by the legislature for 
provincial public health sector personnel salary expenditures, to be used to cover 
investment costs, bonus costs (see paragraph 14 (c) of this Schedule) and supply costs 
in said sector; and
(d)
during the fiscal years covered by said budgets, maintain availability 
for use in the provincial public health sector of all funds budgeted for said sector, 
without permitting that such funds be transferred for use in other sectors, without 
permitting that such funds be shifted from investment cost line items to current 
expenditure line items and without in any other manner permitting that such funds be 
unavailable whenever the time comes to make actual payment for budgeted items.
14.
The Province has permanently converted at least ten of its public sector 
hospitals into self-administered hospitals (hospitales públicos de autogestión) under 
the terms of provincial law no. 6841, as promulgated by executive decree no. 569/96 
(hereinafter provincial law no. 6841), so that such hospitals, inter alia:
(a)
collect revenue exclusively on the basis of per capita demand for their 
services, through new payment systems instituted in support of said 
self-administration, all as set forth in Articles 17 and 21 of provincial law no. 
6841;
(b)
retain the majority of their collected revenues for their own use without 
having to channel such revenues through the provincial public sector budget; and
(c)
apply to their employees the regime referred to in Article 24 of 
provincial law no. 6841, which regime may include the provision of merit-based 
performance bonuses.
Page  11
15.
The Province has established and is administering a provincial health insurance 
system to provide coverage for a basic health care package to all indigent residents 
of the Province who are unable to pay for health care through any other means.
16.
The Province has installed and is implementing an improved information system to 
keep records on accounts of beneficiaries of the Province’s Provincial Insurance 
Institute (Instituto Provincial del Seguro).
