Document of                       FILE  COP
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3322-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
June 10, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units          -       Kenya Shillings (KSh)
KSh 1.00                -       US$0.10 1/
US$1.00                 -       KSh 10.00
US$1.00                 -       SDR 1.1
MEASURES
Metric                   British/US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)            -       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km) -        0.39 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EAC   - East Africa Community
EEC   - European Economic Community
GUP   - Gross Domestic Product
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding
IDA   - International Development Association
IFC   - International Finance Corporation
IMF   - International Monetary Fund
KETA  - Kenya External Trade Agency
LDP   - Letter of Development Policy
NCPB  - National Cereals and Produce Board
NOC   - No Objection Certificate
QR    - Quantitative Restrictions
SAL   - Structural Adjustment Lending
SITC  - Standard International Trade Classification
UNDP  - United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government              -       July 1 to June 30
1/ Since September 1981, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR
at a rate of SDR = KSh 11.95. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has
fluctuated since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 10.00 h'as been
used in evaluating this Project.
..



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Summary of Proposed Loan/Credit
1.  Borrower                   - Government of Kenya
2.  Amount                     - Loan: US$60.9 million including capitalized
front end fee
Credit: SDR 62.9 million (US$70 million equiv.)
3.  Terms                      - Loan:  Repayable in 20 years, including 5
years grace, with interest at 11.6% per
annum.
Credit: Standard
4.  Loan and Credit            - The proposed loan and credit would support a
Description                program of action agreed upon with the
Government involving measures to rationalize
the trade regime, promote exports, stimulate
agricultural output, encourage conservation
and efficient production of energy and reduce
population growth. The program is described
in the Government's Letter of Development
Policy to the Bank and Association. Foreign
exchange would be used for essential imports.
Counterpart funds would be used for develop-
ment-related expenditures in the Central
Government-s budget.
5.  Estimated Disbursements  - The total amount to be made available under
the loan and credit would be disbursed in
two tranches. The first tranche of US$80
million would be available upon effective-
ness. A second tranche of US$50 million
would be released subject to a review of the
structural adjustment program which will be
held no later than March 31, 1983.
6.  Risks                      - The principal risk relates to the capacity
of the Government to implement the structural
adjustment program within the agreed
timeframe.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Page No.
Summary of Proposed Loan/Credit
I.      ECONOMIC GROWTH AND STRUCTURAL CHANGE IN KENYA                    1
The Growth Record                                                 1
Structural Factors Inhibiting Growth                             4
Inefficient Patterns of Industrial Growth                   4
Bias Against Exports                                        5
Diminishing Dynamism of Agriculture                         5
The Energy Problem                                          8
Rapid Population Growth                                     8
II.     THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                10
Government Strategy                                              10
Industrial Policy                                          10
Agricultural Policy                                        11
Energy Policy                                              11
Population Policy                                          12
Fiscal, Monetary and Balance of Payments Policies          12
First Structural Adjustment Credit                               13
Rationalization of Trade Policies                          13
Improved Forward Budgeting                                 15
Management of External Debt                                15
Interest Rates                                             16
Impact of the First Structural Adjustment Credit                 16
III.    THE PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION              18
Components of the Program                                        18
Rationalization of the System of Industrial Protection  18
Incentives to New Industries                               19
Government Investments in Parastatals and Public
Companies                                                20
Export Promotion                                           20
Agricultural Pricing and Marketing                         21
Management of Agricultural Programs and Projects           22
Land Policy                                                 24
Energy Policy                                               25
Population                                                 26
Resource Mobilization                                      26
Planning and Budgeting of Government Outlays               26



ii-
Page No.
External Borrowing                                         28
Project Implementation                                     28
The IMF Program                                            29
Impact of the Strategy on Evolution of the Economy              30
Growth of Output                                           31
Balance of Payments and Creditworthiness                   34
Development with and without Structural Adjustment         36
Summary of Structural Adjustment Actions                        37
Specifics of the Operation                                      42
Amount of the Loan and Credit                              42
Policy Action                                              42
Monitoring                                                 42
Disbursement and Procurement                               43
Counterpart Funds                                          44
The Technical Assistance Credit                            44
Risks                                                      44
IV.     BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA                                   45
International Finance Corporation (IFC)                         46
V.      LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY                                  46
VI.     RECOMMENDATION                                                   47
ANNEX I     Country Data                                                 48
ANNEX II    Status of Bank Operations iti Kenya                          54
ANNEX III   Supplementary Data Sheet                                     69
ANNEX IV    Letter of Development Policy                                 70



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$60.9 million, including
capitalized front end fee, and a Development Credit of SDR 62.9 million
(US$70 million equivalent), on standard terms, for a program of structural
adjustment. The interest on the Loan would be 11.6% per annum. The Loan
would be repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace.
PART I. ECONOMIC GROWTH AND STRUCTURAL CHANGE IN KENYA
2.      A reports entitled "Kenya--Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on
Agricultural Issues" (Report No. 3456-KE), dated June, 1981, has been dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya will
be distributed shortly.
The Growth Record
3.      Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of
organizational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a
significant amount of Government participation and guidance. Accession to
the Presidency of Daniel arap Moi, following the death of President Kenyatta
in 1978, has not resulted in any fundamental change in the basic development
model and strategy.
4.      Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew
rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum, respectively. The expansion of
agriculture was stimulated by redistribution of large estates to
smallholders, rapid diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder
output. Growth of manufacturing was made possible very largely by the
expansion of domestic demand due to rising agricultural incomes, while
investment for domestic production was being encouraged by high levels of
protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign investment, and active
Government promotion of and participation in manufacturing ventures. To a
lesser extent, manufacturing production was oriented to export to neighbor-
ing countries, particularly those in the protected East African Community.
Not only was growth of per capita income quite rapid but, as a result of



-2-
careful economic management, it was accompanied by strong fiscal perfor-
mance, low rates of inflation and manageable balance of payments current
account deficits.
5.      By the early 1970s, it was already clear that, despite Kenya-s rapid
growth after independence, the country had incipient structural problems
which would eventually inhibit its development. Import-substitution
industrialization behind high protective barriers was leaving the country
more dependent on imports, while resulting in a slow growth of exports.
Moreover, opportunities for efficient import substitution were diminishing.
In addition, the pace of agricultural growth appeared to be slowing down,
while population growth was accelerating. The Government's performance in
mobilizing resources also seemed to be slackening. Most easily implement-
able taxes had been instituted.
6.      The world oil price increases and increases in the prices of other
imports in 1974 were a severe shock to the Kenyan economy. Import prices
rose by 46%, while export prices increased by only about 12%. The loss in
income as a result of the unfavorable change in terms of trade was equiv-
alent to about 5% of domestic income. Kenya was able to absorb the initial
impact without severe disruption of the economy. The comfortable foreign
exchange reserve position at the beginning of 1974 and high levels of busi-
ness inventories helped Kenya weather the crisis. In addition, Kenya was
able to draw on her facilities with the IMF to cushion the loss of foreign
exchange. However, the outlook was for continued deterioration in Kenya's
external position because of worsening terms of trade and slow export
growth.
7.      The Kenyan Government therefore introduced a comprehensive program,
spelled out in the Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1975, to restructure the pattern
of economic growth. Broadly, this involved restraining the consumption of
both the public and private sectors and channelling investments to areas of
immediate and productive results. Domestic inflation was to be held below
world inflation so as to encourage the use of domestic resources and to
maintain Kenya-s competitiveness in export markets.
8.      The program relied mainly on the use of fiscal and monetary instru-
ments. In order to restrict consumption, taxes on income and sales taxes on
luxury goods and gasoline were raised. In the monetary field, interest
rates were raised by about 2 percentage points to a maximum level of 10%.
This was accompanied by the revision of the three-year forward budget to
shift resources into exports, agricultural production, and industries using
more labor-intensive techniques. Growth of both government consumption and
of the development budget was reduced. To encourage exports, a 10% subsidy
on manufactured exports was introduced. In addition to this, Kenya employed
an incomes policy which kept average annual wage increases to no more than
75% of the increase in the cost of living. These restrictive measures and
the world recession in 1974-75 led to a slowdown in KenyaTs economic growth
to 3.7% in 1974 and only 1.2% in 1975. The balance of payments current
account deficit was, however, narrowed substantially.



-3-
9.      In 1976, Kenya's economic fortunes changed dramatically once again.
Frost in Brazil in 1976 reduced the world coffee crop, leading to skyrocket-
ing coffee prices and a major improvement in the terms of trade. Kenya's
economy rebounded strongly, reflecting the effect of higher coffee prices on
foreign exchange availabilities and on rural incomes, and greatly expanded
government expenditures. The economy grew by 5.6% and 8.8% respectively in
1976 and 1977 and the current account was in surplus in the latter year.
By mid-1977, however, coffee prices had begun to move downward. The expan-
sionary impact of fiscal and monetary policy adopted during the coffee boom,
combined with declining coffee prices, caused the balance of payments situa-
tion to deteriorate seriously in 1978.
10.     During 1978-79, the country again experienced a strong adverse
movement in its international terms of trade, as a result of major petroleum
price increases and rapidly declining coffee prices. The effect of this on
the balance of payments and domestic incomes was compounded by poor weather,
which reduced coffee and maize production. As a result, GDP growth slowed
from 6.7% in 1978 to 3.1% in 1979 and about 4.0% in 1980. GDP growth is
estimated to have recovered somewhat in 1981 to 4.2%, still not substan-
tially greater than population growth.
11.     Balance of payments performance has also suffered.  While there was
a sharp improvement in 1976-77 because of the "coffee boom," coffee and tea
prices plunged in 1978 and coffee export volumes suffered because of bad
weather. At the same time, imports rose sharply, reflecting lagged expan-
sionary effects of the coffee boom. The current account balance thus swung
from a surplus of about US$60 million in 1977 to a deficit of US$650 million
in 1978. While there was some improvement in 1979, with restriction of
imports and modest growth of export values--the current account deficit
declined to US$490 million--the improvement was short-lived. The impact of
petroleum price increases and the need for food imports were in large
measure responsible for a 25% increase in imports in 1980. Thus, despite a
moderate rise in exports, the current account deficit rose to almost US$900
million. Preliminary estimates for 1981 indicate a moderate reduction in
the deficit to about US$750 million.
12.     The high level of current account deficits during 1978-81, averaging
almost US$700 million per year, has necessitated a major increase in exter-
nal borrowing. The country's external debt outstanding and disbursed has
increased from US$917.2 million at the end of 1977 to an estimated
US$2,179.5 million at the end of 1981.  Terms on external debt have hardened
because of the large component of commercial borrowing. The debt service
ratio has risen from 3.7% of exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1977
to 12.2% in 1981. (This includes a notional 50% share of debt of East
Africa Community corporations).



-4-
Structural Factors Inhibiting Growth
13.     The large swings in the prices of Kenya's imports and exports, which
have been the most dramatic and obvious factor in Kenya's lower and more
erratic growth in more recent years, have tended to mask more fundamental
structural problems: an inefficient pattern of industrial growth, diminish-
ing dynamism of agriculture, a bias against exports and the rapid growth of
population. In addition, the rapid increase in energy prices in recent
years has revealed another constraint on the country½s long term prospects:
the limited and dwindling supply of domestic energy resources.
14.     Inefficient Patterns of Industrial Growth.  Kenya-s industrial
promotion policies have grown up as a series of ad hoc responses to the
needs of particular industries for protection and other forms of government
assistance, and as a result of the Government's attempts to deal with
balance of payments crises. Each balance of payments crisis during the
1970s saw the number of items covered by quantitative restrictions on
imports increase. At the beginning of the 1980s, most industries producing
for the domestic market were being heavily protected from foreign competi-
tion by import bans, quotas and/or Letters of No Objection privileges (which
allowed the firm itself to prohibit imports it viewed as a threat to its own
market). The tariff structure provided for duties on imported inputs which
were usually lower than those on final products and tariff protection varied
widely between industries. This resulted in high and widely varying effec-
tive protection, ranging from negative for some food processing industries
to several hundred percent for some products.
15.     Financial participation by Government in industrial ventures has
been an important feature in the expansion of Kenya's manufacturing sector.
This has taken the form of both equity and loan participation, either
through one of the several parastatals set up for the purpose or directly by
the Treasury. It is not uncommon for two or three Government agencies to
make investments in the same firm. This frequently takes the form of
"buying in" to a firm that is already functioning, but more generally it
involves Government financial commitments from the firm's inception. The
extent of participation varies from case to case but, in the extreme, the
commercial firm may be involved in a management agreement with relatively
little financial contribution of its own.
16.     The criteria for Government financial participation are ad hoc and
discretionary. Decisions are made on a "case by case basis." Government
frequently participates in one firm in an industry leaving other firms to
fend for themselves. In some cases these are competing firms within the
same industry with investment from alternative Government or parastatal
institutions, in other cases there are two or three such institutions
involved in one firm and none in a competing firm.



-5-
17.     As the system of industrial protection and incentives has evolved
over the past few years, it has increased in complexity and has involved
the Government more and more intimately with the detailed operations of the
industrial sector. This has put an enormous strain on the limited technical
and administrative resources of the Government, forcing it to make countless
decisions, both minor and major without adequate technical and economic
analysis.
18.     Bias Against Exports.  The large swings in export prices have tended
to obscure the fact that the growth of export volumes has slowed sharply
during the 1970s, showing no clear upward trend since 1972. The quantum
index of exports for 1979-80 was only marginally higher than in 1972.
Moreover, what little growth of exports there was, was entirely due to
increases in coffee and tea shipments. The slow growth of exports in part
reflects an increasing bias in the trade regime due to progressive tighten-
ing of quantitative restrictions on imports to provide incentives to
industry and to protect the balance of payments. High protection has
created a cost-permissive atmosphere which does not encourage efficiency.
At the same time, relatively higher profits tend to accrue to production for
the domestic market as compared to exporting. In addition, high-cost
locally produced inputs can hamper the efforts of potential exporters.
19.     Export growth has also been adversely affected by the disintegration
of the East African Community and the economic decline of Uganda in recent
years. The net result is that over the last decade Kenyas balance of
payments has become more vulnerable. Export earnings have become more
concentrated in coffee and tea, while imports requirements are more con-
centrated in intermediate and capital goods.
20.     Diminishing Dynamism of Agriculture.  Agricultural growth has slowed
considerably, averaging about 2.9% per year over 1972-79. This is well
below the rate of growth of population.  Moreover, the growth of food
production has been below that of the sector as a whole, while nonfood or
export crops have done better.
21.     A combination of factors has been  responsible for diminished
growth. First, both the quantity and seasonal pattern of rainfall
throughout East Africa and in Kenya have been less favorable during the
1970s than during the previous decade. This has undoubtedly had an adverse
impact on production. Second, the factors which were largely responsible
for rapid growth in the immediate post-independence period have been losing
strength. There have been no recent yield-increasing innovations comparable
to the introduction of hybrid maize and there is little scope for expansion
of production on unutilized or underutilized lands because of the absence of
proven economical, technological packages for arid and semi-arid areas.
Third, the policy of protecting industry and managing the balance of pay-
ments through quantitative restrictions on imports has created a bias
against agriculture by allowing Kenya to maintain an overvalued exchange



-6-
rate. The effect of this is to underprice all tradeable goods--including
agricultural products. Finally, growth of agricultural production has been
hampered by government intervention in the pricing and marketing system, by
difficulties in dealing with politically sensitive and complex land issues,
and by problems in planning and execution of projects and programs designed
to raise agricultural output.
22.     Government intervention in pricing and marketing of agricultural
commodities dates back to before independence. Producer and consumer prices
are controlled for a wide variety of agricultural products, especially
domestic foodstuffs, but also for some export commodities. Coffee and tea
prices are, however, not controlled but follow international market trends.
Producer prices are set in an annual price review which, in general, estab-
lishes a single price for each crop for an entire year at all purchasing
points throughout the country. Criteria for setting prices include con-
sideration of border prices, production costs, and supply trends. Other
considerations, including effects on consumers and promotion of specific
crops have also influenced decisions. There have been problems in assigning
weights to these factors and the emphasis of pricing decisions has not been
consistent.
23.     There is also considerable intervention in the marketing of agricul-
tural commodities. Statutory marketing boards with a range of regulatory
and promotional functions exist for all major commodities. Domestic market-
ing boards were originally set up to ensure availability of basic foodstuffs
and to control prices in the domestic market, rather than to improve market
development. The most important of these is the National Cereals and
Produce Board (NCPB), which is involved in the marketing of the major domes-
tic foodstuffs--maize, wheat and beans. While some marketing boards use
licensed traders and agents to carry out their functions, the Government
has deliberately limited the private sector's role in marketing, in order to
have greater control over food availability and prices.
24.     Government control of producer and consumer prices and marketing
channels for major foodstuffs, especially maize, beef and milk has intro-
duced distortions and disincentives and has thus adversely affected the
growth of production. Until prices were increased substantially in recent
years, prices for some crops, notably maize, have been insufficient to cover
input costs, discouraging fertilizer and hybrid seed use. In other cases,
competition among crops has not been adequately considered in the price
review process, leading to increased incentives to produce some crops at the
expense of others. Inappropriate pricing policies have directly affected
project implementation. Insufficient margins between fixed producer and
consumer prices have led to operating losses for marketing boards which have
had to be covered by government subsidies; the National Cereals and Produce
Board (NCPB) alone has accumulated a deficit of over US$88.5 million. While
prices in the past have sometimes been set too low, this is not at present
the major problem. It is, rather, the rigidity of price administration and



-7-
efforts to control marketing, in place of encouraging competition and market
development. Given the diversity of Kenya-s agricultural zones, panter-
ritorial pricing policies introduce distortions, while attempts to set
prices on a regional basis would both be inadequate and impossible to
administer.
25.     Marketing and pricing of maize, the major foodcrop, have been the
subject of intensive Government intervention, which has increased in recent
years, as maize output was adversely affected by drought. Restrictions on
interdistrict movements of maize have limited private marketing to the local
level, although some trade does occur. These government controls have
prevented the unofficial maize market from balancing supply and demand among
markets and between seasons. Market controls and inadequate market develop-
ment have inhibited the development of markets, leading to poor market
transparency and low levels of private investment in market infrastructure,
storage and transport.
26.     Problems in implementing agricultural projects have impeded sectoral
growth. The number and complexity of development projects under implementa-
tion has increased sharply in the past few years, and recent performance of
many projects has been disappointing.  This reflects, in part, the limited
capacity of government agencies to oversee and coordinate project and other
activities and to move quickly and effectively to resolve problems as they
arise. It also reflects the heavy administrative and management demands
imposed by the complex, multisectoral rural development efforts currently
underway.
27.     Inefficient patterns of land use and land tenure are a longer term
threat to both growth and internal stability. Much of Kenya's high poten-
tial land is now densely settled and inequality of land distribution is a
significant problem. Subdivision is increasing within smallholder areas and
migration of the landless to semi-arid lands, ill-suited to farming, is
increasing as well. This poses a threat to the livelihood of the pas-
toralists who use this land as well as to the land itself because of inap-
propriate farming methods.
28.     For many years, official Government policy was to discourage sub-
division of large farms, based on the belief that large farms are more
productive than small farms. However, studies have produced evidence that
under most circumstances smallholder production is inherently more effi-
cient. The growing pressure on Kenya-s land supplies, brought about both by
the limited amount of good arable land and by rapid population growth in the
last decade have led to informal subdivision of land. A second issue is
land adjudication, which began in the 1950's, and which has proved to be a
slow and cumbersome process. Because farmers need title deeds for access to
credit (other than seasonal credit), and since adjudication has been com-
pleted for only a small portion of land holdings, access to credit has been
restricted in many areas, sometimes delaying development programs.



-8-
29.     The Zaergy Problem.  Per capita energy consumption in Kenya in 1978
is estimated to have been 444 kg of oil equivalent, of which only 135 kg, or
29%, was met from commercial energy sources, i.e. petroleum, electricity and
coal. The average level of energy consumption per capita in the urban
sector is more than five times that in the rural sector. The urban sector
accounts for virtually all the consumption of electricity, since there is
little rural electrification, and 90% of the consumption of petroleum fuels,
all of which are imported. Energy used in the rural sector is overwhelm-
ingly derived from wood, either as fuelwood or charcoal, and is largely used
in preparation of food (although there are some industrial uses as well,
such as heat for curing tea). Charcoal is also used for cooking in urban
areas.
30.     The annual use of wood for energy (and other uses) is roughly four
times the annual sustained yield. Deforestation is occurring in some
localities and the risk of erosion and desertification is increasing. For
residents of rural areas firewood is virtually free. The effects of
deforestation and erosion have little impact on daily life and the damaging
effects of overcutting trees and shrubs may not be perceived. This makes
solution of this problem by the market mechanism a difficult proposition.
31.     Kenya has, in general, followed appropriate energy sector policies.
It has, for example, consistently passed energy price increases along to
consumers and maintained appropriate levels of taxation. A major problem
area is, however, the fuel alcohol program. At present levels of technol-
ogy, Kenya would not seem to have substantial potential for expanding
production of energy from biomass because of the country's relatively small
area of arable land and its dense and rapidly growing population. Neverthe-
less, the Government has launched an investment program for construction of
facilities to produce ethanol from molasses for blending with gasoline.
There are currently two ethanol plants under construction which use molasses
as a feedstock. However, the Government, which is the principal investor in
these plants, is only now beginning to deal systematically with the
economic, technical, organizational and financial issues relating to fuel
alcohol.
32.     Rapid Population Growth.  The most fundamental problem Kenya faces
is posed by the rapid growth rate of population, currently estimated by the
Government to be 3.8% per year, which is among the highest in the world.
This is, ironically, mainly the result of Kenya's past success in raising
health and general living standards, which has resulted in a steady decline
in mortality and has enhanced the biological ability of women to bear
children in a social setting where large families are still considered
highly desirable.
33.     With rapidly increasing population, pressure is mounting on Kenya's
limited arable land. Of Kenya's total land area of about 575,000 sq km,



-9-
about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially agricultural; however, on
the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only 9% can be regarded as high
potential land, with 9% medium, and 81% low potential arid and semi-arid
areas. Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good arable potential, and
most of it is already densely settled.
34.     There are several other problems associated with rapid population
growth. First, there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows
dramatically or ways are found to increase the rate at which income earning
opportunities in agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into
urban areas. Even if the nonagricultural sector were to grow rapidly, it
would be unable to absorb all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting
in rising urban unemployment and underemployment. Second, considerable
budgetary pressure has already been created by the growing demand for social
services, especially education. Finally, efforts to improve the distribu-
tion of income and alleviate poverty will be impeded by the relative lack of
access to land and education for the children of the poorest section of the
population.



-10-
PART II. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Government Strategy
35.     The structural problems inhibiting Kenya's growth, as described in
Part I, were recognized by the Government in the Fourth Development Plan
(1979-83), published in 1979. The Plan recognized that the process of
industrialization through import substitution had inhibited the growth of
exports and agriculture. It gave prominence to reform of the external trade
regime and other incentives to industry in order to effect a transition from
highly protected import substitution, with its high costs and limited growth
potential, to an incentive system which would encourage expansion and diver-
sification of exports. While the Development Plan was generally
well-conceived, it soon became evident that it would not be possible to
achieve its growth objectives, carry out the proposed substantial increase
in programs designed to meet basic needs, and expanded levels of public
investment. The Government, therefore, decided to concentrate policy
initiatives in areas which would directly address the structural constraints
to growth, i.e., to shift to a more export-oriented approach and to give
more attention to raising the rate of growth of agriculture. The Government
also decided to revise public expenditure plans to make them consistent with
likely resource availabilities and with the changed emphasis of development
strategy. Finally, it adopted more stringent demand management policies to
protect the country's creditworthiness.
36.     The basic element of the Government's strategy is to establish a new
set of price signals which will encourage an efficient pattern of industrial
development, more rapid growth of agriculture and expansion and diversifica-
tion of exports. Specifically, this will require redressing the present
imbalance between incentives for import substitution industry and those for
exports, and to reduce the bias against agriculture. The Government is
moving toward a trade regime which provides less variation in the level of
effective protection provided to different branches of industry and more
moderate protection of industry relative to agriculture.
37.     Industrial Policy.  The present QR-ridden system of industrial
protection will be ultimately replaced by one based on moderate and more
uniform tariffs. In the first phase, import prohibitions and quotas are
being eliminated and replaced by tariffs which provide roughly equivalent
levels of protection. This will be followed by a period during which
tariffs are reduced and made more uniform. Adoption of more moderate and
uniform tariffs will be coupled with appropriate levels of export compensa-
tion to industry to create more equal incentives for export and import
substitution production. In order to reduce dislocations for individual
firms and redress the bias against agriculture, compensating adjustments
have been made in the exchange rate. Future changes in tariffs would imply
further such action to ease problems of transition of industry and maintain



-11-
incentives for agriculture. The Government-s strategy also involves adop-
tion of guidelines for fiscal and other support for industrial investments
and exports and measures to rationalize the selection of public sector
investments.
38.     Agricultural Policy.  The Government's objectives for agriculture
are to ensure domestic food security, increase the foreign exchange earnings
of the sector, provide productive employment and alleviate poverty, and
conserve the country's natural resources. It is attempting to achieve these
objectives by encouraging more intensive and efficient land use, increasing
access to land and agricultural employment, providing adequate incentives to
producers, improving the efficiency of the marketing system and developing
and disseminating economical technical packages. While progress in all
these areas is required if agricultural growth is to be accelerated, the
structural adjustment program will concentrate on those areas where the
prospect of early and direct impact on output is greatest: pricing and
marketing policy, key aspects of land policy and improvements in the manage-
ment and execution of agricultural projects and programs to increase the
pace of their implementation.
39.     In line with this, the Government has established clear gLn Li t
for pricing policy, emphasizing producer incentives and avoidance  ci on-
sumer subsidies.  It is undertaking a full-scale review of the ma: ',z4ng
system to determine the optimal division of responsibilities between she
public and private sectors in achieving its goals. It is taking mea3sres to
accelerate the process of regularization of de facto subdivision of large
farms, so as to realize the output potential of the high quality land
involved, and will begin to address systematically the entire complex and
politically sensitive web of land-related issues including conservation of
soil, water and forest resources, regulation of land use, and laws affecting
land transfer and tenure.
40.     Energy Policy.  The Kenyan Government is in the process of develop-
ing a comprehensive energy policy for the modern sector of the economy.
This will involve both programs to increase the domestic supply of energy
and measures aimed at energy conservation. The principal inputs into this
program will be two studies of energy production and use now underway--one
of the traditional sector and one of the modern sector--and the Bank's
energy assessment which has recently been discussed with the Government.
Supply-side measures being reviewed include investments in hydroelectric and
geothermal power generation, increased exploration for fossil fuels, read-
justment of refinery capacity to provide an output mix more appropriate to
the structure of domestic demand, 1/ and substitution of coal for petroleum
1/ A project for refinery conversion is under consideration by the Bank and
IFC.



-12-
products in inTdustry wherever feasible. The ethanol program is now being
reviewed to enisure that individual projects have acceptable economic rates
of return. In addition, the prospects for solar water heating and wind
powered generation are being investigated. Alternatives for production of
electricity in Kenya appear relatively costly compared with large scale
projects in neighboring countries. The possibilities for regional coopera-
tion in the production and distribution will, therefore, also be considered.
41.     Because the modern sector of the economy is relatively small and
energy consumption within the industrial sector is by relatively few units,
the scope for energy conservation could be identified relatively easily.
There is considerable potential for reducing electricity and fuel use per
unit of output in many existing industries, or shifting from more to less
expensive fuels. Conservation is being encouraged by continuing the policy
of non-subsidization of energy prices and by undertaking a comprehensive
study of energy use with an eye toward identifying opportunities for conser-
vation. The possibility of facilitating investment through credit
facilities and technical assistance to both users and producers of equipment
is also under consideration. Energy conservation in the transport sector is
also being investigated.
42.     Population Policy. The Government recognizes the burden that rapid
population growth is placing on its efforts to raise per capita incomes and
meet the basic needs of the populace. It has made promotion of family
planning a matter of public policy of high priority. The emphasis of
government action has been on building up infrastructure and training per-
sonnel for delivery of family planning services. It is now about to embark
on an expanded information and education campaign. The structural adjust-
ment program provides for improving the leadership and direction of the
national family planning effort.
43.     Fiscal, Monetary and Balance of Payments Policies.  During the next
few years Kenya will face deterioration of its terms of trade, increasing
debt service obligations resulting from the need to finance current account
deficits accumulated over the last few years, and increasing pressure on the
budget with slower revenue growth and a continued rise in the demand for
public expenditures. Therefore, the Government-s strategy is to balance the
reduction of direct controls on imports" with demand management oriented
fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies. Kenya has maintained a close
and active relationship with the IMF, and Fund programs have been linked to
and have supported the structural adjustment process. Its arrangements with
the IMF cover these aspects of the Government's program.
44.     In addition, the program provides for:  preparation of  multi-year
public investment plans that are consistent with resource availability and
priorities for structural change; upgrading the Government-s capacity to
evaluate, implement and monitor progress of development programs and
projects; ensuring that external debt contracted is consistent with the



-13-
country s debt servicing capacity and that external aid is channelled to
high priority projects and programs; and ensuring that the level and struc-
ture of interest rates and the structure of the financial system provide
incentives for mobilization of domestic savings and appropriate signals for
allocation of those savings.
First Structural Adjustment Credit
45.     The program of measures supported by the Bank Group's first struc-
tural adjustment credit focussed on industrial strategy. Development of an
adjustment program for agriculture required more time; first steps in this
sector are, therefore, addressed in the second operation. In addition, the
first program contained measures designed to preserve the country's finan-
cial stability and protect its international creditworthiness. A two-year
stand-by arrangement approved by the IMF on October 15, 1980, covering the
fiscal years 1980/81 and 1981/82, was designed to aid the government in
correcting structural imbalances in the economy and reestablishing financial
stability.
46.     This program was supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit
(999-KE) and an EEC Special Action Credit, totalling US$70 million, approved
in March, 1980. It was understood that the program would take several years
to carry out and that additional assistance would probably be required in
the future. Furthermore, it was recognized that the first structural
adjustment program involved only one aspect of a structural adjustment
strategy and that, while industrial policy was critical, the scope of the
program would have to be broadened if the country's balance of payments
current account gap were to be brought to sustainable levels over a 5 to 7
year period. Within that framework, the first phase of the program was
executed successfully.
47.     Rationalization of Trade Policies.  In the June, 1980, Budget the
Vice-President and Minister of Finance announced a three part trade and
tariff policy reform which contained the following measures. First, all
Letters of No Objection (NOCs) and bans on imports for protective reasons
were abolished. Tariffs were raised on 150 tariff items (covering 11% of
imports) to compensate for the removal of QRs, with a maximum tariff rate of
100%. At the same time, tariffs on capital and intermediate goods were
increased and the sales tax on machinery and equipment was abolished.
Second, the rate of export compensation was raised from 10% to 20% and the
procedures for payment were simplified and the list of eligible items was
expanded. Finally, a temporary 10% tariff surcharge was imposed on all
dutiable items. Agricultural inputs and a few other duty-free items were
exempt from the surcharge. The main purpose of the surcharge was to gener-
ate revenue to finance the increase in export compensation. (In fact, it
provided substantial revenue surplus as well.) The surcharge was also
intended to transfer scarcity premia from private traders to the Treasury
and to compress the tariff structure. The Government has, however, after



-14-
careful review, rejected the proposal by its external trade agency (KETA)
that an export finance and insurance scheme be established. This reflects
the Government's concern about its ability to administer the insurance
program in a way that will avoid abuse.
48.     While the budget package was intended to be the first step in a
continuing process, there was a strong reaction, both within the Government
and from the private sector, which thwarted its implementation for many
months. In addition, in recent years it had become increasingly evident
that there were severe problems with the system of import administration.
The criteria for establishing quotas or instituting bans were not clear,
over half of the import items were not formally classified, amendments and
modifications were so numerous and frequent that it was impossible to ascer-
tain the current status of many items, differences in interpretation were
developing between administering agencies, unexplained delays were occurring
and inconsistent decisions were being made.
49.     The Government decided, therefore, to carry out a complete review of
the current status of tariff levels and other restrictions on all imports,
and on the basis of this review, prepare a new, streamlined system of import
administration. This was done and the new system, consisting of three
schedules, was introduced on November 10, 1981. It represents a major
improvement over the system then in effect and a critical platform for
further reform.
50.     The new system explicitly assigns all import items to three
schedules (1, 2A and 2B). 1/ Schedule 1 contains items not subject to quota.
This schedule includes raw materials, industrial spare parts, and capital
goods. Schedule 2A is subdivided into 2A special, which includes high
priority items (such as maize or crude petroleum) whose importation requires
authorization by a state agency, and 2A ordinary, which includes lower
priority consumer goods. Quotas for the high priority items are set to
satisfy expected demand and import licenses up to the quota are granted
automatically. The "ordinary" items are subject to quotas, but once an
importer obtains a quota for 2A items he can import any item or combination
1/              Allocation of Import Items between New Import Schedules
Schedule           % of 6-digit SITC        % of value of imports
______              import items
1                           38                         40
2A special                   4                         40
2A ordinary                 23                         13
2B                          35                          7
Total                      100                        100



-15-
of items within the schedule up to the limit of his quota. Schedule 2A
quotas are, therefore, not designed to protect domestic producers but to
assist in managing the balance of payments. Schedule 2B, on the other hand,
is protective, comprising those goods which are produced domestically or for
which there are domestic substitutes available. It also includes most
luxury items. These goods are subject to item-specific quotas equal to the
average volume of their import in 1979-80 (small quotas have been estab-
lished for goods formerly banned).
51.     The introduction of the new system of import administration is a
transitional measure toward a drastic reduction in the use of quantitative
restrictions and introduction of a more rational tariff structure. Never-
theless, it represents a significant improvement over the old one in several
ways: (a) possibilities for ad hoc decision-making and corruption have been
reduced; (b) a larger percentage of imports by item, 38%, is now quota-free
than the 23% under the old system; (c) quotas on schedule 2A are applied to
importers rather than products. Thus, although the total value of imports
on this schedule is limited, the import of any specific items is not and,
therefore, actual or potential producers of these items are not protected
from foreign competition. The combination of tariff and tax changes and the
introduction of the new system of import administration represents a sub-
stantial step toward a more rational trade regime.
52.     Improved Forward Budgeting.  The first attempt to prepare a forward
budget for 1980/81-1982/83 could not be completed satisfactorily. This was,
in part, due to a reorganization of the Government and, in part, because the
macroeconomic framework rapidly became outdated, as the country's interna-
tional terms of trade deteriorated more rapidly than had been anticipated.
Nevertheless, the Government made a new start after preparation of the
1980/81 annual budget and a forward budget for 1981/82-84 was completed.
The macroeconomic framework for revenue and expenditure projections was
realistic and the sectoral composition of expenditures was roughly in line
with the criteria outlined above. The preparation of the next forward
budget is now well advanced.
53.     Despite the problems of preparation, the forward budget process has
been useful in providing for a review and revision of expenditure plans in
the light of changed economic circumstances. It has, however, revealed
weaknesses in evaluation, project implementation, monitoring and budgeting.
Additional measures to correct these deficiencies are being taken and others
are included in the proposed second Bank Group structural adjustment support
program.
54.     Management of External Debt.  Substantial progress has been made in
improving several aspects of management of external borrowing. Organiza-
tional responsibilities for debt reporting have been determined, a debt unit
has been established in the Treasury and a comprehensive report has been
prepared on debt transactions for the Central Government and parastatal



-16-
organizations, The first annual external borrowing plan, covering calendar
year 1982, has been completed. It provides for appropriate levels and
composition of external borrowing for the current fiscal year. Finally,
Treasury monitoring of external borrowing by Government agencies has been
improved, especially by strengthening the office responsible for aid coor-
dination.
55.      Interest Rates.  A major reform of interest rate policy has been
achieved. Following studies of the level and structure of interest rates,
the Government articulated a policy recognizing their importance in
influencing saving/investment decisions, resource allocations and factor
use. Regular reviews have been instituted to ensure that interest rates
properly reflect changing economic conditions. As a result of these
reviews, the key commercial bank lending and deposit rates have been
adjusted upward three times since mid-1980. Maximum commercial bank lending
rates have risen from 10% to 14% and saving deposit rates from 5% to 10%.
Other rates have been adjusted in line with these.
Impact of the First Structural Adjustment Credit
56.      As indicated above, the measures included in the policy package were
successfully carried out: incentives to exporters were increased; a substan-
tial improvement was made in the import regime; the public investment
program, as represented in the forward budget, was rationalized and made
consistent with reasonable expectations of resource availabilities; manage-
ment of external debt was strengthened; and interest rates were raised to
positive levels. At the same time, the Government carried out several other
measures not specifically covered in the agreed program. Especially
noteworthy are devaluation and substantial increases of agricultural prices
in December, 1981.
57.      These measures represent considerable policy improvements which will
have positive effects on Kenya's growth and external equilibrium. The
effects are not evident in recent economic performance. This is in part
because major measures have only recently been taken 1/ and, in part,
because exogenous factors, which could not be fully anticipated at the time
the program was being prepared, had a strong adverse impact on economic
performance. The effect of rising petroleum prices in late 1979 and early
1980 on Kenya's import bill was more severe than expected, persistent
drought conditions hampered agricultural exports and necessitated increased
food imports, coffee prices slid sharply and economic conditions in nearby
export markets deteriorated. Preliminary data indicate that the value of
exports actually declined in 1981, despite increases in coffee and tea
1/ Major action on the exchange rate was taken in September, 1981 and the
new import regime was not introduced until November, 1981.



-17-
export volumes. The decline seems largely related to a sharp drop in the
volume and value of exports of refined petroleum products, the reasons for
which are not yet clear. Exogenous factors were, however, not the only
explanation for the apparent lack of positive results. Kenya's fiscal
management was unexpectedly expansionary due to escalating defense costs,
large public sector wage increases and ineffective expenditure controls.
The expansion of the budget deficit prevented the Government from meeting
ceilings on net bank credit to the Government and net domestic credit of the
IMF stand-by program at the end of FY1980/81 (June, 1981), even though
previous ceilings had been met. 1/ The net result of the exogenous and
policy-related factors was that economic growth remained relatively high,
averaging 4% per year in 1980-81, but inflation remained at about the 12%
level and, as indicated above, rather than improving, the balance of pay-
ments current account deficit climbed sharply.
1/ The program has, as described in paragraph 92, been reconstituted as a
one year arrangement with new fiscal monetary and other performance
criteria.



-18-
PART III. THE PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
58.     This loan and credit would support a program of measures, dis-
cussed and worked out by the Government of Kenya and the Bank, designed to
carry out the Government-s structural adjustment strategy. The program
agreed to and outlined in the Government's Letter of Development Policy
(Annex IV) builds upon the first operation and continues and extends the
progress of structural adjustment:
(a) the scope of industrialization policies covered has been
widened to make the incentives given to new industries consistent with the
objectives of trade reform;
(b) the program has been expanded to include policy initiatives
in the agricultural sector in three key areas: pricing and marketing,
land use and tenure and management of agricultural projects and programs;
(c) given Kenya's dependence on foreign oil and its importance in
the balance of payments, actions designed to increase the supply of domes-
tic energy and to encourage conservation have been included in the
program; and
(d) because of the impact of rapid population growth on virtually
every aspect of Kenya's economic performance, this issue is also addressed
in the program.
59.     The program also continues and builds upon initiatives in the
first program to increase resource mobilization, improve planning and
budgeting of government outlays and optimizes foreign borrowing. In
addition, it contains new measures to improve project implementation.
Finally, the program includes measures to ensure internal and external
financial equilibrium which are supported by a stand-by arrangement with
the IMF.
Components of the Program
60.     Rationalization of the System of Industrial Protection.  The
Government will use the new system of import administration as the base
for a progressive reduction of quantitative restrictions, their replace-
ment initially by tariffs, and the gradual rationalization of the entire
tariff system. Over the next four years (1982-85), 20% of the items
presently on Schedule 2 (A and B combined) will be shifted to Schedule 1
each year. The first 20% will be moved in June, 1982. As a guideline,
temporary tariffs introduced to replace quotas will not exceed 100%. The
gradual pace of implementation would maintain the overall momentum of the
general strategy, while allowing the time required for studies to develop



-19-
policies for dealing with the problems of the most highly-protected and
inefficient industrial subgroups 1/. As the process continues, the Govern-
ment will face progressively more difficult and meaningful choices. By
1985 only 320 items (or 12% of a total of 2600) would be subject to quota.
The Government is not yet prepared to totally eliminate quotas. Neverthe-
less, the changes agreed to would be very significant and would amount to
a drastic reduction in the use of quotas and import prohibitions as a
protective mechanism. To put the magnitude of change in perspective, the
320 items which would still be subject to quota after July, 1985 is
roughly equivalent to the number of items currently subject to quota in
just two broad SITC categories (SITC 65, textile yarns, fabrics, etc. and
SITC 84, articles of apparel).
61.      The temporary tariffs established as substitutes for quantitative
restrictions would be replaced as a new tariff structure is phased in.
The Government is preparing a new tariff structure which will be completed
by July, 1983. It has been agreed that the new tariff structure, which
will be reviewed with the Bank, will be more moderate and uniform than the
present structure and would be phased in during 1984 and 1985. The exact
timing of this will depend on completion of industrial subsector studies
to identify transitional problems and develop strategies for industries
which are, at present, highly protected.
62.     Incentives to New Industries. Kenya's present system of
tailor-made concessions for new projects has led to investments in
projects with low or negative economic rates of return, disguised by
concessions which make them financially profitable. In recognition of
this, the Government has established the following guidelines:
(a) Government equity contributions, loans or loan guarantees to
privately owned companies will be restricted to economic activities fun-
damental to development and will be subject to rigorous economic evalua-
tion using standard cost-benefit analysis.
(b) Import duty concessions will not, as a rule, be granted;
(c) Exclusive technology licensing agreements will be time-
limited;
(d) Extraordinary tariff protection will be granted on a diminish-
ing basis and limited to no more than eight years;
1/ New prohibitions would be invoked only in the case of suspected dump-
ing, and then only until appropriate tariffs and/or reference prices
could be established.



-20-
(e) Ile use of quotas and import prohibitions as an incentive to
new investmer; will be limited to the time necessary to establish
appropriate tariffs as in (d) above.
The Government will issue specific guidelines for the application of these
incentives by September, 1982 and will inform the Bank on incentives that
have been granted on a semi-annual basis. The first report will be
reviewed with the Government in September, 1982.
63.     Government Investments in Parastatals and Public Companies.  In
order to ensure that new investments made by the Government in parastatals
and private enterprises are economically, financially and technically
sound, the following measures to strengthen and improve procedures for
evaluation and approval for Treasury investments will be taken: (a)
adoption of a standard handbook for project evaluation along with specific
guidelines on how key parameters are to be estimated, (b) new regulations
governing the review process which ensure that economic evaluation has
been carried out will be issued, and (c) the Treasury will not sign
project or financing agreements unless project and budgetary approvals
have been obtained according to the guidelines. It will take until
August, 1982 to prepare the guidelines. The new procedures will be
applied during the 1982/83 fiscal year. The Government will prepare a
report outlining progress made by December, 1982. This will be reviewed
with the Bank.
64.     Export Promotion.  As evidenced by an increase from 10% to 20%
in export compensation in 1980 and two exchange rate changes in 1981
(representing a depreciation of the shilling of 20% relative to the
SDR 1/), the Government has been making a strong effort to ensure the
competitiveness of exports. It intends to do so in the future using all
means at its disposal. It is continuing to monitor the effectiveness of
export compensation and intends to further improve its administration to
make it more accessible to smaller firms.
65.     The Government has agreed to undertake a general review of the
institutional support available to exporters, including the possible role
of export finance. Terms of reference of the review will be discussed
with Bank staff. Experts will be contracted for this purpose as required.
The results of this review, which are expected to be ready by the end of
calendar year 1982 and will be discussed by the Bank, will be used to
1/ As conventionally measured by the IMF, i.e. from KSh 1 = SDR 0.1034 at
the end of 1981 to KSh 1 = SDR 0.0837 in September, 1981. This would
represent a devaluation of 24% by the Bank's convention (from KSh 9.66
SDR I to KSh 11.95 = SDR 1). Because of the strengthening of the dollar
relative to the SDR, the devaluation would be 42% relative to the dollar.



-21-
develop an action program for export promotion which will be ready no
later than June, 1983.
66.     Agricultural Pricing and Marketing.  The Government has decided
that because of the importance of maize as a crop for both smallholders
and larger farmers, and its role in the Kenyan diet, especially that of
lower-income consumers, the program will give special attention to ensur-
ing the adequate growth of domestic production of this crop. This will be
accomplished by providing adequate incentives to producers, efficient
marketing, transportation, storage and distribution of the crop, and
prices to consumers which reflect economic costs of production and dis-
tribution. In addition, the Government has determined that adequate
provision must be made for domestic food security.
67.     Important steps toward a general rationalization of pricing policy
have recently been taken. The emphasis of pricing policy for all crops
will be on maintaining adequate incentives for producers and consumer
prices will not be subsidized (except in the case of emergency food
imports and for costs of maintaining security stocks). Subsidization of
consumer maize prices, when high price imports are required to supplement
domestic supply, would be through direct budgetary appropriations. NCPB
would also be compensated for its market development activities through
budgetary provisions. In line with this decision, past loans by the
Treasury to the National Cereals and Produce Board are being written off,
in recognition of the subsidy elements in its past operations. The
Government has also carried out a study of the financing of cereal market-
ing, through the Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation, in order to
improve the process.
68.     The Government has announced that farm prices will be based
primarily on export and import parities, with the intention of providing
adequate incentives to producers. The annual price review process for
1982 was initiated earlier than usual, in order to permit more time for
technical work. On December 12, 1981 substantial increases in prices were
announced for domestic food crops (maize, 37%, wheat 21% and rice about
55%). These price decisions followed technical recommendations, which
reflected world market price movements and exchange rate changes and some
realignment of relative prices. There will continue to be an exchange of
views between the Bank and Government to ensure that the technical
guidelines for price recommendations are being followed and that prices
announced are consistent with technical recommendations.
69.     The Government has relaxed for non-border areas the extraordinary
restrictions placed on maize marketing over the last few years. Its next
step will be to undertake a study to determine the appropriate market
structure to accomplish the objectives described above. The study will
consider the full range of options from the present de jure Government
monopoly to systems which involve minimal intervention. It will include:



-22-
(a) investigation of the optimal division of functions between Government,
the cooperatives and the private sector; (b) recommendations on an
appropriate food security plan; and (c) recommendations on a program of
market development, including information, services and infrastructure.
70.     The study will proceed under the guidance of a high level steering
group consisting of representatives of the Office of the President,
relevant ministries and NCPB. Preliminary terms of reference have been
agreed upon with the Bank. Final terms of reference will be drawn up
after consultation with the steering group. Choice of consultants will
be discussed with the Bank. There will be an interim report midway
through the study which will be discussed with the Bank and full consult-
ation during the final review of the study. It is envisioned that the
execution of the study and the subsequent decision-making process will
take approximately nine months, or until March, 1983.
71.     This stage will be followed immediately by the development of an
action program designed to implement the Government's decisions. This
program will include measures designed to strengthen and/or restructure
existing institutions to equip them for their future roles and specific
steps to be taken to implement these decisions.
72.     Management of Agricultural Programs and Projects.  The Government
is encountering serious management problems in implementing development
programs and managing basic services for the agricultural sector, despite
Kenya-s generally strong civil service system, and relatively effective
planning and financial management procedures. These problems have limited
the Government's ability to achieve sectoral objectives and to utilize
external financing for agricultural development effectively, and have had
an adverse impact on agricultural growth. The Government's ability to
embark on new agricultural development programs is seriously constrained.
Specific problems have included underutilization of budgeted funds for key
ministries (the Ministry of Agriculture spent about 50% of its budget
allocations in 1978-80), ineffective mechanisms for supervising on-going
projects, poor coordination among ministries and agencies, weak links
between central planning and budgeting and actual operations in the field,
cumbersome financial control procedures, and poor parastatal management.
73.     Causes of management problems are complex, but they are primarily
the result of a widening gap between the administrative demands of a
project portfolio which is rising sharply in number and complexity and
limited managerial resources of the Government. For example, the Ministry
of Agriculture alone supervises over 140 projects, some of which are
multi-sectoral and involve several agencies and ministries. Complex
projects, requiring intensive management and monitoring and coordination
among several ministries, were introduced with insufficient consideration
of their relation to sectoral management and budget systems and



-23-
administrative capacity. Several important smallholder development
programs are functioning poorly because of problems which are largely
administrative in origin--for example, lack of mechanisms which would
allow simultaneous review of multi-agency programs which are now
separately presented within individual ministry budgets, slow and incom-
plete expenditure planning, and ineffective procedures for claiming reim-
bursement for investments. More broadly, the agricultural ministries have
not benefitted from systematic efforts to strengthen management skills,
and have been hampered by some inappropriate personnel policies within
these ministries.
74.     The Government recognizes these problems and has initiated a broad
program to strengthen management capabilities of the key ministries for
the agricultural sector (Agriculture, Livestock Development and Coopera-
tive Development). The program has involved a systematic review and
diagnosis of management problems, establishment of management systems
units in key ministries, formation of a task force to address planning,
budget and financial management issues, and initiation of a long-term
management development program.
(a) The review of management and implementation problems has
covered both sectoral and government-wide problems. At the ministry
level, it has identified management bottlenecks, such as weaknesses in
information systems and in monitoring and supervision procedures for
projects. More broadly, issues related to planning and financial manage-
ment procedures were intensively reviewed. An important conclusion of
this analysis is that organization structures and operating procedures are
fundamentally sound, and do not require major modifications at this stage.
The central issues are the need to improve inter-ministerial coordination,
clarify and streamline basic operating procedures, and improve information
and communication systems.
(b) The Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development have
established management systems units as a focus for management improvement
programs. These units will identify and analyze specific management
problems, prepare recommendations for improvement, and assist in
implementing reform. The units are supported by management advisors
through the Technical Assistance Pool (a multi-donor financed technical
assistance group).
(c) The Government has established a Task Force on planning,
budgeting and financial management, which includes senior managers of the
Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock Development, Cooperative Development,
Finance and Planning, and includes technical assistance from the Bank.
The Task Force will meet formally every three months to follow the plan-
ning, budgeting and expenditure process through two complete fiscal year
cycles. It will identify problems that have emerged at the stage of the
budget cycle recently completed, and jointly make recommendations for



-24-
their re  lution.  It will also discuss steps to be taken in the next
quarter to ensure that there is clear understanding of procedures and that
potential problems are identified early and addressed. The Task Force
would thus improve understanding of budget procedures and constraints
among its members; it will also serve as a forum for identifying and
resolving financial management problems and making procedural improve-
ments, and as an instrument for improving inter-ministerial coordination
and communication. At the end of two years, the Task Force will issue a
comprehensive report summarizing their activities and recommendations, and
suggesting areas for further analysis and review.
(d) An expanded program of management training and development has
been established and will be financed, in part, by the proposed Technical
Assistance Credit. It will provide both increased in-house training
(involving the management systems units) and longer-term overseas train-
ing. It will support the development of improved information systems,
including introduction of micro-processors and will assist in focussing on
specific problem areas in financial and program management.
75.     These efforts have already begun to bear fruit.  The Task Force
met for the first time in January 1982, concentrating its attention on
steps required to prepare the FY82/83 budget. The next meeting, in April
1982 reviewed the forward budget for agriculture and expenditure plans for
the next fiscal year. The measures have resulted in a noticeable improve-
ment in approaches to implementation problems and a heightened focus on
financial management matters. A tangible indication of progress is an
increase in the utilization of budgeted funds and improved quality and
timeliness of management information. By concentrating on removing
managerial bottlenecks in the agricultural sector, this program should
significantly improve project implementation and lay the groundwork for
more dynamic policy initiatives and investment program in the future.
76.     Land Policy.  The de facto subdivision of large farms is legal,
in the sense that it is not an offense under the Land Planning Act.
However, granting of titles has been stymied by lack of financial and
technical resources for survey, adjudication and provision of basic serv-
ices. The structural adjustment programn therefore aims at accelerating
the process of regularization of de facto subdivision of large farms so as
to realize the output potential of the high quality land involved.
77.     Because of the complexity and sensitivity of land issues, there is
a need to: (a) review the effectiveness and impact of the existing land
tenure system and the laws governing land adjudication and land transfers,
and formulate proposals for improvement; (b) make recommendations for
subdivision policy for other lands; (c) harmonize existing laws and
regulations relating to land use and tenure; (d) develop regional land use
and planning proposals; and (e) develop programs to assure conservation of
soil, water and forest resources.



-25-
78.     In line with these requirements the following steps will be taken
under the second structural adjustment operation:
(a) As a first step in the systematic, technical consideration
of land issues and in order to ensure that these issues receive attention
at the highest levels of government, they will be given special attention
in the preparation of the next Development Plan, which is about to begin.
Task forces will be established with terms of references to address the
issues outlined in para. 77 above and will be given appropriate technical
support. These task forces will prepare a series of technical reviews and
recommendations for consideration by Government.
(b) A thorough review will be undertaken to determine the techni-
cal and financial constraints on regularization of de facto subdivision.
A project will be prepared to accelerate the regularization and
rationalization of individual holdings on informally subdivided large
farms and discussed with Bank staff by the end of March, 1983. That
project will include specific annual targets for land area and/or numbers
of holdings on which titles are to be regularized.
79.     Energy Policy.  As discussed in Part I, Kenya has followed
appropriate energy sector policies. Its pricing policies and investment
policies have been, in general, consistent with its demand and resources.
Efficient use of energy is being encouraged by pricing policy. For
example, the domestic retail price of gasoline was increased by 11%,
diesel by 14% and kerosene by 37% in late October, 1981, producing an
average increase of 19%, which' is in line with the September devaluation
of the Kenya shilling in domestic currency terms. The price of gasoline
is now equivalent to US$3.60 per gallon. Insofar as traditional energy
sources are concerned, the Government is, under the Third Forestry
Project, augmenting the supply of wood by increasing the area of planta-
tions and by distributing seedlings. Additionally, effort is being made
to increase the efficiency of production of charcoal by introducing modern
kilns. Experiments involving development and distribution of more effi-
cient cooking stoves to reduce wood consumption are also underway.
80.     The Government is also in the process of developing a long-term
energy policy. In this connection:
(a) The Bank's energy assessment report, was discussed with the
Government in March, 1982, as was an assessment of the alcohol program.
This will provide input for an interim investment program and will iden-
tify future studies required.



-26-
(b) A study by external consultants of the traditional energy
sector has been completed, and a study of the modern energy sector will be
completed shortly. These will be used to prepare comprehensive sector
policies and an investment program for the sectors by March 1983. This
program will be discussed with Bank staff.
(c) No further public investment in the fuel alcohol subsector
will be undertaken until the plan referred to in (b) is completed; and
then will be subjected to rigorous analysis of economic benefits and
costs.
81.     Population.  The rapid growth of Kenya s population is the single
most critical issue in the country's development. The effects of rapid
population growth are pervasive, exerting pressures on labor markets and
scarce agricultural resources and affecting the ability of the country to
feed itself and provide for other basic needs.
82.     The rural health and family planning project recently approved
calls for a new interagency, multimedia information and education campaign
in population and family planning. This is an approach to which the
Government is already committed. Approval of the establishment of a
National Council on Population and Development in the Office of the Vice
President was granted by Cabinet on February 4, 1981. Administrative and
organizational arrangements are expected to be completed by June, 1982.
The council will determine the scope and direction of the program, approve
its budget and support the program. Work of the Council and actions taken
by Government in this area will be closely monitored as an essential
element of structural adjustment.
83.     Resource Mobilization.  Recognizing that the structure of interest
rates can play an important role in encouraging financial savings and
providing adequate returns to financial intermediaries, the Government has
adopted a more flexible interest rate policy. Several rate adjustments
have been made over the last two years. The Government will continue to
keep the level and structure of interest rates under review to ensure that
they continue to be appropriate, given the domestic rate of inflation and
the structure of international interest rates. In addition, in order to
improve policies designed to mobilize savings and allocate credit more
effectively, the Government has initiated studies of the sources and uses
of private savings, the effect of changes in the interest rate and other
incentives on savings and the appropriateness of the structure of the
financial system. Completion of these studies is expected by the end of
1982. Their results and implications for changes in the incentive struc-
ture and the structure of the financial system will be discussed with Bank
staff.
84.     Planning and Budgeting of Government Outlays.  Kenya has the
institutional arrangements and administrative mechanisms for effective



-27-
programming and budgeting of government expenditures. The p'anning and
budgeting process involves three key elements: The Development Plan, the
Forward Budget and the Annual Fiscal Budget. The Plan is prepared every
five years and includes detailed project specific projections of develop-
ment and recurrent expenditures. These are prepared by the operating
ministries in consultation with the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development and are responsive to the goals and objectives of the Plan.
The total level of expenditures permitted is governed by an estimate of
available resources derived from GDP growth and balance of payments
projections.
85.     In order to provide a link between the Plan and the annual fiscal
budget, which is the operational document, the Government also prepares a
three-year forward budget every year, except the first year covered by the
Plan. The preparation of the Forward Budget allows systematic considera-
tions of changes required in expenditure plans because of changes in the
economic outlook, and/or in the pace of project implementation. It also
makes it possible to accommodate new initiatives, i.e. projects or
programs not included in the Plan. The annual fiscal budget is prepared
immediately after completion of the forward budget exercise.
86.     There are, however, weaknesses in the forward budget process:  the
criteria used for accepting or rejecting projects are vague and generally
do not include rigorous economic analysis; the purposes of the forward
budgeting exercise are not well understood by the operating ministries and
their submissions are of varying quality, at times omitting future project
starts; the expenditure plans of parastatal entities are not included in
the forward budget and are, therefore, not systematically reviewed; and,
monitoring of project implementation is weak, and this makes it difficult
to assess the realism of expenditure plans. Finally, the Forward Budget
is not a published document, but rather a set of working files recording
decisions on individual projects and final agreed expenditure ceilings by
ministry. The forward budget process, as it now stands, does not provide
a wholly satisfactory basis for the evaluating, planning and programming
of government outlays.
87.     Because of weaknesses in the forward budgeting process, the
Government has decided that a full scale review of the status of public
investment outlays is necessary. A public investment program will, there-
fore, be formulated by the Government by September, 1982, covering the
fiscal years ending in July, 1985. This will be reviewed with the assis-
tance and advice of Bank staff.
88.     In addition, the Government is carrying out the following program
to strengthen the forward budgeting mechanism to ensure that projects are
properly evaluated, that the process includes major parastatal entities,
and that it results in a useful working document:



-28-
(a) Standardized project evaluation criteria will be introduced by
July, 1982 for new projects to be included in the forward budget. They
will include the use of standard calculation of economic rates of return
on projects. The purpose is to ensure that all large projects undertaken
have an economic rate of return of at least 10%, or represent a least cost
solution. In addition, beginning with the preparation of the FY1983/84 -
FY1985/86 forward budget (i.e. during the second half of 1982), ministry
submissions will include a detailed project brief for all projects which
they propose to begin implementing during the period covered by the for-
ward budget;
(b) During FY1982/83 the Government will begin the process of
integrating expenditure plans of parastatal entities into the forward and
annual budgeting process;
(c) Technical capacity of the government to carry out financial
and economic evaluation of projects is being strengthened under a
Bank-administered, UNDP-financed technical assistance program. In addi-
tion, instructions to the operating ministries for preparation of the
forward budget have been clarified and communications have been improved;
(d) Revised procedures for project implementation and monitoring
have been devised and the pertinent directives to ministries have been
issued;
(e) Future forward budgets will be consolidated into a single,
project-specific working document.
89.     External Borrowing.  The size of Kenya's external debt, its
implications of future debt service, and the project content of borrowing
will be monitored continuously by the Treasury. External borrowing plans
will be prepared for each fiscal year. The Plan for calendar year 1983
will be discussed with Bank staff in December, 1982.
90.     Project Implementation.  Project implementation has deteriorated
in recent years, in contrast to the successful implementation performance
in the past. Factors accounting for implementation delays have varied
widely, but some of the more pervasive factors have been institu-
tional/management constraints, procurement problems, and budgetary con-
straints leading to a lack of local financing. These factors, together
with delays in preparing and submitting reimbursement claims have led to a
deteriorating disbursement record. A comparison with the disbursement
rate for the total of other loans/credits in the East Africa region indi-
cates that in 1976, Kenya's disbursement rate was 38.6% as against 20.7%
for the region; while in 1980, Kenya's disbursement rate had decreased to
8.5% as against 16.5% for the region. An in-depth review of the causes of
the poor project implementation performance and poor disbursements record,



-29-
has been undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible solu-
tions were discussed with the Government in March 1982, at a country
implementation review meeting. The discussions were frank and construc-
tive, and the Government informed the Bank Group of several new initia-
tives to improve performance. These included:
(a) A task force had been established to monitor the administra-
tion of agencies in seeking reimbursement from the Bank Group. The use of
Procedure III (direct reimbursement) would be extended to more projects.
(b) A Project Implementation Committee will be set up by June
1982, comprising the three Permanent Secretaries of the coordinating
ministries (Office of the President, Finance, and Planning) with a per-
manent secretariat. A detailed reporting system will be established. The
Office of the President will be in overall charge of this operation.
(c) The Government is establishing priorities for rationalizing
the existing project commitments within present financial and administra-
tive limitations. The Government will consider reduction of the scope of
some projects, eliminating some altogether, and stretching out the
implementation periods of others. Some decisions on projects supported by
the Bank Group projects were agreed during the country implementation
review meeting between the Government and the Bank Group, including, for
example, the cancellation of a large portion (about $23 million) of the
Sugar Rehabilitation Project (KE-1636). It was further agreed to have
another meeting in September 1982 to review more projects in the same
fashion.
91.     The IMF Program.  As indicated above, fiscal performance in
1980/81 deviated significantly from the targets included in the program
for that year. The Fund and the Government have now agreed on a new
one-year stand-by arrangement focussed primarily on fiscal year 1981/82;
however, the last purchase under the stand-by arrangement will be depend-
ent on observance of performance criteria in September, 1982 (or a quarter
into the next fiscal year). The program aims at redressing the fiscal
imbalance and correcting the balance of payments deficit through
appropriate financial policies. Over the medium-term, the goal is to
increase industrial competition through a more open import system and to
eliminate the anti-export bias which is hampering economic growth. In
this respect, the IMF program and the structural adjustment loan are
mutually reinforcing and there has been close collaboration between Fund
and Bank staff throughout the process of developing specific policy
measures. The new Fund arrangement, concluded in January, 1982 will make
SDR 151.5 available, representing 146.4% of Kenya's quota.
92.     The key elements of the program are:



-30-
Exchange rate. A 15% depreciation in terms of the SDR in Septem-
ber 1981, following a 5% depreciation in February 1981 was a precondition
of the new arrangement. The Government is also committed to keep the
exchange rate under continuous surveillance.
Import system. Simplification of the import licensing system
through publication of new import schedules and gradual replacement of
quantitative restrictions with tariffs was also a precondition of the new
arrangement. Prior to the end of FY1981/82, 20% of all items in restric-
tive categories will be shifted to the category of free imports (this
corresponds to the commitment in the structural adjustment program to
shift 20% of the items on Schedules 2A and 2B to Schedule 1).
Employment and wage policies. No general salary increases will be
approved for the public sector during FY1981/82. Recruitment will be
limited to filling vacancies in absolutely necessary posts.
Fiscal policy. Reduction in the overall deficit from 10.6% of GDP
in FY1980/81 to 7.5% in FY1981/82 is called for. This will be
accomplished largely by restraining expenditures on wages and salaries and
defense. However, some discretionary revenue measures have been taken and
the impact of devaluation should be positive. In order to assure meeting
these targets, a new system for monitoring revenues and expenditures on a
timely basis has been put in place. The Government has also devised a
contingency plan of additional measures to be taken if it appears targets
are not being met.
Monetary policy. Ceilings on total domestic bank credit and net
bank credit to the Government have been established.  Total credit expan-
sion is to slow down to a 20% increase in FY1981/82 as compared with 24%
in 1980/81. Because of restrictions on government borrowing, credit to
the private sector would be permitted to grow by about 15% as compared
with 10% in the preceding year. Interest rates have been increased so
that the commercial bank lending rate is now a maximum of 14%, with
deposit rates at 10%. The Government intends to keep interest rates under
continuous review (as in the structural adjustment program).
External borrowing. Contracting of public and publicly guaranteed
debt on commercial terms will be limited to US$160 million. (This is
consistent with the external borrowing plan prepared as part of the struc-
tural adjustment program.)
Impact of the Strategy on Evolution of the Economy
93.     The structural adjustment strategy can be expected to have a
positive impact on Kenya's growth, balance of payments position and on
its income distribution over the medium term, i.e. the next 3-7 years.
The structural adjustment strategy is expected to raise the rate of



-31-
agricultural growth to 4% and make it possible to attain a rate of growth
of exports of 4.7% per annum for 1981-86. These targets have been dis-
cussed with the Government and they have agreed to use them as guidelines
in assessing the progress of their program. Projections of Kenyan
development prepared with the assistance of a model indicate that if this
is accomplished, positive growth of per capita income will be attained by
1983 and a 5% growth path for GDP is likely by 1988, within the context of
a manageable balance of payments current account deficit.
94.     Growth of Output.  Kenya's agricultural sector grew by 4% per
annum from 1955 to 1970. A return to that pace of growth will not be
easy, but it is necessary if the country is to attain a minimal acceptable
growth rate within the framework of reduced trade deficits. The demand
for food is increasing at least as fast as population. Either food
production or other agricultural exports to pay for food imports must grow
by nearly 4% per year (excluding terms of trade effects), in order to
avoid draining foreign exchange from other sectors. Moreover, given the
growth of Kenya's labor force, and the limited potential for employment
generation in the very small "modern sector" of the economy, agricultural
employment would have to grow at more than 3% per year simply to prevent
unemployment from increasing.
95.     Kenyan agriculturalists, both smallholders and larger farmers,
have demonstrated strong responses to changes in price incentives in the
past. Improvements in the sector's terms of trade brought about through
exchange rate and tariff policies should, therefore, have a desirable
impact, especially when coupled with a better-functioning pricing and
marketing system. The improvements in pricing and marketing would also
have a beneficial effect on the balance between production for the domes-
tic market and production for export. Improved implementation of existing
projects and programs in the sector can also be expected to have a posi-
tive effect on growth. Production response can be expected to come almost
immediately for food crops, while increases in export production, which
involve tree crops, will be slower in coming. With increased incentives
for exports resulting from exchange rate changes and, eventually, from
improved institutional support from Government, improvements should also
be seen in production of minor agricultural exports such as livestock and
dairy products, vegetables, nuts and flowers.



-32-
96.     A return to rapid overall growth of industrial output will take
several years. In the near term, growth of manufacturing would be limited
by restrictive demand management policies. In addition, reduction of
protection is bound to have adverse effects on investment in
highly-protected industries. Thus, growth of the sector is projected to
average only 4.5% per year over 1981-86. There will have to be a process
of restructuring and consolidation of some industries, such as clothing
and textiles, which are now very highly protected. However, structural
adjustment will result in considerable scope for efficient import sub-
stitution in engineering and metalworking industries, which under the
present trade regime receive negative protection. Expansion of some
efficient light consumer goods industries can also be expected. Finally,
changes in the exchange rate will promote growth of manufactured exports
to regional markets and revival of processing of agricultural products for
European and Middle Eastern markets. Thus, the structural adjustment
process will result in a change in the pattern of industrial growth with
efficient consumer goods industries, export activities and capital goods
manufacturing growing more rapidly and traditional highly protected
industries and intermediate goods industries growing more slowly. Over
the longer term, growth of the sector can return to rates exceeding 6% per
year.
97.     The projected growth patterns of agriculture and industry are
consistent with a scenario in which GDP growth accelerates from about 4%
per year during 1982-83, accelerating to 4.5% per year in the mid-1980s
and to over 5% by the end of the decade.



-33-
SUMMARY NATIONAL ACCOUNTS PROJECTIONS
1981-1990
Value                   Composition             Growth Rate
(million 1976 KL))                  (%)
1981    1986    1991    1981    1986    1991    1981-86    1986-91
(est.)                    (est,)
GDP                                2673.9   3278.1  4207.5   100.0   100.0   100.0           4.2         5.2
Terms of Trade, adjustment        -23.8    -59.7   -96.2    -0.9    -1.8    -2.3
GDY                                2650.1   3218.4  4111.3    99.1    98.2    97.7           4.0         5.0
Imports, GNFS                     926.3    959.2  1109.1       34.6    29.3    26.4       1.3          3.0
Exports, GNFS                     637.2    802.7  1083.1    23.8    24.5    25.7          417          6.2
Exports, TOT adjusted             613.3    743.0   987.0    22.9    22.7    23.5          3.9          5.8
Available resources                2963.0   3434.6  4233,4   110.8   104.8   100,6           5.5         4.3
Consumption                      2368.4   2684.9  3265.5    88.6    81.9    77.6          2.7          4.0
Investment                        594.6    749.6   967.9    22.2    22,9    23.0          5.0          5.3



-34-
98.     Balance of Payments and Creditworthiness. Improvements in Kenya's
balance of payments are projected over the next few years, reflecting the
effects of demand management and revival of exports. As indicated above,
the key to a manageable balance of payments over the longer term will be
attainment of a 4.7% per year growth rate for exports. Since overall
export volumes have been virtually stagnant since the mid-1970s this would
represent a considerable turnaround. There is, however, an underlying
strength in the country's export performance. Kenya has a diversified
agricultural and industrial base and already exports a wide range of
products (albeit in small quantities). Coffee and tea have continued to
perform well and the stagnation of exports was largely due to breakup of
the East African Community market and the decline of nontraditional
exports outside of the EAC market. In fact, the latter did increase in
nominal and real terms between 1972 and 1976 but have stagnated since.
This may reflect the fact that Kenya's real exchange rate appreciated
relative to that of its trading partners after 1976. The key to balance
of payments performance will be reviving the growth of these exports. The
structural adjustment strategy will ensure maintaining adequate financial
incentives to exporters using all available means. It also provides for
improving the institutional support available to exporters. The specific
policy measures to implement the strategy have been designed to achieve
the target of 4.7% growth of exports. Further acceleration of export
growth to 6.2% per year is projected for the 1986-91 period, reflecting
the full impact of structural adjustment.
99.     Import growth will, in a general sense, be linked to GDP growth
and investment levels. However, the structural adjustment by ensuring
appropriate level and structure of energy prices and stimulating invest-
ment in domestic production and conservation of energy can be expected to
moderate the growth of fuel imports. In addition, import volumes can be
expected to grow substantially more slowly than GDP, as revival of
agricultural growth would permit a reduction of food imports. Neverthe-
less, because of increasing interest payments and continued unfavorable
terms of trade movements, the current account deficit can be expected to
increase after an initial improvement in 1982. However, the underlying
factors in the balance of payments, i.e. growth of export and import
volumes, will be favorable, with exports increasing at 4.7% per year and
imports at 1.3% per year during 1981-86, and exports growing at 6.2% and
imports at 3.0% per year over 1986-91. Thus, the resource gap would
decline steadily and the growth of the current account deficit would
moderate during the remainder of the 1980s.



-35-
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS PROJECTIONS, 1980-1986, 1991
(US$ million)
Prelim
Actutal    Est.                            Projection
1980      1981      1982      1983       1984      1985      1986       1991
Imports                                               2632.5   2294.4   2260.8   2573.6   2910.1    3282.2   3610.0   6008.9
Exports                                               1242.4   1008.3   1114.7   1259.2   1424.2    1612.0   1809.3   3423.4
Trade Balance                                     -1390.1  -1286.1  -1146.1  -1314.4  -1485.9  -1670.2  -1800.7  -2585.5
Non-factor service income, net                         5t2.9    432.3       508.1    577.2    655.0        740.7     829.1    1564.4
Factor service income, net                           - 159.3  - 134.3  - 190.6  - 209.2  - 236.6  - 270.7  - 317.3  - 623.6
Transfers, net                                         139.6    153.6       168.9    185.8    204.4        224.8    247.3       398.3
Current Account Balance                          - 896.9  - 834.6  - 659.7  - 760.6  - 863.1  - 975.3  -1041.6  -1246.5
Private Direct Tnvestment                               60.4       66.4      73.1      80.4      88.4       97.3     107.0      172.3
Public and publicly guaranteed capital                 519.0    460.2       552.6    579.6    680.1        802.4    866.3    1067.0
Disbursement                                        624.8    566.0    689.5    725.8    874.7   1052.8   1151.6    1738.4
Amortization                                     - 105.8  - 105.8  - 136.8  - 146.2  - 194.6  - 250.3  - 285.3  - 671.4
Use of IMF resources (net)                             147.7       98.0      89.0      85.0       85.0      60.0      60.0  -  10.0
Short-term capital (net)                               125.9       10.0      10.0      55.6       59.6      65.6      58.1      103.8
Capital transactions, n.e.i.                         -   3.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Change in reserves (-   increase)                       46.9    200.0  -  65.0  -  40.0  -  50.0  -  50.0  -  49.7  -  86.6
Debt Service Ratio (X)                                  10.3       12.2      14.9      14.5       15.9      17.3      18.1       21.9



-36-
100.    Despite the modest growth of GDP projected for 1982-86, external
capital requirements would be substantial, as a cumulative current account
deficit of about US$4.3 billion is projected. Financing of this deficit,
plus amortization of existing external debt, would result in a steady rise
in the country's debt service ratio, from about 15% in 1982 to a peak of
21.5% in 1991. However, it would decline gradually thereafter. This
level of debt service is high but not critically so, and should be manage-
able. Nevertheless, Kenya will have to follow very cautious economic
policies to avoid external liquidity problems.
101.    Debt service payments to the Bank in 1981 were 14.3% of total debt
service, the IDA share was 1.2%. The Bank's share of total debt service
payments is expected to rise to about 22.8% by 1986, while IDA's share
would rise to 1.3%. The Bank is presently holding 19.4% of Kenya's out-
standing external debt, and IDA 10.7%. The Bank's share is expected to
rise slightly to 21% and IDA's to 12.5% in 1986.
102.    Development with and without Structural Adjustment.  An alterna-
tive scenario showing the evolution of the Kenyan economy without struc-
tural adjustment has been projected. In this case, the growth of agricul-
ture would follow the trend of recent years, a 2.9% per year growth path,
exports of processed goods would increase at a pace of no more than 2% per
year. The implications for growth are striking. Over the period 1981-86
structural adjustment makes the difference between positive and negative
growth of per capita income. On the balance of payments side, the
resource gap and current account deficits would, of course, be smaller
with the structural adjustment policies. But, more significantly, without
structural adjustment the resource' gap and current account deficit would
not be stabilizing, so that by 1995 (the last year projected) the debt
service ratio would be 27% compared to 18% if structural adjustment
policies are followed.



-37-
EVOLUTION OF THE KENYAN ECONOMY WITH AND WITHOUT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POLICIES
With                      Without
Key Indicator                 Structural Adjustment       Structural Adjustment
Growth of GDP (%) 1981-86               4.3                        3.8
Agriculture                    3.9                         2.7
Industry                       4.6                         4.0
Export Growth 1981-86                   4.7                         4.0
Primary                        4.8                         4.8
Other                           4.4                        2.0
Resource Gap, 1986                  US$  977 million         US$1,038 million
Current Account Deficit, 1986       US$1,049 million         US$1,120 million
Summary of Structural Adjustment Actions
103.    The Government's strategy is outlined in its Letter of Development
Policy, Annex IV to this report, and the entire program is summarized in
the matrix which follows below.



-38-
SUMMARY OF STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Structural Issues and Objectives                             Action Already Taken                                Steps to be Taken
I.   Exchange Rate Policy
1.  Ensure that Kenyan economy                The Kenyan shilling was devalued by 20%              Action.  The IMF will continue to
remains internationally                  vis-a-vis the SDR in 1981.  Agricultural            monitor the exchange rate, taking
competitive and that                     and energy prices were adjusted to reflect           into account Kenya's balance of
the structure of domestic                changes in the exchange rate.                       payments situation, as well as move-
prices is appropriate                                                                        ments in key international currencies.
The Bank will continue to review rela-
tive prices to ensure that exchange
rate changes are appropriately re-
flected in domestic price interre-
lationships.
II.  Industrialization and Trade Policy
1. Rationalize the system of industrial    Letter of No Objection privileges and                   Action.  The number of iaport items
protection                               import bans were eliminated in June,                subject to quota will be drastically
1980 budget presentation.  New import               reduced by shifting 20% of the items
schedules, providing clearer and simpler            presently subject to quota to free
administrative mechanisms and increasing            import status each year for the next
the proportion of items not subject to              four, beginning in June, 1982.  Guidelines
quota from 23% to 38%, were introduced              provide that tariffs introduced to replace
in November, 1981.                                  quotas will not exceed 100%.
Program Development. A more uniform
and moderate system is to be designed
by June, 1983. A program for assisting
industries which would be adversely
affected by tariff reform will be formu-
lated by June, 1983.
Action. The new tariff schedule will be
phased in during 1984-85.
2. Improve incentives for export              The shilling was devalued by 20% vis-a-vis           Program Development. The Government will
the SDR during 1981.  Export compensation           undertake a general review of institu-
was increased from 10% to 20% in June, 1980.    tional support available to exporters,
The Government has undertaken to monitor the    including the possible role of export
competitiveness of exports and to take              finance, by end-1982. The results of this
whatever measures are necessary to                  review will be discussed with the Bank
ensure adequate financial incentives to             and will be used to prepare an action
export.                                             program for export promotion by June 1983.
3. Rationalize the system of incentives    The Government has adopted new guidelines               Action:  The Government will inform
to new industry                          which provide for economic evaluation of            the Bank on incentives that have
investments to be supported and which               been granted on a semi-annual basis.
restrict the use of exclusive technology            The first report will be discussed
licensing agreements, extraordinary tariff          with the Government in September, 1982.
protection and use of quotas and import
restrictions. These guidelines will be
published by September, 1982.
4. Improve procedures used in deciding on  The Government will ensure that new invest-             Action.  A standard handbook for project
financial participation of the           ments by the Treasury in parastatals or             evaluation will be adopted along with
Treasury in new ventures                 private enterprises are economically,               guidelines on estimation procedures by
financially and technically sound.                  August, 1982.  New regulations governing
the review process will be introduced
beginning in FY1982/83 which ensure
that proper evaluation procedures have
been followed. The Government will
prepare a report outlining progress
made by December, 1982. This will be re-
viewed with the Bank.



-39-
Structural Issues and Objectives                              Action Already Taken                                   Steps to be Taken
111. Agricultural Policy
1. Improve the functioning of domestic          Restrictions of maize movements introduced            Studies. The Government will undertake
agricultural markets                      in recent years have been relaxed.                    a review of maize marketing in order to
develop recommendations on the appropriate
future structure of the market.  Preliminary
terms of reference have been agreed upon and
consultants will be agreed upon between the
Bank and the Government.  A high level steering
group in Government will be named and will
approve final terms of reference.  A progress
review will be held with the Bank midway through
the study and final recommendations will be
discussed with the Bank.  The study will also make
recommendations on an appropriate food security
strategy and on a program of market development.
Completion of the study is expected by end-January
1983.
Action. The Government will decide on the optimal
future structure of the grain market to achieve its
goals, including the appropriate roles of the public
and private sector and price regulation policy
by March 1983.
Program Development.  The study and subsequent
government decision will be followed by preparation
of a plan to strenghten key institutions and
implement decisions.  A food security program and
a market development program will then
be prepared.
2. Clarify government pricing policy            The Government has announced that the                 Action.  The annual price review for 1983
and improve the price determination   emphasis of pricing policy will be on                     will be monitored to ensure that it is based
mechanism                                 establishing adequate incentives for                  on import and export parities and provides
producers and that food prices will not               adequate incentives to producers.
be subsidized (except in the case of
emergency imports).
The annual price review has been improved
by making review procedures more compre-
hensive and systematic.
Producer prices for major domestic crops
were increased substantially in December,
1981 reflecting international price move-
ments and exchange rate changes.
Past Treasury loans to NCPB have been
written off in recognition of subsidy
elements implied in NCPBs past operation.



-40-
Structural Issues and Objectives                                Action Already Taken                                  Steps to be Taken
3. Improve the Management of Agricultural  A review of procedures for planning, pre-                   Action.  The task force recomendations
Projects and Programs                      paration and review of budget estimates,              will serve as the basis for improvement
disbursement and expenditure control of               of financial management and budgetary
Ministry of Agriculture has been undertaken.    procedures for imediate implementation.
The Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock           Action.  Technical assistance required,
Development have established management               inter alia, to carry out improvements in
systems units to identify management                  management will be financed and its
problems, prepare recomendations for                  utilization agreed upon by the Bank under
improvement and assist in implementing                an agricultural technical assistance
reform.                                               project.
A task force has been established on
budgeting and financial management of agri-
cultural projects on an ongoing basis. The
task force began meeting formally in
January, 1982 and is making recommendations
for rapid improvements in financial manage-
ment.
An expanded program of management training
and development has been established to
provide in-house training and longer term
overseas training.
4. Establish the basis for a more                                                                      Action.  Land issues will be given
rational policy of land use and                                                                  special attention in preparation of the
tenure                                                                                           next development plan.  Task forces will
be established with terms of reference
to review key land issues and will be
given appropriate technical assistance.
Analysis and recommendations will be
reviewed by Government.
Action. A review will be undertaken
of the constraints on regularization
of subdivision. A project will be
prepared on the basis of this review
to accelerate this process and will
be discussed with Bank staff by the
end of March, 1983.
IV. Energy
Encourage efficient production and              The Government has followed a consistent               Program Development.  A comprehensive energy
consumption patterns                       policy of non-subsidization of energy                 Investment program providing for both pro-
prices  and prices have been adjusted in              duction and conservation in the modern and
line with recent exchange rate changes.               traditional sectors will be prepared on the
A study of the traditional energy sector              basis of studies now underway and discussed
has been completed and a study of the                 with Bank staff by March 1983.
modern energy sector is underway.                     Action.  Pricing of energy sources will be
A decision has been made to defer further             discussed with Government in a project
public investments in fuel alcohol pending            context.
completion of the energy sector investment
program and determination that specific
investments in fuel alcohol have acceptable
economic rates of return.
An energy assessment report has been completed
by Bank staff and discussed with the Government.
V.   Population
Improve the effectiveness of Government    A National Council on Population has been                   Action.  A second Bank rural health
efforts to promote family planning         established in the Office of the Vice President and family planning project will
to provide leadership for a new interagency,    begin in the second half of 1982
multi-media information and education campaign  stressing improved information and
in population and family planning.                    expanded facilities and staff.



-41-
Structural Issues and Objectives                                Action Already Taken                                   Steps to be Taken
VI. Resource Mobilization
Increase the level and improve the               Interest rate policy has been modified to              Studies.  A study will be carried out
intermediation of financial                recognize its effects on savings and invest-    of the sources and disposition of
savings                                    ment, and the need for interest rates to               private saving, the role of incentives
reflect domestic inflation and the                     in mobilizing savings and the institu-
structure of international rates.  Interest            tional and legal framework of the
rates are subject to ongoing review and                financial system.  Completion is ex-
have been increased significantly in the               pected by end-1982.
last two years.                                        Action.  Subject to the results of
ongoing review and established criteria,
Government will take action to maintain
appropriate rates of interest.
VII. Planning Government outlays
Improve the process of evaluating,               Forward budgets have been prepared in                  Action.  Standardized project evaltsa-
planning and budgeting                     FY1980/81 and FY1981/82 which trim                     tion criteria for new projects to be
Government outlays                         expenditure plans to levels consistent                  included in the forward budget will be
with expected resources availability                   introduced by September, 1982.  They will
according to general criteria agreed                   include use of stanidard calculations
on by Bank staff.                                      of economic rates of return on projects.
Procedures for preparation of the                      The intention is to ensure that all large
forward budget and communication with                  projects have rates of return of at least
operating ministries have been improved.               10%, or represent least-cost solutions.
The forward budget will in the future in-              Action.  The Government will begin the
clude a multi-year public sector investment            process of integrating expenditure
program, in the context of which new projects   plans of parastatal entities to the
will be approved, decisions made on priority           forward and annual budget during
of and timetables for implementation of                FY1982/83.
ongoing projects, and funding programs                 Action. A public investment program
revised to keep within resource availa-                will be formulated by the Government
bilities.                                              by September, 1982 and will be reviewed
Technical capacity to carry our financial              with assistance of Bank staff.
and economic evaluation of projects is
being strengthened under a Bank-administered
UNDP-financed technical assistance project.
Revised procedures for project implementation
and monitoring have been devised and
pertinent directives to operating
ministries have been issued.
VIII. External Debt
Improve the management of external debt    A first external borrowing plan has been                     Action.  The size of Kenya-s external
and coordination of aid programs           prepared and discussed with Bank staff.                debt and its implications for
Debt reporting and accounting has been                 debt service will be monitored con-
improved by strengthening the debt unit                tinuously.  Annual external borrowing
of the Treasury.                                       plans will be prepared for each fiscal
A limit on external commercial borrowing               year.  The plan for 1983 will be
of US$160 million for FY1981/82 has been               agreed upon with the Government in
established under an IMF agreement                     December, 1982.
IX. Project Implementation
Improve the pace of implementation               A joint Bank-Government of Kenya review of             Action.  A Project Implementation
of development projects                    the causes of poor project implementation               Committee will be established and a
was undertaken in March 1982,  A task force            detailed reporting system installed.
has been established to monitor administra-            the Committee will be responsible to
tion of agencies seeking reimbursement                 the Office of the President by June 1982.
from the Bank Group.                                   Action.  A review of Bank Group
projects under implementation with a
view to rationalizing project commit-
ments in order to live within present
financial and administrative limitations
is underway.



-42-
Speciflcs of-the Operation
104.    Amount of the Loan and Credit.  The proposed loan amount is
US$60.9 million, including capitalized front end fee and the amount of the
proposed credit is SDR 62.9 million, equivalent to US$70 million. This
would finance approximately 16% of the gross external capital requirements
of Kenya in 1982. The amounts of the proposed loan and credit were deter-
mined in the light of the Bank's lending program for Kenya and the maximum
that the Bank could make available to support policy reforms of the type
being undertaken, given other priority projects for which Bank assistance
has been requested.
105.    Policy Action.  The Government's Letter of Development Policy
covers in detail measures included in the program to (a) rationalize the
system of protection and industrialization policies, (b) revitalize the
agricultural sector, (c) plan investment in the energy sector, (d)
institutionalize government leadership of efforts to reduce population
control, and (e) strengthen forward budgeting and planning. In our dis-
cussions with the Government of the various aspects of the adjustment
program agreement has been reached on the specific steps for implementa-
tion of the program and the proposed timeframe. These are summarized,
within the context of the broader structural adjustment process, in the
table on pages 38-41.
106.    Monitoring.  The loan and credit would be disbursed in two
tranches. The first tranche of US$80 million would be made available for
disbursement after the loan and credit are declared effective. The second
tranche of US$50 million would be available for disbursement after a
review of the progress of the structural adjustment program outlined in
the Letter of Development Policy. This review will take place in March,
1983.
107.    The review of implementation of the structural adjustment program
will include all aspects of the program, but specifically will determine
whether the following conditions have been met: inter alia (a) shifting of
at least 20% of the items currently on import lists 2A and 2B to list 1,
(b) establishment of the level, sectoral distribution and project content
of the public investment program in a pattern consistent with the objec-
tives of the structural adjustment program, (c) application of the incen-
tives for new investments in a manner consistent with the guidelines set
forth in the Letter of Development Policy (restricting the use of
exclusive technology licensing arrangements, extraordinary tariff protec-
tion and use of quotas and import restrictions to protect new industries),
(d) completion of the administrative and organizational arrangements for
the National Population Council in a manner that would allow it to provide
effective leadership to the national family planning education and infor-
mation drive, (e) a determination that the external borrowing program for



-43-
FY1982/83 is consistent with maintenance of the country's long-term
creditworthiness, (f) determination that agricultural producer prices
established for the 1983 crop year provide appropriate incentives to
producers, and (g) determination that appropriate decisions have been
taken on the future structure of the grain market.
108.    Disbursement and Procurement.  The first tranche is expected to be
disbursed within 60 days after effectiveness and the second tranche within
60 days after completion of the comprehensive review of March, 1983
(Schedule 3 of the draft Credit Agreement and Schedule 4 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Disbursement of the entire loan and credit is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1983.
109.    The loan and credit would finance the CIF cost of eligible
imports, subject to documentary evidence that they had been paid on or
after loan and credit signing except that withdrawals in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$15 million may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
February 1, 1982 (Schedule l(c) of the draft Credit Agreement). All goods
imported into Kenya from eligible countries, except goods in a few
categories which are specifically excluded, would be eligible for financ-
ing under the loan and credit. The excluded categories involve goods
which are being financed by other sources, goods intended for military or
paramilitary use, and goods for luxury consumption. A list of ineligible
imports is given in Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement and Schedule 1
of the draft Credit Agreement. Loan and credit proceeds would represent
about 7% of the anticipated imports in the eligible categories in 1982.
110.    Procurement would be limited to goods from Bank member countries,
Switzerland and Taiwan. Both private and public sector imports would be
eligible for financing. Contracts for procurement of goods by the private
sector estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$5 million each
would follow normal commercial practices. Procurement by the Government
involving contracts equivalent to less than US$5 million would follow
Kenyan Government regulations, which are acceptable to the Bank. All
purchases, both public and private, under contracts amounting to US$5
million or more will be procured through international competitive bid-
ding. Certain commonly traded commodities may be purchased through price
quotations available from organized international commodity markets.
Whatever procurement methods are used, not more than US$30 million of the
loan and credit would be used to finance the import of any trade class-
ification group or subgroup. Expenditures for goods procured under
invoices of less than US$20,000 equivalent would not be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the loan. Reimbursement applications
would be consolidated and submitted from time to time in amounts of at
least US$5 million equivalent.



-44-
111.    Counterpart Funds.  The Kenyan shilling equivalent generated by
the sale of foreign exchange to importers provided by the loan and credit
would be credited to a special account in the Central Bank of Kenya. The
Government would use these funds for development-related expenditures in
the Central Government budget.
112.    The Technical Assistance Credit.  Because of the heavy demands
this program would place on the technical capacity of the Kenyan Govern-
ment in general, and specifically the Ministry of Agriculture, a parallel
technical assistance credit for agriculture has been negotiated.
113.    Risks.  The principal risk of the loan and credit relates to the
capacity of the Government to implement the program in its entirety. The
program is complex, involving a number of sectors and requiring carrying
out of studies, development of programs and carrying out measures in a
timely and coordinated manner. This will place a burden on the Govern-
ment's technical and administrative capacity. It will also test the
flexibility and responsiveness of the civil service. An additional risk
is that adverse reaction on the part of groups with vested interests in
sustaining the status quo, will force the Government to delay or even
abandon key elements of the program.



-45-
PART IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
114.    To date, Kenya has received 39 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 36 IDA credits amounting to US$1,430.9 million,
which support 67 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the
beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been
extended for the development of common services (railways, ports, telecom-
munications, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three
partner states of the EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1982.
115.    In addition to the Structural Adjustment Credits of 1980 (Credit
No. 999-KE, of US$55 million and EEC Special Action Fund Credit of US$15
million), performance under which has been discussed above, Kenya pre-
viously received a program loan, No. 1117-KE, dated May 27, 1975. That
loan was designed to support the Government-s efforts to restructure the
economy as a response to the sharp deterioration in the country's interna-
tional terms of trade following the oil price increases in 1973-74. Lar-
gely because of its timing and the evolution of external events, this loan
turned out to be less critical than anticipated. By the time the loan
was made in mid-1975, restrictive monetary and fiscal policies had already
been implemented. While this resulted in a sharp slowdown in the rate of
growth of the economy, it did stabilize the balance of payments. Shortly
thereafter, the country's external position began to improve dramatically
because of the rise in world coffee prices.
116.    The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to assist
the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has meant
the inclusion in the program of non-project assistance, and a first credit
in support of the Government-s structural adjustment program was approved
in 1980. Recent economic and sector work has also focused on the struc-
tural problems in specific sectors, including the energy sector, and the
Basic Economic Report, which will be distributed shortly, addresses com-
prehensively the issues of income distribution, population growth and
appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policies.
117.    Support of the structural adjustment efforts is, however, not
limited to non-project assistance. The selection of projects for financ-
ing and their design has been influenced by the need to complement policy
actions under the structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has
thus been given to the agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis has
also been placed on sectors such as population, and energy. Projects
approved so far in FY82 include a Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project,
a Third Forestry Project, a Cotton Processing and Marketing Project, a



-46-
Second Telecommunications Project and an Integrated Rural Health and
Family Planning Project. The Agricultural Technical Assistance Project is
being processed in conjunction with the Second Structural Adjustment
Operation.
118.    Projects under preparation or proposed for the future in the
agricultural sector include a grain storage and marketing project, with
primary emphasis on bulk facilities/transport and institutional
strengthening of NCPB (once the studies on the grain sector and NCPB are
completed), and a project to provide assistance to smallholder farmers
once the de facto subdivision of land is legalized. In the energy sector,
projects under preparation resulting from the investment program discussed
as part of the structural adjustment program include a fourth power
project (geothermal), and a proposed refinery project to provide secondary
processing facilities for the refinery at Mombasa. In the population
sector, the lending program includes provision for the second phase of the
population project.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
119.    IFC has committed a total of US$58.8 million for eight operations
in Kenya; these include loans for four companies: Pan African Paper
Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; lourism Promotion Services
(Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). Also included are a US$2.0
million credit line to the Kenya Commercial Bank, a US$5.0 million credit
line to the Kenya Commercial Finance Company and US$1.4 million in equity
to the D, elopment Finance Company of Kenya. As of March 31, 1982, IFC
held for its own account US$43.3 million comprising US$34.0 million of
loans and US$9.3 million of equity. A Summary of IFC investments in Kenya
is included in Annex II.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
120.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association and the draft Loan Agreement between the
Republic of Kenya and the Bank, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of
the Credit and Loan are listed in Annex III, Section III. The condition
of disbursement of the second tranche of the Loan is that the Government
shall be making satisfactory progress in carrying out commitments under-
taken in its Letter of Development Policy and in executing its economic
program (Section 3.05(a) and Schedule 3 of the draft Credit Agreement and
Section 3.05(a) and Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).



-47-
121.    I am satisfied that the proposed credit and loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
122.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit and loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 10, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-48-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERCES
LAND AREA (THUUSANI) Sq. KME.)                                                           - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE).
TOTAL             582.6                                   MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRIGULIURAL       6U.4                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA * CARIBBEAN
WNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    100.0        170.0      380.0                  794.2                    1616.2
ENERGY CUNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS UF CUAL EQUlVALENT)        150.4        122.1     180.1                  707.5                    1324.1
PUPULATLON ANU VITAL SIATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8189.0         11253.0   15274.0
URBAN PUPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4            10.2       13.8                   27.7                      64.2
POPULA11ON PROJECTIONS
POPULATIUN IN YEAR 200U (MILLIONS)                          34.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2095
POPULATION  EUNSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          14.1         19.3      26.2                   55.0                      34.3
PER Sq. WD. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2           191.4     244.4                  130.7                      94.5
PUPULATIlii ACE STIUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           47.6          48.9      50.0                   46.0                      40.7
15-64 YRS.                           49.8         48.6       47.6                   51.2                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          2.5        2.4                    2.8                      4.0
POPULATION GRUWTH RATE (PERCENT)
ITIAL                                 2.4          3.2        3.4                    2.8                      2.4
URBANi                                5.2          6.4        6.8                   5.1                        3.7
CRUDE BIRIH RAIE (PER THOUSAND)        52.0         52.7       51.3                   46.9                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        24.0         17.5       13.4                   15.8                       8.4
CIRObS REPRODUCTIUN RATE                3.6          3.8        3.8                    3.2                       2.3
FAHlLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         30.9      61.0
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             1.0
FOUU AND NUTRITIUN
INLEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             99.0        100.0      86.0                   89.9                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     99.0         99.0       88.0                   92.3                     107.6
PROIEINb (GRAMS PER DAY)             70.0         68.0       52.0                  52.8                       65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0          28.0      20.0                   16.1                      34.0
CHilL  (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       34.0         22.5       15.2                   20.2                       7.6
HEALtH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.3            49.1       54.7                   50.8                      64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TIHOUSAND)                            126.0/c      119.0       91.0                     ..                      70.9
ACUESS To SAFE WAIER (PERCENT UF
POPULATION)
tOTAL                                  ..         15.0       17.0                  27.4                       65.7
URBAN                                  ..        100.0      100.0                   74.3                      79.7
RURAL                                  ..          2.0        4.0                   12.6                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PoPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         50.0       55.0                     ..                      59.9
URBAN                                  ..         85.0       98.0                     ..                      75.7
RURAL                                  ..         45.0       48.0                     ..                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            10690.6       7830.9Ld 11625.2d                13844.1                    1728.2
PDPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        2230.Ojc.d  1474.1/d  1U85.7/d                2898.6                     1288.2
PoPULATIoN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               807.O/c      774.1      770.8                1028.4                      471.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..     602.1                  423.0                      558.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..     802.8                 3543.2
AUDISbIONS PER HOSPLIAL BED              ..           ..
HOUS ING
AVEhAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          4.7
URBAN                                  ..          4.7         .
RURAL                                  ..          4.7
AVLRAGE NUMBER OF PERSONb PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                 2.5/c         ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACLCESS Iu  LECTRICIUY (PERCENT
UF DWELLCINGb)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



-49-                                                ANN3X I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
FENYA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGIITEpAVE13AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE);
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         60.0      99.0                   73.7                     101.7
MALE                  64.0         70.0      105.0                  96.8                     103.0
FEMALE                30.0         49.0      94.0                   79.0                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          8.0      18.0                   16.2                      35.3
MALE                   3.0         12.0       22.0                  25.3                      34.9
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0       14.0                  14.8                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..            2.0        2.0                   5.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.0         34.0      33.0                   36.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                           15.0         21.0      25.0                   23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         20.0/c       30.0       45.0                    ,.                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0          8.5       8.0                   32.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7,0         44.4      36.8                   69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3          1.4       4.2                    8.0                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.0         13.8       11.2                  20.2                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0             ..        0.4                   0.7                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3299.8       4319.7    5530.0                      .
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.5         34,3      33.5                   36.7                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.0         82.0       78.4                  56.6                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0          7.0       9.6                   17.5                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 40.3         38.4       36.2                  37.2                      31.8
MALE                                  53.3         50.9       48,5                  47.1                      49.0
FEMALE                                27.5         26.1       24.1                  27.5                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3        1.4                   1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT Of PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       .,         20.2/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           52.6/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          3.9/e       ,.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ,.         11.77        *.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     150.0                  381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..     112,0                  156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     179.0                  334.3                    513.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     106,0                  137.6                     36i.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           .,      10.0
RURAL                                 ,.           ..      55.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic moeans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not 4niform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /e Urban only.
May, 1981



-50-                                                                       AN~NEX I
Page 3 of 6
MEEFINITIONS OF _SOCIAL INDOICATOaS
Masse:  Although the data are dra:fe  sieogssal   Jde   i  mot    toItoi..sd reliable, it should also  be ntd  1thathtbs  my not he inte-
tatiotnllyo-psrhla  beo-s  of tht  lat   of              tstrdies   ,iftooeadrss                .      yffaehcoii.t   oloiMtsdt.CTr  da. art. tn
saatn-ooltuaal affinities).    st~~ttcaffeoc  -groupol1 data the anarag-  ar  PopoIutioc neighted or tnbo it Ic  Ian     .u eah.    dc.oIv   htt   syes
esota    f lbha notoiaI  A gr-p ha . dt   o   tha  ittot           r. SitavathMunrioofcunyIts amon  th.  tin_c _n  dvneo  the a                                  I it tiy ofdat
sad  Isntnioa I         attr        Is he earisd Ln  -elar tg  rs..ss   of ova itdi-sr-rtososther.   Ts... ineege   art onlyuso   il comparin  tt  conso
one iadio-torsoaae I         aog  he.osr   n   efeso    roe
LANE AREA (thousan.d cis)gp:ncn ar, 1oneytal eI                                                                                                toal   niy,od nuca  -   coior)ns,
latch-  Tta          ...n  ra   nyiighadaa   n Iien..astrshur.at  and rural  1diold   hy vfe  rspc ia   ober c  hospital bade
for  vopa  yaaunea  maket and kitchen                IIdnao   toI. tallon; 197  fan.-           hhihhttcinoc-vtare.  Onsyhia    acItahiheta  Prsenl cafd
hy in    aIn  -v  phyciian    feShlsansyniigptcplycao
IN? PElt~ CAIA   li)-19oaoalo enaneinurv nriayics                                        -di,' vant ore not included.  trn) hea_                           sa    ovon,icld    al)
130 1ad1979 dor.-                                                                                    aedlcl-      stn  ,-tote,  Ldeifo,  te-.) ehich   ffari-mianacoi
d"tior Ind oroveda A liaitsd  Iag    f medical facilities.  Per attie-
trinity) in kilograms nf -n1aqoi-alent Per  -iytta   1960, 1970, Itl 1379                               na Ser      ponilid hospital  ar  tai-udd uv ud0    tin.
dsts.                                                                                                 Adesis   e    orvlhd- Tota  nombsr of udmiea... to or di-hasa-
momhpsita I dividd  by the onobas ef teds.
POPiI.   A    UOt9  VThAi. STATI~STICS
Tnasi Pnrolation. . aid-tear         .. (,j ad.) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, Avd 1979               80001NG
Irben Poro.latine  )rarc-n rf tota) -  atio nf urban to  rotni yuyol-ti-;                               0 hoo..shnld  -uta... of a             foopn  lodivid-a)   eh. share  lIivigqu
different defiittoao   nstrI                a    f-se   -oma-h iit  of Sal                           an   hm      oemlt.hhoteion                -da  tuy no nyce  h  IstddIn
aognotnios.   Nl   5),al17  daso.                                                               tha      . boehoidtnsarai          pnye.
Pneulaatot Pro fotti.n.c.siokco   esoi    srosit                                                                                                         urban, and srsi1   A-eraga no
tns   oueinbyag vse                   dthi  noIallfy  and lenil)fty   itas.                         d-elinga, n apee-cly.   sI...e.sn odeon -psnti  s                               Illura  a
foI lf   epctny at birt   nnaigrch"county ayenIna icvn                                           hceec    tlem ieo             _nnsv f detehlinsa) -_totlq       nho.advia 
levl,ad dsoh If   eseroeaoflais  s7.  pesr..                      .  CAh  yars-                  (onoinlds1na  tr.lcrciyi  livint quaters 55                                  -tg
asnsr  for fsrilfiy rite  olae ha-  hthrehel eIsomingdad  ma L.                                     ofdtvl.oht.sdno Oolingecesp-cr-ly.
fsrrilityatnnrding  to  Ioo           . lys  ond ps  folY patn   P'ro ne
each country  ie thor asnigned ore of~I  ths  vine~ enhnEfvDU otliy                  fCATIONt
sndl ter tily  arnd  ton - rjee to Iopno.                                                        udboesadInrnlleet tati
Sasr...iry perulaiinv  - 1v I sntteiary ypoiotion  thare  IIevogroonhsfvo-                            rimar  snhno  - ennal  m ale-n    rasintit                        oead female ~.   t
th, hieth rat  I  equal totadah  aa    e                                         tlcthsrsrcn -       anI   Ian    f all ogre at the pnio...Y leve  os Pe..entagea n  reseeIn
ma.r .onestvt .  OtaIt oclIfnd ovy            tma   fetlt    ae    si t        oIprmar  aho-oge  ypoplofin-; normaly ti-lods niidren  aged h-il
rho  repl-.seenI ls-e  nf unit vat  c,rI,nii  rt, nhrn  -a1h garttu-oamh 5odua-d ins differen   i-sgthe cIf yste y eduction   fo-
of    eerpl-a    -Itef .natily.  The  ttonr    nulIo st   e                                          co    teat    niveroo  adne-ite  .nru. isr..t mop ai-oad .11  psrre-
seimotod onasbeao th            e pro) I   etsd coeantsn    f rho yPIP,,"v                            since taa poptie ac  babe. on oblva she off oia1 ahnn I ig.
in  the   j  2sor loll,n  the rare of d-elin   of forthtrfy  -ate so rnplaa                         aodr  oha      oa,  aeadfs                       - Computed as abon,;: e.r. dary
Yes. stat nt, s  no-eln in  ia ve.eO)ed - The ye- or  h-   -rti-v-y poulton,Indo, g _nre   co_tisl,_                                       o  tIahn    teitin        t ve -tinos  Inr yptk
sits hoe het -thol .                                                                                       Iasly of ii t  17  arae    .g.nvrcnocao a   or. tnra.
OnUis-tin  -esiyenlded.
Parso. km. -Mitd-yeor popolanten   tt sq--n  hilna.to -          ll  hoetur-es)  fS                    AnoivlarhletIaceto   andry       ouil  itavItui
total  area; 19h0, 1970 and 1979 dots,icueervrl   noano    rohtpormatitoeaetdyn
Pers..      .erehoo   ad-lsoe    soor  n    goorrllv                                                      rl ci   eater  ofsandrtoioine
ant;  9h1  1)1  od19)  dii.Pothsoa-nr nti -.te,.d,.Ad   aevdb-                                                                                     lroletdans  nrnde   i
.Porta mti  d.e ttooer      -ier -n) - Childrr  )0-14Y.r.re)    ..... nslg-ag    II                                      ...o..an   irodary   oI.-    dinidAd by nuber. et  ...c bees In nhr
64 ynae)  ad  etnd  lbs yenn and  -ne) Ia Pevee.n..                et nTd-ya   ony-                     cnnrndn    r-el..
aro;ih,19)1   nd17  Into                                                                       _diOioaCnte_(~nc t -- Litn-taodoIte  (ohl. in road and orlee)
PParlation  re-th eat  )parcenn) - total - AnnuaI srotsh rocee ni total aid-                               I0 .P..r..ttoge of tota  adot opopluti- aged 11 y-sa Ind nv_r
Yea  poplanione  for 1350-hI, 19n0-tl, and  1970-19.
Onoularint G-oth eats. renans  - urban - Annual gro-h  .tote  nf unkan pnp-                         CONSUNfPTION
loton   for iN5l-6i, 1Nh0-O0, and 1971-79.                                                            aene    aoie   tuo4vua  m)-Peogrcs   aira    oe
Crde efrth hats Ins  tho....dl - ...noI Ion. hitiha  yen ith--d of eid-,nar                            coesatn           Io  ea  eght penon;et. eda..h.nes  h-ane  ad
popo1.ticol 1960, 1970, andl1379 ds.tnliaynhelt
Csade EDah hrsI Inon tho..s.vd) - Annll. drb    e   fsnao  ai-porRai.h.ivr   (crh nd noulaLk.nl -Aol cypee of recivers  fon non
populitinn; 1960, 1970, mind  79)  dat.                                                               hnoodon     In enra  pb~lic p.toedo  pnpn. ii i                        .n.e..d un-
Crssirrdcnn   ht-Averoge noahen of deoihtariinoa-v  ciiibs.r In                                         liesd reciver -in  nvr e   n   fopasenrgansf                              n  nodin
tar norma  reprodootivs1 pid   i  she eapertav.a.Pr.ev   ogo-spanif.Ic fortI..a to effect; doesIt hoersn   Ye_r  may tint hacma al.io
tiiisrtse9       ...elly fiv-yea  sorgas erding  Iv 1960, 1970, ard 1379,                             ma          ttnai_tabliahed  lIIr..e i.g.
FaMily Pianoing-Iters  )yereooi     .  nfi ma  Irtfd oneroPI rersg..c.srnr                    iengtPie   and             . ya .sr .a reritratoc of   ltat  sat             -
ona  o   hild-b oaring ag   l5o    ees   )e   t  blrrh-cnonn  dein    oSsaas_Crolio_ie   huel..yoatt                                                    Shor  ih. --Veg  ni-
FOAD AND NUOTRITION                                                                                        in bhe"diily" if Ir app..,. an 1-os          . co  tio    arek
ndeo nIf tend Penld-i-e1~   aia)ho-  10    lodsa of yPro-ptec onnal(-e    Anal-A indrc  er   ars                                                     norlea-hose.dIon the noslits ci
produonino nf allfond  --aoditira   P-od-csinvelde1               tod  iv ..d    food- srd            tiokas o.d..d doriep the pear, including adnit-i..s an dir-un cio-a
Ie I on 1 cedor y-s  hseio,  CnmodisIrs  --ne  prliry g-eda) ..g.  _ugin__                            and  mahIluritA.
iaatssd of-eogar)ahlcb  are edble  . end        ....oin...I...  ...s . coft  and
r at. oaLoded).  Aggrgt  podo-tiot of nu-h ..uvi-y Ia hoard cc                                LAilR Pilot
alnloeaeprndnnor pric-orighie; 1961-65 . 1970, and 1979 doe-.                             Toto1 Lsbn Pose  )vhouaivld.)                         ....ni.Iy.ctvep.ens. hc.. do
Pa   atn  nur ply vIfclnn    nrninirvi  ana    Conpucad                       I t-aane  tI..e  and unmp                        Iy    . hu  e....d.. h"I    avs,an         ta    t.
energSy ..quInae    ofon-     fn  supis..itba               co ~try PAr c.pitor                     -n-ing  poplotion ot all aga ifou osfi ..                 or.. u.. e-totetire
per ds.   Aalal  solta I            nre  doPIicyndotin, inpon-  Lees                                von coapos..hbl; 1960, 1970 and 1979 duto.
oapnrne  ad eh.,a,, l  stock.  Net euppliat  -eeldo  atlas1  fa.-Io.de                            Feaeinet) -                1Psl  labnr foceIs pi-ottegr If  -nsil1        n I.-force
quitsmissused  n fnd p--iaafg, ond losses  iv devbuio.Reur-                                 Aeiolua  nncn     - l,sin  foori  farive, torrery, buoyting nod
mane  eas timand hy  AO Ih..od cv phyailolginni--J I.do  norma  auti.                             fishing Ia p              Inneg    ftti     f-ortcn; 1990. 19)0 ..d 19(9 dato.
viY sad heth nn....Iitsigtnronn            -lsny-t-r, linde negi,ar                              nuro(rre                   loo  force  te  _iig,cnIno ,,tin,moIai
h.asahold   -1rn l) 96l61-hI,  1970  and  1077 dnsn"8.                                             190 and 1979 dote
Pan naitocrl   ftorn(nm   o I'll  -IrnotvI IcnnIofyenestt                                           yateptofarCrtoLzs4a- l matk- e I.                    -i eai  - p-nitpsine
nat su~ppyly f food2 perday,  vet enoply nf food is define' d   Aeboe.~ Re-                         -noitiyrsa ae , n-puned.es f1tet    male  ovA.-   frai   ao  freo
ollo..n.   of60grams of tm...i prtein per dip aI  IT gnaoe ofanma  ovI1960  1970, ovd 1979 dane.  Thesea   hb-d onILl'a p-tipniovta
po   ..a niain  at o"hiet10 3r-n  shul  he o-i-ai  p-rici .  Theeegnd                            rtl.aio I    g-orafenrun-ofee  the rupotfti-, o-  (org  ties trr-d,A
Ird   ar  love  ohaninrnO7   rasn   nu thtItlan  2) prone of                                        tee eanimar ::Armfrm          tooloIe
a-iol protInI         re ivoassfrroond    ryno    yPIi   l    hr                                  rini    ordvnvto                Rtov p.pulagns odot lbend t  andcr
hordPodori; l9h-hS   190ad17    aa                                                                 to  tha  -ceu  leo-  force.
Pesosnit,nosverrodam i  ovA~1"_y     l          cle    yocis  uPpyly ci tend dn-
Pis    o   niaeadpulsa  iv gr... pmt dry; 1961-by, 1970 ond 1977 data,                       otc.CtM  DiIOTOiCLia
Childlogos1-hisornaify   ate  )or teuunv) .-Anvool d-ohi Por thnu-od it                 Pref,n   )ric   lcn   br  iceah_od  kIcd) - tr-niod hy ni-it
age arop 1-4 y-ae   t.e obildre-  iv thit  afo  deco; fIr mo-  d-coIcoW  conI  ecoc   iho    0 pcc-ovr, oco-t 20  ncrt  ovA  p--no  40 pr-c-
trueId dos  de-i-d ftoe life  tablie; 1917, 1970 avd i97n du.                                         of houshols
HEALTH                                                                                                 POyVtRn  ToiTOOP
Life  ornaoraaBrl  mon)--cng   neo  o    ro  of life r-minilg                                         The fARlnTt GRUSoiio    n   syapo  et   onrse   oes   ees
at .bIrth; 1N6l, 197  and 1979 duo,                                                                     sod.I   o h rId    errin    ih crdrioenln
lf  ft lrtitt, fits (n., thousan d) - Annual d-iho  of Octfavis under  v  yeas                     Istimad AbenuePnnyIrm    oe  ))f..oso!k   ra  o-i d01 -
of  ag    e   hosdlnebirths.                                                                         Ahbeuneponet   inool'lI   htivm   i-e    enecion  i)
her ofpepi  (tl,uban, ovd tota) nish  -,oiin ln   o...e .v tote                                       nfrdobo
nasar suPppl  )iv-1udos  ireand  -efo-nrr  or -nrrtd hot --to -iirted"                               -i-imtd heaie   ootoIvm   L-Ie )CS).y    ano    urood   aa
Isnnoe    f rhtneeso..meti_epvitnn             onrouoaolrproi   no   ci Oho e_ntro.  C                                                       I., Iss  it  _lo _d men the nunal
fonao inor aondyen  lcate   voieurothacill   atec  trtA    lns   a   rlnint   dneetfchae   etc   iitt  urban 1 ar....It
noridreocbeig  itivrenctbl  orec oPta   rote.   On rural aroII
esanabe   cee  001   Ipl   ha  te  eusoi  c  ithntd   the  ocheold 200msed  coutcAcytrbp   Atcnht-PJcxro    ilnnnr O  .b erei)-ura
SOnthav   n  pn   adovooinoc   a    o   hn  a   oiretg   h                                       tArrl      senho   nolren)vs  sodt_    rural  chL                ry".al
issily' anseer trede.                                                7005~~~~~~~~~b.2
Ancesseefonrere  liscoasl I rercent ni potulocion-ronol  urbant                                                              (-b--d  and.h. -nil..-
per teef.p oI,  tthalrepec tine pIplo-tore -dy ..or .t disnta dn.py  ,ood
the no i `ot     and dispsa,   ie"   e Oib t thouitroaI eni  of _uonerrai....nf  u d Soc iol Dso  DOioint-
anI nss-atrby asenbrn   e -ta  or the  -a  of Pit prtivie  And tint-                                                                    rcioseAnlo nad PrnrvOc  lpce
Pouain    o  Phys;1icia  -;npI, ln  dicidad hy  -uni-  yr P-avi.iig  hhyti-
ninequlfie   fry     edcI_  _ohoi, 1         i  .. irto  level
I           drloiI   Ys oso    sso-Ppltrndiio   i   utro   ne  cc
mloafEmdogi  ar   uss   raihlncooind                         siaafueo



-51-                                                    Axnnex I
Population:  15.865 million (1980)                                                                                    Prage 4 of 6
GNP Per Capita;  tB$420 (1980)
lKENYA-C - BXll1IC lNDICAlXFS
1980
indicator                               Anmmt                             Amnual Growth Rate (%)
(million Ui$ at        Actual/a                            Projected/a
current prices)  1976   1977   1978   1979   1980      1981   1982   1986   1991   1995
National Accounts
Gross domnestic product at m.p.       5986.0          2.1    9.5    7.4    4.2    2.4       3.1    3.3    4.5    5.5    5.5
Agriculture                         1463.8          1.9   10.0    4.2   -1.0   -1.2       2.0    3.2    3.7    4.0    4.0
Industry                             865.3         -0.4   13.1   10.9    6.8    3.8       4.0    4.0    5.0    7.0    7.0
Services                            1934.9          4.1    5.8    7.0    7.5    4.7       4.0    4.1    4.9    5.6    5.6
Conamption                              5962.4        -3.5    7.9   15.3    6.6    2.3        7.1   -0.5    3.6    4.3    4.3
Gross Invesbuent                        1882.0         12.0   35.9   23.9  -24.8   17.3   -14.8    2.0    4.6    5.5    5.5
Exports of GNFS                         1980.5          6.3    5.6   -4.3   -8.3    5.2   -13.7    4.6    4.8    6.5    6.5
Imports of GNFS                         2832.8        -2.7   18.3   26.6  -19.8    8.9   -12.8   -6.4    2.3    3.1    3.1
Gross National Savings                   870.4         17.0   64.6  -27.4  -27.1   64.4   -13.6   29.6    8.0    9.4    9.7
Prices
GIP deflator/b                         100.0         71.2   83.6   85.7   91.9  100.0    108.0  115.6  145.9  195.2  246.5
Exctange rate (KSh./US$)              7.4202       8.3671  8.2766 7.7294 7.4753 7.4202    9.091  9.091  9.091  9.091  9.091
Share of GDP at market prices (%)          Average Annual Growth Rate (%)/a
(at current prices)/c
Actual                 Projected
1974   1979   1980   1986   1991   1995       1974-79  1981-86  1986-91  1990-95
Gross dcmestic product at m.p.      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0           4.7      4.2      5.2       5.5
Agriculture/d                      35.4   34.3   32.5   31.0   29.2   27.6           4.4      3.5      3.9       4.0
lndustpy/d                         20.7   26.1   21.8   22.4   23.7   25.1           6.1      4.6      6.5       7.0
servicesF4                         43.9   39.6   45.7   46.7   47.1   47.3           4.9      4.6      5.3       5.6
Consumption                          81.5   84.2   85.3   81.9   77.6   74.3           5.6      2.7      4.0       4.3
Gross Investment                     25.8   22.7   26.9   22.9   23.0   23.0         -1.5       5.0      5.3      5.5
Exports GN1                          33.7   25.5   28.3   24.5   25.7   26.7          -1.2      4.7      6.2      6.5
Imports GNFS                         40.9   32.4   40.5   29.3   26.4   24.0          -2.0      1.3      3.0      3.1
Gross national savings               14.5   13.0   12.1   15.7   19.0   22.4           0.6     12.2      9.2      9.7
As % of GDP
PUWLIC F1NA1N                            1974  1979  1980
Current revemues                        16.0  24.7  24.8
Current expenditures                   14.3  22.5  23.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)              1.8   2.2   1.8
Capital expenditure                     6.1   9.7  10.1
Foreign financing                       2.0   4.2   5.4
OIER INDICAIX1S                        1974-79  1981-66  1986-91  1990-95
GNP growth rate (%)                    4.9      4.1       5.1      5.6
GNP per capita growth rate (x)         1.0      0.2       1.3      1.9
Energy aonsAption growth rate (X)      4.9      2.5       3,1      3.3
ICOR                                   7.8      5.4      4.5       4.2
Marginal savings rate                  .268    .333      .322     .375
Import elasticity                     -0.4      0.3      0.6       0.6
/a Growth rates for historical years are based in constant 1976 prices; projected years in constant 1980 prices.
ii YSh. deflator based in 1976 prices.
/c Projected years in constant 1980 prices.
/d Share of GDP at factor cost.
April 7, 1982
FA1DA



Popultion: 15.865 million (1980)                                  -52-                                                Anie I
GP Per Capita: tE$420 (1980)                                                                                          Pap    of 6
KIY  -  aEI        MUME
Ahmct                                      Amial Growth Rate (%)/a
Indicator                        (illona t5$ at                       Actual                                 Projected
cirrent prices)
1980                1976   1977   1978   1979   198       1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1991
ECER1AL TRAIE
Merhiniise exports                   1247.2                6.4    4.0   -7.7   -2.1    3.2   -13.2    4.6    4.6    4.8    4.8    4.8    6.4
Prlmary/b                           963.4               12.4    9.0   -3.7    4.8   -7.3    48.3    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.9    4.9    6.2
M!iuactures/c                       283.8                0.4   -5.4  -18.6   -3.1   29.6        3.9    4.0    4.0    4.7    4.7    4.7    6.8
dichdse iworts                       2612.2              -3.8   22.0   16.4  -18.3   14.7   -11.4   -6.4    3.1    2.5    2.3    2.3    3.0
Food/d                              111.2                5.3    3.0   70.0  -19.2   57.6   -23.0   -9.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    0.0
PetroTman/e                         778.6              -8.3    4.0    2.9    0.9   16.7    -9.1   -5.2    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    3.0
Fachinery Md quipamet/f             706.4             -16.7   36.0   29.4  -28.4   19.0    -9.5   -2.9    5.5    3.4    3.4    3.4    4.0
Otbers                             1016.0                ..      ..      ..      ..     ..   -13.1   -9.6    1.8    1.8    1.2    1.0    2.5
Export price index                                      73.2  102.8   81.2   83.7  100.0    93.2   98.5  106.4  114.8  124.0  132.7  186.1
Izport price irdex                                     65.2   69.6   68.7   76.8  100.0    99.1  104.3  115.1  127.0  140.0  150.5  216.7
Terms of trade Index                                   112.3  147.8  118.2  108.9  100.0    94.1   94.5   92.4   90.4   88.6   88.2   85.9
Ccmposition of Merchandlse Trade (%)         Average Amal Incresae (%)/a
(at constant 198D prices)
1974  1979  1981  1986  1991  1995         1974-79  1981-86  1986-91   1990-95
Exports
Primary                                 71.0  83.0  72.9  73.1  73.1  72.6             2.1      4.8       6.2     6.3
25aufactures/h                          29.0  17.0  27.1  26.9  26.9  27.4           -11.3      4.4       6.3     7.0
Iimorts
Food                                     6.6   5.3   3.7   3.4   2.9   2.1           -10.4      -0.3        -      -
Petrolem                                21.2  23.7  30.6  31.1  31.2  38.9            -2.8       1.5       3.0    3.0
Machinery and equipt                    22.8  35.5  27.6  30.2  31.5  25.6             1.7       2.9       3.9    3.9
Others                                  49.4  35.5  38.1  35.3  34.3  33.4             ..       -0.1       2.4    2.6
/a Historical graith rates are baed in 1976 prices; projected growth rates in 198D prices
/b  Bssed on ueighted quantuLn indices (base year - 1976) of food, live anImlls, and crude materials
/c Ewludes patroleLn products. Value of maufactured exports are deflated bl international inflation index to arrive at constant price
series.
/d  Bssed on quantim index (base year - 1976) for Sr1C 0.
/ie Based mn quantun Index (bae year - 1976) for SIlC 3.
if Based on quantim index (base year - 1976) for SIM1 7.
/  Indices for historical years (1976-80) are based In 1976; those for projection years are based in 198D.
Exmludes petroleun products.
April 7, 1982
EbIDA



-53-                                                 AnexI
Population: 15.865 million (1980)                                                                                        Page 6 of 6
GNP per capita: ¢S$420 (1980)
KENYA - DAIE OF PAYMENIS, EXENAL CAPITAL AND DEBr
(million LS$ at airrent prices)
Actual                                    Projected
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980        1981    1982    1986    1991    1995
BAIANZE OF PA)TENIS
Exports of goods and services           1184.6  1614.9  1581.0  1629.6  2032.8    1651.7  1821.5  2933.0  5447.0  9033.5
of which: .4erchandise f.o.b.         743.9  1130.9   955.8  1017.5  1242.5    1008.3  1114.7  1809.3  3423.4  5758.4
imports of goods and services          1300.3  1653.9  2332.6  2206.8  3069.4    2639.9  2650.1  4221.9  7091.7  10547.5
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.          975.0  1279.0  1875.7  1779.2  2632.8    2294.4  2260.8  3610.0  6008.9  9086.3
Net transfers                            32.3    66.5    91.1   100.1   139.6        153.6   168.9   247.3   398.3   583.1
Current Account Balance                 -83.4    27.5  -660.6  -477.0  -897.0    -834.6  -659.7  -1041.6  -1246.5  -930.8
Private direct investment                 37.7    54.5    32.1    66.4    61.2        66.4    73.1   107.0   172.3   252.3
MALT loans (net)                         111.9   145.6   410.1   412.5   515.3       460.2   552.6   866.3  1066.9   654.1
Official                                  ..      ..       ..       ..      ..    (304.4) (546.4)  (401.3)  (568.1) (829.4)
Private                                  ..       ..       ..      ..       ..    (155.7)   (6.2)  (464.9)  (498.9) (-175.3)
Other Capital                             19.1    44.7    17.6   187.0   125.9       108.0    99.0   118.1    93.8   147.3
Change in reserves                      -85.3  -272.3   200.8  -188.9   194.6        200.0   -65.0   -49.7   -86.6  -122.9
International Reserves                  425.9   698.2   497.4   686.3   491.7        291.7   356.7   546.4   905.2  1337.1
Reserves as months imports                4.3      5.2      3.8     5.1      2.9       1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5
EXIERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBI
Gross Disbursements                      180.9   231.6   285.1   376.8   420.8       566.0   689.5  1151.6  1738.4  1637.3
Official grants/a                        ..       ..       ..      .        ..        ..       ..
Concessional loans                      63.3    64.7   104.5   149.9   179.6       215.8   313.5   329.3   509.6   675.9
DAK                                   46.1    33.7    54.0    94.0    81.2        133.0   127.0   158.6   223.2   292.5
OPEC                                   -       -        -       -        -         19.5    50.3    37.6    52.7    69.1
IDA                                   13.6    17.7    16.3    21.5    71.6        30.5    90.8    75.7   140.9   192.6
Other                                  3.6    13.3    34.2    34.4    26.8        32.8    45.4    57.5    92.8   121.6
Non-concessional loans                 117.6   166.8   180.6   226.8   241.2       350.2   376.0   822.3  1228.8   961.4
Offical export credits                18.8    11.0    17,6      8.5    10.1       26,5    55.5    75.2   105.4   138.2
IERD                                  66.7    34.7    42.3    36.7    40.0        77.2   197.2   112.3   214.4   294.8
Other official                         2.1    11.5      7.6     4.8    21.0       11.1    10.1       1.9     -        -
Private                               30.0   109.6   113.1   176.8   170.0        235.4   113.2   633.0   909.0   528.5
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed         700.8   917.2  1083.7  1433.2  1743.8    2336.3/b 2888.9/b 5817.3/blO873.3/bl4359.5/b
Official                             605,2   709.6   792.8   977.6  1179.6    1593.3  2139.7  4117.2  6651.1  9506.3
Private                               95.6   207.6   290.9   455.6   564.2        743.0   749.2  1700.1  4222.1  4853.2
Undisbursed debt                       629.1   780.7  1056.6  1252.8  1304.5    1383.7  1323.0  1584.2  2518.1  3319.7
Debt Service/a
Total service payments                  65.3    74.6   121.6   120.2   183.0       201.8   271.2   531.3  1193.7  1652.1
Interest                              31.8    39.6    52.4    70.6   104.5        96.0   134.3   245.9   522.3   668.9
Payments as X of exports                 5.7     4.8      7.9     7.6      9.2      12.2    14.9    18.1    21.9    18.3
Averge interest rate on new loans (%)
Official                                 4.5     4.0      4.0     3.8      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Private                                  7.7     7.7      7.7    12.0      8.0       9.0      9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0
Average maturity of slew loans (years)
Official                                26.0    30.0    28.0    32.0    32.0        28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0
Private                                  9.5    11.9    13.0    11.9       5.9      10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years
Maturities due within 10 years                                   8.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                 100.0
/a Official grants are included in transfers in the balance of payments current account. Transfers are projected to grow at an
annual rate of 10%.
/b  Includes Kenya's notional share of 45% of EAC debt.
April 7, 1982



-54-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1982
US$ Million
Loan or                                                              Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                              Bankl   TW   IDAI  Undisbursed
Seventeen (17) Loans and Twenty (20) Credits and one (1)
Third Window Loan Fully Disbursed                                  301.68  5.00 209.72
477        1974    Kenya       Livestock                                         17.50      6.98
537        1975    Kenya       Group Farm Rehabilitation                          7.50      3.67
1105        1975    Kenya       Sites and Services                   8.00                    2.28
1184        1976    Kenya       Third Education                     10.00                    8.16
( 650       (1977   (Kenya       (Integrated Agric. Development                    10.00   ( 3.70
(1303-T    (1977   (Kenya        (Integrated Agric. Development            10.00            (10.00
1304-T      1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                      17.00              8.32
1305        1977    Kenya       Rural Access Roads                   4.00                    4.00
1389        1977    Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                  25.00                    5.49
1438        1977    IDB         Third Industrial Dev. Bank          20.00                    6.46
1449        1977    Kenya        Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.00                   31.89
750        1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                              10.00      8.22
1520        1978    NCC         Second Urban Water Supply           30.00                   19.42
( 791       (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                                     25.00   (21.51
(1550       (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                       25.00                  (25.00
797        1973    Kenya       Fourth Education                                  23.00    18.17
1636        1979    Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation                72.00                   67.27
1637        1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply                  20.00                   19.89
858        1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                    13.00    12.38
1680        1979    Kenya       Telecommunications                  20.00                   10.51
1684        1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                      90.00                   84.89
914        1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                    27.00    26.18
959        1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                     46.00    44.67
962        1980    Kenya        Baringo Pilot                                     6.50      5.88
1799        1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.002                      15.93
1817        1980    IDB          Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                   27.53
1045        1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                   4.50      4.49
1051        1980    Kenya        Fisheries                                        10.00    10.00
1107        1981    Kenya        Fifth Education                                  35.90    35.90
1976        1981    Kenya       Railway                             58.00                   58.00
(1143       (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture3 4                             9.40      9.40
(1995       (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture3                25.00                   25.00
2065        1982    Kenya        Petroleum Exploration               4.00                    4.00
(2098       (1982   (Kenya       (Forestry III4 3                    21.50                   21.50
(1213       (1982   (Kenya       (Forestry II13                                     16.00   16.00
1982    Kenya       Cotton Proc. & Marketing 3 4                       22.00   22.00
Total                             838.18 32.00  493.02  704.69
of which has been repaid          44.80   -       2.57
Total now outstanding             793.38 32.00  490.45
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                793.38 32.00  490.45
TOTAL undisbursed                             437.22 18.32  257.46  704.69
1/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ Not yet effective.
W/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.



-55-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of March 31, 1982
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                  Bankl    Undisbursed
US$ million-----
8ix loans fully disbursed                             135.80
638-EA    1969    EAHC       Second Harbours         35.00         0.52
865-EA    1972    EAHC        Third Harbours         26.50         0.35
914-EA    1972    EAPTC       Third Telecom.         32.50         0.28
1204-EA    1976    EADB        Second Dev. Finance   15.00          3.11
Total                                             244.80         4.26
of which has been repaid                          68.89
Total now outstanding                             175.91
Amount sold                            24.36
of which has been repaid              24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bankl                           175.91
Total undisbursed                                   4.26         4.26
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



-56-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. Status of Projects in Execution'
(As of March 31, 1982)
There are currently 31 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$17.52 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The implementation of this project has been hampered by a number of
policy and institutional issues. Consequently, disbursements have been
exceedingly slow and the outstanding balance as of December 31, 1980, the
closing date, was US$14.3 million. Agreement was reached with the Government
that the credit would be extended for a period of two years to December 31,
1982, if a number of conditions necessary to resolve the above issues were
implemented by November 1980. These conditions implied a more realistic and
modified project with decreased project costs. A joint Bank/GOK evaluation
exercise commenced in early April 1982 to evaluate in particular the water
development activities and to set up the framework for the PCR. Agreement
was also reached between the Government and the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC) and the Association that since the total amount of the
credit could not be utilized even with the proposed new closing date, US$4.0
million would be cancelled.
Credit No. 537-KE3 - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project: US$7.5 million
Credit of March 26, 1975; Effective Date:  September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The progress of rehabilitation of existing project farms has
encountered a variety of legal, social, political and financial problems.
Despite project efforts to recruit qualified farm managers, most of the farms
continue to suffer from inadequate financial and operational management.
I/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/ Net of cancellations, an amount of US$4.0 million was cancelled on
December 30, 1980, since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized.
3/ Loan No. 1093-KE, US$7.5 million, was cancelled on May 11, 1981,
retroactive to November 30, 1980, at Government request.



57                              ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
Rehabilitation of a few farms, particularly coffee estates, seems to be
proceeding satisfactorily as the majority of project farm group owners would
like to subdivide. To date they have been constrained by large debts for
common assets and by the absence of a clear Government policy and guidelines
on legal subdivision of group farms.   The Government needs to review the
implications of sub-division for the regions concerned, and prepare a project
to rationalize existing subdivisions and provide agricultural services. In
the interim, recruitment of additional farms has stopped, and the total loan
amount (US$7.5 million) has been cancelled at the Government's request.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million Loan
of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural developmnent has
advanced well and nucleus estate development is comnplete including drainage.
1981 production of cane, particularly fromn outgrowers, was well below
management estimates, due to lower cane yields, a smaller area available for
harvest and low sugar recovery. A research program is being drawn up to
identify reasons for low yields. All civil works are virtually completed,
work on minor roads is improving and major road works are proceeding
satisfactorily. Certain weaknesses in project management, particularly cane
handling and transport, have become apparent, and consultants are being
employed to rectify this problem. Although statutory sugar prices were
changed for the second time in a year in December 1981, SONY (the Project
entity) is experiencing serious financial difficulties. These are
attributable to unrealistic pricing policies, lower throughput, and SONY's
high fixed costs and debt service obligations. SONY has requested an
immediate cash injection from Government, who is presently considering a
special financial rescue program.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1978;
Effective Date:  June 27, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. The civil works are nearly completed and the first settlers
have arrived. Recent revised project cost estimates show a reduction in
estimated project costs, which previously showed serious cost overruns.
Although reduced, a financing gap continues and Government is studying
options for modifying project design and reducing costs. Project management
has experienced problems, but will be improved through recruitment of
agricultural management consultants.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: U$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under thie
Project, and hias now confirmed its intention formally to the Bank.



-58-                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
Developments in these project areas are in suspense since the companies have
not given evidence that they have a viable financing plan and since the
Government has not provided detailed plans for the comnplementary field and
infrastructural development. Rehabilitation of the third factory has been
held up by delays in the recruitment of consultants; serious cost over-runs
are expected. Low prices have led to a drop in cane supply. In spite of the
economic difficulties facing the sugar production sector, investments in new
factories are being projected. A study to review sugar marketing prospects
is now underway, and will form the basis for Government policy in the sugar
sector. Once this is complete, appropriate changes in project scope and
design will be discussed with the Bank.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
In late 1980 it becautd  obvious that the original project concept of
extending credit to resident Masai to finance purchases of farm machinery for
wheat production, could not be substantially met in the remaining years of
the project. The Masai continue to prefer to hire tractor and combine
services, or to contract all production activities.  Government and the Banik
discussed means of achieving the production objectives of the project without
detriment to the social objectives of developing Masai lands, and concluded
that expansion of the feeder road component of the project would satisfy
these objectives. Project funds have been reallocated from the credit
component to the feeder road component. The project has experienced delays
in recruiting consultants to carry out studies monitoring project
performance, and has also suffered from poor budgetary management.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 180;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Principal project activities have been affected by lower than
estimnated Government budgetary allocations to finance SCIP lending operations
for coffee factory rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements.
Training has made good progress, but training programs need to be expanded
and accelerated. Coffee factory rehabilitation has also been delayed due to
problems in project coordination and management, deficient loan applications
from cooperatives and insufficient technical staff. A short-term program has
been agreed to minimnize effects for the upcoming season, but project
management and budgeting need improvement and more technical assistance is
necessary. Financial difficulties are expected to continue to prevail in the
near future, and whether Project infrastructure, equipment and personnel will
be utilized in an optimal fashion will depend on future Government funding of
the Project.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980; Closing
Date: October 31, 1984
Project implementation started out favorably. The project team of
expatriate and local techniclans launched a number of experiments in dry-land



-59-                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
and irrgated farming, soil conservation and water harvesting, and range
management.  Project demonstrations attracted local interest, and
participation of area residents in project activities has increased. In the
last year, however, there has been a deterioration in the project's
performance resulting from financinlg constraints which have in turn adversely
affected staff performance and morale.  Government allocations to the project
are less than 50% of appraisal estimates, and project management has had
difficulties itn getting even those funds released. The shortfall has had a
particular impact on construction of project housing, which is sorely
inadequate, and on project field services. Little progress has been made on
the range management and livestock component, due to lack of technical
personnel. The Bank has recommended that special financing arrangements,
based on a revolving fund, be investigated to overcome financing problems.
Credit 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986
The impact of the project on production and farmer incomes has fallen
short of expectations: the number of participants is less than expected and
drop-out rates are high. This generally poor performance has resulted
primarily from the failure of the crop production component of the project
supported by credit. Farmer training and livestock components have
progressed adequately, as have some infrastructural components, although all
have been affected by severe budget cuts. Project problems include large
delivery of credit, inadequate management of cooperatives, the inefficiencies
of the farm input delivery system and inadequate crop marketing
arrangements. There is a critical need to improve the coordination of the
many participating Ministries, upgrade the research and extension services,
and make the Ministry of Cooperative Development a more effective
institution. TADP is the Government's major vehicle to assist Kenya's
smallholder farmers. Though progress has been disappointing, Bank
participation has made Government aware of problems in implementation. As a
first step in redesigning the IADP program, the Government is developing a
pilot training and visit extension effort in IADP areas, and seeking
improvements in the management of cooperatives, and distribution of credit.
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has been slow in starting up, partly due to
several unanticipated problems related to donor coordination, acquisition of
land rights and delays in the conclusion of the subsidiary financing
agreement governing provisions for credit to fishing cooperatives. These
issues have been resolved. The Project Unit is now focussing on
strengthening of cooperatives, planning of improved fish marketing services,
and reviewing designs for the fish farmning development center to be
constructed. The tendering of major contracts for equipment, construction
and technical assistance is expected to be completed by September 1982.



-60-                            ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Loan No. 1995-KE/Credit No. 1143-KE:  Fourth Agricultural Credit
Projectof May 19, 1981;.Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Loan/Credit not yet effective.
Loan No. 2098-KE/Credit No. 1213-KE: Third Forestry Project:
US$21.5 million Loan and US$16.0 million Credit of March 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Loan/Credit not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
June_30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about 3-1/2 years behind
schedule. Latest cost estimates indicated an increase of about 19% in total
project cost. Minimal progress in preparation of a new and appropriate
curriculum has been made by the Kenya Institute of Education, who has a
leading role in improvement of primary education. Provision under the Fifth
Education Project for strengthening the Project Unit was expected to
improve management of implementation activities. However, it appears that
Government is not timely in implementing agreement in this respect. The
Government has requested an extension of the Closing Date for this project,
and this proposal, inter alia, is to be reviewed by a mission planned for May
1982.                                  1
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: U$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date:  August 25, 1978; Closing Date:  December
sip 1982
Physical implementaton of the project is about 22 months behind
schedule (about 17% of completion). Revised total project cost increased to
about KShs 329 million representing approximatley 28% cost overrun in civil
works in terms of local currency. The Technical Assistance program as well
as the pursuance of educational objectives under the Credit are proceeding
satisfactorily. Problems persist in management of the implementation of the
project. The Government has requested, inter alia, an extension of the
Closing Date for this project, and this proposal is to be reviewed by a
mission planned for May 1982.
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project: US$40.04 million Credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Start-up activities which began with funding under a Project
Preparation Facility are progressing with designs completed for all civil
4/ IDA Credit US$40 Million equivalent SDR 31.4 million at time of



-61-                           ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
works components. Procurement of equipment and furniture has not commenced
and no technical assistance has been utilized yet. The fellowship program,
started with funding under the PPF, is underway with six staff members of the
Kenya Education Staff Institute having completed short courses in the United
Kingdom. One other long-term fellowship has been awarded and selection
procedures are well underway for others. A Steering Committee has been
appointed and has commenced planning the work and budget for the
pre-investment study on business education. In order to facilitate
coordination of the project, representatives of the ministries participating
in the project have been nominated although they have not yet met. The
provisions for the strengthening of the PIU have not been achieved and poses
a serious threat to efficient implementation. This will be assessed during
the May 1982 supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0
million Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply
contracts financed by other donors and the construction contracts being
financed by the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to
date have been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated
increase of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. The financial
performance of the water supply and sewerage operations has been good.
However, the Nairobi City Council's (NCC) financial condition has seriously
deteriorated over the last year and it has been necessary to use funds
generated from water supply and sewerage operations to finance NCC's other
expenditures.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
The Ministry of Water Development (MWD) proposes to reduce the
scope of the project to 24 sub-projects from the originally proposed 33.
Some sub-projects have been combined with others, some areas are to be served
from existing systems and some sub-projects have been deferred to later
programs in order to accomplish this reduction in scope and to maintain the
project cost within the appraisal estimnate. The project is about two years
behind schedule but the preparatory studies and designs are now well
underway. Training is progressing, procurement of vehicles is proceeding and
an acceptable water tariff structure has been reestablished.



-62-                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Projects:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date:  October 7, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project is about two years behind schedule due to
administration and procurement problems wlhich initially delayed establishnent
of construction units. All eight Bank-financed construction units are fully
equipped, satisfactorily staffed and are now operational since these problems
were resolved in 1978. By December 15, 1981, 1,083 km of access roads had
been constructed or 83 km more than originally anticipated. Since June 1980,
when minimum wage was increased by 67%, the labor shortage has been resolved
and the output of construction units has been increased from 32 km/unit/year
to present output of about 50 km/unit/year, as compared with appraisal
estimates of 45km/unit/year. The gravelling operation was slow in starting
because of delays in delivery tractors and trailers, the output was low due
to the labor shortage until 1980, inadequate planning, organization and
supervision. As a result only 336 km of roads had been gravelled by December
15, 1981, and present gravelling backlog of 742 km is considered as the major
problem. The Government has taken several steps to improve gravelling output
and is considering further action to clear the backlog. The road
construction cost is within appraisal estimates. The project completion
depends on gravelling output, which will require an additional two years to
complete on the roads already constructed.
Loan No. 1684-KE -_Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan
of April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's 5-year Highway Sector Plan
(1979-83) has been delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of
funds has caused a reduction by about 28% in the highway work program during
FY1979-82. This reduction has affected the project implementation which is
presently about 18 months behind schedule. The four contracts for
construction of the*Uplands-Limuru (11 km), Naivasha-Nakuru (56 km), Mau
Summit-Kisumu (136 km) and Nakuru-Timboroa (81 km) roads were signed and the
construction is progressing satisfactorily. The tender documents for the
remaining two subprojects, Thika-Nairobi (39 km) and Longonot-Uplands (27 km)
were issued recently and the contract award is expected in September 1982.
With these commitments, project completion is expected by mid-1985 as
originally scheduled. Implementation of the road maintenance program is also
slower than originally anticipated due to the financial constraints. Road
maintenance budgetary allocations for FY82 are about 40% below actual
requirements, therefore resealing and regravelling operations are slower than
projected. Routine maintenance is generally poor due to the lack of funds,
inadequate planning, programming and supervision resulting in low utilization
of existing resources, particuarly equipment and manpower. The Government is
in the process of reviewing development and recurrent expenditures to arrive
at a more balanced annual allocations in the future.



-63-                         ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Loan 1976-KE - Railways Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date:  September 3, 1981; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
This Loan became effective on September 3, 1981, following the
receipt of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and Kenya
Railway. Crown Agents have been appointed as agents for the Kenya Railways
Corporation (KRC) and procurement is now underway. From an operations point
of view, KRC is slightly above the targets set at appraisal.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes the US$9.0 million for the Olkaria Geothermal
Engiueering Loan (S-12-KE), refinanced under this project. Progress under
the loan has been satisfactory. The first 15-MW unit was placed into
commercial service in August 1981, one month later than scheduled, and the
second 15-MW unit is expected to be in operation by December 1982, 3 months
ahead of schedule. Fifteen production wells have been drilled under this
loan and steam capable of producing 37 MW of electric power has been proven.
Three as yet untested wells are estimuated to provide another 5 MW of power.
The project is expected to be completed within the cost estimate. As a
result of the success of the Project and the proven availability of surplus
geothermal energy, the Borrower has now asked the Bank to provide part of the
funds required for the installation of a third 15-MW unit, and the request is
now under consideration.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 2065-KE - Petroleum Exploration Project: UD$4.0 million
Loan of December 8, 1981; Effective Date: January 27, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
The Loan became effective January 27, 1982.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date:  July 1, 1982
Seventeen sub-projects have been approved under this Loan. As at
March 31, 1982, US$20.0 million had been fully committed and US$13.5 million
had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project:  US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation by Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) remains
unsatisfactory. KIE needs to (a) revise and adopt a realistic operational



-64-                        ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
plan; (b) make the arrears collection program more systematic and effective;
(c) tighten the project selection and approval criteria to improve the
quality of projects it finances; and (d) appoint a qualified finance manager.
As of March 31, 1982, US$4.8 million had been committed for 91 subloans and
some technical assistance, but only US$1.8 million had been disbursed. About
half of the commitments were for eight subprojects with the remainder
allocated to small free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date:   August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Eleven subprojects have been approved under the Loan to date.  As
at March 31, 1982, US$14.2 million had been committed and US$2.7 million had
been disbursed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date:
The Project Approval Committee established under this project has
now approved three proposals to study fluorspar, diatomite and chinchona
bark processing. These submissions are now being reviewed by Bank staff.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of A ri  11  1979; Effective Date:  August 16  1979  Ciosin  Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project is now progressing satisfactorily. Contracts for all
Bank-financed goods have been signed. Total loan disbursements as of March
31, 1982 amount to about US$9.5 million. Initial delays in procurement of
goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project completion. Kenya
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) has completed the
installation of a total of 1,050 lines of extension equipment in eight manual
exchanges using its own funds. The balance of a total of 480 lines in four
exchanges is expected to be inservice in 1982. KPTC has also installed
17,500 (out of about 62,000) lines of automatic exchange lines, and has
commissioned microwave radio equipment to complete the Pan African
Telecommunications Network (Phase III).
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Overall project implementation is satisfactory, with major civil
works contracts in the final stages of completion. Elowever, the community
facilities will not be completed until 1983, and additional time is required



-65-                          ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
to draw down the material loans.  Therefore, it will be necessary to extend
the closing date of the loan by one year. Disbursements are 87% of the
revised appraisal estimates, reflecting overall implementation delay of about
two years.  Maintenance of infrastructure work and refuse collection is
unsatisfactory and remains a city-wide problem. Housing consolidation on the
whole is good. Enforcement on valuations of underdeveloped plots and plots
in arrears is taking place. However, the total amount of arrears is rising,
and the City Council has been asked to take even more vigorous action on
debtors.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project:  US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 75, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is over two years behind schedule and this is reflected
in slow disbursements. However, most of the civil works contracts have now
been tendered or will be tendered in the next couple of months, so it is
expected that the disbursement performance will improve substantially over
the next year. Shortage of technical staff remains a problem which does not
appear to have any easy solution. The financial position of the Nairobi City
Council remains a serious problem. Mombasa Municipal Council has
successfully introduced its new valuation roll, and the Commissioner of Lands
has promised to provide assistance during 1982 to Kisumu in revising its
evaluation role.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM
Loan No. 1304-T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million
Loan of July 9, 1976; Effective Date:  November 10, 1976; Closing
Date:  June 30 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. All physical components
of the project are under construction and nearing completion witlh the
exception of the Naivasha Training Iastitute, which is not expected to be
completed before approximately October 1983. The delay is due mainly to the
late appointmaent of consulting architects and slow performance by the
contractors. The Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large Herbivores Study
have been completed, and recommendations contained in these two studies are
under review by the Government. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed
and deployed, and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory.
While satisfactory arrangements have been made for payments of returns from
wildlife to ranchers in project areas, Government has been unable so far to
complete negotiations with County Councils regarding management of national
reserves as foreseen under the loan. Alternative proposals are awaited from
Government. A postponement of the closing date by about two years will be
required in order to allow the completion of the construction of the Naivasha
Institute and for the further financing of the operations of road
construction units established under the project, which commenced only
recently.



-66-                               ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East African
Community.5
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness:  December 26, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar-es-Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a
joint project completion report was issued in January 1979 for the Second and
Third Harbours projects. General cargo throughput has increased above
appraisal forecasts for Dar-es-Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has
generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports
in both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA, and
US$26.5 million of Loan 865-EA, have already been disbursed. Following
project completion, a Project Completion Report was issued dated February 16,
1979.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. The slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays
in procurement caused by staffing and other problems associated with the
relocation of headquarters. About US$32.2 million of the loan has now been
disbursed.
5/  Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex.  The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
865-EA and 914-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



-67-                            ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The economic difficulties of
the three countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact on
EADB's portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore,
continues to be EADB's priority.



-68-
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
D. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
March 31, 1982
Fiscal Year       Obligor              Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973      Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels               5.2      0.7      5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and
1979          Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper   22.2         6.3     28.5
1972          Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels             2.4       -       2.4
1976          Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles           6.3      2.8      9.1
1977          Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market    2.0        -       2.0
1980          Development Finance        Development
Company of Kenya Ltd.    Finance             -       1.3      1.3
1981          Kenya Commercial           Money & Capital
Finance                   Market            5.0       -       5.0
1982           Bamburi Portland          Cement &           4.6       -       4.6
Cement Co., Ltd.         Construction
Material
Total Gross Commitments                  47.7    11.1      58.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   13.7      1.8     15.5
Total Commitments now held by IFC        34.0      9.3     43.3
Total Undisbursed                        14.7       -      14.7



- 69 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 1
KENYA
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
D                                  Supplementary Data Sheet
Section 1.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Supervision SAL I/Preappraisal December 1980
(b) Appraisal July 1981
(c) Post appraisal October 1981
(d) Negotiations April 1982
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness end June 1982
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to March 31, 1983, or other agreed date, the Bank
will review the Government's progress in implementing the
structural adjustment program set forth in its Letter of
Development Policy.
Section III. Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche of US$50 million of the loan would be
dependent on the Government making satisfactory progress in
carrying out commitments undert1aken in its Letter of Development
Policy and executing its economic program.



-70-                      ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 16
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
11th May, 1982
Mr. W.A. Wapenhans,
Vice-President,
Eastern Africa Region
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.      In March 1980, the World Bank made a structural adjustment credit
available to Kenya. The credit was designed to support Government efforts
to carry out the programs and policies of the Fourth Development Plan in a
period of adverse international economic conditions. More specifically,
the credit supported policies outlined in the Plan and in Sessional Paper
No. 4, "On Economic Prospects and Policies", designed to encourage the
industrial sector to become efficient and internationally competitive.
This involved the gradual rationalization of tariffs, reduction of quan-
titative restrictions on imports and the gradual phasing out of import
duty concessions to industries. The program also increased incentives for
exportation through improvements in the system of export compensation and
related policies.
Actions taken in the First Phase of Structural Adjustment
2.      In order to ensure the nation's domestic and external financial
stability and to ensure that government investments and programs were
consistent with resource availabilities and the country's changing
economic circumstances, the investment program in the Plan was to be
revised through the medium of preparation of a three-year Forward Budget.
To ensure effective and prudent use of external resources, procedures for
the contracting of and accounting for external loans were to be improved
and an external borrowing plan developed. Finally, the Government decided
to review its interest rate structure and make modifications required to
improve its effectiveness in promoting mobilization of financial saving
and encouraging appropriate use of capital and labor.
Rationalization of the Trade Regime
3.      Considerable progress has been made in restructuring the trade
system and giving greater encouragement to exports. In June 1980, out-
right bans on imports and the so-called Letter of No Objection privileges
were abolished and replaced with approximately equivalent tariffs. At the
same time, a 10% surcharge was placed on all dutiable imports. This had
the effect of making the tariff structure more uniform. The full
implementation of these measures was delayed until new administrative
procedures could be organized. This has now been done. In addition, the



-71-                     ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 16
1981/82 fiscal budget provided for increased tariffs on capital and inter-
mediate goods, elimination of some anomalies and distortions in tariff
rates and abolition of the sales tax on machinery. In all, tariffs have
been increased on some 1400 items. This has been coupled with tariff
reductions on selected inputs to export industries. These changes have
produced tariff and import control mechanisms that are fairer and more
internally consistent. They also provide an appropriate framework for
further efforts. Furthermore, in order to reduce domestic price distor-
tions, the system of price controls has been streamlined and the number of
items covered has beet reduced. The policy of passing petroleum prices on
to consumers has been continued and petrol prices have been increased on
three occasions in recent months, raising prices by approximately 50%.
Export Incentives
4.      In order to ensure that Kenya's exports remain competitive in
world markets and that there is sufficient incentiSve for their production,
export compensation was raised from 10% to 20% and its administration has
been redesigned to expedite payments to exporters. «In add*tion, the
Government has introduced an exchange rate adjustment of 5% vis-a-vis the
SDR in February 1981 and a further 15% adjustment in September 1981.
External Debt Management
5,      Other aspects of the program have also been completed satisfac-
torilyf  The offices dealing with the contracting for and recording of
external loans have been reorganized and their staffing improved. Data on
external debt outstanding, including the parastatal sector, have been
collected and are being processed. External borrowing plans will be
prepared for each calendar year. The first of these, covering calendar
year 1982 has been prepared and discussed with Bank staff.
Forward Budgeting
6.      A forward budget has been completed for FY81/82-FY83/84 which
provides for realistic levels of expenditures and a pattern of outlays
which is broadly consistent with the Fourth Development Plan and Sessional
Paper No. 4 of 1980. Projects and programs in the forward budget have
been closely scrutinized to ascertain their priorities. Preparation of
the forward budget for FY82/83-FY84/85 has involved close consultation
with Bank staff on the macroeconomic framework and instructions to Minis-
tries. The latter have been clarified and communications have been
improved. The 1982/83-1984/85 budget was completed expeditiously and has
been discussed with Bank staff.



-72-                     ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 16
Interest Rates
7.      The Government has completed a comprehensive review of interest
rate levels and structure. As a result, commercial bank lending and
deposit rates were adjusted upward by one percentage point in July 1980
and by 2% July 1981. In addition, deposit rates were increased by another
2% and lending rates by 1% in September, 1981. Other lending and deposit
rates have been adjusted roughly in line with these changes in the key
rates. Interest rates are now positive.
The Second Phase of Structural Adjustment
8.      The Government recognizes that the measures taken so far represent
the first steps in the structural adjustment process. It has, therefore,
designed a second phase which provides for a continuation of the process
of improvement of the system of industrial protection and incentives. In
addition, the scope of the program has been broadened to increase incen-
tives for agricultural production, to ensure that energy is conserved by
users, to expand domestic production of energy in an efficient manner, and
to consider systematically possibilities for investments in energy conser-
vation and production. Because of the pervasive influence of rapid
population growth on development, this phase also includes an essential
step towards increasing the Government's involvement in family planning
activities. Finally, improvements in forward budgeting, external debt
management and macro-economic policies will continue to be made.
Industrialization Policy
9.      A number of structural adjustment measures with respect to
industry, tariffs and trade were introduced in the first phase of the
program. These policy changes have altered substantially the setting in
which industrial decisions are made, thus contributing to structural
change.
10.     Since then several additional and supporting measures have been
taken. Together they have had the effect of increasing the cost of
imports by an average of 40%. Attachment II outlines these effects on
import prices. It is striking evidence of Government's intention to rely
increasingly on tariff and related mechanisms for the protection of
industry. This policy is being progressively extended along lines
described in succeeding paragraphs.



-73-                      ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 16
(i) Import Policy
11.     The new system of import administration, introduced in June 1981
provides for the progressive reduction of quantitative restrictions, their
replacement initially by equivalent tariffs, and the gradual rationaliza-
tion of the entire tariff system.
12.     Fundamental to the new system of import administration has been
the preparation of two schedules comprising all imports, the first being
quota-free and the second being subject to quotas of two types.
13.     About 38% of imported items have been placed on Schedule I.  These
high priority items are quota-free, and both import licenses and foreign
exchange approvals are being readily granted. Another 35% of the items
imported are on Schedule 2B, which remain subject to quotas by product.
They amounted to about 7% of the value of imports in 1979 and 1980. The
current extreme shortage of foreign exchange requires very limited licens-
ing of these goods for the time being. While the underlying purpose of
these quotas was to protect domestic industries owned and operated by
Kenyans, it is, however, the Government-s intention, as described more
fully below, to gradually change this protection from quotas to tariffs.
14.     Other quota-limited imports, amounting to 27% of the items and
about 53% of the value imported have been placed on Schedule 2A. Of
these, about 4% of the items and 40% of the value imported are sensitive,
high priority goods such as maize, petroleum, and fertilizers, which
require special licensing arrangements. They have been placed on Schedule
2A, although to the maximum extent po'ssible they will be treated
administratively similar to items on Schedule 1. The rest of the items
will be administered under a global or flexible quota system, not quotas
by item. The purpose of restraint under Schedule 2A is for balance of
payments management rather than protection of domestic production.
15.     The system is administered by three key committees.  The Official
Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee assesses the foreign exchange posi-
tion and proposes allocations among the schedules and modifications in the
composition of the schedules. The Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee,
composed of Ministers, acts on these proposals and establishes Government
position on these matters. The Import Quota Committee approves licenses
for the import of items subject to quota within the global allocations
established by the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee.
16.     The new import schedules are being monitored on the basis of
licenses issued and foreign exchange approved. The analysis of this
information will be the basis for an overall movement of items from the
quota Schedule 2 to the quota-free Schedule 1, as the key element in the
structural adjustment process. The pace at which items will be moved to



-74-                      ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 16
Schedule I will depend on the availability of foreign exchange, and in
part, therefore, on Kenya's access to external markets.
17.     The pattern of these movements is presently planned along the
following lines. There are about 1800 items on Schedule 2, constituting
about two-thirds of the 2600 items (at the 6-digit SITC level) listed in
the Customs Manual. During each of the next four budget years, 1982-85,
it is the intent of Government to shift approximately 20% of Schedule 2
items to Schedule 1, so that by July 1985 less than 320 items will be on
Schedule 2.
18.     Although Government is committed to continued reduction in quan-
titative restrictions, there are, basically, four reasons why some such
controls will remain for many years as an aspect of import policy. (1)
Some goods must be regulated in the interest of public health, safety,
and morals. (2) Certain products are of special national importance, such
as oils, maize, and fertilizer. (3) There are items of low priority, such
as luxury consumer goods, for which high tariffs would not adequately
restrain demand. Finally, in some cases, quotas will be used to promote
economic efficiency, such as where standardization of products will
facilitate economies of scale and encourage investment.
19.     Government is committed to the continued rationalization of
tariffs, with a view to restraining import demand and to providing
appropriate protection to domestic firms. In support of the movement of
items to Schedule 1, it may be necessary to change certain duties. As a
guideline, these new duties will not exceed 100%. In addition, other
duties will be adjusted to achieve appropriate levels of protection and to
promote an overall, gradual movement toward a more uniform tariff struc-
ture. Work is underway on preparation of a new tariff structure, and
completion is expected in June 1983. We anticipate that the new tariff
structure will be phased in in 1984-85. Exact timing will depend on
completion of necessary studies.
(ii) Government Investments in Parastatals and Public Companies
20.     In order to ensure that new Government investments in parastatals
(established by Act of Parliament) and public companies, are economically,
financially and technically sound, approval procedures are being intro-
duced or strengthened. The following procedures apply to all direct
government equity investments on loans and loan guarantees to any
enterprise:
(a) New direct government investment proposals are to be approved
in the context of the forward budget and annual budget exer-
cise. In addition, beginning in the 1982/83 financial year,
parastatal financial plans will be reviewed during the forward
and annual budget process.



-75-                      ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 16
(b) By June, 1982, a project evaluation handbook will be completed
by the Project Appraisal and Monitoring Section (PAMS) of the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development (MEPD) in con-
junction with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Industry. This handbook will contain guidelines for the
presentation of investment proposals and the calculation of
economic and financial rates of return. Sponsoring agencies
will be required to prepare all proposals according to hand-
book guidelines.
(c) Proposals involving direct government investments are cur-
rently reviewed and assessed through several mechanisms
including the New Projects Committee (NPC), the Investments
Division of the Ministry of Finance (IDT) and the boards of
parastatals and public companies in conjunction with Minis-
tries which are represented on them. Beginning in the 1982/83
financial year, Estimates Working Groups will recommend
budgetary allocations for new investment proposals only if
they have been prepared according to handbook guidelines and
satisfactorily reviewed and approved under existing
mechanisms.
(d) Estimates Working Groups may refer proposals to the NPC, IDT
or PAMS for more detailed evaluation. PAMS will be
strengthened in order to standardize appraisal methodologies
and to review or perform selected project evaluations at the
request of the NPC, IDT or Estimates Working Groups. PAMS
will bring in outside consultants as necessary.
(e) Beginning in January 1983, no project or financing agreements
will be signed until project and budgetary approvals have been
obtained according to the above procedures.
(iti) Incentives to New Industries
21.     The guidelines for investors, outlining incentives offered by
government, are being revised to reflect the facts that:
(a) Government equity contributions, loans or loan guarantees to
enterprises will as a rule be restricted to economic
activities fundamental to development and will be subject to
detailed economic and financial analysis;
(b) there will, as a rule, be no import duty concessions;
(c) exclusive technology licensing arrangements will be
time-limited;



-76-                      ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 16
(d) extraordinary tariff protection will be diminishing in charac-
ter and limited to no more than eight years; and
(e) the use of quotas and import prohibitions as an incentive to
new investment will be limited to the time required to estab-
lish appropriate infant industry tariffs.
(iv) Export Incentives
22.     The Government reaffirms its commitment to ensure the interna-
tional competitiveness of Kenya's exports using all available policy
instruments. It will continue to monitor the system of export compensa-
tion to ensure that it provides effective incentives. Efforts will be
made to encourage and facilitate smaller firms to take advantage of export
compensation. In addition, a broad review of institutional support avail-
able to exporters will be undertaken in order to develop a program for
export promotion. It is expected that the results of this review will be
discussed with the Bank by the end of 1982.
Agriculture Policy
23.     The strategy for agricultural development is outlined in the
current development plan, Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1980 and Sessional
Paper No. 4 of 1981. The objectives of that strategy are to enhance
poverty alleviation, food security, agriculture's net contribution to
foreign exchange earnings, employments and conservation of natural resour-
ces. It seeks to achieve these objectives through more intensive land
use, increased access to land and land-based employment, incentives to
producers, development of appropriate technologies and more efficient
marketing, all with a strong focus on smallholder development and arid and
semi-arid lands.
24.     Progress in recent years has been constrained by financial limita-
tions, balance of payments problems, drought, smuggling problems, weak
export markets, pricing, marketing and storage problems, limited tech-
nological developments, and management and implementation bottlenecks.
While these obstacles to development must be alleviated, special efforts
are being made to overcome those problems most susceptible to producing an
early output response, namely pricing, marketing, management and land
usage.
(i) Pricing
25.     The Government will maintain incentive prices for farmers, par-
ticularly for the production of basic food crops, generally within limits
imposed by import or export parity prices. Consumer prices cover the



-77-                     ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 16
costs of producing, processing and marketing of food. Subsidies to con-
sumers will be entertained only for food imports and security stocks
essential to meet shortages of essential items. In these cases, subsidies
will be identified as specific budgetary allocations to those agencies
responsible for managing food reserves.
26.     Farm prices will continue to be set through an annual price
review. That exercise will continue, as in the past, to be initiated by
the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development and involve par-
ticipation by the Office of the President, the Ministry of Finance and
MEPD to ensure integration with consumer prices and economic and financial
considerations. The process hereafter will be initiated in July of each
year in order to provide time for careful analysis and the announcement of
prices before planting decisions are made.
(ii) Marketing
27.     Agricultural production in Kenya is almost exclusively a private
sector activity while the marketing of both inputs and products is shared
among parastatals, cooperative societies and other private sector
entities. The direction of structural change in agricultural marketing is
outlined in Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1981 on "National Food Policy." That
paper will form the basis for future marketing policy. The Government has
decided that because of the importance of maize as a crop for both
smallholders and larger farmers, and its role in the Kenyan diet, espe-
cia-ily that of lower-income consumers, the program will have as its
primary objective ensuring the adequate growth of domestic production of
this crop. This will be accomplished by providing adequate incentives
to producers, efficient marketing, transportation, storage and distribu-
tion of the crop, and prices to consumers which reflect economic costs of
production and distribution. In addition, the Government has determined
that adequate provision must be made for domestic food security.
28.     The Government has eased the strict restrictions on maize move-
ments. Its next step will be to undertake a study to determine the
appropriate market structure to accomplish the objectives described above.
The study will consider the full range of options from the present system
of Government marketing controls to systems which would ultimately involve
intervention by Government on limited scale and only when considered
necessary and will include: (a) investigation of the optimal division of
functions between Government, the cooperatives and the private sector; (b)
recommendations on an appropriate food security plan; and (c) recommenda-
tions on a program of market development, including information, services
and infrastructure.
29.     The study will proceed under the guidance of a high level steering
group consisting of representatives of the Office of the President,



-78-                     ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 16
relevant ministries and NCPB. Preliminary terms of reference have already
been drafted. Final terms of reference will be drawn up after consult-
ation with the steering group. Qualified consultants will be contracted.
It is envisaged that the execution of the study and the subsequent deci-
sion-making on the appropriate future structure of the grain market will
take approximately nine months, or until March, 1983. This will be fol-
lowed immediately by the development of an action program designed to
implement the Government's decisions. This program will include measures
designed to strengthen and/or restructure existing institutions to equip
them for their future roles and specific steps to be taken to implement
these decisions. In addition the Government will proceed to develop a
food security program and a program for market development based on the
agreed recommendations of the study.
(iii) Management of Agricultural Programs
30.     In order to improve the pace and effectiveness of implementation
of agricultural projects and programs, the following measures will be
undertaken:
(a) a task force has been established by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and the Ministry of Livestock Development, to review
planning, budgeting and expenditure procedures, including
financial planning, reporting and control, and provide recom-
mendations for improvement;
(b) an expanded program of management training and development
has been instituted;
(c) a review of the organization and management problems of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development will be
carried out internally in order to identify procedural and
institutional changes and training required to improve the
Ministries' effectiveness.
(iv) Land Policy
31.     Since the Fourth Development Plan was published, land policies
have been clarified in a number of critical areas. Land tenure will be
based on a system of individual titles and adjudication and registration
of titles will proceed as rapidly as possible.  Land use is determined
mainly by relative prices and policy in this regard is to work through the
price mechanism, in which the annual agricultural price review plays a
central part.  Consistent with this, State-owned land of high potential is
being settled, with preference going to local residents, and adjudication
and registration will be extended to pastoral areas as soon as conditions
permit. Moreover, the de facto subdivision of cooperative and group-owned



-79-                     ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 16
farms is recognized by Government and title deeds will be issued as
quickly as surveys and subdivisions can be arranged. The Government
intends to conduct a review of this situation and prepare a program,
possibly involving external assistance in the form of finance, personnel
and equipment, to speed up the process of regularizing and rationalizing
this subdivision. Formulation of the program is expected to be completed
by March 1983. In order to begin the process of systematic consideration
of outstanding land issues as outlined in the 1979-1983 Development Plan,
the Fifth Development Plan, preparation of which will begin shortly, will
give special attention to this topic. Task forces will be established to
examine specific land issues and, where necessary, will be provided with
appropriate technical assistance. To emphasize the importance attached to
this, analysis and policy recommendations of these task forces will be
reviewed by Government.
Energy Sector
32.     The keystone of the Government's energy policy is a price policy
which passes increases in energy costs along to users, thus encouraging
conservation and providing resources for expansion of domestic production.
This pricing policy will be continued. In fact petroleum prices have been
adjusted upward three times in 1981 and petrol prices have been raised by
approximately 50%. The government will, in future, play a more active
role in encquraging investment in production and conservation. It is,
therefore, developing a global strategy for both the traditional
(wood-based) and modern energy sectors. A comprehensive study of energy
production and consumption in the traditional sector has been completed
and is being reviewed by Government. It is expected that this study will
provide recommendations for forest conservation, biomass resource develop-
ment, and encouragement of more efficient charcoal production and
household use of wood and charcoal. Similarly, an overall energy sector
review is in progress and should also be completed in 1982. The studies
will be used to prepare the global energy sector strategy and an invest-
ment program aimed at both production and conservation. A task force has
been formed to review and assist in implementation of these studies.
33.     However, the need for new investment in the sector is pressing.
A preliminary investment program of highest priority items should be
completed in early 1983. No further public investment in the fuel alcohol
sector will be undertaken until the plan is completed; and then will be
subjected to rigorous analysis of their economic benefits according to the
procedures described in paras. 20 and 21 above.



-80-                     ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 16
Population
34.     The rapid growth of Kenya's population is a critical development
issue. Rapid population growth puts pressure on labor markets and
agricultural resources (and indirectly on the balance of payments) and
affects the ability to meet basic needs of the populace.
35.     The Fourth Development Plan recognizes that present high birth
rates will have to be significantly reduced in order to have an impact on
population growth. The Plan provides for expansion of family planning
facilities and targets for acceptors but results so far have been disap-
pointing. The Government has, therefore, decided to launch an expanded
informational and educational campaign. To guide and coordinate this
effort, a national Council on Population has been established.
36.     The Government will, in addition, develop specific targets for
family planning acceptors, for average family size and for population
growth. These will be incorporated in a second rural health and family
planning project currently under consideration for World Bank financing.
Interest Rates and Resource Mobilization
37.     The Government has already adjusted interest rates three times
during the last 15 months. The level and structure of interest rates is
subject to continuous review and adjustments will be made, as deemed
appropriate, to ensure that lending qnd deposit rates remain at
appropriate levels, given domestic inflation and the international struc-
ture of interest rates. In order to improve policies designed to mobilize
savings and allocate credit more effectively, the Government has initiated
a study of the sources and disposition of private saving, the effect on
saving of changes in interest rates and other incentives and the
appropriateness of the structure and composition of the financial system
in relation to the Government budget and the balance of payments.
38.     In order to provide a better basis for policy formulation and
implementation with respect to the financial sector of the economy, a
comprehensive study will be initiated during 1982 of the institutional
and legal framework of the Kenya financial system and of the pattern of
financial flows within the public and private components of the system and
between the two. The objective of the study will be to identify weaknes-
ses and to plan the future course of financial development consistent with
the strategies and policies to be reflected in the Fifth Development Plan.
Forward Budgeting, Public Sector Investment, Programs and Planning
39.     The Government is conscious of the need to improve the planning
and forward budgeting exercise to make it a more effective tool for



-81-                     ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 16
development. To this end, the Forward Budget will in the future include
a multiyear public sector investment program in the context of which new
projects will be approved, existing projects of lower priority deferred
and timetables and funding programs of ongoing projects revised to keep
within projected resource availabilities. The first such public invest-
ment plan will be prepared in July 1982 and will be discussed with Bank
staff.
40.     Beginning in the 1982/83 financial year, Ministries will present
a comprehensive list of projects which they propose to begin implementing
during the fiscal years covered by the Forward Budget. Each submission
will contain a Project Brief including:
(a) general project objectives and rationale including its
relationship to the Ministry's general objectives and ongoing
programs;
(b) specific targets in terms of output (i.e. number of teachers
trained, miles of improved road, areas irrigated, or levels
of production);
(c) capital expenditures required, including their timing, foreign
exchange requirements and implications for future recurrent
expenditures;
(d) specialized manpower and training requirements;
(e) projected sources of financing, including external borrowing
and budgetary requirements.
41.     Decisions on whether such projects will be incorporated into the
Forward Budget will be based on a preliminary review of their technical
and economic soundness as determined by calculations of economic returns
and the consistency with objectives of the Fourth Development Plan. The
intention is to ensure that all large projects undertaken have rates of
return of at least 10%, or represent least cost.
42.     Beginning with the 1983/84 Forward Budget, submission of ongoing
projects, and new projects contained in the current Plan, will also
require a summary brief containing projections of items (b), (c) and (e)
for the Forward Budget period. In addition, implementation monitoring
procedures are being introduced to speed aid reimbursement and provide
up-to-date information on project expenditure, financing and implementa-
tion performance.
/s/         HON. A.K. MAGUGU, EGH, M.P.,
MINISTER FOR FINANCE



-82-                      ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 16
Attachment I:  Chronology of Structural Adjustment, 1980-1981
Import Policies                    Other Policies
Date                                                          Supporting
Structural
Policies affecting      Reductions in            Adjustment
the pricing of        quantitative
imports            restrictions
(1)              (2)                   (3)                     (4)
Jun 1980   1. 10% tariff sur-   1. Elimination of   1. Increase in interest
charge.               import bans           rates: + 1%.
2. Substantial           and NOC's in       2. Increase in export
tariff increases      the Budget            compensation, from
on over 200           Speech.               10% to 20%.
items (mainly
subject to high-
ly restrictive
licensing).
Aug 1980                          2. Appointment of
the interminis-
terial committee
on import pro-
cedures.
Oct 1980                                                3. IDA Credit finalized
for export promotion
studies
Nov 1980   3. Tariff increases
and rationali-
zation, in the
Finance (No.2)
Act of 1980
Jan 1981                          3. Preliminary report
of the interminis-
terial committee
on import procedures



-83-                     ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 16
Import Policies                    Other Policies
Date                                                        Supporting
Structural
Policies affecting      Reductions in           Adjustment
the pricing of        quantitative
imports            restrictions
(1)             (2)                   (3)                    (4)
Feb 1981   4. Exchange rate                             4. Revision of price
adjustment                                  controls.
increases price                          5. Increase in petrol
of imports (&                               prices.
all foreign ex-                          6. Exchange rate adjust-
change expendi-                             ment increases return
ture) by +5%.                               to exports by +5%.
Apr 1981                          4. Final report of
the interminis-
terial committee
on import proce-
dures.
May 1981                          5. Ministerial        7. Sessional Paper on
approval of           Food Policy.
Schedule I.
Implementation
of Schedule I.
Jun 1981   5, Increases in        6. Ministerial        8. Increase in interest
tariff on over        approval of new       rates.
1400 items            import procedures 9. Increases in petrol
(from +2% to          and Schedules.        prices.
+90%).             7. Public announce- 10. Revision of capital
6. Lower tariffs on      ment of the           gains tax and income
about 20 items        import licensing      tax.
mainly inputs         system in the
into exports          Budget speech.
industries.        8. Monitoring of
7. Integration of        Schedule I
changes in sales      begins.
tax and tariff in
order to control
demand, while
creating adequate
(but not excessive)
protection.



-84-                     ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 16
Import Policies                   Other Policies
Date                                                        Supporting
Structural
Policies affecting      Reductions in           Adjustment
the pricing of        quantitative
imports            restrictions
(1)              (2)                  (3)                    (4)
Jul 1981                                               11.Increase in petrol
prices.
12.Analysis and discussion
of Sessional Paper
on Food Policy, with
emphasis on improved
pricing and marketing
arrangements.
Sep 1981   8. Exchange rate                            13.Increase in interest
adjustment in-                             rates: +2% on deposits
creases the                                       +1% on lending
price of imports
by an additional
+17%.
Oct 1981                          9. Modification      14.Discussion begins
of Schedules         in Parliament on Food
2A and 2B, and       Policy Paper.
submission to    15.Increase in prices
Government           of petroleum products.
Printers.
Nov 1981                         10. All Schedules
published.
11. Circular on
Procedures
sent by CBK to
all Commercial
Banks.



ATTACHMENT II
INCREA3ES ~in 'UE AVErAGE C03r Or PIPORIS DUE PI? GOVERNM'ENT Pa0LIEY CHAa ES
t                        Igao~~~~93   and ?qAl
+468%  +1-6--*--
Increase in~ I                                                                                         nI--
import3 due                                                                        t4j.:      ~- 
to tar iff,                                                                                          Z3 
Dales tax,                                                                                           a o 
and 5xchanlge-.                                                                ----      -     -- 0 :  0
in 1980 and                                                                                          CT.--  Is-1-  -~- --- 
+44%                                          4. :    ::f::l-~ tasic 15% sales Lax on tip o3f iaicrease±d  +
- i---     ~ aLEc11IQ$  of ir.nrts 
+40%    __        4--___
(ueic  ted   4:~;::2:  -.:~..~ 4L~:3. About 6C-% of' jimports by value had i; ri~uifij   (uvighted
averago)                               ZI~~~~~.~  tariff increases avp-raqing nvor  i          average)
.:T-T2Z  percenltal3  points. Th-is a(zs ab-3ut
10%  to the cost of~ thes .ifF'ct3d i:.7parts.
---Z    About 90JA of' imeports by v3iua are coveretd by thi tariff-
surzraroa, uhich raised duties by 10 percentagqe polnt3. 
-    thisadij* ibout ax, to the cost of' the afFoctq-j tnnerts                 +2
+22%              _____22cz4zz'    - --
--I   Two exchaneiq  ratsi adjustmenits in 1981 raised the cost of' imports                                 GQ 
by about 22%.                                                                                          _X
-i-* -t--Y0%
lo,,%    90%                        60%                                            10%       0
PErf?CC'TAGE CF IMP~iORTS, IN VALtUf



