C) gLOAN NUMBER 2190 IE
Loan Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2190 KE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  2            (             , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafte    called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated Aay 11,
1982 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objec-
tives and policies designed to achieve a structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy, declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of that program, and requesting assistance from the
Bank in the financing of urgent imports to be made during the
execution of such program;
(B)    the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) to
provide additional assistance towards the financing of such pro-
gram and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the Development
Credit Agreement) the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to sixty-
two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 62,900,000) (here'nafter called the Credit);
(C)  the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent prac-
ticable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account
of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan are made; and
WHEREAS on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided in support of such program to provide assistance to
the Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said


﻿-2-
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 shall be modified to read:
"The term Project means the imports that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement."
Secion 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the purpose of supporting the program referred to in the Preamble
to this Agreement, as such Development Credit Agreement may be
amended from time to time and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association dated June 30, 1980, as made applicable to such
agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Development Credit
Agreement and all Schedules to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b) "Credit Account" means the account opened by the
Association on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the
amount of the Credit is credited;
(c) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.2
(1975);
(d)  "Ksh"  and   "Shillings"  mean  the   currency  of   the
Borrower;
(e) "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Kenya estab-
lished and operating pursuant to the Central Bank of Kenya Act
(Cap. 491 of the Laws of Kenya);
(f) "National Cereals and Produce Board" means the body
corporate to be established de jure by the Borrower and carrying


﻿-3-
out the functions formerly carried out by the Maize and Produce
Board and the Wheat Board; and
(g) "Population Council" means the National Council on
Population and Development to be established in' the Borrower's
Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Home Affairs.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty
million nine hundred thousand dollars ($60,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services described in
such Schedule.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to nine hundred
thousand dollars ($900,000). The fee shall be payable in such
currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event
that the Bank shall not have received full payment of the fee by
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required for the full payment of the fee in the currency or
currencies specified fcr the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of


﻿-4-
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance ..ith the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) The Borrower's Central Bank is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permittei to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower shall entrust the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and
for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such with-
drawal applications shall to the extent practicable be consoli-
dated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not
less than $5,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall open and thereafter
maintain an account (hereinafter called the Project Account) at
the Central Bank and shall, upon each withdrawal from the Loan
Account, deposit in the Project Account in accordance with its
usual financial procedures the equivalent in Kenyan shillings of
the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account (such
equivalent to be determined as of the respective dates of such
withdrawals). The amounts so deposited in the Project Account
shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower's development-
related expenditures in the Borrower's budget.


﻿- 5 -
(b)    The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
utilization of the amounts deposited in the Project Account
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause a study to be
carried out by December 31, 1982 to determine the appropriate
market structure for maize, taking into account the need to
provide adequate incentives to producers to ensure adequate
growth of domestic production, the need for efficient marketing,
transportation, storage and distribution of the crop, and the
need for consumer prices that reflect economic costs of produc-
tion and distribution. The study shall include: (i) an investiga-
tion of the optimal division of functions between the public
sector, the cooperatives and the private sector; (ii) recommen-
dations for an appropriate food security plan; and (iii) recom-
mendations   for  a  program  of market   development, including
information, services and infrastructure.
(b) In order to carry out the study referred to in subpara-
graph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in
acordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World BanK as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(c) In order to provide guidance for the preparation of the
study referred to in subparagraph (a) of this Section, the Bor-
rower shall establish a steering committee consisting of high
level representatives of the Office of the President, the rele-
vant ministries of the Borrower, and the National Cereals and
Produce Board. Final terms of reference for the study shall be
drawn up by the steering committee after consultation with the
Bank. The Borrower shall cause the consultants referred to in
subparagraph (b) of this Section to prepare an interim report
during the preparation of the study and a final report upon
completion of study, and shall cause the Bank to be provided with
copies of said reports in such number as the Bank shall reason-
ably request. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on
said reports and, particularly, on the conclusions and recom-
mendations of the final report.


﻿-6-
(d)   The Borrower shall formulate an action program to
implement its decisions on the conclusions and recommendations of
the final report referred to in subparagraph (c) of this Sec-
tion. Said action program shall include measures to strengthen or
restructure existing institutions to equip them for their future
roles and shall define the steps necessary to carry out said
decisions.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that adequate provi-
sion will be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or
repair such goods.
Section 3.04. Upon the award of any contract for goods cost-
ing the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the con-
tract was awarded and the contract price.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, and in any event not later than March 31, 1983 at the
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved
in carrying out the program for structural adjustment referred to
in the Preamble to this Agreement and the measures specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out said program, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.06. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,


﻿-7-
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
the Central Bank or any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar func-
tions, for the Borrower.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintai. or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the program for
structural adjustment or a significant part of the program for
structural adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this
Agreement will be carried out.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Texi.nation
Section 5.01. The date                            , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                   Telex:
FINANCE                         22003
Nairobi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives .'ereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the Distr4%zt
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day      d y,. r
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
5             Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The reasonable cost of importation of any goods into the
territory of the Borrower may be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, except that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-
groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
668         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set ge-s)
-          971.0            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;


﻿- 11 -
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(d) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
(e) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $20,000 equivalent;
(f) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(g) expenditures fo: goods intended      for a military or
para-military purpose or f r luxury consumption; and
(h) expenditures for goods included in any single SITC
group or sub-group which exceed, together with any withdrawals
made from the Credit Account on account of expenditures for goods
in such group or sub-group, in the aggregate, the equivalent of
$30,000,000.
2.   No withdrawal shall be made other than for the purposes of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit with-
drawn from the Loan Account and the Credit Account, respectively,
and the total amount of such commitments and commitments in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the Credit shall
have reached the equivalent of $80,000,000, unless the Bank and
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the program for
structural adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agree-
ment and in particular that the measures described in Schedule 4
to this Agreement have been taken.
3.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any SITC Section is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the


﻿- 12 -
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1987
through   April 1, 2002                        2,030,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                      3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                              9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                              10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              11.60%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each, shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidders invitation list, to apply for
prequalification or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the Borrower's territory and, in addition, in at least one
of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circu-
lation; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.9 of the
Guidelines of the following:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 16 -
(c) By the deletion of sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) of para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelineo and the substitution for sub-
paragraph (a) of the following:
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the
successful bid."
(d) By the deletion of the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and the substitution therefor of the
following:
"Customs duties and import taxes should be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of goods."
(e) By the deletion of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts and purchase orders for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each shall be awarded on
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser
of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract or purchase order referred to
in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank
may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract or purchase order.
5.   The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of a con-
tract or the documentation received, as the case may be, was not
consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Tranche Release
(Schedule 1, paragraph 2)
1.   Reduction of the number of import items subject to quotas by
transferring at least 20% of the items on import lists 2A and 2B
to list 1.
2.   Formulation of a public investment program consistent in
size, sectoral distribution and project content with the objec-
tives of the program for structural adjustment referred to in the
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement.
3.   Application of investment incentives consistent with the
guidelines therefor as set forth in the Borrower's letter
referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement.
4.   Completion of administrative rnd organizational arrangements
to enable the Population Council to provide effective leadership
to the national family planning education and information drive.
5.   Formulation of an external borrowing program for fiscal year
1982-83 consistent with maintenance of the country's long-term
credit worthiness.
6.   Establishment of agricultural producer prices for the 1983
crop year which provide appropriate incentives for produ,ers.
7.   Appropriate  decisions having   been   taken  on  the  future
structure of the grain market.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  ZLAlday of            198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


