Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE COPY
Report No. P-3049-TH
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
POWER SUBSECTOR PROJECT
May 1, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
US$1.00   =   B 20.5
B 1.00    =   US$0.0488
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systen
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
ASEAN  -  Association of South East Asian Nations
CPPD   -  Committee for Power Policy and Development
EDL    -  Electricite du Laos
EGAT   -  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
GWh    -  Gigawatt hour (1 milion kilowatt hours)
IBC    -  International Board of Consultants
KFAED  -  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
kV     -  Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA    -  Kilowatt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
kW     -  Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MEA    -  Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MMSCFD -  Million standard cubic feet per day
MVA    -  Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
MW     -  Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
NEA    -  National Energy Administration
NESDB  -  National Economic and Social Development Board
OECF   -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
NEB    -  National Environmental Board
PEA    -  Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT    -  Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RTG    -  Royal Thai Government
T.o.e. -  Tons of oil equivalent
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
POWER SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
Guarantor:       Kingdom of Thailand
Loan Amount:    $100 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.6% per annum.
Project          EGAT's FY80-86 power development program comprises:  (a)
ongoing projects under construction, (b) new generation and
transmission projects to be completed by the end of FY86, and
(c) future generation and transmission projects to be
initiated during the period but completed after FY86. The
program, concentrating on the development of renewable hydro-
power and indigenous resources of lignite and natural gas, has
been reviewed by a Bank energy mission and found to be the
optimum program. The proposed project consists of three sub-
projects, namely, Chiew Larn and Lang Suan Hydroelectric Sta-
tions and the Fifth Transmission System Expansion, selected,
in accordance with the criteria agreed with the Bank, from
item (b) above, and EGAT's energy conservation and environ-
mental training programs. The proposed Bank loan would
finance a part of the three-year time slice FY82-84 of EGAT's
expenditures and commitments for expenditures for the project.
Over the years, EGAT has demonstrated its competence in
planning, project implementation and operation which would
enable it to carry out its development program satis-
factorily. Project risks include technical problems,
development and execution of a satisfactory resettlement
program and timely adjustment of tariffs. EGAT has dealt
with the technical problems in the past with the assistance
of consultants and has executed satisfactorily the
resettlement programs under several projects. Despite
difficulties, the Government has maintained an impressive
record of timely increases in tariffs to meet the sector's
financial requirements.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local   Foreign    Total
------- ($ million) -----
Estimated Cost of New Generation and Trans-
mission Program to be Completed by End-FY86:
Sirindhorn Hydro Station Extension                   2.1       4.2         6.3
Mine for Mae Moh Thermal Station No. 5 unit         32.7      28.1        60.8
Srinagarind Hydro Station Extension                  8.7      25.5        34.2
Minor Hydro Projects                                 12.9     26.2        39.1
Lang Suan Hydro Station /1                         127.7      73.2       200.9
Chiew Larn Hydro Station /i                         85.9      97.9       183.8
Mae Moh Thermal Station Extension No. 6             46.1    109.9        156.0
Mine for Mae Moh Thermal Station Nos. 6-7           85.1      59.1       144.2
Transmission System Expansion
No. 5 project /1                                  40.3      54.9        95.2
No. 6 project                                     62.0      82.2       144.2
Total Base Cost                             503.5    561.2    1,064.7
Contingencies
Physical                                          33.4      53.6        87.0
Price                                            263.7    206.0        469.7
Subtotal                                    297.1    259.6       556.7
Total Cost /2                               800.6    820.8    1,621.4
Financing Plan:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ------
IBRD loan /3                                         -         98.7       98.7
Export credit                                        -        261.0      261.0
Commercial banks                                     -        218.3      218.3
ADB                                                  -        133.0      133.0
KFAED                                                -         20.0       20.0
OECF                                                 -         89.8       89.8
EGAT, Government equity,
and local borrowings                             800.6        -        800.6
Total                                       800.6      820.8   1,621.4
Estimated Disbursements:   Bank FY             1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual             9.8    26.4    38.3    25.5
Cumulative         9.8    36.2    74.5   100.0
Rate of Return:              12.0% for EGAT's Development Program FY80-86.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 3158-TH, dated April 20, 1981.
/1 These subprojects comprise the Bank project.
/2 Including 5% custom duties paid by EGAT.
/3 Net of $1.3 million allocated for Environmental Training and Energy
Conservation programs.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
FOR A POWER SUBSECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) with the
guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $100 million to
help finance a Power Subsector Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on September 18, 1978. The report concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a
significant reduction in absolute poverty, but that the poorest have lagged
behind this progress. It identifies the essential characteristics of these
groups and points to the need for continued overall development as well as
the initiation of specific measures to deal with the poverty problem,
particularly in rural areas. It further discusses the constraints on the
successful implementation of these policies. A Country Economic Memorandum
(Report No. 3067a-TH) whic[h provides an updating of macroeconomic develop-
ments was issued on January 6, 1981. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differing views on the political decision-making process within the country.
The Government under the prime ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
formed in November 1977, resigned in February 1980 following increasing
public and parliamentary criticism of its economic policies. General Prem
Tinsulanonda was elected by the National Assembly as Prime Minister after
receiving the support of nearly all major political parties. General Prem's
government, formed on March 14, 1980, included leaders from the political
parties which supported him. On March 28, 1980, General Prem announced his
government's policies on a number of issues including economic and social
development. These policies place high and immediate priority on
accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes and measures to
improve health and education. Particular emphasis was given to generating
more jobs and a rural public works program, similar to the 1975/76 Tambon
Program, was included as a major element in this strategy. The Government
also intended to exert efforts to contain inflation and a more gradual
adjustment of energy prices was advocated at the same time that domestic



- 2 -
energy resources were being developed. Reforms in monetary and fisc,l policy
and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved export performance
were also called for. As discussed below, these reforms have been crucial
for increasing resource mobilization (especially in the public sector) and
reducing the current account deficit. In March 1981, however, the Social
Action Party and other coalition parties resigned on an issue of handling fuel
oil contracts and a new cabinet was formed comprising members of the United,
Chat Thai, and Democrat parties. This change was immediately followed by an
attempted coup by a group of military officers. However, the coup failed,
and the political situation has returned to normal.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% per
year; water control was improved; irrigation was expanded and the culti-
vation of relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and
rubber, grew rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to
export growth. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19%
and 24%, and total investment, between 20% and 27%. The high level of
private investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year
since 1970. All this was achieved with a limited inflow of external
resources and, until recently, debt service remained quite low.
5.        The large growth in incomes over the last two decades, however, has
not been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there
are significant regional differentials in incomes and access to economic and
social infrastructure. The wide regional variations in terms of topography,
climate, soils, urbanization, etc., present distinct problems for future
development. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest per
capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the three remaining regions, the
North, Northeast and South. There is also considerable variation within
each region; farmers who have diversified into cash crops generally have
enjoyed substantial growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who
have been unable or unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have
stagnated. Recent research has shown that inappropriate cropping patterns
and agricultural techniques are major factors in much of the rural poverty.
This is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in the
Northeast and North. Since there is a well-functioning labor market, the
low incomes of this large group have tended to depress unskilled wages
throughout the economy.
6.        Concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards are being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years, the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon Program of direct transfers to villages in



1975/76, the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978,
the new village development program in 1979 and the rural employment program
in 1980. These programs have been designed to produce quick and tangible
political as well as economic results, but considerably more attention and
resources need to be devoted to rural development if these programs are to
have lasting impact. While the absorptive capacity in rural areas has
increased since the Tambon Program of 1975/76, there is some concern about the
efficacy of crash programs in view of the resource constraints facing the
budget and the limitations of implementation capacity at various levels of
government.
7.        Thailand's balance-of-payments position and its trade prospects
are now less favorable than in the early 1970s. The overall balance of
payments, which recorded surpluses in 1973 and 1974, has shown deficits
averaging almost $500 million annually since 1977. In 1978, the current
account deficit reached $1.1 billion or 5% of GDP, and increased in 1979 to
$2.1 billion, or about 8% of GDP. The most significant changes in the
external environment have been the rapid increase in the price of imported
petroleum, the decline in net transfer and service payments to Thailand and
the conjunction of inflation and recession throughout the world.  In 1980,
there was only a relatively small further increase in the current account
deficit, and it dropped in relation to GDP.  This salutary result was probably
partly due to temporary favorable factors.
8.        To contain and finance the balance-of-payments deficit, the Govern-
ment has taken a number of measures. It has increased significantly its
borrowing from traditional sources and the Eurodollar market and, at the
beginning of 1980, raised interest rate ceilings by 3 percentage points in
order to encourage domestic savings and to curtail the flight of capital
abroad. Foreign exchange reserves have also been used extensively.
9.        The Government has also adjusted domestic prices to slow the growth
of imports. In March 1978, tariffs on non-essential imports were raised,
along with excise taxes on a number of items, notably gasoline. Petroleum
product prices were raised successively in February, May and July 1979 and
February 1980, for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline, to the
equivalent of $0.47 per liter. After a proposed power tariff increase of
about 55% was rejected in November 1979, lesser tariff increases of about 50%
at bulk supply level and 38% at retail level were implemented in February 1980
and further increases of 43% at bulk supply level and 35% at retail level were
implemented in two stages on October 1, 1980 and January 8, 1981.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology, provision of infrastructure by the Government, and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also, major gains have



- 4 -
been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1 percent.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of the rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country.  At the same time,
additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural
production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce.  In view
of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may
lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next
decade; persistently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external
factors of rapid oil price increase and recession in the developed countries.
The oil price increase alone added about $1.0 billion to the 1980 import
bill, even with no increase in import volume, and the current account deficit
is estimated to be about 7% of GDP. The unfavorable external situation will
require major domestic adjustments and it is unlikely that the overall
growth rate will exceed about 6% p.a. in the coming years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time, it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened,
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policies and play a more active role in development management.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in rural development. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about



- 5 -
one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost
double the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers
opportunities for a balanced industrial growth based on production of
consumer goods, agricultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs
for urban consumption. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to
reduce price distortions, to increase availability of credit, and to eliminate
impediments to efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that
the Government's policy of relying on the dynamic private sector for
spurring growth and creating jobs will succeed.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fifth Plan (1982-86)
are to achieve a 7% p.a. real growth, equitable distribution of income,
reduction in the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment
opportunities and balanced regional development. In contrast to earlier
Plans which addressed sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, it
is intended to identify the concrete policies and programs to meet the Fifth
Plan's economic and social objectives in much more detail. The National
Economic and Social Development Board and the more specialized agencies of
the Government are undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the
Fifth Plan provides an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources and
the formulation of development policies and programs. These studies may
help identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural adjustment.
Consultations between the Government and the Bank are satisfactory; several
substantive discussions have taken place since the present Government came
to power and a comprehensive discussion was held at the Consultative Group
Meeting in Paris on February 3 and 4, 1981.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. The
Government's domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79), is
low compared to other developing countries at similar levels of development
due to low tax rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of
compliance. With expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in
fiscal year 1979/80 was about $1.4 billion, or over 5% of GDP. The
Government has achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization
through revision of the tax structure and improved collections. To reduce
the reliance on foreign financing, and thereby the deficit on the current
account of the balance of payments, the Government intends to keep the
1980/81 deficit to about $1.0 billion or about 3.5% of GNP. In addition,
the financial situation of public enterprises will be improved.
16. During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% p.a. and
increased domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the
price of imports, led by the price of petroleum, implies that large trade
and current account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s.
The Government's objective is to keep the current account deficits during



-6-
the Fifth Plan period in absolute amounts to about the recent level of
slightly in excess of $2 billion per annum. This will necessitate significant
efforts in implementing energy saving measures, promoting agricultural growth
and exports, reducing distortions and excessivm protection in industry,
promoting more labor-intensive exports, and postponing major capital-intensive
investments until the economy can afford them. Even the realization of the
Government's ambitious balance-of-payments targets will require very large
amounts of external borrowing, totaling more than $10 billion over the period
1982-86. Less favorable assumptions would increase this amount to $13
billion.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a larger part of Thailand's growing
resource requirements. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market
and bond markets. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy
Committee to coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public
sector. The Bank of Thailand as establishing procedures for recording private
borrowing abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. At the recent
Consultative Group meeting, various delegations indicated that in 1981 about
$1.2 billion would be available from official sources. External agencies,
including the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated
project lending to Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits,
but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditures. Program and structural adjustment lending are also
being considered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing.
Still the debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will not exceed 10%
at any time. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance, the
debt service ratio on totad public and private civilian borrowing (currently
about 15%) will rise to about 20% before declining. Given the diversification
of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of manufactured exports,
these debt service requirements should be sustainable if rapid export growth
continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and economic stabidity is
maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1981, had received 61 IBRD loans amounting to
about $2,048 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of
these loans has been as follows: $411 million for transportataon; $316 mil-
lion for irrigation; $726 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $66 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153 million for telecommunications; $193 million for agricultural and rural
development; $149 million for urban development; $52 million for education;
and $42 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA credits:



- 7 -
two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of $25.0 million
for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation
improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population project. In
general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily
and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as brief notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1981.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically
designed to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending
to the agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for
about 35% of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in
this sector has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to
a more balanced program covering irrigation (including land development and
support services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to
assist farmers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, live-
stock, agricultural extension, research and credit, and rural development).
Projects in the social sectors, which prior to FY75 were limited to three in
education accounting for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown.
In recent years education, population and low-income housing projects have
accounted for about 15% of the program.
21.       The findings of the 1978 Basic Economic Report and a more recent
economic mission verify the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above,
and underscore the need to move even further in designing programs which
help the rural population, particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who
have been largely bypassed by recent economic growth. Hence, in the
agricultural sector, the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop an
approach which will help to lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence
existence. A combination of education, agricultural research and extension,
credit and improved infrastructure is foreseen. However, the major problem
is the absence so far of a viable package for the poorest and most remote
farmers. Expansion and improvement of irrigation systems will continue,
with increased emphasis on reaching those farmers with irrigation potential
in the northern, northeastern and southern regions. The program of
transportation, electrification, water supply and telecommunications
projects will also continue to have a rural focus. A key element of the
strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report is the creation of jobs and
stimulation of increased economic activity outside of Bangkok. Therefore,
the bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial lending will be directed
to projects which enhance the attractiveness of regional cities as service
centers for the agricultural economy of those regions. Selected projects in



Bangkok will be aimed at strengthening agencies providing essential services
to the urban population and the development of low cost, replicable programs
to meet the demands of the urban sector, particularly the urban poor,
without diverting scarce resources from other high-priority development
needs.
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward institu-
tional development and project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in
Bangkok will continue to play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare
such projects. Promoting overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand
and is a necessary element in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource
requirements for infrastructure development, particularly for developing
energy and its domestic primary sources to reduce dependence on imported oil,
are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining funds in projects
where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy changes and
mobilizing other resources. The Bank is also expanding its support of the
industrial sector through its economic and sector work as well as selected
projects in order to help promote industrial policies which promote exports
and favor more labor-intensive and dispersed activities.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted
to $584.3 million, as of December 31, 1979, representing about 22% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of public
debt service payments in 1979 was 23.1%, or 7.2% of total debt service
including private debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest
overall public external debt (9.7% of GDP in 1979). In addition, although
the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five
years, the Bank Group's share would be below 30% of total public external
debt as Thailand has diversified its borrowing program. The Bank Group's
share in total debt outstanding is expected to fall to below 20%, and its
share of total debt service would not exceed 10 percent.
24.       As of March 31, 1981, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$84 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community; projects in the
petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector; and projects in the agricul-
tural sector. At an advanced stage of consideration by IFC are projects in
the cement, tin mining and tantallum processing industries. In addition,
IFC expects to continue to help traditional manufacturing projects and to
assist in financial institutions and money market developments.



- 9 -
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Consumption
25.       Total energy consumption in Thailand has increased from 7.4 million
tons of oil equivalent (T.o.e.) in 1970 to over 15.6 million T.o.e. in 1979,
an average annual growth rate of 8.6 percent. In 1979, petroleum products
accounted for almost 69% of total energy; hydro and lignite (low-grade coal)
for about 6% and 3.5% respectively; and charcoal, firewood, paddy husk and
bagasse for the remaining 21.5%. The price of oil products has increased
almost six-fold since 1972 and has become a heavy burden on the Thai economy.
In 1979, oil imports, which were about $1,150 million in value, absorbed 29%
of export earnings, leaving Thailand with a substantial current account
deficit. The impact of oil prices were even greater following the 1979-80
increases. Preliminary estimates indicate that in 1980, Thailand's oil import
bill increased to about $2.7 billion, absorbing over 42% of total export
earnings and contributing to a current account deficit of more than $2
billion.
Potential Energy Resources
26.       Natural Gas.  To date, seven promising gas fields have been dis-
covered by the two overseas firms, Union Oil and Texas Pacific, operating in
the Gulf of Thailand. The total proven and probable gas reserves from the
five structures discovered by Union Oil are about 5 trillion cubic feet (tcf)
while the total from the two structures discovered by Texas Pacific is about
8 tcf. The two concessionaires will undertake the development of these
reserves, and the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) will take delivery
at the offshore production platforms. The gas supply is projected to come on
stream in October 1981 at the rate of 200 million standard cubic feet per day
(MMSCFD) probably rising to 700 MMSCFD or more by the end of the decade. In
the initial years much of the gas output will be contracted to EGAT, while a
small proportion will be available to industries. The Bank made a loan of
$107 million (Loan 1773-TH) in FY80 for the first phase of development of the
natural gas pipeline. It is expected that by 1991 about 37% of EGAT's total
generation (44,000 GWh) would be from thermal stations (about 2,700 MW) using
natural gas, thereby reducing substantially the demand for imported fuel oil.
27.       Lignite Reserves.  Substantial increases in Thailand's lignite (low-
grade coal) deposits have been indicated by recent drillings. Lignite is
uneconomical to transport because of its high moisture and ash content, while
its tendency to decompose and self-ignite in open air makes it unsafe to
store. Hence, lignite is not traded and is used almost exclusively in
Thailand, as elsewhere, for large-scale power generation at the mine sites.
The present lignite reserves totalling 770 million metric tons (mt) are
located at Mae Moh (650 million mt), Krabi (100 million mt), and Li (20
million mt). Of these, 175 million mt are proven reserves that can be



- 10 -
economically exploited, 200 million mt are probable reserves and the remainder
395 million mt are possible reserves. The proven and probable lignite
reserves at Mae Moh of about 350 million mt are capable of supporting a
generating capacity of about 1,500 MW for about 25 years which, together
with the presently installed capacity at Mae Moh (150 MW) and Krahi (60 MW),
would constitute approximately 26% of EGAT's total generation in 1991.
28.       Hydro Potential.  Thailand's domestic hydroelectric potential is
about 9,300 MW, of which about 1,270 MW are in operation and another 2,100
MW will be installed by 1991. Hydropower would increase from 14% of EGAT's
total generation in 1981 to about 19% in 1991. The Mekong river which forms
the border between Thailand and Laos and then flows through Kampuchea and
Viet Nam has an estimated hydro potential, in seven projects, of about
19,000 MW with an annual energy output of 110,000 GWh. This represents
about 9 times Thailand's electricity consumption in 1979 and 3 times the
forecast electricity requirement in 1990. The Mekong's development is
governed jointly by Laos, Kampuchea, Thailand and Viet Nam and construction
is likely to await the resolution of the current political problems in the
region. Substantial resettlement requirements will arise from the develop-
ment of the first major hydro site at Pa Mong on the Mekong, about 60 km
west of Vientiane. An organizational and financial study of the Pa Mong is
being carried out by consultants. In addition, the numerous tributaries of
the Mekong River in Laos are tentatively estimated to provide another 18,000
MW of hydro potential to the region. Based on a desk study made by the
National Energy Administration (NEA), a dam site on the Salween river at the
border of Thailand and Burma has a hydro potential of 5,800 MW with an
annual energy output of about 47,000 GWh. Following recent ministerial
level exchanges, the two Governments agreed in principle to cooperate on the
development of the Salween river.
29.       Other Energy Resources.  Thailand's other energy resources include
oil shale, fuelwood and possibly geothermal. Oil shale reserves at Mae Sot
are estimated at 2,500 million mt but these are uneconomic to develop at
present prices. The Government is considering establishment of a pilot
oil shale extraction plant under a technical cooperation agreement with
countries possessing such technologies. Fuelwood resources, once plentiful,
are rapidly depleting and deforestation is becoming a serious problem. The
Bank has been requested to help finance a project to improve forestry and
wood production. Geothermal exploration is being carried out by EGAT in the
northern part of Thailand near Chiangmai.
30.       Energy Supply Alternatives.  Prospects to reduce Thailand's
dependence on imported energy are good, at least for its electricity sector
in the 1980s. Based on the development of natural gas and lignite resources
proven to date and on the continued expansion of its hydro potential, Thailand
should be able to reduce its share of imported energy for the electricity
sector from about 72% in FY81 to 11% in FY86. However, without a sub-
stantial increase in the natural gas and lignite reserve position or the



- 11 -
development of international hydro potential, Thailand will re-emerge in the
1990s as a major importer of energy for its power sectDr. In the other large
energyconsuming sectors, i.e., transportation and industry, the prospects for
converting to other forms of energy are rather limited in the near term.
Thus, there is a need to focus on curtailing energy demands and encouraging
greater energy conservation.
31.       Energy Investment Program.  The Government's policy is to reduce
Thailand's dependence on imported energy by developing indigenous energy
resources such as natural gas, lignite and hydro potential. Large investments
are required to meet Thailand's energy demand in the 1980s. The annual cost
of the energy investment program will be in excess of $300 million for oil and
gas, $100 million for refineries and $50 million for lignite development.
Other investments in energy production and conservation will be needed to
reduce the country's dependence on imported energy in the future. For the
power sector, capital expenditure to meet increased demand is estimated at
$6,700 million during the period FY82-86 of which 83% is accounted for by
EGAT (para. 46).
32.       Recent Developments.  A new Ministry of Science, Technology and
Energy was created recently for the development of nonconventional energy and
new uses of existing energy sources, but, so far, it has played a minor role
in the larger sector issues. The National Energy Administration (NEA) under
the new Ministry, while responsible for overall energy policy, has concentra-
ted mainly on collecting energy data. NEA is currently carrying out an Energy
Master Plan Study, with the assistance of Asian Development Bank (ADB) and
UNDP financing, to define a program to meet Thailand's energy requirements up
to the year 2000. The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) was established
in December 1978 to deal with all petroleum business and to develop related
energy policies. Under the Second Natural Gas Development Project (Loan
1773-TH), PTT is receiving technical assistance to undertake: (a) a refinery
expattsion study; (b) a gas utilization study; and (c) energy conservation
studies. Under EGAT's Mae Moh Lignite Project (Loan 1852-TH), a study is
being undertaken by consultants to determine long-term forecast price of
lignite. A study of power tariff structures (Loan 1485-TH) was recently
completed. These efforts should provide an initial framework for the
development of a comprehensive energy strategy for the country. The broader
institutional issues relating to the energy sector as a whole have been
addressed by a Bank energy-sector mission and will be pursued in the course of
future energy projects.
Power Sector
33.       Electricity Enterprises.  Thailand has three autonomous state
enterprises in the power sector. EGAT is responsible for generation and
transmission and sells bulk power to large industrial consumers and to the two
power distribution authorities; the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA)
in charge of the Bangkok metropolitan area, and the Provincial Electricity
Authority (PEA) in charge of the rest of the country. EGAT accounted for



- 12 -
95% of all electricity generated in 1979, the balance being generated by PEA
in areas not yet connected to the grid, and by self-generating industries.
Sector Issues
34.       Sector Coordination.  The Power Sector Review in 1976 identified
two principal issues: the need for proper coordination of the power sector
utilities and their investment programs and the maintenance of tariffs at
levels needed to ensure the financial viability of the subsector. In 1977,
the Committee on Power Policy and Development (CPPD) was formed to oversee
the functioning and development of the sector and to provide overall
coordination. However, CPPD has not developed into a decision-making body
with sufficiently broad competence to exercise control or to provide the
required focus for power sector planning. Under the Khao Laem Hydroelectric
project (Loan 1770-TH), the Government agreed to undertake a study to
improve sector coordination. However, this Loan did not become effective
until September 1980 due to delays in implementing tariff increases. The
Government, meanwhile, has been looking into the matter and has evolved
proposals to improve sector coordination. The Energy Master Plan Study
being undertaken by NEA (para. 32) includes a review of the existing
institutional framework and organizational arrangement of the energy sector
as a whole. It was decided during negotiations that the Government and the
Bank should await the recommendations of this study before undertaking a
study for power sector coordination.
Tariff Levels
35.       Tariff levels proved adequate throughout the late 1960s and the
early 1970s, and the financial position of the sector remained strong. During
the sixties and early seventies, the electricity sector enjoyed substantial
economies of scale, shifts to hydro and large steam generation coupled with
rapid increases in the demand and number of consumers. Tariffs were
redu'ced from time to time during these years. The fuel crisis and economic
slowdown of 1973/74 necessitated large increases in tariffs but the
political changes in Thailand, which coincided with those developments, left
the country ill-prepared for fully implementing such increases. Tariff
increases took place in 1974 (50%) and 1977 (29%) but were not sufficient to
ensure the financial viability of the sector.
36.       Severe droughts in 1977 and 1978 adversely affected the thermal/
hydro generation mix, while in 1979 fuel oil prices increased some 115%.
In an attempt to cushion the impact of accelerating inflation, the Government
chose to delay passing the rising costs of electricity to consumers. In 1978,
prices of petroleum products were adjusted so that a greater proportion of the
oil price increases were borne by gasoline consumers to the benefit of fuel-
oil consumers, mainly EGAT. However, by mid-1979 this subsidy proved



- 13 -
inadequate to cover the increasing costs of fuel oil to EGAT, and the
Government, faced with mounting criticism of its handling of the economy,
introduced direct budgetary subsidies, estimated to cost about $9.0 million
a month. These budgetary subsidies were seen as a temporary measure to be
removed when the political climate improved. The Government's attempts to
raise tariffs in November 1979 were thwarted by strong political opposition
and widespread public demonstrations. Despite these difficulties, in February
1980, the Government increased gasoline, diesel, kerosene and cooking gas
prices by 24-51%, and power tariffs by 50% at the bulk supply level and 38%
at the retail level.
37.       The Government was aware of the need for timely tariff adjustments
and under the Mae Moh Lignite Project (Loan 1852-TH) agreed to a "Plan of
Action" which, over a period, would remove subsidies and restore the
sector's financial viability. The Plan of Action consisted of the following
specific steps: (a) adjustment of electricity tariffs for bulk power in two
or more steps to remove all fuel oil subsidies to the sector not later than
January 1, 1981; (b) tariff increase to permit sector entities to achieve a
2% rate of return in FY81; (c) procedures to avoid infrequent and largescale
tariff adjustments in the future, whereby the Government, together with the
Bank and EGAT, would review every six months, commencing from October 1980,
the tariff requirements of the sector for the next two quarters and intro-
duce agreed adjustments; and (d) adjustments to the tariff schedules of the
three utilities (MEA, PEA and EGAT) through the respective fuel adjustment
clauses, to be introduced promptly after oil price increases are announced
by the Government.
38.       Based on the review made in July/August 1980, the Government
announced power rate increases on average of 43.0% at the bulk supply level
and 35% at the retail level. These increases were implemented in two
stages; two-thirds on October 1, 1980 and one-third on January 8, 1981, and
eliminated the fuel oil subsidy to the power sector. Thus, despite a
difficult political climate and rapid inflation, the Government implemented
four substantial power tariff actions between February 1980 and January
1981, namely, the tariff increases in February and October 1980 and January
1981 and the surcharge for heavy consumers in August 1980. In addition, the
Government increased substantially the prices of gasoline, diesel, kerosene
and cooking gas. To ensure that EGAT and the power sector earn a rate of
return of 2% in FY81 and to remove the oil subsidies to the sector caused by
the fuel oil price increase in late January 1981, the Government implemented
a further tariff increase, averaging about 19% at the retail level, on
April 1, 1981. This action fulfilled the requirements stipulated in the
Plan of Action under Loan 1852-TH.



- 14 -
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
39.       Since 1970, electricity demand and energy generation have increased
considerably at annual rates of about 14% and 15%, respectively, reaching
2,255 MW and 13,964 GWh in 1979. The Bank has made ten loans to EGAT and
its predecessor, totalling US$442 million, to help finance power plants and
transmission facilities and one loan of US$25 million to PEA to finance the
first phase of the Accelerated Rural Electrification Project (Loan 1527-TH).
The first six projects of EGAT have been completed and are all operating
satisfactorily. The Seventh Power Project, the Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen)
Hydroelectric Project, was completed in March 1980 as scheduled. The
implementation of the Eighth Power Project (Pattani Hydroelectric Project)
is on schedule. A loan of $80 million, (Loan 1690-TH, Bang Pakong Thermal
Power Project) became effective on May 23, 1980. A loan of $80 million,
(Loan 1770-TH, Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project) and another of $72 million
for lignite production, (Loan 1852-TH, Mae Moh Lignite Project) became
effective on September 17, 1980. The three projects are proceeding
satisfactorily. A loan of $75 million for PEA's Second Accelerated Rural
Electrification Project (Loan 1871-TH) was signed on November 14, 1980 and
is expected to become effective shortly.
40.       Project Performance Audit.  To date, only one project performance
audit report in respect of EGAT's operations has been prepared. This report,
dated March 1978, for the South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project (Loan
790-TH), indicated that the main objectives of the project had been met and
that the project was completed on time and within the original cost estimate.
No difficulties were encountered during project implementation. For this
project, some financial advantage to the Borrower resulted from the
exercising of an option, as previously agreed with the Bank, to purchase
duplicate generating equipment provided in the contract for Unit No. 3 at
the same generating station.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
41.       EGAT's Power Development Program FY80-86, of which the project
forms a part, was prepared by EGAT, with the assistance of consultants, in
the course of its continuing analysis of Thailand's power sector. The
projects included in the Program have been under preparatory discussions
between EGAT and the Bank since early 1979. An appraisal mission visited
Thailand in July 1980. A staff appraisal report entitled "Thailand Power
Subsector Project" (No. 3158-TH) dated April 20, 1981 is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in March 1981. The Government
and EGAT delegations were headed by H.E. Khun Prok Amranand, Ambassador to
the United States, and Khun Kasame Chatikavanij, General Manager,
respectively.



- 15 -
42.       EGAT's FY80-86 Development Program.  EGAT's FY80-86 Power Develop-
ment Program (Map IBRD No. 10402-R3) is based on the principle of the least-
cost sequence of development, following an extensive study of alternative
generation and transmission projects. The program is currently firm up to
FY86, beyond which further studies would be necessary to optimize project
design. The Program comprises (a) ongoing projects under construction with
financing arranged; (b) new generation and transmission projects to be
completed before the end of FY86, with financing being sought; and (c)
future projects to be initiated during the period but completed after FY86.
This program has been reviewed in detail by the Bank in the context of long-
term national priorities and found to be the optimum program, emphasizing
renewable hydropower, both domestic and purchased, and indigeneous resources
of natural gas and lignite.
EGAT - The Borrower
43.       EGAT was established in 1968 by the merger of three power utilities
(the Yanhee Electricity Authority, the Northeast Electricity Authority and
the Lignite Authority) with the objective of coordinating the generation and
transmission systems and increasing the electricity supply throughout the
country. EGAT is a highly developed and efficient institution under the
control of competent management.
44.       Planning.  EGAT's planning department, staffed by highly qualified
professionals, is responsible for the survey, field investigation, and
planning of generation and transmission projects; economic studies; power
development programming and systems planning; and financial projections.
EGAT uses consultants whenever necessary to assist in the feasibility study
of large hydroelectric or multipurpose projects. It reviews and revises the
load forecast and the power development program at least once a year to keep
pace with the changing economic conditions and the known primary energy
resources available to the country.
45.       Engineering, Design and Supervision.  EGAT uses consultants for the
engineering and design of major hydroelectric and thermal power projects.
Since 1974, EGAT has retained the services of an International Board of
Consultants (IBC) to review the investigation, layout and design of major
hydroelectric projects and to inspect the site throughout the construction
period of these projects. Construction of generation projects is undertaken
by contractors under the supervision of EGAT's staff, assisted by consul-
tants. EGAT utilizes its own work force for the installation of equipment
for power stations and substations under the supervision of the manufac-
turers. Transmission lines are constructed by the suppliers on a supply-
and-erect basis. EGAT has an excellent record on project implementation and
management.
46.       Financial Forecast.  A financial forecast for the period 1981
through 1988, has been prepared. EGAT's energy sales are forecast to
increase at an average rate of 11.6% per annum. EGAT's capital expenditures
for the period FY82-86 are estimated at $5.6 billion at current prices and



- 16 -
include the investment required to develop the lignite deposits, as well as
interest during construction. These estimates do not include the government
contributions toward the cost of facilities for downstream benefits. In
addition, about $700 million will be invested by PTT to construct a pipeline
to transport natural gas from the Gulf to the Bang Pakong and South Bangkok
power stations.
Tariffs
47.        Successive tariff increases as stipulated in the Plan of Action
(para. 37) removed fuel oil subsidies and are expected to enable EGAT and
the sector to earn rates of return of not less than 2% in FY81. A rate of
return of 8% in FY82 and thereafter on net fixed assets revalued annually
was agreed (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.03 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). Only modest increases in tariffs would be
required to achieve an 8% rate of return in FY82. Quarterly review of the
adequacy of tariffs and adjustments of EGAT's price for bulk power to MEA
and PEA will ensure that each of the power utilities generate sufficient
funds to carry out their share of Thailand's power development program
(Sections 3.03 and of the draft Guarantee Agreement and Section 5.04(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement). EGAT has agreed to secure the Bank's approval on
borrowings if its debt/equity ratio exceeds 60/40 or if short- and
medium-term borrowings exceed 15% of total debt (Sections 5.05 and 5.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement). EGAT is not expected to exceed the stipulated
debt/equity ratio.
Insurance
48.       In FY79 EGAT shifted to a self-insurance program and established
a sinking fund with the amount that it would have paid for insurance
premiums. The appraisal mission discussed with EGAT the advisability of
employing an expert to review the adequacy of this policy. During
negotiations an agreement was reached that EGAT will hire an expert to
evaluate its self-insurance policy and procedures and present for the Bank's
comments a report with the expert's recommendations before December 31, 1981
(Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Scope of the Project
49.       The proposed project would comprise subprojects, selected in
accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank (para. 52), from EGAT's new
generation and transmission program to be completed before the end of FY86
and EGAT's energy conservation and environmental training programs. The
full list of subprojects comprising EGAT's program, in the order of expected
completion dates, are: (a) Sirindhorn Hydro Station Extension; (b) Mine for
Mae Moh Thermal Station Unit No. 5; (c) Fifth Transmission System Expansion;
(d) Srinagarind Hydro Station Extension; (e) Minor Hydro projects; (f) Lang
Suan Hydro Station; (g) Chiew Larn Hydro Station; (h) Mae Moh Thermal
Station Extension Unit No. 6; (i) Mine for Mae Moh Thermal Station Units
No. 6 and 7; and (j) Sixth Transmission System Expansion. The proposed Bank
loan of $100 million would help finance a three-year time slice (FY82-84) of
EGAT's expenditures and commitments for expenditures for selected sub-
projects (para. 53) and the energy conservation and environmental training
programs.



- 17 -
50.       The estimated cost of EGAT's new generation and transmission pro-
gram to be completed before the end of FY86 amounts to about $1,620 million
excluding interest during construction, with a foreign exchange component of
$820 million and $800 million local cost. The cost estimate is based on end-
1980 price levels and include the custom duties of 5% paid by EGAT (and
reimbursed by Government in the form of equity contribution). Physical
contingencies were included in accordance with EGAT's experience for
different types of projects ranging about 20% for civil works, 5% for equip-
ment and 10% for transmission facilities. The price contingencies for
foreign costs were calculated on the basis of assumed annual rates of
escalation: 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85 and 6.0% for 1986
and thereafter. The price contingencies for local costs were assumed to be
16% for 1981, 12% for 1982-83, 10% for 1984, 9% for 1985 and 8% for 1986 and
thereafter. The $98.7 million allocated from the proposed Bank loan for the
selected subprojects would be equivalent to about 12% of the foreign exchange
component for the program as a whole. The remaining foreign funds require-
ment will be met by loans from ADB, KFAED, OECF, suppliers'/export credits
and commercial bank loans. The local funds requirement of $800 million
equivalent for the program as a whole would be financed from local
borrowings, government equity and EGAT's self-generated funds.
51. The Bank has reviewed the entire EGAT investment program 1980-86 and
found that it is well formulated and is the least-cost solution to meet the
development needs. EGAT has the necessary institutional capacity in
planning, operation and project implementation to carry out the program.
Its procurement and disbursement procedures conform to those required of a
Bank borrower.
52. Subproject Selection. The criteria, agreed during negotiations, for
selecting the subprojects to be financed by the Bank include: (a) technical
soundness - consultants employed by EGAT with qualifications and under terms
acceptable to the Bank have been used in the feasibility, engineering and
design studies (to be reviewed by the Bank) for major hydro and thermal
projects; (b) economic justification - each subproject should be the least
cost when compared with other alternatives with equalizing discount rate of
not less than 12%; (c) financing arrangements - financing for the subproject
has been properly arranged; and (d) prior approval by the Government signify-
ing that the subproject forms part of the national power development program.
Project Description and Costs
53.       The subprojects for Bank financing reviewed and agreed at negotia-
tions include: (a) Chiew Larn Hydroelectric Station; (b) Lang Suan Hydro-
electric Station; and (c) Fifth Transmission System Expansion. The Chiew
Larn Hydroelectric Station comprises: (a) construction of a rockfill dam of
about 90 meters high with associated structures; (b) installation of three
generating units of 80 MW each and 230 KV and 115 KV double circuit trans-
mission lines with switchyards and a substation; and (c) resettlement of
about 315 families. The Lang Suan Hydroelectric Station consists of (a)
construction of a rockfill dam of about 91.5 meters high with associated



- 18 -
structures; (b) installation of three generating units of 45 MW each an!
115 KV double and single circuit transmission lines and a substation; and
(c) resettlement of about 1,950 families. The Fifth Transmission System
Expansion comprises extension of communication systems and installation of
11 substations and 115 KV transmission lines. The total cost of the three
subprojects is estimated to be $781.7 million with a foreign exchange
component of $348.9 million. In addition to the proposed Bank loan, the
foreign exchange component would be co-financed by commercial banks ($112.8
million equivalent), KFAED ($20 million equivalent), export and supplier
credit agencies ($77.7 million equivalent) and ADB ($39.7 million equiv-
alent). The local funds requirement of $432.8 million equivalent would be
met by EGAT, Government equity contribution and local borrowings. The
Government agreed to provide funds or cause funds to be provided to EGAT as
required for the carrying out of the project (Section 2.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
54.       The three subprojects described above meet the agreed criteria
except that, for the Lang Suan subproject, the updating of the environmental
and ecological investigations and the resettlement program is under
preparation and therefore the Government's approval for the subproject is
pending. EGAT will provide the environmental and ecological report and the
resettlement plan for this subproject for the Bank's review and comment not
later than August 31, 1981. No difficulties are anticipated in this regard,
but no withdrawals would be made from the loan account for this subproject
until the Government's approval has been obtained.
55.       Provision has been made (Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement)
that any of the selected subprojects may be replaced by agreement between
EGAT and the Bank with any of the other subprojects which comprise EGAT's
new generation and transmission program to be completed before the end of
FY86. Specifically, should the Government not approve the Lang Suan
Hydroelectric subproject by June 30, 1982, EGAT will seek the Bank's agree-
ment to replace it by September 30, 1982 with another subproject (or sub-
projects) that meets the agreed criteria (para. 52). This will provide a
measure of flexibility to ensure that the proposed loan funds are disbursed
quickly. EGAT will be responsible for implementing all the subprojects
financed under the proposed loan. It will be assisted by consultants for
engineering and construction supervision. It was agreed that for hydro-
electric projects, the layout and design of the dam will be reviewed by the
IBC which would also inspect the site from time to time throughout the
construction period of the project.
Procurement
56.       EGAT has been following the procurement and disbursement
procedures required of a Bank borrower. Procurement is normally based on
international competitive bidding. Processing of tenders and award of
contracts have been undertaken equitably and expeditiously. No problems are
expected for the proposed project.
57.       The proposed loan would be used to cover payments of the following
items of the selected subprojects: (a) civil works; (b) equipment and
materials; and (c) consultant services and training. Civil works and



- 19 -
equipment and materials to be financed under the proposed Bank loan will be
procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. For contracts for civil works and equipment
and materials expected to cost above $2.0 million, prior review by the Bank of
the tender documents and prior approval of the bid award would be required.
For equipment and material contracts of less than $2.0 million, prior review
by the Bank would be optional. A preference of 15%, or customs duties,
whichever is less, will be extended to local manufacturers of equipment and
materials. In the case of minor items of equipment and materials expected to
cost less than $250,000 equivalent each and not exceeding, in the aggregate,
the equivalent of $2.5 million, contracts may be awarded in accordance with
local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
58.       Disbursements for equipment and materials would be made against 100%
of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported items; 100% of ex-factory
cost for items manufactured locally; and 85% of total expenditures for
imported items procured locally off-the-shelf. Disbursements on civil works
would be 55% of total expenditures. For consultant services and training,
disbursements would be against 100% of the foreign expenditures. Disburse-
ments would be made against full documentation in respect of EGAT's expendi-
tures or commitments for expenditures made prior to the end of EGAT's FY84.
The Closing Date of the proposed loan will be June 30, 1985.
59.       No withdrawals will be made in respect of payments made, prior to
loan signing, for expenditures except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding $1.0 million may be made on payments after April 1, 1981 for
environmental monitoring equipment, equipment for public information programs,
consultant services and training.
Justification and Benefits
60.       The economic justification based on EGAT's FY80-86 Development
Program takes into account that, during this period, new installed capacity
would total 3,840 MW including 1,470 MW of hydro and 2,370 MW of thermal. It
will provide a dependable peaking capacity of 3,585 MW and an average energy
output of 17,960 GWh. By developing indigenous energy resources such as
hydro, natural gas and lignite, oil-based generation would be reduced from
about 72% in FY81 to 11% in FY86. A comparison of four alternative develop-
ment programs demonstrated that the program which includes the Lang Suan and
Chiew Larn hydroelectric projects and the early lignite development was found
to be the least cost sequence of development at discount rates of up to 16%.
61.       The internal economic rate of return of EGAT's least cost
development program FY80-86 is estimated at 12%, using the economic costs
and the estimated average consumer tariffs adjusted to end-1980 price levels
as the minimum estimate of benefits.



- 20 -
Energy Conservation and Environmental Training Programs
62.       Energy conservation measures are being carried out by the Government
through the mechanism of energy pricing; policy-setting of realistic national
targets of economic development; promotion of less energy-intensive production
modes and also the launching of a major public education program. The Govern-
ment has recently established a National Energy Policy Committee chaired by
the deputy Prime Minister in charge of the sector. This Committee is now
planning to formulate more substantial energy conservation measures, both
short- and long-term. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
introduction/expansion of a suitable public information program to be carried
out by EGAT; $300,000 would be provided under the proposed loan to procure the
equipment necessary for carrying out the programs.
63.       Thailand's National Environmental Board (NEB) is responsible to the
Prime Minister's Office for reviewing the environmental aspects of all govern-
ment projects including the protection and management of ecological systems,
control of pollutants and wastes and protection of public health. All
environmental and related health aspects of projects undertaken by EGAT are
reviewed and approved by NEB. During negotiations, it was agreed that about
$1.0 million would be provided under the proposed loan for an environmental
training program to be carried out by EGAT. It would include $0.4 million to
equip an air-monitoring station and laboratory and $0.6 million to provide 18
man-months of environmental consultant services estimated at $12,500 per
man-month and 100 man-months of on-the-job training abroad for ECAT staff.
Resettlement
64.       EGAT has carried out successful resettlement programs in the past
for the Srinagarind and Pattani Hydroelectric Projects and the resettlement
program for the Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project is now being executed.
Normally, two committees (Compensation Committee and Resettlement Committee)
will be set up consisting of members from related Government agencies and
local governments to ensure that the resettlement is carried out successfully
in accordance with Government policy. The same practices will be followed
for future power projects. The resettlement plan for the Chiew Larn Hydro-
electric Station has been reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.
EGAT will furnish the resettlement plan for the Lang Suan Hydroelectric
Station for the Bank's review and comments by August 31, 1981.
Risks
65.       Delays in execution of subprojects can be caused by technical prob-
lems, delays in implementing resettlement programs and adjustments in tariffs.
EGAT uses extensively the services of an international board of consultants
whose advice will be sought should any unusual technical problems arise in
connection with the construction of hydroelectric projects. In order to mini-
mize delays in resettling village groups from dam sites, EGAT has initiated



- 21 -
socio-economic surveys to develop comprehensive resettlement programs and to
establish acceptability by the communities involved. The Government has acted
promptly in adjusting tariffs to reflect increases in production cost,
particularly of fuel oil. Remaining risks are deemed not to be significant
enough to preclude proceeding with the loan.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and
the Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand, and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed separately. Special features of the proposed project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 1, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                                         ANEX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WtIGHTED AVE4CES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.-                                                            -  MOST RECENT ESTIMIATE)-
TOTAL            514.0
AGRICULTURAL     179.6                                  MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCPMF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBFAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  100.0        220.0     590.0                1114.7                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       64.0       247.0     327.0                 842.4                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      26.4        35. 7      44. 5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5         13.2       14. 1                 39.1                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KI.                        51.0        69.0      88.0                 376.1                     28. 1
PER SQ. FMT!. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0      251.0      251.0               2350.4                     PI. 7
POPLLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PFRCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44. 7       46. 2      43.4                  40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                          52.6        50.8      53.6                  56.2                     54.7
65 YRS. ANTD ABOVF                   2. 7        3. 0       3.O                  3.4                      3. 9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2. e        3.0        2.7                  2.4                      2. 7
URBAN                               4.6         3. 7       3.6                  4. 1                     4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PEP THOUSAND)      46.0        44.0       32.0                  28.7                    34.8
CRIUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     17.0        12. 0       8.0                  7. 9                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                . .        3.2        2.2                   1.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       203. 0/c   644.0
USERS (PERCENT OF TIARRIED UOMEN)   ..         27.4      40.0                  39.0
FOOD ANID NUTRlTION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0       100.0      134.0                116.9                    106.9
FER CAPITA SJPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   96.0        103.0     105.O/d               108.9                    107.4
TEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0        50.0       49. 0d               60.3                     65. 6
F WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        10. 0       15.0      14. Ojd               18.8                     33. 7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY BATE      15.0         9.0        6.0                  5.3                      8.4
HEALTE
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRN  (YEARS)    51.0         57.0       61.0                 63.0                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..        86. 0/e    68.0                 52.8                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        17. 0     22.0                  42.4                     65.9
URBAN                                ..          ..      49.0                  62. 1                    80.4
RURAL                                ..          ..       12. 0                29. 7                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCEIT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      40.0                  52.8                     62.3
URBAN                                ..        65.0      58.0                  71. 1                    79.4
RURAL                                ..         8.0      36. 0                 42.4                     29.6
POPILATION PER PHYSICLAN           7800. 0     8420.0    8169.0                4120. 1                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4900.0      3340.0    3542.0                2213.6                   1227.5
POFULATION PER HOSPITAL BEE
TOTAL                            1351. S/f    880.0     816.0                 819.4                    480.3
ITRBAN                              ..        350. 0
RURAL                               ..       1136.0
ADMISSIONS PER HIOSPITAL BED           ..        31.0       33.0                 28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.5/f       5.8       5.5
URBAN                               5. 3/f      5.9       5.5
RURAL                               5. 6/f      5.8       5.5
AVERAGE NrMBER OF PERSONS FER ROOM
ISTAL                                ..          ..       2. 4                   .
URBAN                                ..          ..       2. 2
RURAL                               ..           ..       2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
UERBAr:                             ..           3.0        .
RIRAL                                ..        13.0 



- 23 -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                        REFERIENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVP;ACGFS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
HOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCEHI!
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AM ERICA & CAI8BIBFAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        81.0       83.0                   98.6                      99.7
MALE                  88.0         85.0      86.0                   99.2                     101.0
FEMALE                79.0         77.0      79.0                   97.7                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  13.0        17.0       27.0                   55.5                      34.4
KALE                  16.0         20.0      28.0                    60.7                     33.5
FEMALE                10.0         14.0      20.0                   49.9                      34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    19.0           24.0      13.0                    13.7                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR7MARY                             36.0        35.0       30.0                   34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                           20.0        16.0       21.0                   28.5                      14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         68.0        79.0       84.0                   85.8                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         5.0        6.4                    9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0        78.0      131.0                  118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2. 3        7.0       18.0                   39.4                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0        24.0         ..                     ..                      63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        1. 7                   4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13529.2       16658.8   20985.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.3         47.3       47.0                   36.8                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.7        79.9       77.0                   51.9                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.4          6.0        8.0                   21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.3        46.6       45.6                   39.1                      31.5
MALE                                  52.7        49.3       48.6                   48.5                      48.9
FFHiALE                               49.8        43.9       42.6                   29.6                      14. 0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0. 9         1. 1      1. 0                   1. 1                      1. 4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h        23.81i    14.0 .1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50. 9fl       49. 7/i    42. 2.L
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 2/i        6. Ili     7.6:1
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14. 9/h       15. 9/i    19. 1,.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      159.0                     .
RURAL                                 ..          ..      106.0                  192. 1                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      115.0                     ..                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      110.0                  182.5                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IllCOlE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          .,       15.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       34.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithnetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estisate, between 1974 and 1978.
/t   Government program only; /d 1976; /e 1964-65; /f 1962; /& Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area; /h 1962-63; /i 1968; /I Preliloinary data for 1975-76; due to lack of data on national basis, the
methodology for aggregating the available regional data overstatea incomes of low income groups and utder-
states incomes of higher income groups.  Thus, this data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-24-                                                                               Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL. INDOICATORS
Not..:  Although the data ace draet  fro  sore   atrlyjdgedE,  th   oE  uhrcai ao   eibl,i   hould also ha toted that they say aot ha In-te-
..tonaly coparble because  f obo lac. o  atan2 dardes  deintin  anbocpaue   ydifrn  co                            Mca  to co11oottg the daro.  The data are. .o...
thel..as.. usful to daaorithe order  of magntude, indicateirenda, and oh arocterle crratIn 0.1cr differeocem  hetwe.e coun trie..
The referooC groups are (Dl the oaI  conr:g-yo  tesbeo onryad(1  oocy gr-uf  ltS  eagoebh  hiigharaerjainom   thao the o-ory grocp
oftesb)act coon. try (ascept for Cpinal Surp!;lusl trror   gop ehre"Iddeboe   ot   EriasdM MddlEattehoabcueoftrsr
aoolo-oliuriffiitia In It th  rrfereoce group data the averages are rPuPation emighted artomtc   ens for each Dodiostor aed a-'  only slis.a
least hal  of the cunties  cgrophsdt   o   hrldocr    ic   he     . coerge of coutrisa amon  nh. ndtoet... depends on the g-ilabtlity of
data atd Do not u.ifo.-, cauion moat be eseroteed Icnltoarrg                  of one iodicetor  oaohr   These averge  era..  only useful in compain  the raIse
of one todiostorens. tIme asog the country snd refrto rus
dLEP  ARElA  thocuaa.dtq.ke.)                                                               couatnor: ec.-tpition aivtfd  if noea  o  pr-cinisj piy-
Total - Total  -ufoce. areal comprimi   land area sod coland ..cer..                        aiciene 4oaDifte  fro  aeloaIshol ao uniesteity leve.
ArIoSitra1     -tala-   ofariutra   r              I sd teporarily or parnaneoly           ouaineoNrin   oao-Pplt    ditad  bIy atbsr of pa sa
tof  rp,sor       s  nrkot sod klcchnn serdoe ort  ile fI.n   9Pdt,                      elssdfsi   rdaetoa,patcDnre,  e   ettm    aaa
Gj.P11L.CA  GNP P-  -Ii~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ossstir or-loaite  Be  -total. sehaa. ad total - Posasleti    (total,
lIP PIE  AITA 1S)-Ci  e  ca  t   tIdoe   tcretmre   rom  cD                                  ra,edcrl   ii    by their raspettilm   olar Of hepita1 belt
catdby mn  oor ttnthosoWol  tankAtla  (177-9 hosts); 1960,                               -rilable in public and prinsta  anara1 and spenia1isad hospitalel m
DIPS, and  19Y9dt.-                                                                         hbtilitationceooera.  Hnepiels are  -atbliieh t. persaipy ateffad
ENERGY CONUMPTION PR C.PITA   An ... I  .. hy-pli  dfyaE- lease oneFYphysician.  ranabtliehhmeiote.prbliidiag prisoipelly.  omlatedial.
nedtl  CONd5tT0   t   hIT      oe    oaurito   oacoo                 iry(ca                 aeae        n oioded.  Eral. hoepitale.,bser h-        tlde hate sad  Wii
en Rint,penrol-n, natral. ga  an d hdo-, nula-n etaea   lc                             ater  nonp         ..eoely staffed by a physica  (ho  by a madiol assistant.
tricIty  in kilcsrae  of cc-. 4iolecPer cayits; l9A0, 1970, and 1918                        torse, aldifa. etc.) which offer io-patienoecoeetossd pro-kda 
data.                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~lmit ed rang  of medical fetiliini..P..o   aaionlP-agaee  aebs  heeti-
tae  siosItHO. prtocipa1 georal sod epetis1tead hospitals,as  .ona
rlytlLe.IiO  hMM hltol STATISTICS                                                              hospitala Ioa  cr 1.  rsre1 hoapitoDl  endmaia  and .Ta iyEsne
Total Poculati-n. Mid-Sear (sillion...    An cf July 1; 1950, l970, sod 1978              Adaisnion  ea  Htoertl. sad - Totalnuber of odiesIosdo. rFiehf
dta.                                                                                     frmhsitel  divided by the comber of bade.
Urban Poosln  0roc  fctl  - Ratic of urbc c to Ital Ppoplotion:
dif.feret defccin    r  ra  stoa   nay afu   copacahlity of dens                      HOUSING
aaeongccunriet;  191   1570, and1918 Isca.Av-raae Does of Houoehold Irar.on. tar hou...ho.", -tonal  urba. ad nasa-
Pooitio  rcrcioeA ho..aehold con..Ises of argru  of ind ividosie ehr abtslvEg  ottr
"Ipuleni   in yea  DIl  - Crronycnltfcc Projections areF e    on 191                      and theirclt meals..  A bcarder or Dodger may ormyntot be inildad in
toa  pyititb  ag1-      edaco  Ienac  their nortelity  nd fencEDiciy rts                th. house.hold forso Caoe  yrposee.
Projection Parmeer otr srtal try yates c-priaco   be   eesats                          vroonn   fproa  e   om-ttl   ra,adrnS-Aeaeom
in   itepcoc   thth  nro  t   c    ocrnpr  aIaDcn                                o   fpron  e   on  c  l   ra,ad  no   cosdcoenoa
Crc,adfml Itopoccy taiciga175yas Thpas                                         delie,rsetvl. os    geeDdst-pnnt tunraad
monro  toe. tactlity  rat oiloha 1-    the.   lvlsanni..sit  ic uPoc-npied ports.1,l 
fetiit   iordo   t  iceclee  sd  at  anl  pantg   sromaoe                    ccescilcti too.(ercan  of  a.ine -. tota. 4                rhes, and.. oos..
an  fertility   cronlda for prjetin    .up.. F-                                            cctsFeurhdv, anIrural dwllings repectiv1ly
EStationary      I p ultin-nanoinr.pploltchc  i   ogrnbtic
th Iirhoto is  qualto_the death rote  urod alocih  Sgestroctarocs.-    EDUCATION
mainacOtneo.  Tinis "cIed cDY 'ftec ferni Y icy rate  decline to                      sAjuatei rE-1lnec  latica
the replaceen  levelctutco   apooducIitocl ci,oh en oath tesa  on                       Piaye ci-talelsndfme - li.es tonal, male and fale
of ocean replace  Steely eutly.   Ia sttinr    Icy             lloc  eewsrrlot   falagsa  h   rmr   ee   s  acnee   frsete
eatimatodc   h   oE  o   b   r7ed   caatrouoo  h   nuoin                                  pIayahn-g    ooain;nral   nldeclds   ged 6-11
It Eta, y.s. DISC, and che Frat  cf loclte of f-rtil ity rotn to relc-.r   hu  adjulnod fc  dtflFeronlannh  ofl prI                            r    tntn;for
notE  leel                                                                                ccnrennoioersl education sneoiao   ma.r   y cusd Dli perceet
Sear snh.oa.   couacc.scabd .h  yep ovtaichr   ppuatco                                    Since ace  Fup Dantebe1   or above the official schoolae
else hem hsecoeached.                                    Sscutdary scbocl - total, male and female - Computed em shor;senay
FouslnDasity                                                                            rduc-icncrqnif..en t les  tu  yas  faprvd  rmayEntofts
Pe ko.la.- Midyorpcpnlactcc per tq-or  kinlcm.c. -   IO  heccoo-   of                   proidesgnra.tcalnl  "I teachr tann    ntofts   o   oi
honsi anna.                                                    osuolly of 12to 17 yeasc.          e  conaodsocscorea  era  smaely"
Per onl a.arIutua         dlt  - Conpoted - shon  for agricultura  lond                     esocludo
only.                                                                                     ouiclsrloo   pretc  secodar)                      -o1ioa  ioetlnuiene
Parnatir Ae Sruotrn  parentI -Children  Il-lu yFer...  co rking-ag   11-             icusetta,idere,o   ta  Progrm F                      whihoeaei p-
Ad. reon S. ad rectrd  (At  ears ad ovr) as PIcc..cagS.. of rid-year7 POPO-        declyl cc sa departoen.ta of eecodsy. irtitution..
atc;1990, 1970. and 1973 dana.                                                        Povo-Inasher ratio - VFmr-y. ond seodary,   - Ion1  -ndaste enrolled In
Population   r-th oas racon.            ao  - Anonal ornthonton of ctslt mid                  primary and secondary Door  dividdby nuebera of te..chars in the
yearpoplaticos for 195i-60, 1960-70, and  .970-PA.                                        ccr-epcndtnginae
PopotianicdrcthEasIrccl-ubn-ooAll.  grooth rdcm  of octet porn-                             odl 1iero  rats (osro...i) - Li Esrets ad1ts  (otslt read so.d -ite)
lait 5a 90-Al, lIAS-O.ad  9ifaapoccennafe of tora1 edolt poyslenion aged 15 ye-  an  oot
Crude Birth ben  (ocr thc...s.dj            lino VSmo   births pec thousand ofi od-year
popuiotion; 1960. 1970, and 19PM data.                                                CONSUMPItTON
Crude loath late icer thousand) -  nuldah   e    uad   of old -year                       Pasne   as(ertcan   ooat i-Psegr cars comprise manor
pnpuletiSo; 1960, 19P0, and DIP  dos7atsatn   esta   th   ssn;ecua   dusca  hearses and
Gross Rocroduction fate - A-raa   tuohar cf daughter. I teo  aill hear din                    iliteryostoiioa..
her  ora  rercuciv   prd If. oh oapi mne  presen t  ge-nype ificf f                     foi   eanr-(e   huadpon irI-AlD types of re...iv.r  for r-dt,
dut   raes;oocalytOc-eraraoenIgio IbhP  197,  and 1975                               tronnt   nnnea   uli   e   hoon   f  ouaIon_ uide   s
Famly  lanon-Acsrtrs  Anual(Eouonda  -  ocsl  unhc  f ocspct  cesadrocinrn  t cunrie  nn  n  pers  ttFreihtattn  f rdiOse
of  irh-onro  dolos  tdn  usfne  o  nticalfail  patingorano. so  ivofeo  ;lao fr  ecInporstaync  b  copfahs  i                   di as
cotl   DaoigUoc  (orot  Laclt   000  -Pocttg   o  ocie               utroabltebs  1 acin
onset op  hild-hearnaeto  (1 -ud. yeanS obc 0  hioth -cntrol orocet tO  T loceivor  Corn thcnaod pocustiocl -TV receivrs for tradneen t
oil maccoal conan 10  umeato ocouy.                                      generalpublic pen thounand  opulecion; cocoud--puliceneaIdIt -a-eivad
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                     1.     t~~~~~~~~~~noconi.n sod to yearn oh.. togianta inn of TV asta oea in effeon.
PlOD 05 AUTITEIS                                                ooncoer Ciruloctn (ta  thousandcouain  -  ho hsb  average  icom
loden  f roodPrcduiiun co Cocia (195-71e10( -tlden of peropaanul               inof"iygerl ittereot_ ...  . Isapc,etned saparioditel Po-b
producIit  of allfon odd., odi-it    rotcc   onldn  edan   ed' andicaho lnted primarily treorig.general ne-s   Dt Is  naie
Is  ncaedar yrrbaIn.   osodcs             -cve  pimay gcded (e.g. eatnt                    oho"danDy' if it appeara at  so  f-o tnma  a week.
instead of ougarl oh i   ar   dihie and c..a I      ntprn   (e.5. cnffsr and            Cinema  nuAl .   Attendac- car fe,tus per te.,c-ta donthe nosbar of
to  aotcoed.Atgrga;tr  . prodociot nf eac  conry to bh.od on                              itchkefo  acid during tho year, innludnng adaiatnona no drtv--inc di.-m
aicto  norge ppcduc-  pcice weIghts; 195l-c5. 19705..ad 1978 dato.                       -cd s.btie ui
percscis  unco o  caoris Ioroct  f ravuirenetta) -C.eputnd frcn
enerfyoqlce    cco  nffod  jpvin-oiluble It conr   orcyt                            DABOR FORCE
per day.  Anatlalo nupyi ten  oyrime Onnanist denlucicon  ispoct  ,dent  Tct1 Labor foce_r(chautadn  - Ecnnci-lly acive persna  inlding
qaotcennd infodprcntg..ad bison In 1  diatibtion. lqoire-                         bunt c i.to  In oaritco   --otriet  n tot nor  naa        196; SAf I9Pi and
eencno-roe-ti-ared by PAt basdc   hsoogia              red   n  nrsa  anti              1978 data.
nity and haaJln  conIdaigecrretlrnesus   cyooha   t                                    ene aco)-cnl iIFoIfarc  at percsnhege  or total labor forts.
and nasdiecriunoco c  popultion, ad allctnig 10 percn . o.. se  t          aiclr    Itercdnt  _ Labor force in farming, forestry, hooting and
boothoi  levo; 19k1-A1, D970, ad  977 data                                           fishing at percentage of otal1 Debar forco; 1960. 1970 and 1978 data.
Fse capita  ucyo  prtiFrso   a   e) - yrteic  -coe-  of per usPita                      Itd-ntrIIrr           L)..Lbor f-rc  in rining, cosructi-c   oodctr
net supply of focd per doy.  Oct supy of foodi in dofined anshv . E-                    an   lcrciy   a           n   asspretg   fttDDtrforc; 1960.
qoreonfr  i  c         -nrinstobl!ioed by SlE  protdI o    ininu               .37  adt179la
dicooe oP  S aom  of  totalyrOtint per day sod 10 gEl.        fa..   Dad          eoacrno   a    rmn       otl   ao d                  fmal --PePicPt... or
pus Iroen   ofhiob ii Ersas ehoud h.enainal  conio. het  stand-                atvyro           are cIptda   oa,el,adfml  labor force a
ards  p   oe   hnEeso h.        h 5$rasa ofroa  proteinyatd 23 grEnof-ecsc of                        oftoal  sl  sad.fesale          nato    flngse r-pecti-ly;
anima  proteita   rcrg    o  thFAOd rooe  b                      inth.b Thtod           1960, 1970, sod 1975 dos Teorot'opticipation rates  -afle-ttat
Acrid  ood Srney;  961-A, 197  and 177 dao.                 ag-sec sructue of  he ploputDonc, and long ties trend.  A fe esi-
Pen captta trotait sAnclo Pros oninal aod puins - Proi. supply of fond ds-                toenr  fro   snnna  souces
Pi_ed from  annlaad poison In frama per day; i961-A5. 1970 and 1977 dens.   EconomcDcnec  ltn- Ratin of  ppltonluder 15 and 65 end  roa
Child. (sassp 1-A)1 Motorliy Rate (per    .... ed) - Actual deaths per Ecotesod I.         to ha     tnilao  fr.
agegropI-  yar, on ctcildr   ic this ag  grou. p; furnoEdevolo insnoo-
tries date deriodfo   Ifenh 1o 9bi  dI    o  197  dto.                                Irioton _DISTOEB_1TEI
PeressasofPr coe Icoe hth io o"'h and kindi - Racei-d by riobset
aDALTI                                                                                        ---n-                    ~
I  percent, richest iiprcn,poorest 2  percen t, and poorest AS parceno
Life toEcofythn    vsa)-Aeaethtc  yoars of life remaining                                    of bone.holds.
etbirth   DAl, 1970 sod 1979 data.
Infant Mortality late  (Per tho.....dl   Actual  deaths of infants under one Year   POET  TARGET GROUPS
of age pere thousand live tirobs.                                                     _E-isti ate  AbncIlute  oet  Inom  Lce  (ISpe  cns  -. arts,  sad r,rll -
Aces to Saeltr(ono   fcclna)-tni   ra,adrnl-Absolute poverty coon  eeli  tht income lee  belwwih     iia
Mnumer cI peoplIs tnl      -ra,ad mealS uinh r......abl, aces  osfe                       ntr ioalDy_ deqoate diet plus eecniD   o-fond raqoireasts Is not
raterl  oyply- -lno    ..udas  tre ted aursOOetc   on unteatd  buituncontaminted            ffondahin.
per--tgsn of ohseir ...np-i-o populations.   Is   ra   reb            pb..                 trsOreatie  ovety.noma love  is one-thIrd of avrage pert 'epts
faunnoc or aonlyce  locaed non oars  bso 200  --ar  trotsI house e.y be             porn      i""D Do ofa the country'.  Urhan leve  Is derived farm  the rural
coosudecods hobo .f hin .r.o.obtlhoaccost of chtIcons.  Inhrorl areas1ihdl.  .     .FI-dtofI,                                           I 
re enloacesnud tpyta               heIno esf  ornaor_fIhobuood                        lEvlihooneitnhgercOofDiginubnaas
do  ot   noto apond.adinproyortioa-e part dt  hte doy Sn ftcttt0  thr                 ttntdPrlto.eo .ooe  oet   om   oe   neet      ra
rosily' a water nee ds.
dsoasopercetages of the ir respect insppitos.foeada                                                                Eocn-sl  end Social Data livisino
Poss  ma  include the colentlo  sod.disycea, pith or othnortr-a...nt,                                               Pcnomt  golysis end Projetions Ssepar-ms
cfhu yuc  _cr..a..  ness.ts_ r bteeterhrF       ne    te rhoueo                                                                        October 1980
pit privies avd stellarineltin



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                               Paye Tof 5
THAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       46,140   (mid-1979, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$594   (1979)
Amount
(million US$                  Average Annual Increase (x)                   Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
at current                    (at constant 1975 prices)                            (at current prices)
Indicator                      prices) 1979        1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1958-90          1960      1970      1975      1980/e
National Accounts
Gross domestic products /a         27,804.5           8.4        6.4        8.9        6.5        7.2       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
AgriculLure                       7,173.2           5.5        5.3        4.6        4.9        5.0        39.8      28.3      31.5     23.9
Industry                         7,875.1           11.5        7.8       10.1        6.9        7.3        18.7      25.3     24.8      29.9
Services                        12,756.2            9.0        7.1       10.1        7.4        8.1        41.5      46.4     43.7      46.2
Consumption /b                     21,767.4           7.3         7.o       8.3        5.0        6.4        85.7      78.7      79.3      76.7
Gross investment /c                 7,744.3          15.8        3.8       11.8        5.3        5.2        15.7      26.2      25.4      29.8
Export of goods and NFS             6,321.2          10.5        3.6       11.0       12.0       10.0        17.4      16.7      19.1      23.5
Imports of goods and NFS            8,028.4          13.9        3.7       11.4        6.0        6.5        18.9      21.5      23.7      30.1
Gross national savings              5,655.2           -          -          -          -          -          14.1      21.5      20.7      22.3
Composition of merchandise Trade (X)
(at currenti;cs
1960     1970                1980/e
Merchandise Trade
.lerchandise exports                                                                                        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary                                                                                                    97.8      80.5      77.3     59.8
Manufacturers                                                                                               2.2      19.5      22.7     40.2
Merchandise imports                                                                                         100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                                                                                        9.6       5.4       4.4      3.4
Petroleum                                                                                                  1O.9       8.8     22.1      30.9
Machinery & equipment                                                                                      25.3      36.1      35.8     24.1
Other                                                                                                      54.2      49.7      37.7     41.6
1975     1976      1977      1978      1979/e
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP deflator                                            100.0    103.4    108.6    114.7    123.7
Exchange rate                                            20.4     20.4      20.4      20.3      20.3
Export price index                                      100.0     89.5      86.3    107.4    130.2
Import price index                                     100.0    105.8    114.1    122.3    144.9
Terms of trade index                                    lOU.G     84.6      75.6      87.8      89.9
As Z GDP
(at current prices)
1965     1970      1975      1979
Public Finance
Current revenue                                              13.6      13.8      13.2     13.9
Current expenditure                                          10.6      12.6      11.7     12.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                   +3.0     +1.2      +1.5      +1.5
Capital expenditure                                           4.3       5.8       3.4      3.4
Foreign financing                                             0.2       0.05      0.06     0.2
(at constant 1975 prices)
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Other Indicators
GNP growth rate (Z)                                   8.4        6.4        9.0        6.1        7.3
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                        5.2        3.4        6.9        3.8        5.2
Energy consumption growth rate ()-                               -          -          -          -
ItOR                                                  2.8        4.O        2.9        4.1        3.5
Marginal savings rate                                 0.29       0.23       0.21       0.37       0.34
Import elasticity                                     1.7        0.6        1.3        0.9        0.9
/a  At market prices.  For projected years, sectors are at factor cost.
/b Total government and private consumption.
/c Including changes in stock.
/d Estimate.
March 12, 1981



- 26 -                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Population:        46,140    (mid-1979, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US5594   (1979)
Actual                                            Projetted
1970     1975     1976     1977      1978     1979/b      1980     1981     1982     1983        64
Balance of Payments
Net exports of goods 6 services                        -299     -687      -465  -1,134    -1,191  -2,152    -2,683    -2,771   -2,877  -2,951  -2,747
Exports of goods B services                         1,171    2,990   3,645   4,179        5,127   6,660       6,586     7,992  10,122  11,996  14,273
Imports of goods 7 services                         1,470   3,678    4,110   5,312        6,318   8,813       9,269    10,763  12,999  14,947  17,020
Net transfers                                             49       81       24       40         41       61         43        47       55        58       67
Current account balance                                -250     -606      -441  -1,094    -1,149  -2,092   -2,640   -2,724  -2,822  -2,893  -2,680
Direct private investment                                 43       86       80      106         51       53         55        60       65        70       75
MLT loans (net)                                           32      111      198      205        644      992     2,385      2,864   2,657    2,823   2,705
Official                                               21        93      109      212       285       439       480        703      909   1,0ZI   1,034
Private/a                                              10        18       89       -7       360       554     1,905     2,161    1,748    1,802    1,671
Other capital/a                                          93       35b      242      792        490   1,039        200        200      200      200       200
Uhange in reserves                                        82       52      -79       -9        -36        8          0      -400     -100     -200     -300
Internatiunal reserves                                  906   2,007   2,113    2,208        2,558    3,102      3,026     3,426    3,526    3,726    4,026
Reserves as months of imports                              7        7        6         5         5        4          4         4        3         3        3
Gross Disbursements
Official grants                                            -        -        -        -          -        -
Gross disbursements of public hLT loans                   55      150      242      268        743   1,124
Concessional                                           11       43        52       82       153       215
Bilateral                                            11       40       45        54        86      151
IDA                                                   -        3        7         9         5        4
Other multilateral                                    -        0         0       19        62       60
Nonconcessional                                        44      107       189      186       590       909
Official export credits                               7        -        -        84        45      114
I BED                                                19       41       43        65       103      139
Other multilateral                                    2       37       46        33        46       36
Private                                              17       29      100         5       396      620
Gross dishursements of other loans                      143       386      366      349        571      799
Total gross disbursements                               198       536      608      618     1,314    1,923
External Debt
Public debt outstanding and disbursed                   322       616      822    1,068     1,790   2,702
Official                                              285      548       666      917     1,270   1,638
IBRD                                                159      270      298      346        435      556
IDA                                                   -        4       11        19        25       28
Other                                               126      274      357       552       811   1,054
Private                                                37       68       156      150       520   1,064
Other debt outstanding and disbursed                    382       730      785      880        939   1,243
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                    704   1,346    1,607    1,948       2,729   3,945
Undisbursed debt                                        161      666       841    1,421     1,862   2,471
Total debt (including undisbursed)                      865   2,012    2,448    3,369       4,591    6,416
Debt Service
Public debt service payments                             39        73       88      122        195      278
Interest on public debt                                16       34        44       58        97      146
Payments as percentage of exports                     3.3      2.4      2.4       2.9       3.8      4.2
Other debt service payments                             123       304      311      320        614      655
Total debt service payments                             162       377      399      442        809      933
Average interest rate on new public loans (X)    6.8              7.5      7.8      7.0        6.7      7.0
Official                                              6.8      7.4       7.7      6.2       5.3       5.3
Private                                               6.0      8.5      8.1       8.2       8.8      9.0
Average maturity of new public loans (years)           18.9    22.9       17.4     14.8       17.3    16.8
Official                                             19.4    24.2    20.7        19.3      22.3    22.6
Private                                              11.2      7.0      7.3       8.3       9.4      9.8
oank GroupuExposure (1)
IBRD      total DOD                                    22.6    20.1    18.5        17.8      15.9    14.1
IB1D disbursements/total gross disbursements            9.5       7.7      7.1    1U.9        8.4       7.4
IBRD debt service/total debt service                   11.1      8.5       9.1     10.0       6.8       7.3
IDA DOD/total DOD                                         -      0.3       0.7      1.0       0.9       0.7
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements                -     0.5       1.1      1.5       0.4       0.2
IDA debt service/total debt service                        -     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
As X of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1979)
Terms Structure
Maturity structure of public debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                28.7
principal due within 10 years                                               61.2
Interest structure of public debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                 4.5
/a Due to change in classification projected data for "Private SILT Loans" include must of the category "Other capital."
/b Estimate.
March 12, 1981



- 27 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                           Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-nine loans and one credit fully disbursed                     586.07    5.49       -
822    1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      15.40        -   0.03
369    1973   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -   19.50   0.43
461    1974   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation         -    7.00   0.06
992    1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                              Industry       11.70        -   0.18
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.00         -  53.75
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -   6.87
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock        5.00(TW)   -   1.93
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rubber         50.00        -  15.30
1253   1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            26.00        -   3.73
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education       31.00        -  13.15
1327   1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry        25.00       -   0.79
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00          -  12.33
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.00         -  26.02
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           50.00       -  11.39
1492   1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry         4.80       -   0.61
767    1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population         -   33.10/b29.47
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.00          -  40.05
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority         Rural Elect.  25.00         -  13.54
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing          8.60        -   7.19
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            90.00        -  90.00
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.50         -  16.41
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban           16.00        -  13.51
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways        16.70        -  12.12
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           80.00       -  74.82
913    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -   35.00  33.46
929    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture        -   25.00  24.11
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Extension 40.00          -  38.94
1770   1979   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand                  Power           80.00        -  64.87
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                  Natural Gas
Thailand                               Pipeline   107.00/d       - 107.00



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                 Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation          80.00    -         75.95
1816     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Credit          19.00    -         18.88
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power               72.00    -         55.54
1865     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                   Water Supply         40.00    -         40.00
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing             29.00    -         29.00
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity
Authority                    Power               75.00    -         75.00
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00    -          53.00
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports               47.00    -         47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Research        30.00    -         30.00
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Potash Engineering  8.90    -           8.90
Total                                                        2,048.67  125.09  1,145.33
of which has been repaid                                     245.96    1.36
Total now outstanding                                        1,802.71  123.73
Amount sold /c                       68.63
of which has been repaid           48.10                      20.53
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,782.18  123.73
Total undisbursed                                            1,057.80   87.53
/a  This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of March 31, 1981.
7T  Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/d  Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1981)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                    -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                             Construction
1978/1979                         Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29      0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing               2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00       -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Giass Industry
1980     Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.34       5.19
1979   Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials          36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market            -_-_      0.15      0.15
Total gross commitments                            73.98    9.61       83.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          49.21    2.56      51.77
Net held by the Corporation                         24.77    7.05      31.82
Total undisbursed                                   5.91               -5.91



- 30 -                  ANNEX II
Page 4 of 1I
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1981)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
The project has been completed and a completion report drafted.
Outstanding amounts will be cancelled shortly.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components have been completed, about 30 months behind
schedule because of delays in the Teacher Training Colleges component. Good
progress was made in the pedagogical development of project components. The
Government has been asked to make arrangements for drafting a project
completion report.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed ahead of schedule. All civil works have been tendered and
most contracts awarded. More than half of equipment and furniture has been
procured. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training programs
are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry
of Education of its nonformal education programs.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Credit No. 913  Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date:  October 12, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30,
1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Satisfactory
progress is being made on institutions included in phase one which are
scheduled to be constructed and equipped by end-1981. For this phase, sites
have been selected and acquired. Sketch plans and equipment lists are
completed. Phases two and three will be completed mid-1982 and mid-1983,
respectively. Project staff has been appointed or designated. Curricula are
being developed. Technical Assistance agencies, except that for CEA, have
been contracted and staff training programs are conducted as scheduled. The
studies under the project are progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project has been completed except for connection of some new
telephone lines expected during the first half of 1981. About $3.8 million
remains to be disbursed against retention payments and against items missing
from initial supplies or for replacement of faulty items.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
The financial condition of the borrower continues to be satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and all contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory. The financial con-
dition of the State Railway of Thailand remains weak, and the Bank has urged
the Government to fulfil its obligations by implementing the necessary tariff
revisions.



- 32 -                  ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; _Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Preconstruction activities are underway with consultant selection
ongoing. Prequalification of contractors for the river works has been
completed and bid documents issued.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective due to delays
in obtaining Ministry of Finance approval of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the Port Authority of Thailand.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
The project has been completed and is expected to be fully disbursed
shortly.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are proceeding
well. All studies financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works have been completed on about 35,000 ha, which is
in accordance with the appraisal estimate. A monitoring system is being set
up and the project is now served by the National Agricultural Extension
Project.



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25,1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Construction has started on main and secondary canals and on-farm
development in the Lam Pao service area and the first of two diversion dams
in the Lam Takhong project area has been completed. Progress to date has
been slow due to a delay in equipment procurement and recent shortages of
cement and fuel.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 MIillion Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Consultants have been appointed for both the Pattani and Mae Klong
components and have begun work. Force account operations began on both
components in early 1980 and extension of the main canal for Mlae Klong is
being carried out by contract. Delays in completing designs and procuring
equipment mean that only limited progress is expected to be made during 1981.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work is more than 50%
complete on two contracts for a total of some 300 km for village access roads.
Works on other contracts are expected to begin soon. The road maintenance
program under the project is doing well. Procurement problems have delayed
the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been
delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. The
rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on agri-
cultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with the seed
production and pasture development programs progressing particularly well. A
revised final procurement plan is awaited together with a probable request
from government for an extension of the Closing Date by a few months. Staff



- 34 -                  ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
morale has improved as a result of a recent decision to absorb all project
staff into regular posts within the Livestock Department on completion of tile
project.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation has
improved substantially. The rubber replanting program has nearly reached the
target of 50,000 hectares per annum.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The staffing situation has improved considerably in recent months,
with 66 out of 67 subject matter specialist posts and 2,048 (87%) out 2,344
extension agent posts filled by late 1980. Civil works are now progressing
satisfactorily and construction should be completed in 1981. Cost over-runs
on civil works is now around 100% of appraisal estimates. In-service
training, particularly of subject matter specialists, needs stregthening as
also does communication with research staff. The training and visit system
is now well understood at all levels, but routine administrative and special
assignments continue to interfere with the smooth running of the system.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Reasonable progress has been achieved during the first year of
project implementation, given the difficulties which have been encountered
in regard to budgeting, contracting and staffing. IDA staff are giving close
attention to these problems in an effort to help resolve them. In cases
where works have been delayed, no serious consequences will result.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a good start with initial concen-
tration on seven provinces. Civil works have been tendered and evaluated
for two provinces and construction should commence shortly. The first batch
of incremental staff (13 subject matter specialists and 261 extension agents)
have been appointed. Disbursements are in line with appraisal estimates.



- 35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Preparation for project implementation has been somewhat slow, but
is expected to improve during the current fiscal year. The EEC has agreed
to provide a grant of $3.5 million to finance the cooperative training
program; this decision was made after the Bank loan was signed.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981. Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective on March 20, 1981. Progress is being
made in appointing project staff, manning the project coordinating unit, and
appointing consultants.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is nearly completed.
Construction for the resettlement component is about 75% complete.
Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates. Installation
of electrical and mechanical equipment is underway but not quite satisfactory
because of the delayed delivery of equipment by the manufacturers.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
As of end 1980, work has been started on 2,107 villages, out of
which 1,091 villages have already been electrified. Disbursements are
slightly behind schedule due to initial delays in procurement.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on May 23, 1980. The project is about
15% complete about 3-1/2 months behind schedule because of poor soil
condition. Foundation piling and other field works are now proceeding
satisfactorily, and project execution is expected to catch up with the
original schedule.



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
This loan became effective on September 17, 1980. The project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective pending finalization of
the parallel financing agreement between PEA and the Saudi Fund.
Loan No. S-10 Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The engineering project is completed and will be refinanced under
Loan No. 1773-TH, when this becomes effective.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed on
time and within the cost estimate. Loan effectiveness has been delayed
pending signature of a sales contract between EGAT and PTT. Contract has now
been signed and the loan is expected to become effective shortly.
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan became effective on September 17, 1980 and the project
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation commenced on schedule but is about fourteen
months behind schedule because of difficulties encountered with the largest
contract. The National Housing Authority (NHA) is reviewing ways to resolve
these problems. Project completion is expected to be about six months behind
schedule. Good progress, however, has been made on the various policy



- 37 -                  ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
concepts on which the project is based, and NHA's financial management has
been strengthened through technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
The project's overall progress has been slower than expected due
to lack of progress on institutional development of the executing agency
(OCMRT). Tangible project progress to date has been principally (a) the
successful introduction of 100 Km of bus lanes; (b) introduction of a
computer controlled traffic signal system in central Bangkok; and (c) a
variety of minor civil works.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date:  January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Design and procurement are generally proceeding satisfactory.
Efforts have also been initiated to hire consultants for a housing finance
study, a financial management study of the Bangkok Metropolitan Administra-
tion and project preparation and municipal financial management studies in
regional cities.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Closing Date: April 3, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date:
September 3,1978; Current Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continues to be good. The loan is fully committed and almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected because
of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. However, the loan is now
fully committed and disbursements are satisfactory.



- 38 -                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan No. 1492  The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastruc-
ture has progressed further with 95% of the civil works completed. An
earlier dispute between IEAT and the contractors prevented the remaining 5%
from being completed sooner; this dispute has been resolved, and the estate's
full development is scheduled for mid-1981. External infrastructure has
been lagging, especially in respect of the Lat Krabang-Nong Chok access
road. Delays in construction and design changes have increased cost
estimates for the access road to B 99 million in 1980, up from an initial
estimate of B 33 million in 1977. The Government had agreed to guarantee
the construction of the access road, and an understanding has been reached
that the access road will be constructed with funds advanced by Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration (BMA) to be subsequently reimbursed from next
year's Budget Bureau allocation.
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978
Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Project implementation and disbursement status have improved con-
siderably over the past six months; and project implementation is now 12 to
18 months behind the appraisal schedule. One of the 10 national level
training facilities has been constructed, eight are under construction and
the contract award for the tenth has been approved. Of the 630 rural health
facilities, lt8 midwifery and health centers have been completed and 169
more are under construction; in addition, 22 out of 25 district hospitals
are under construction. Although delays have occurred in procurement of
equipment and furniture, these problems are now being resolved. Procurement
of the remaining vehicles and audio-visual equipment, and of the final
allotment of injectable contraceptive is well advanced. Most training,
information/education/communication and population-related research and
evaluation activities are on schedule and many will be completed on
schedule. The Innovative Village Nutrition Activity has been successfully
launched and several other possible uses of Innovative Activities funds
are under consideration by the Ministry.



- 39 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
POWER SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project - 2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project                   -  EGAT and
Consultants
(c)  First presentation to the Bank                      -  November 1979
(d)  Date of departure of the Appraisal Mission          -  June 29, 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations                          -  March 1981
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness                       -  September 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government will ensure that EGAT and other power sector
entities would earn a rate of return of not less than 2% in FY81
and 8% in FY82 and thereafter (para. 47);
(b) The Government will undertake periodical review of the adequacy
of tariffs and adjustments of EGAT's price for bulk power to MEA
and PEA to ensure that each of the entities would generate
adequate funds to carry out their share of the power development
program (para. 47);
(c) EGAT will submit for the Bank's review and comment an environmental
and ecological investigation report and a resettlement plan for the
Lang Suan Hydroelectric project not later than August 31, 1981
(para. 54);
(d) No disbursements will be made on the Lang Suan subproject until
governmental approval has been obtained (para. 54);



- 40 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Should the Government not approve the Lang Suan subproject before
June 30, 1982, EGAT will seek, by September 30, 1982, the Bank's
agreement to replace it with any of the other subprojects which
comprise EGAT-s new generation and transmission program to be
completed by the end of FY86 (para. 55);
(f) Disbursements will be made on the basis of EGAT's expenditures
or commitments for expenditures made prior to the end of EGAT's
FY84 (para. 58).



J00
7KUD DAMhin,~Q~t                                               LAO  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC                                         TALN
i   f Mai-nrso         NJMW  ~
S  DiossJSMWO  ongnioiO1               '~~~~~N                         NAM  NGUM DAM                                      ./P
)  Ch.argmai I   iii Miii ignite Pined7  ,t(                  U~~~~Lti,1- . Cap 135 MW
-  ,  a?3MW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k  ~I3M
5 '80             1/            -                      >                             IniAID
5,800Mw             < ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~             pM -L
in  375 MW  EisiSia~~~~~~~5  N  
- H              TnA /      Er~n,        -         l~          G.       Nnrb- hha.M
SHUMIBL DA68M                                               DTh.ne15W-pha Eu-n
Cop68 MW                                                                       '-J' Sv              aa
ph"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~5Ohrhnn
I  N                             Phetnhan,in   OHU~~~~~~~~~~LDABMHORNA
DAP Mw Cit  ro7  0'              5~hk
J   E G'         N                         ,ACo M                  "Cnc
N~~~~t~~~~o ~C  1
u                                                                       t6.M,oM 2Nkhn 7  ni- 2, N           i/o
loomw ~~~~~~~Ph.. A,         Ph1-MW                          h, iP              iOOO
8-                                             ~~~~~~~~THAILAND
BANGKOK                     1) ~-'ELECTRICITY  GENERATING   AUTHORITY  OF  THAILAND
REG;~ ~ hnEAOPKOD                                               .                   FIRST POWER SECTOR LOAN
N     I                    T~~ARA  he,o Poe Cla (                       J,nde,    Future     Nlow
Posting   Consruction  Project   ProiosIPY8Q0-861
EANG KR.CHW, "AM              Neanta                                                                            -     23KVTnsiioLns
An   ~ ~   ~ ~ p CaP                                                                             ___9_ _M_-                      ____    115 KV Transmission,Lioes
W    S                                                          -- h, I69 KV Transmission Lines
S&17                                                                               N. ~~-. ~ ow                    -         -     230 KV Sobsotfians
Sea                                            onrretn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S, zL 2  T-A                         A                115 KV SubswaRons
TA,                                                  69 KV  Substations
1     )             0         0           Theronol Power Planes
"i13N'             0         0                Hydra Powen Plants
as,-m   Regiona  Boundaries
Intern.tional Boundonies
"2; 0         50    EDO             200             300
,  /  Cu/f   of   Tip at/and                               -  //                 i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
5   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /                                        0           50          i/O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  200
So 2-                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
31c-0-0(Phgnph,L.
Tab-o Pa6m      T.pihn                                                                                        nH ROgNkB
F  Chow org  N.,Pjwhtnr Si t3ionnnonnn                                   20726~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k- JoNS.'  La...rn
P6obeu  TtnabisN     EGSON    3~~----Th-1 ~20   .3OM
DoeselTOWMW  15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2M
OEM umaninneonna osnA end rOMAwLA Y     I 



