Document of                         Af 'aft p   t
The World Bank               FILE         COuP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3694
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
CYPRUS: NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
November 24, 1981
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
CGCA              Cyprus Government Controlled Area
CYBARCO           Cyprus Building and Road Construction Corporation Ltd.
SBN               Sewage Board of Nicosia
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
UNFICYP           United Nations Force in Cyprus
WHO               World Health Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
CYPRUS: NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 729-CY)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .       .........................................................i
Project Performance Audit Basic Data Sheet ....           ...................ii
Highlights ............         ...........................................  iii-iv
Appendices:
1.   Comments received from the Sewage Board of Nicosia ....         .......    v-x
2.  Comments received from the Ministry of Finance ....           ...........     xi
3. Comments received from the Ministry of Communications
and Works .       ................................................. xii-xiii
ATTACHMENT: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    Introduction ........    ...................                           1
II.    Project Preparation and Appraisal ....      ..............             2
III.    Project Implementation, Operation and Cost .............               6
IV.    Operating Performance ................    ..     ................     15
V.    Financial Performance ..................................              16
VI.    Institutional Performance ..............     ..    ..............     19
VII.    Project Justification ................     ..    ................     20
VIII.    Bank Performance ......     ...............    ..................      21
IX.    Conclusions ........    ...............    .....................      23
Annexes:
1.    Construction Schedules ......         ...........................     24
2.    Comparison of Appraisal Forecast and Actual
Schedule of Disbursements .....         ........................     26
3.    Income Statements, Cash Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets .......        .................................       28
4.    Organization Charts of the Sewage Board of
Nicosia          ...............................................      31
5.    Table of Actual Incremental Costs and Benefits          .........     33
Maps: IBRD 2891R (PCR)
IBRD 2892R (PCR)






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
CYPRUS: NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 729-CY)
PREFACE
This report presents the results of a performance audit of the
Nicosia Sewerage Project, for which Loan 729-CY of US$3.5 million was made to
the Sewage Board of Nicosia (SBN) in March 1971. At the request of the
Borrower, in January 1973 the loan was reduced to US$2.7 million and fully
disbursed by September 30, 1980.
The report consists of Highlights prepared by the Operations Evalua-
tion Department (OED) and a Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.     In preparing the PCR,
the Region took into account the findings of a project completion mission
carried out in September 1980.
Following its abbreviated procedure, OED has reviewed the Appraisal
and President's Reports, the loan documents, the minutes of the Board dis-
cussions, and the PCR.    The project experience has also been discussed with
the Bank staff.    On the basis of this limited review, this audit finds no
reason to disagree with the general conclusions of the PCR.
Following normal OED procedures, a draft copy of this report was
sent to the Government and SBN for comments. The comments which were received
have been taken into account in finalizing the report and have been reproduced
as appendices to the Highlights.






- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
CYPRUS: NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 729-CY)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Item                             Estimate               Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)/a             6.27                6.34
Overrun ()                                    -                   1.1
Loan Amount (US$ million)                      3.50                2.70
Disbursed   )                                 -                  2.70
Repaid      ) July 31, 1981                   -                  0.46
Cancelled/b )                                 -                  0.80
Date Physical Components Completed           12/74                05/80
Proportion Completed by Above Date           100                   92
Proportion of Time Overrun (X)                -                 153.6
Financial Performance                            -              Commendable
Institutional Performance                       -              Satisfactory
Incremental Financial Rate of Return (x)        12                 13.9
Cumulative and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
As of December 31:       1971  1972  1973  1974   1975  1976  1977  1978  1979   1980
(i) Appraisal Estimate 0.14   1.45  2.80  3.5/c   -      -     -     -     -     -
(ii) Actual              0.01  0.30  1.30  1.80  1.90   1.90  2.09  2.40  2.48  2.70/b
(ii) as % of (i)            7    21    46    51     54    54    60   69     71     77
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan     Revisions      Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable          -                -            -
Government's Application                     12/68            -           12/68
Negotiations                                 08/70            -           02/71
Board Approval Date                          03/71            -        03/23/71
Loan Agreement Date                       04/05/71            -        04/05/71
Effectiveness Date                        07/26/71            -        07/26/71
Closing Date                              03/31/75        09/30/79     09/30/80
borrower                                      Sewage Board of Nicosia (SBN)
Executing Agency                               Sewage Board of Nicosia (SBN)
Fiscal Year of Borrower                          January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project Name                                      None
MISSION DATA
Month/     No. of      No. of      Man-      Date of
Item                 Year        Weeks      Persons     weeks      Report
Predppraisal                02/69        -            -           -       n.a.
Appraisal                l/70-02/70     4            3          12     03/09/71
Supervision I               11/71        I/c          3           3     11/19/71
Supervision II              07/72        1/C          2           2     07/21/72
Supervision III             04/73        1            2           2     05/03/73
Supervision IV              11/74        1            2           2     11/22/74
Supervision V               01/75        1            1           1     02/07/75
Supervision VI              02/76        1            2           2     02/13/76
Supervision VII             10/78        1            1           1     11/09/78
Supervision VIII            06/79        1/c          2           2     06/20/79
Supervision IX              12/79        i/c          1           1     01/03/80
Completion                  09/80        2/c          2           4     02/24/81
Total                              15                       32
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                               Cyprus Pound (CL)
Year:
Appraisal Year (1971)                         Exchange Rate:  US$1  =  Cb0.42
Intervening Years                                             US$1  =  C&O.38
Completion Year (1979)                                        US$1  =  CE0.36
/a   Actual project cost in local currency lower than appraisal estimate due
to changes in the exchange rate.
/b   The Bank loan was reduced from US$3.5 million to US$2.7 million at the
request of the Borrower (January 1973).
/c   Included supervision of Loan 730-CY (Famagusta Sewerage Project).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
CYPRUS: NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 729-CY)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.            Loan 729-CY., originally of US$3.5 million and later reduced to
US$2.7 million (PCR para. 2.04), is the only lending operation to the Sewerage
Board of Nicosia (SBN), an autonomous body established under this project to
develop and operate the Nicosia sewerage system. Prior to this project, there
were no water-borne sewer systems in Cyprus. The loan was to help establish a
viable sewerage authority and to finance a sewer network, trunk mains and
treatment facilities (PCR paras. 2.09 and 9.01), which formed the first phase
of a master plan developed with the aid of the World Health Organization (WHO)
in 1969.   The project was estimated to be completed by the end of 1974 at a
cost of about US$6.27 million excluding interest during construction.
2.         At the time of the events of July 1974, about 83% of the work under
the project was completed (PCR paras. 1.04 and 3.09). As a result of the 1974
events, the sewage treatment plant came under Turkish Cypriot control whereas
the collection system remained under Government-control (PCR para. 1.04 and
3.09).   With close assistance of the UNDP, the Bank initiated specific ar-
rangements acceptable to both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot sides to
complete the project for the benefit of both communities (PCR paras. 3.10-
3.15).   The project, which was slightly modified in scope (PCR para. 1.05),
was eventually completed in May 1980.       No major procurement problems were
encountered (PCR paras.    3.21-3.26).   In spite of the long implementation
period, the project was completed at a cost of about US$6.35 million, very
close to the appraisal estimate.     This was partly due to the favorable cur-
rency fluctuations, but more importantly, to the fact that the actual bids on
some of the contracts were 20% lower than the appraisal estimate (PCR paras.
3.17-3.19).
3.          In retrospect, the project appears to have been technically well
conceived and fits the present stage of technology in Cyprus (PCR paras. 3.28
and 7.03).   The efficiency of the treatment ponds has been inadequate due to
whey wastes from the industrial estate, but this is expected to be alleviated
as the domestic sewage hydraulic loading increases (PCR para. 3.27 and 9.02).
Since 1973, SBN has been charging a sewer fee based on assessed property
values even thouah the sewage system has been in operation only since May 1980
(PCR para. 5.02)'_ and so far is only servicing about 11,800 persons instead
of the 32,000 envisaged at appraisal (PCR paras.       2.09 and 3.27).    SBN is
actively pursuing a faster connection rate, supported by legislation which
makes connections mandatory, and anticipates that all properties in the
project area will be connected by June 1983 (PCR para. 4.02).    SBN is required
to provide financial assistance to meet the cost of connections in special
cases where property owners are unable to meet the costs (PCR para. 5.07).2/
1/   SBN had incurred expenses for installing sewers between the main sewers
and the boundary line of individual properties at an earlier date (see
Appendix 1, page 2, para. 4).
2/   See Appendix 1, page 2, para. 4.



- iv -
4.           Important financial and institutional objectives for the project
were embodied in the loan documents (PCR paras. 2.11-2.14).          All of the
covenants were met except the one requiring the Government to commence a study
on the use and value of treated waste water.     It is expected that this study
will be initiated as soon as more properties connect to the the system and the
treatment ponds become fully operational.
5.          Shortly after appraisal, the Government revalued all properties on
which water and sewage charges are based (PCR para. 5.05).      This, no doubt,
contributed to the very satisfactory financial performance of SBN (PCR paras.
5.01-5.07).    However,  the accounts   receivable position has remained high
throughout the implementation of the project, representing about 10 months of
revenues as of December 13, 1979 (PCR Annex 3, pages 1 and 3).      About 24% of
the arrears has existed since prior to 1975 and should probably have been
written off as bad debt.   Most of the remaining accounts are due by customers
who are reluctant to pay their bills prior to the operation of the sewerage
system.   The situation is expected to change since SBN is taking legal mea-
sures against all those whose accounts are outstanding.
6.          The major institutional and investment objectives of this project
have been met. The physical completion of the project, with benefits accruing
to both the Turkish Cypriot and the Greek Cypriot sides, is commendable,
considering the political situation in Cyprus. The incremental financial rate
of return (IFRR), based on net project revenues, is now expected to yield
13.9% compared to about 12% estimated at appraisal (PCR Annex 5). The actual
IFRR is reduced to about 11.7% when excluding the revenues from the users in
the Turkish Cypriot area.     However, once the properties within the project
area are connected, several important additional benefits will accrue to the
project,   notably the possible availability of treated waste water for irri-
gation, the reduction of potential health hazards and the improvement of the
environment (PCR para. 7.02).



v-                               APEIMIX 1
Page 1 of 6
SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA
TRYPHON BUILDING
ELEFTHERIA SQUARE
Telephones: 73166/7/8                             J,
Telegrams: "SEWERBOARD NICOSIA"                               P. O. Box 1835
NICOSIA-CYPRUS
Our ref:  4.0-7
Your ref:                                         14th August, 1981.
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Director
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank,
1818 H Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Kapur,
Re: Project Performance Audit Report on Cyprus:
Nicosia Sewerage Project (Loan 729-CY)
Thank you for your letter of July 10, 1981 together with a copy of
the above mentioned Audit Report.
We have studied the Report and have the following comments:
1. Please kindly note that during the negotiations with the other side
there was a reference to the Greek Cypriot side and the Turkish Cypriot
side. But references in the report to two Mayors (see para 1.01)
Turkish Cypriot Authorities (see para 3.15) and other similar
descriptions attributing legal recognition to Turkish Cypriot "Officials"
is not acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Cyprus which is
the only Government recognized in International Law as the Government
of the State of Cyprus. Therefore, these descriptions should be altered
accordingly.
2.  It is certainly very important to note the project-related benefit of
cooperation between the communities - see para 4.07 of the main body
of the Report.
In this connection it may be fair to mention in the Report the
initiative of Mayor[                  ] to start the negotiations, the
goodwill and understanding of the representatives of the two sides
during the negotiations- Mayor[                   ] and Mr.[    ] [the]
representative of the Turkish Cypriot side (iii para 2 and para 1.05) -
and the most important services rendered by the Resident Consultant
Mr.[                ] outside his official duties, for which he was
awarded a medal and honourary diploma by the Nicosia Municipality.
t   /  .



APPENDIX 1
SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA               Page 2 of 6
- vi -
3.   Page III para 2 the words and or descriptions "hostilities"
"political events divided Nicosia and the Island into two zones"
and "area under Turkish Cypriot control" are not acceptable to the
Government and should not be used. However we suggest that the
part of the para from "When the" up to "under Greek Cypriot control
(PCR para 1.04 and 3.09)" be rephrased as follows:-
"2. When the events occurred in Cyprus on July 20, 1974, about 83%
of the work under the project was completed (PCR paras 1.04 and
3.09). As a result of these events the sewage treatment plant
became under Turkish occupation whereas the collection system
remained under Government control (PCR para 1.04 and 3.09)".
4.   Page IV end of para 3 please note that as to the financial assistance
to property owners for the connection charges we would like to state
the present situation which is as follows:
a) The Sewage Board of Nicosia has already incurred the expense for
installing the public building sewer between the main sewer and the
boundary line of the individual property.
b) From the boundary line inside the private property the Board
gives financial assistance to property owners only in special cases
where the individual has no financial sources.
5.   The Sewerage System was commissioned into service in May 1980 and
not in June 1980 - see para 1.01. Para 1.01 also contains words and
or descriptions like "thecountry has been divided into two parts by
a case-fire line" or "the Mayors of both sides" which are not
acceptable to the Government and we therefore suggest that it is
rephrased as follows:
''1.01 The Bank has made two loans to Cyprus in support of sewerage
sector development, namely a US$ 3.5 million loan for the Nicosia
Sewerage Project (Loan 729-CY) and a US$ 1.9 million loan for the
Famagusta Sewerage Project (Loan 730-CY), both approved in March 1971.
Their implementation was seriously affected by the July 1974 events.
Construction of the Famagusta Project, which lies wholly within the
area controlled by the Turks has not resumed since the 1974 events,
and its completion appears dependent on a political settlement of the
Cyprus question. Construction of the first phase of the Nicosia
Project, the area of which partly covers the Government controlled
part of Nicosia and partly that controlled by the Turks was also
halted in 1974. But subsequently, pragmatic arrangements were agreed
upon between the two sides with the direct intervention of Bank and
UNDP staff, to complete the project, and thereafter operate it for
the benefit of both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities.



SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA                APPENDIX 1
Page 3 of 6
- vii -
Indeed, a landmark in Nicosia's history was reached in May 1980,
when phase I of the capital city's sewage collection and disposal
scheme was declared operational by the Mayor of Nicosia Mr.[
]and the Representative of the Turkish Cypriot side
Mr.[              ]. That step has demonstrated that on a municipal
level at least, and given mutual goodwill, both sides can wcrk
together to their mutual advantage despite the thorny political
situation in Cyprus".
6.   Para 1.02 General Hospital and not Central Hospital.
7.   Para 1.04 contains words and or descriptions which are not acceptable
to the Government and we therefore suggest that it is rephrased as
follows:-
"1.04   Construction began in 1972. By 1974, 86 km of sanitary sewers
and 26 km of house connections had been built. The treatment plant was
also nearing completion. The events of July 1974 caused all
construction to come to an abrupt halt as a result of which the
treatment plant became under Turkish occupation; however, a large
section of the main trunk sewer was in the "buffer" zone and almost
the entire collection system lay in area under Government control.
Given this situation, the project construction came to a halt".
8.   End of Para 1.05 and Para 3.15 please note that there is work in
progress (which we expect to complete by the end of this year or
beginning of next year) in a small part of the old city in the
Government controlled area. The expenditure is met out of the
Board's own financial resources.
9.   Para 3.08 please substitute the phrase '"Turkish Cypriot area" with
"Turkish controlled areas".
10.   Para 3.09 please delete "the hostilities that took place in Cyprus"
and substitute with "the events that occurred in Cyprus! Also delete
the phrase "These events divided Nicosia and the island into two
bi-communal zones". Also substitute "Turkish Cypriot control" with
"Turkish occupation".
11.   Para 3.10 please delete "the Greek Cypriot part of Nicosia swelled"
and substitute with the Government controlled part of Nicosia swelled".
12.   Para 3.11 where the phrase "Turkish Cypriot control" is met substitute
with "Turkish control".



APPENDIX 1
SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA          Page 4 of 6
- viii -
13.   Para 3.12 where the phrase "Greek Cypriot control" is met please
substitute with "Government control".
14.   Para 3.14 please substitute "Greek Cypriot side" and "Greek Cypriot"
with "SBN".
15.   Para 3.15 please delete "the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
authorities" and substitute with "the SBN and Turkish representatives".
16.   Para 3.22 please substitute "Turkish Cypriot controlled area" with
"Turkish controlled area".
17.   End of para 4.02 "June 1982" should read "June 1983".
18.   Para 6.01 promotion of Accountant/Administrator occured in 1978
and not in 1980.
19.   Please revise para 6.02 to read as follows:
" Other changes in the organizational structure have been nominal
(Annex 4). The Board of Directors includes: the Mayor of Nicosia
who is the Chairman of the Board and a Lawyer by profession; an
architect; a merchant; a chartered secretary and a doctor".
20.   Para 6.07 please substitute "Greek Cypriot side" with"SBN".
21.   Para 8.01 please substitute "Greek Cypriot side" with "Government"
and "Turkish Cypriot side" with "Turkish Cypriot representatives".
22.   At the end of para 9.01 please add"-" .... due to the political
situation".
23.   Please substitute page 33 with the enclosed which depicts the posts
of Clerks, Messenger and an additional Technical Assistant as at
31.12.1980. Since then we employed a fourth Technical Assistant.
Otherwise the draft of the project performance audit report is
satisfactory and we thank you for the opportunity given to us to express
our views and comments beforehand.
./..5...



APPENDIX 1
SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA              Page 5 of 6
- ix -
Once again we wish to express our appreciation to the World Bank
and its Staff for the exemplary cooperation and the excellent services and
advices rendered to us in relation to the project and our activities.
Yours sincerely,
Chr.
General Manager
CAY/XSD
cc.: Director General
Ministry of Interior
Director General
Ministry of Finance
Director General
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Director General
Planning Bureau
Director
Department of Public Works



APPENDIX 1
-                                 Page 6 df 6
CYPRUS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA
ACTUAL STRUCTURE
1980
SEWAGE
BOARD
GENERAL
MANAGER
ENGINEX                                        ACCOUNTANT
TECHNICAL          SE   R         CLERKS       ACCOFNING
ASSISTANT                                       OFFICER
TEC              TECHNICAL     TECHNICAL 
ASSISTA        ASSISTANT|    ASSISTANT                  |A|OUFI'TMRI
DRAWING  MAINTENANCE  TREATMENT                ~~RATES
OFFIsCE           AN m          PLN                            CXLXCTR
_________ SUPERVISION    FOREMAN                         CLETR
'Tha duties of the Accountant are being pedormed by the General Manager.
W lBdank - 221?4.



APPENDIX 2
- xi -
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
MINISTER'S OFFICE                                NICOSIA, CYPRUS
M.F. 107/1968/10                            24th August, 1981.
Dear Mr. Kapur,
Re: Project Performance Audit Report on Cyprus:
Nicosia Sewage Project (Loan 729-CY)
I wish to refer to your letter of July 10th, by which you
request my views and comments on the above report, a copy of
which was attached to your letter.
While I have studied the report in detail, I find that I can
make no additional comments, to those already set out by
Mr. Yiallouros in his letter to you, referenced 4.0-7 of the
14th August.
I should however like to emphasize the importance of the
points raised by Mr. Yiallouros and particularly those referring
to the appropriate status of the Government. of Cyprus and the
Turkish Cypriot representatives.
On behalf of my Government I should like to take this
opportunity to express its appreci4tion for the excellent work
of the Bank staff on this project, as well as to thank the Bank
for its good offices in reaching a workable solution, to what
initially appeared as an insurmountable problem in getting this
project completed.
You s      erely,
Afxentiou)
Minister of Finance
Mr. Shiv. S. Kapur,
Director,
eaeL aLions Evaluatiuii Department,
The World Bank, 1818 H Street,
N.W., Washington DC 20433,
U.S.A.



- xii -                     AIPPTUnX 3
Page 1 of 2
No.                                  M MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS & WORS3
PUBLIC WORKS DTPIRTAM
NICOSIA
10 September, 1981.
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur,
Director,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H. Street,
N.W. Washingtoni D.C.20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Sir,
Project Performance Audit Report on Cyprus:
NieosiA SeweragLe Projec  (Loa    72-C1)
With reference to your letter of the 10th July, 1981,
I would like to make the following observations&
1.    While the Nicosia Sewerage Project is a scheme not
too typical of P.W.D. activities, your report does concern
a civil engineering job involving relations between the
Client, the Consultants and the Contractor. The report
appears to be quite thorough and comprehensive but intended
mainly for World Bank readership with emphasis o tb
financial side. The part of the report dealing with the
operation and efficiency and the economics of the project
er its construetion is very apt, but much less relevant
toP .W.D. schemes where the desiga and actual construction
of the project will take up much more time and effort than
the maintenance and monitoring after commissioning.
2.    As a result, of the foregoing, a "projeet Performance
Audit" type report would be of still greater interest to us
if it were more biassed towards the design-construction
aspect. Greater detail on the problems met during this
stage would be of considerable interest to us as clients
for future guidance to avoid pitfalls in the administering
of projects. I have in mind some of the "dols" and "dont's"
in the following phases of a scheme:
(i) When best to rely on local government
financing and when to resort to loans.
(ii) How best to select Consultants.
2/.....



APPENDIX 3
-xiii -                     Page 2 of 2
(iii) How to draw up Contracts that are fair
and flexible enough to meet changing
situations without loopholes for either
party to take unfair advantage.
(iv) Criteria for the selection of Contractors.
(v) The mechanism for Supervision.
(vi) The proper administrative and legal relation-
ship between all the parties concerned to
avoid both red tape and unwield.y and excessive
duplication of effort and also abuse of authority.
3.    We would like more data on how well a project has
dovetailed with the environment and with the work of other
authorities, For instance, further information on coordination
with the authorities responsible for underground cables and
pipes and also for road maintenance in the case of the Nicosia
Sewerage Project would have been of great interest to us.
Yours sincerely,
Director of the
Department of Public Works.
OED Note: OED has responded to these points in a separate letter
to the Department of Public Works. The letter agrees
that the points raised are of general interest to the
World Bank Group -- although they did not carry special
significance to this project -- and refers the Depart-
ment of Public Works to the Bank's general guidelines on
some of these matters which have been issued from time
to time.






- 1-                         ATTACHMENT
CYPRUS: NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 729-CY)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Bank has made two loans to Cyprus in support of sewerage
sector development, namely a US03.5 million loan for the Nicosia Sewerage
Project (Loan 729-CY) and a US$1.9 million loan for the Famagusta Sewerage
Project (Loan 730-CY), both approved in March 1971. Their implementation
wva  seriously affeetd by the July 1974 events in Cyprus.   Construction of the
Famagusta Project, which lies wholly within the area controlled by the Turkish
Cypriots, has not resumed since the 1974 event's, and its completion appears
dependent on a political settlement of the Cyprus question. Construction
of the first phase of the Nicosia Project, the area of which partly covers
the Government controlled part of Nicosia and partly that controlled by the Turk-
ish Cypriot side, was also halted in 1974. But subsequently, p'ragmatic arrangements
were agreed upon between the two sides with the direct intervention of Bank
and UNDP staff, to complete the project, and thereafter operate it for the
benefit of both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities. Indeed,
a landmark in Nicosia's history was reached in May 1980, when phase I of
the capital city's sewage collection and disposal scheme was declared opera-
tional by the Mayor of Nicosia and the Representative of the Turkish Cypriot
side. That step has demonstrated that on a municipal level at least, and
given mutual goodwill, both sides can work together to their mutual
advantage despite the thorny political situation in Cyprus.
1.02     Nicosia (which now has a population of 125,000) had not been
divided by a cease-fire line when, in 1967, Cyprus requested Bank assis-
tance in developing the sewerage sector. The existing sanitary sewerage
system in Nicosia at the time generally consisted of septic tanks and
absorption pits or holding tanks for each property, with almost every
building in the city fitted with sanitary fixtures and plumbing. In
"Nicosia within the Walls" (the old town surrounded by 16th century walls),
there was a sewerage system serving part of the area. There were only two
sewage treatment plants, one serving the General Hospital and the Prison,
and the other serving the Hilton Hotel. Where the clay content of the soil
was high--and this 'represented a large area of the city--the nature of the
soil prevented adequate absorption from the pits. Frequent and costly
pumping was therefore necessary. Even so, the tanks did not operate
properly, as they quickly filled with groundwater (not uncommonly
neighbors' wastewater). Thus, the general effect was that septic tank
effluent, or even raw sewage, reached the ground surface quickly and flowed
into open ditches. Investigations carried out by the Municipal Health
Inspector indicated that,' in some instances, flushed water from toileets
could reach adjacent open ditches in as short a period as 15 minutes. In
"Nicosia within the Walls", the water distribution system was old galvan-
ized pipe, and service was intermittent. This combination heightened the
health risks in Nicosia.
1.03     Given this background, the Government in 1965 enlisted the aid of
the World Health Organization (WHO). The resulting WHO report served as a
basis for a 50-year master plan for sewerage development, prepared in 1969
bv consultants. this in turn. served as the basis for the Nicosia Seweraze



-2-
project, which constituted phase I of the Master Plan. Implementation of
the project was carried out by the Sewage Board of Nicosia (SBN), an
autonomous body established under the project to develop and operate the
Nicosia sewerage system.
1.04     Construction began in 1972.   By 1974, 86 km of sanitary severs and
26 km of house connections had been built. The treatment plant was also
nearing completion. The events of July 1974 caused all construction to
come to an abrupt halt. As a result of these events, the treatment plant
came under Turkish Cypriot control, while a large section of the main trunk
sewer was in the "buffer" zone, and almost the entire collection system lay
in the area under Government control. Given this situation, the project con-
struction came to a halt.
1.05     The Bank, with the assistance of the UNDP, thereafter began dis-
cussions with both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot sides to find a
basis on which construction could be completed and the project satisfac-
torily operated thereafter.   Collection systems in the Turkish Cypriot
parts of Nicosia, completion of studies (studies to ensure use of the
effluent from the treatment plant in the Turkish Cypriot side) and
engineering of phase II, which benefitted that community significantly,
were added to the project. Arrangements were made to train Turkish Cypriot
staff so that they could efficiently operate the treatment plant serving
the system for the entire city, and routinely maintain it, with other
maintenance to be financed by SBN. Considerable delicate political nego-
tiations had to be carried out between the two sides by the Bank and UNDP,
between 1975 and 1978. Ultimately, a pragmatic arrangement, which re-
conciled the self-interest and the broader political considerations that
each side had, was worked out. This took up to September 1978. Based on
this arrangement, international consultants who alone could have access to
both parts of Nicosia were appointed to review what needed to be done and
undertake all steps to place and supervise contracts on behalf of SBN.
Thereafter, construction started in August 1979 and was completed in May
1980.1/The sewerage system, now benefitting both communities is currently
in operation.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Origin
2.01     The Second Five Year Plan (1967-71) for Cyprus included sewerage
development for Nicosia and Famagusta. Following the Government's May 1967
statement of interest to the Bank, the Municipal Corporation of Nicosia,
with Government approval, decided in early 1968 on the preparation of a
comprehensive study of the sewerage needs of Greater Nicosia, with the
assistance of Canadian consulting engineers, MacLaren International Limited
(MacLaren). The MacLaren Report, completed in October 1968, included a
1/   Some work in a small part of the old city in the Government controlled
area is still under construction and is expected to be completed
by the end of 1981 or beginning of next year. The cost is met by SBNts
own financial resources.



-3-
three stage 50-year master plan for Nicosia sewerage. The project for
which Bank financing was proposed represented the first stage, and was
designed to provide sewerage services to an area in south-central Nicosia,
where the need for such services was greatest, due to the high Greek
Cypriot population density,and where existing disposal m'ethods were creating
the greatest problems.
Preparation, Appraisal, Negotiation and Approval
2.02     The Government initially requested a single loan to cover both the
Nicosia and Famagusta projects, but this was later changed, with separate
loans being made for each project.  A Bank pre-appraisal mission visited
Cyprus in February 1969 and agreed with the Government that the project
merited further Bank consideration.  Certain design elements were amended
following review, in order to lower construction costs. These included:
reducing slopes, depths and some trunk sewer diameters. The Bank mission
recommended; revision of the consultant's cost estimates to reflect more
appropriate delineation of local and foreign cost elements; preparation of
a financing plan as well as a tentative revenue generating plan; and
preparation of draft legislation for improved management of the sewerage
system which was needed to establish autonomous Sewage Boards for both
Nicosia and Famagusta.
2.03     In June 1969, the Bank notified the Government of the decision to
proceed with appraisal. Although the engineering issues were generally
resolved by December 1969, thus permitting appraisal to proceed, the draft
legislation establishing the framework for the creation of the Sewage
Boards was not introduced to the legislature until early 1970. Moreover,
with the dissolution of the Cypriot House of Representatives in June 1970,
action on the board legislation was further postponed. However, since the
Government had indicated that action would take place in the House during
July 1970, the appraisal report was presented to the Loan Committee on July
24, 1970; and the Sewage Board of Nicosia was identified as the proposed
borrower.  Negotiations were scheduled to take place after passage of the
legislation, which was enacted on December 23, 1970.
2.04     Negotiations were initiated in early February 1971. The Govern-
ment requested an increase in the proposed loan from US$3.2 million
equivalent, to US$3.5 million, 1/. This was subsequently agreed to by the
Bank, following review of the revised cost estimates.
2.05     Key issues raised by the Bank during negotiations included:
(a) establishing of satisfactory procedures for billing and collecting
of sewerage charges and assessments;
1/ Later, in 1973, the Government requested a reduction of US$0.8 million
in the Loan since actual costs of work were lower than those estimated
earlier.



-4-
(b) staff training; and
(c) development of installment credit facilities for users who could
not afford cash payment for connections.
2.06     An updated appraisal report dated March 9, 1971 was submitted to
the Executive Directors on March 11, 1971 together with the President's
Report and Recommendations, and the legal documents. The Statutory Com-
mittee Report was approved on March 17, 1971. The loan was approved by the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1971.
Project Role in Overall Country and Sector Development
2.07     Development of adequate public sewerage in all major towns and
cities in Cyprus is considered essential, given the increasing health
hazards, as private disposal through septic tanks and absorption pits
becomes increasingly more costly and less viable in view of the soil
conditions and substantial growth in urban population. Given the limited
availability of water in Cyprus and the need for conserving water usage,
development of sewerage, such as in Nicosia and Famagusta, had the poten-
tial to meet that need by re-using treated wastewater for irrigation or
groundwater recharge.
2.08     Bank financing of both the Nicosia and Famagusta projects    also
served as a vehicle for supporting the establishment of a strong institu-
tional framework, upon which to base the further development of the
sector. Prior to preparation of these projects,no institutional framework
had been established to finance and implement such development, nor to
operate and maintain the specific sewer systems once they were put in
place. With this background, Bank financing was made contingent on the
introduction of a sound institutional basis for the sector and for each
project itself. This required the passage of the above mentioned frame
legislation, establishing the principles under which separate entities to
finance and operate public sewerage were to be created. Subsequently, once
this legislation was in place, two separate implementing agencies were
established, namely the Sewage Board of Nicosia and the Sewage Board of
Famagusta. Financial and institutional covenants were introduced into the
respective loan agreements to help ensure their operation on a sound basis.
Project Description
2.09     The project comprised the first stage of the master plan for
sewerage for Greater Nicosia covering 1,060 acres and serving 32,000
residents occupying about 6,000 properties. It consisted of:
(i) piping for house connections;
(ii) 25 km of connecting sewers (100 and 150 mm diameter);
(iii) 85 km of lateral and minor trunk sewers (200 to 600 mm diameter);



(iv) 5 km of main sewer (900 to 1,100 mm diameter) between the
collection system and the treatment site; and
(v) a sewage treatment plant comprising two aerated lagoons and four
facultative lagoons, with a plant capacity of 10,000 m3/d.
2.10     All sewage would flow by gravity at self-cleaning velocities to
the treatment facility. The treated and disinfected waste water would be
suitable for discharge to the Pedios River or to a nearby agricultural area
for needed irrigation in a water-short area.
Main Covenants
2.11     One of the main covenants affecting the loan dealt with the
appointment of suitably qualified principal officers of the Sewage
Board of Nicosia (SBN). These were the Chief Engineer, responsible
for the day-to-day operation of the Board, and an Accountant/Administrator.
The covenant rationale was to ensure proper technical and financial
management of the Board, which had been set up as one of the conditions for
loan negotiations.
2.12     Availability of treated waste water for irrigation was also to be an
important benefit of the project.   No definite plans for construction of
irrigation works could be made, however, since the quality and quantity of
the effluent could only be estimated prior to actual plant operation.
Agreement was reached, therefore, that within twelve months after the
treatment plant became operational, the Government would undertake studies
leading to optimum use of the treated waste water as well as to the estab-
lishment of an appropriate price structure for this water.
2.13     The main covenants relating to finance were:
(i) that the Government would provide a loan of CE 200,000 to SBN for
working capital;
(ii) that the Government would underwrite bond issues totalling
CE 1,700,000 to finance the local cost of construction;
(iii)  that SBN would maintain charges sufficient to generate annual
revenues to cover: (a) operating expenses (including deprecia-
tion); (b) debt interest; (c) repayment of debt (including sinking
fund payments) to the extent not covered by depreciation and; (d)
provision for a reasonable reserve; and
(iv) that SBN would provide financial assistance to meet the cost of
connections in cases where property owners were not able to meet
these costs in cash.
2.14     The purpose of these covenants was to provide adequate funds to meet
depreciation, debt service, and operating and maintenance costs, as well as
to provide a reasonable contribution towards future expansion of the sewage
system.



- 6 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND COST
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up
3.01     The Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement were signed on
April 5, 1971.
3.02     Specific conditions of effectiveness were:
(a)  that the Loan Agreement between the Government and SBN be
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)  that SBN issue  and sell , or make, arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank for the issue and sale of, the Sewage Bonds; and
(c)  that satisfactory arrangements and procedures for billing and
collecting of SBN's charges and assessments be established.
3.03     The Bank also required legal opinions on the agreements signed
between the Government and SBN verifying: (i) that the Loan Agreement had
been duly authorized and constituted valid obligations of the parties; and
(ii) that the Sewage Bonds had been issued and sold and constituted valid
and binding obligations.
3.04     The original terminal date for declaring the loan effective was
June 30, 1971. The Government requested an extension of one month due to
delays in obtaining the legal opinions. The Loan was declared effective on
July 26, 1971. Nb major delays in start-up took place.
Project Implementation
3.05     Project completion was envisaged in the appraisal report by year-
end 1974. Tenders were invited in August 1971, and the opening date was
scheduled as November 18, 1971, although the appraisal report had forecast
bid opening at the end of August 1971. However, since a large number of
contractors--18 companies in eight different countries--were interested,
SBN requested extension of the closing date to December 16, 1971. Award of
the single contract for the materials supply and installation of the
sanitary sewerage, sewage treatment plant and water distribution system was
made to Cyprus Building and Road Construction Corporation, Ltd. (CYBARCO)
on March 14, 1972, at about 202 less than the cost estimate. The water
distribution element was not part of the Bank project. As a result the
loan was reduced to US$2.7 million.
3.06     Despite these delays, construction of the Nicosia Project
commenced in late May 1972 or approximately three months later than
envisaged in the appraisal report. A strike at the asbestos-cement pipe
manufacturing plant in Italy in August 1972 caused a temporary delay; but



-7-
by October construction was back on schedule. The consultant's schedule
called for completion of all construction by year-end 1974, and this
compared favorably with the appraisal report schedule.
3.07     The appointment by SBN of the Accountant/Administrator and the
Sewage Engineer in September 1971 fulfilled the staffing requirements as
agreed upon during negotiations.
3.08     By mid-year 1973, progress slipped slightly to a level of about
two months behind schedule, mostly due to construction obstructions in the
walled area of the city. SBN had prepared a sewage rate based on property
assessment, retroactive to January 1, 1973 but had delayed enactment after
discovering that the rateable values supplied to them by the Lands and
Surveys Department, upon which the calculations were based, included
properties in some Turkish  Cypriot   areas where collection was not
possible. The sewage by-laws were approved by the Council of Ministers on
June 8, 1973. By September 1973, the rateable values had been
recalculated; and levies were initiated by the Sewage Board. By year-end
1973, project construction was again regarded as on schedule, although
heavy rains had slowed operations. The consultants also forecast that the
final cost of the project would be within the original contract amount
(which included a CE 130,000 contingency amount).
3.09     Construction however came to a halt on July 20, 1974 in view of
the events flat occurred in Cyprua resulting in the de facto division of
the island into two communal zones. The sewage treatment plant site, at
which all sewer pipe and other materials were stored, was located in the
area which came under Turkish Cypriot control. The entire collection system
construction remained principally in the Government area of control. The
consultant's resident engineer was evacuated from Cyprus by the United
Nations on July 21, 1974. The contractor completed work wherever
feasible, resulting in about 83% of the work in place. He then filed
claims for idle time for equipment and salaries for the period of July 15-
September 30, 1974.
3.10     After July/August 1974, the Government controlled part of Nicosia
swelled with the influx of Greek Cypriot refugees. Similar developments were
reported with respect to the Turkish Cypriot part of that city. The
resulting higher population densities exacerbated the sewage disposal
problem and further underscored the need for continuing work on the system
for the benefit of both communities. However, such completion under the
existing circumstances was impossible unless specific arrangements accept-
able to both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot sides could be worked
out. With this in mind, the Bank, in late October 1974, initiated efforts
towards this end, with the close support and assistance of the UNDP.
3.11     The initial discussions with the two sides, which were carried out
by the UNDP with involvement of Bank staff from time to time, focused on
working out a mutually satisfactory agreement to: (i) recover some items
of project equipment and pipes stored in the area under Turkish Cypriot



-8-
control; (ii) utilize Turkish Cypriot contractors to complete the treatment
plant; and (iii) provide connections to the Municipal Market, Industrial
Estate, and Saray Hotel located on the Turkish Cypriot side.    As a result
of these discussions a general understanding was reached with both sides on
how to proceed with the project. This was followed by a series of direct
talks between the two sides to work out the technical details of the
arrangements, especially with regard to recovery of materials and equip-
ment. These meetings took place at the Ledra Palace Hotel in the'buffeP
zone separating the divided city, under the auspices of the United Nations
forces in Cyprus (UNFICYP), with representatives from both sides and the
UNDP participating. Although these technical talks continued over a period
of several months in mid-1975, thus demonstrating the interest of both
sides in reaching some form of accommodation on a matter of advantage to
both, they ultimately broke down in the Fall of 1975. This was primarily
due to the reluctance of the Turkish Cypriot side at that time to reach any
agreement while the overriding   political issues between the two communi-
ties remained deadlocked.
3.12     Since the existing political situation did not appear conducive to
an early agreement between the two sides on this matter, SBN then undertook
to explore alternative means of providing much needed sewerage services to
the Greek Cypriot community through construction of a treatment plant in
the area under Government control. In December 1975, SBN retained con-
sultants to study and cost the required revisions to the system and deter-
mine a suitable treatment plant location. At the same time, SBN also
invited tenders for the sewer pipe needed to complete the collection system
in the Government controlled area. The cost of the connultant services was
to be met out of the Bank Loan.
3.13     This approach also ran into difficulties.    Although a technically
sound proposal was developed by the consultants and approved by the Bank,
the preferred site for the treatment plant was subjected to severe local
opposition on environmental grounds, which the Government, despite Cabinet
level interventions, was unable to resolve. In view of this, and since an
alternative treatment plant site was considered unacceptable for
reasons of cost, the Government and SBN again requested the Bank's
assistance in exploring the possibility of reopening discussions with the
Turkish Cypriot side. Preliminary relatively low level contacts between
Bank staff and the Turkish Cypriot side in early 1977 did not lead to any
result. The Finance Ministry therefore requested Bank intervention at a
much higher level on both sides. As a consequence, the high level talks
given up at the end of 1975 were again resumed with both sides. Once
again, "shuttle diplomacy" with the most senior authorities on both sides
was undertaken by UNDP and the Bank. A mutually acceptable formula, based
on the framework initially accepted in principle by both sides in 1975, was
worked out in detail. Once this was done, some additional technical points
of detail were agreed upon through joint meetings, presided over by the
UNDP Resident Representative. All these efforts led to a mutually accept-
able and agreed text of a Letter of Understanding in September 1977. Its
principle features were the following:



(a) engagement by SBN of the Canadian project consultant to supervise
the completion of the works in the Turkish Cypriot part of
Nicosia, on SBN's behalf;
(b) procurement and installation of the remaining items of equipment
needed to complete the treatment plant in the Turkish Cypriot part
of Nicosia;
(c) completing the small segment of the main drain connecting the
plant to the network in the Government controlled area of Nicosia;
(d) connecting the industrial estate, hotel and market on the Turkish
Cyptiot side to the sewerage system utilizing Turkish Cypriot
contractors after local bidding; and
(e) training abroad of the Turkish Cypriot supervisor for the treat-
ment plant.
The principal technical and financial responsibilities of each side were
also spelled out.   Under the arrangement, the SBN agreed to use the
remaining loan proceeds as well as its own financial resources, as
needed, to cover all the above changes and complete the project as agreed.
The Turkish Cypriot side undertook to meet the cost of operation of the
treatment plant and its routine maintenance.
3.14     Although both sides continued to support the underlying framework
for the September agreement, implementation of the agreed arrangements was
delayed by about one year pending resolution of several additional issues
raised by the Turkish Cypriot side. Following further intensive discus-
sions with both sides by Bank and UNDP staff, these matters were satisfac-
torily resolved and the September agreement amended to include; (i)
preparation of detailed designs by international consultants for phase II
of the sewerage system, serving mainly the Turkish Cypriot community,
such study to be financed by SBN; and (ii) carrying out, with
UNDP assistance, of a study for the utilization of the effluent from the
treatment plant for irrigation purposes. In addition, both sides agreed to
share a portion of the operating costs of the sewage treatment plant. On
this basis, revised letters of agreement were signed in September 1978. As
a further means of support, the Bank also agreed to a project preparation
facility to fund the phase II study. However, this was ultimately never
used, as SBN resources proved to be sufficient for the purpose.
3.15     These arrangements, negotiated after considerable effort on the
part of the Bank and UNDP, represented substantial give and take by both
the SBN and Turkish Cypriot representatives. Indeed, the agreed arrange-
ments represented then, and still do today, the first time since the
1974 events that any definice arrangement for cooperation on any matter has
been worked out and agreed to by both parties. More importantly, based on
these arrangements, and with further close follow up by UNDP and Bank staff
to resolve a number of crucial technical issues arising during the course



- 10 -
of implementation, the project was successfully completed in May, 1980.1"
Reporting Requirements
3.16     Since SBN could not provide any services until the project had
been completed, the reporting requirements were limited to the submission
of a monthly report on progress of construction and annual reports on
finances and construction costs. Reports on progress of construction were
prepared by the consultants and submitted on time. The annual reports on
finances and construction costs as well as the auditors' report were
submitted according to the schedules stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Costs and Disbursements
3.17     Total actual project costs were estimated at CE 2,266,000 in
mid-1980. This compared favorably with the Appraisal Report estimate of
CE 2,613,000, particularly given the circumstances that project implementa-
tion was delayed by almost six years.
3.18     Project costs are summarized below.
Local   Foreign    Total     Local   Foreign    Total
------ (C '000) ------      ----- (US$ '000) ------
Appraisal Estimate /1    1,376   1,237      2,613     3,302   2,969     6,271
Actual /2                1,348     918      2,266     3,775   2,570     6,345
/1  Rate of Exchange:   CE 1.00 = US$2.40
/2  Rate of Exchange:   Cf 1.00 = US$2.80
3.19     The cost savings derived mainly from contracts for supply of pipes
and equipment and construction of the sanitary sewers and to some extent
the treatment plant contract. The actual bids for these contracts were
approximately 20% lower than the appraisal estimates. However, the ratio
of local to foreign costs did not show any appreciable difference between
the estimated and actual costs.
3.20     The rate of disbursement of the proceeds of the loan was signifi-
cantly different from that anticipated in the appraisal report, again
mainly due to the political events. Even before July 1974, when construc-
tion ceased, the rate of disbursement was slower than the appraisal
forecast. Some further delays were caused by prospective bidders seeking
additional time to prepare their bids. In spite of these delays 67% of the
loan was disbursed when construction came to a halt in July 1974,compared
to appraisal estimate of 90%. Construction did not restart until 1979, and
the loan was fully disbursed in September 1980.
1/   See footnote on page 2.



Procurement
3.21     All equipment, materials and civil works contracts were to be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for procurement. Tenders were advertised in one
local and one U.K. newspaper and also announced to various embassies. How-
ever, except for a small contract for the supply of asbestos-cement pipes
and fittings, which was won by an Italian firm, all contracts went to local
suppliers and contractors.   No major problems were encountered.
3.22     After the consultant's representative and the Bank's (EMPWS) staff
member met with both sides in October 1978 to discuss the technical and
contractual aspects of the project in order to expedite implementation,
following agreement between the two sides in September 1978, draft tender
documents were begun by the consultant in April 1979. Four contracts 1/
were envisaged, as follows;
Contract 3 -   Collection system, Turkish Cypriot controlled area
Contract 4 -   Collection system CGCA
Contract 5 -   Completion of sewage treatment plant
Contract 6 -   Industrial estate (pumping station and mains)
It was decided that the contracts would be executed through local
competitive bidding.
3.23     The procedure for making payments to the Turkish Cypriot con-
tractor after the arrangements were made to complete the proj-ct, was
unique, and incorporated the following systems:
(a) bids would be invited in Turkish Lira (TL) and would be evaluated
on that basis;
(b)  the selected contractor would be paid in TL by the Turkish Cypriot
side;
(c) the contractor's bills, certified by the international
consultants, would be converted from TL to US Dollars at the
prevailing international exchange rate (which was also the United
Nations rate);
(d) such bills (now converted to US Dollars) would be passed by UNDP
to SBN for payment;
1/ Contracts 1 and 2 were the earlier pre-1974 contracts.



- 12 -
(e)  SBN would pay UNDP the full stated amount of each bill, in US
Dollars, and UNDP would make payment to the Turkish Cypriot side
for this purpose; and in turn the Turkish Cypriot side would make
payment to the contractor in TL; and
(f)  for the World Bank loan processing purposes, SBN would submit the
standard withdrawal applications for reimbursement, in US Dollars,
of 35% of the expenditure for civil works and 100% for other
expenditures, as stated in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement.
After the World Bank loan funds were exhausted, SBN would bear the
full costs of completing the project in line with the same
procedures.
3.24     Contracts 3, 5 and 6 were awarded to one Turkish Cypriot con-
tractor and Contract 4 was awarded to a Greek Cypriot contractor in August
1979. Construction was completed by the end of July 1980, approximately
five and one half years later than estimated in the appraisal report.
3.25     While some of the delays in the pre-1974 contracts could be attri-
buted to understaffing, construction manpower was in general adequately
skilled to perform the required tasks.   Occasionally there was a temporary
lapse in the contractor's observance of safety practices, particularly
regarding traffic; but these lapses were of short duration.
3.26     The technical and administrative competence of the contractors was
acceptable. Because of the cessation of construction during the period of
conflict, the initial contractor claimed losses in productive capacity
while overheads continued. Also, some equipment stored at the treatment
plant site and on the sewer line construction site was lost. Claims for
these losses were submitted to SBN by the contractor, but have not as yet
been settled. It is noted that SBN has compiled counter-claims which the
contractor has not officially accepted.
Operations
3.27     Based on the exceedingly short operating experience of the system
thus far, it appears that the actual performance of the overall plant con-
structed under this project will generally achieve the results specified by
the consultants. With the present low flows, the biological loading intro-
duced by the industrial estate (particularly, the whey wastes from the
dairy factory, and the wastes from the soft drink factory, representing a
population equivalent of about 11,800 persons) the B.O.D. loading at the
plant is high. This will be reduced as the volume of domestic sewage
increases.
3.28     The overall design of the project fits the present stage of
technology in Cyprus. However, although maintenance and operation of all
the elements of the system are within Cypriot capability, it will be useful
for the SBN manager to visit other sewage systems in other Mediterranean
countries in order to determine optimum organizational arrangements for
maintenance and operation, when the system is fully operational. Spares
for the laboratory and maintenance headquarters are being bought by SBN.



- 13 -
Performance of Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers and Borrower
3.29     The engineering consultant had been established in Cyprus early in
1968. Because of his experience in the country, the consultant had an
adequate grasp of design and construction practices commensurate with the
country's level of development. Therefore, basic design criteria were such
that few revisions were required, other than normal circumstances such as
re-designing sewers to fit altered field conditions, or making minor
modifications to structures. Initially the consultant's contract for
services in design and supervision was to terminate in 1975. Because of
the events of 1974 work ceased, and it was not until October 1978 that the
consultant was able to restart operations. The consultant was preparing
documpntation for Phase II and was under contract to SBN until end-November
1980.
3.30     For both the design and supervision elements of the project, SBN
staff were assigned to assist and share in the consultant's
responsibilities.
3.31     Relationships between SBN, the consultants, and the contractors
reflected the Board's overall control of project implementation. Daily
contact was maintained with the consultants by SBN. Although occasional
tripartite meetings were held with SBN, the contractors, and the consul-
tants, the contractor's communications were channelled to SBN through the
consultant.
3.32     The following table summarizes contract costs and completion dates.



SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA - SCHEDULE OF CONTRACTS
Contract       Description of Contract                    Contract Price     Final Price      Original         Actual
Date                                                                                       Completion      Completion
Date           Date
03/14/72       Supply and installation of sanitary        CE   1,287,058   CE 1,095,975 /a      03/75        Interrupted.
sewers, watermains, and treatment                                                 (max)
facilities.
06/12/75       Completion of the construction of the      C       6,876   CE      7,391        08/75           08/75
sanitary sewers of trunk B.
03/23/76       Supply of asbestos-cement sewer pipes,     US$    153,560   US$   153,560         N/A             N/A
joints and fittings.
05/20/77       Supply and installation of sanitary        C     273,155   CE    291,899         03/78          09/78       1
sewers.
08/13/79       Supply and installation of sanitary        CE      60,687   C     51,500         01/80          07/80
sewers.
08/08/79       (a) Supply and installation of             TL  16,486,387   CE     94,640 !b     03/80           07/80
sanitary sewers.
(b) Supply and installation of sewage     TL  12,549,947    CE     78,516 /b     12/79          07/80
treatment facilities.
(c) Supply and installation of            TL   6,725,150    CE     56,588 /b     03/80          07/80
sanitary sewage pumping station
and force main.
11/07/79       Supply of pumps.                           E        6,276          6,276         N/A             N/A
/a As revised by SBN and shown on page 95 of the Revised Final Version of Works,
Claims and Counter-claims connected therewith, dated February 1980.
/b  These amounts do not include the retention money which has not been released
at the time of this schedule.



- 15 -
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
General
4.01     The appraisal report (March 9, 1971) projected usage of the system
as starting in 1973 with revenues based on estimated annual water
consumption and estimated annual property assessments. The assessments
were assumed to be 36 mils. per CE of assessed property value in the
project area, and 12 mils. per CE of assessed property in the general
benefit area (to be sewered at a later date), the latter representing less
than 10% of the total revenue derived. Because of the delays due to the
political events, the project was not completed by end 1974 as originally
scheduled. Since no properties were actually connected to the collection
system, revenue based on water consumption did not accrue to SBN.
4.02     The Sewerage and Drainage Law of January 1971    (as amended in 1972
and 1978) requires the mandatory connection of all properties within 100
ft. of the laterals after publication of notice to this effect by SBN in
the official gazette. SBN now anticipates that all properties in the
Stage I area will be connected by June, 1983.
Sectoral Impact
4.03     The project represents the first stage of a three stage Master
Plan of sewerage for the capital of the country. The existing method of
sewage disposal using private septic tanks and absorption pits produces
nuisances and hazards to health, and the problem becomes worse every year.
With increasing population density and water use per capita, the ability of
the soil to absorb effluent decreases, and maintenance costs of private
sewer systems rise. It was long recognized that the only satisfactory
answer to the problem of disposing of Nicosia's municipal waste was to
construct a central collection and disposal system, and the project is the
first positive step in that direction.
4.04     On the institutional side, the project led to the creation of the
Sewage Board of Nicosia (SBN). Prior to the project, activities related
to pumping and removal of septic effluent was carried out by the Munici-
pality. While the Municipality is well managed and financially sound, once
the long term goal to eventually sewer the entire city was established, it
was thought necessary to create a financially independent and suitably
staffed institution, with the proper rights and obligations enabling it to
achieve these goals. To this end, legislation was passed defining the
membership of the Board, appointing a chief executive officer responsible
for day-to-day operations, empowering the Board to acquire compulsorily
lands and rights of way, to borrow and issue securities, and to control the
type of wastes permitted to enter the sewers. SBN is also empowered to
require owners of buildings with piped water supply to connect to the
sewers and to pass by laws (subject to the approval of the Government's
Council of Ministers) setting tariffs and charges for sewerage services.



- 16 -
Project Benefits
4.05     The project will substantially improve the environment of the city
by reducing the potential health hazards and nuisances to sight and smell
caused by the many defective septic tanks and cesspits. It will also
improve the nearby rural environment by reducing the areas used for the
dumping of septage. The condition of the Pedios River will be improved by
converting much of the polluted water now entering the river into treated
waste water suitable for irrigation of certain crops.
4.06     Growth of agricultural production in Cyprus has been restricted
more by the lack of water than the lack of land. Yields from irrigated
areas are, on the average, about eight times greater than those from dry
farmed areas; and there is a need to conserve and fully utilize all
possible sources of water, including treated waste water, for irrigation
purposes. Once the project is completed, quality studies will be performed
to provide advice on the crops suitable for irrigation using treated waste
water.
4.07     A major project-related benefit, one that was not envisaged during
the project formulation and appraisal, has been that of the project's
serving as a principal vehicle of cooperation between the two communities.
The project has demonstrated the high priority of humanitarian and public
health considerations recognized by both sides.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.01     The appraisal forecast and actual Income Statements, Cash Flow
Statements and Balance Sheet of SBN from 1971-1979 are in Annex 3. A
summary of SBN's financial performance follows.
Operating Results
5.02     The financial performance of SBN thius far has been very satis-
factory. This, however, has to be viewed in light of the very special
circumstances of SBN. Completion of system construction was planned for
1974, and properties were to be connected to the system during the next
four years. The Board's revenues were to have accrued from two sources.
(i) a sewer service charge based on water sales as and when properties
were connected to the sewer system; and (ii) a charge based on assessed
property values. About two-thirds of SBN's revenue was to come from the
second source. As planned, SBN started collecting revenues based on
property assessment in 1973. Due to the events of July 1974, construction
of the system ceased and did not restart until late 1978. SBN, however,
continued to collect revenues based on assessed property values throughout
this period, except in 1976 when it was decided not to collect these
revenues because of the difficult economic situation then prevailing in
Cyprus. Compared with appraisal estimates, actual operating expenses other



- 17 -
than depreciation have proved to be somewhat higher. These are expected to
increase only nominally since the Board is now almost fully staffed, and
any additional expenditures likely to be incurred by SBN will be minimal
compared with its revenues. Furthermore, as additional properties are con-
nected to the system, SBN will also collect additional revenues based on
water sales, which will more than offset any unforeseen increases in
operating expenses. SBN has also built up liquid reserves sufficient to
finance substantial portions of future expansion programs.
Financing Plan
5.03     The appraisal forecast (1971-74) and the actual (1971-79) financ-
ing plan of SBN are as follows:
SBN's Projected and Actual Financing Plan (CE '000)
Projected             Actual
(1971-74)     %      (1971-79)   %
Application of Funds
Construction Expenditures                     2,613      80      2,239 /1   74
Interest during Construction -IBRD             221        7        132      4
-Other Loans       37       1        129      4
Loans for Connections                           291       9         -       -
Working Capital                                  97       3        550      18
Total                                    3,259      100      3,050    100
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                        356      11      1,366     45
Less:  Debt Service Requirements                325      10        795     26
Net Cash Generation                      31        1        571     19
Proposed IBRD Loan                            1,458      45        876 /2  29
Cyprus Loan Commission                           65       2        401     13
Loan from Government of Cyprus                  200       6        802 /3   26
Local Bond Issues                             1,500      46        400      13
Repayment of Loans for Connections                5       -         -       -
Total                                 3,259      100      3,050    100
/1     CE 27,000 has been spent in 1980 for project associated construction.
/2     Original loan of US$3.5 million reduced to US$2.7 million.    Remain-
ing portion of loan (CE 126,000) disbursed in 1980.
/3     Includes CE 150,000 grant from Government of Cyprus.



- 18 -
5.04     The period of the financing plan has been substantially different
from the original plan due to the 1974 events in Cyprus and their consequences
during the period of project construction. In spite of the long delays,
however, the total amounts required to be financed have remained the same.
This was mainly due to actual bids for the works being substantially lower
than originally envisaged.   This in fact prompted the Government to request
cancellation of US$0.8 million from the original Bank loan of US$3.5 mil-
lion. The local financing also changed somewhat in that the Government,
instead of underwriting bonds amounting to CE 1.5 million to be issued on
behalf of the Sewage Board, decided to lend about CE 1.0 million directly
to the Board but on the same financial terms as the bonds.
Tariffs
5.05     The appraisal forecast assumed a sewage charge on property assess-
ment at the rate of mils. 36/CE for properties connected to the system
(Stage I area) and mils. 12/CE for all other properties within the area of
the Sewage Board which were to be connected to the system in the future
(referred to by SBN as "the general benefit area").    It further assumed a
charge of mils. 50/m3 of water consumed for properties connected to the
system. At the time of appraisal, property values were unrealistically
low, having little resemblance to the actual values. Shortly after the
appraisal, the Government undertook a complete revaluation of all proper-
ties. This resulted in an increase of some 25 times in the rateable
values of the properties within the Sewage Board's service area. Based on
these new assessments, SBN currently charges mils. 3/CE for properties
within the Stage I area and mils. 0.5/CE for properties in "the general
benefit area." Having initiated its service connection program, SBN will
shortly begin levying the charge of mile. 50/m3 of water consumed, which
combined with the revenues based on property values will be sufficient for
SBN to meet all its financial obligations in the foreseeable future.
Auditors
5.06     Satisfactory audits have been performed since 1971 by the Auditor
General of the Republic of Cyprus, and audit reports have been furnished
within a reasonable time.
Financial Covenants
5.07     SBN has adhered to the financial covenants in the Loan Agreement.
It has collected revenues based on the sewer charge on property assessments
starting in 1973, and plans to implement the charge based on water consump-
tion as properties are connected to the system. This would give SBN suffi-
cient revenues to cover its operating expenses and debt service require-
ments as well as providing for reasonable reserves. SBN is also required
to provide financial assistance to meet the cost of connections where
property owners are unable to meet the costs. Only one such request has
been received thus it would seem that a great demand for this facility
will be unlikely; although SBN has the capacity to meet these requests.
The Government has provided SBN with all funds that were required under the
Loan Agreement.



- 19 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
lanagement and Organizational Effectiveness
6.01     At the time of establishment of SBN as an autonomous agency on
January 22, 1971, only a manager and two technical assistants, who were
employees of the Municipality, were assigned to SBN. The manager was also
the city engineer, with resultant divided responsibilities. By October
1971, the Accountant/Administrator joined the Board; and two clerical
staff were also in place. As of year-end 1972 three additional technical
assistants were added. Gradual staffing growth occurred and in 1978 the
Accountant/Administrator became the General Manager. The sewerage
engineer, actually the third incumbent in the post, is now the manager's deputy.
6.02     Other changes in the organizational structure have been nominal
(Annex 4). The Board of Directors includes: the Mayor of Nicosia who
is the Chairman of the Board and a lawyer by profession; an architect;
a merchant; a chartered secretary; and a doctor.
6.03     The procedure of levying sewage rates based on assessments had
been in progress since 1973; and this ongoing source of revenue together
with the General Manager's competence as an accountant/administrator have
insured that the administrative and financial responsibilities have been
discharged in an exceptional manner. The administration is sound, and the
financial position of SBN is strong. The technical operation, however, is
weak. Since the departure of the original sewage engineer, there has been
increasing dependence on the consultant who is responsible for engineering
designs regarding day-to-day operations, which should be undertaken by the Board
engineer. Further, a preventive maintenance program of sewer cleaning has
not as yet been developed or implemented. After the program is estab-
lished, consequent increases of the number of operational staff will be
needed. At present, a greater delegation of responsibility,on the part of
the General Manager is needed. This has not been the case since the Board
engineer has not assumed deputy responsibility,nor has it been officially
offered. The need for a solution to this problem is apparent and imme-
diate. Should the incumbent General Manager leave the post the performance
of the overall operation would be jeopardized.
6.04     SBN has assumed its autonomy to an increasingly greater degree
during its nine years of existence and is now in a position to establish
its own priorities in development. The Bank project which covered Stage I
is meeting Nicosia's needs through 1980. The ongoing development and con-
struction program (Stage II) will provide service for Nicosia through 1985,
and the proposed Stage III program reflects SBN's planning through 2000.
Although the dependence upon foreign consultants for system design and
construction supervision is expected to continue over the next ten years to
some degree, the Board expects to increase the assignment of these respon-
sibilities to national consultants as they become more skilled in this
area.   After the ten year transitional period, SBN envisages total
reliance on its own staff for the engineering functions.



- 20 -
Growth
6.05     In early 1971, SBN's staf-f was composed of three persons, and by
1980 the total was 13. Although the number of employees would seem low,
the total population to be served through Stage I is about 32,000. Under
the existing circumstances resulting from the bifurcation of the overall
system due to the political division, only the collection system is
presently in SBN's area of responsibility. Further growth will therefore
be nominal, resulting from an increase of operational staff for preventive
maintenance and from a gradual increase in the number of house connections.
Staff Recruitment, Training and Development
6.06     SBN has established a salary structure which is competitive with
the civil service and private sector in Cyprus at the professional
levels. Sub-professional salaries in SBN tend to be somewhat higher than
those in the private sector. For this reason recruitment of staff does not
pose a problem. The salary of the general manager is somewhat lower than
that of-an equivalent position in the private sector. Staff turnover has
been relatively low. Appointments of monthly-rated staff in SBN must be
approved by the Minister of Interior.
6.07     With a relatively small total number of staff in SBN, the training
effort has been understandably limited. A two year fellowship was provided
for a sewage engineer for graduate training. However, the engineer is no
longer with SBN. Two three-month training assignments in the U.K. in
sewage treatment plant operation were implemented for two senior foreman,
one from SBN and the other from the Turkish Cypriot side. SBN also plans
to send one or two technicians to Israel for practical training in collection
system operation. A short familiarization assignment in Israel for the
General Manager would also be of use.
Covenants and Sectoral Development
6.08     The institutional covenant requiring SBN to carry out its
operations under the supervision of a competent general manager has been
adhered to by SBN.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Project Achievement
7.01     The most important achievement of this project has been the
creation of an independent, financially viable, autonomous institution to
establish and administer a program of sewerage development, which has
resulted in the introduction of a sanitary sewage disposal system for the
capital of the country. This first step is expected to lead to the
eventual sewering of the whole city. In addition, given the island's
limited water resources, the project also provides for the eventual use of
treated wastewater for irrigation of agricultural land.



- 21 -
Socio-Economic Benefits
7.02     Once the properties within the project area are connected to the
sewer system, the project will provide significant long-term benefits. The
most importanc benefit will be the improvement of the environment and the
reduction of potential health hazards. The availability of treated waste-
water for irrigation will help increase the value of agricultural produc-
tion.  Sewerage will also end the rising costs of septic tank construction,
maintenance and the trucking of septage. The area to be sewered is now
subject to building height restrictions because of problems related to
sewage disposal. Construction of sewers will permit reduction of these
restrictions, thus enabling higher density construction and fostering more
efficient use of roads, water supply and electricity systems in the central
area of Nicosia.   Since tourism plays a significant role in the economy of
Cyprus, the introduction of sewers should reduce the possibility of
epidemic diseases, which could be disastrous for the tourist industry.
Least Cost Solution
7.03     Project elements have been reviewed by the consultant keeping in
mind both the current and long range goals of SBN, as well as the level of
development in the country. The selection of areas to be served by this
first phase are consistent with the objective of sewering the areas with
the highest population densities. Technical solutions for sewerage remain
valid, as does the sizing and staging of construction. Connection to piped
sewerage is again proving to be the least cost solution compared to the
cost of construction, maintenance and emptying of septic tanks and cess
pits.
7.04     Comparison of the operational cost of sewage disposal estimated by
SBN at 1979 levels for an average household (4.5 persons) in problem areas
and representing about one sixth of the residences are as follows.
Annual cost of cesspool pumping = CE 150
Annual cost of sewer service     = CE  45
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
General Performance
8.01     SBN as well as the officials of the Government and the Turkish
Cypriot representatives have stated that the overall Bank performance was
altogether satisfactory and appropriate to the needs of the Authority.
Bank staff were well-informed and provided sound project-related advice
before and after the events of 1974. During the period in which project
implementation activities were suspended (1974-1978),Bank staff and manage-
ment achieved a level of confidence on both sides which, when combined with



- 22 -
that enjoyed by UNDP staff, allowed for the resumption of construction and
the completion of the project. By offering its good offices to both sides
and acting as an honest broker, the Bank played a key role in the negotia-
tions and in accelerating the working out of an agreement between the two
sides. Subsequently, the Bank facilitated actual implementation of this
agreement, including reviewing the existing plant conditions, evaluating
construction cost estimates and tender documentation, and helping facili-
tate contract negotiations with the Turkish Cypriot side. Although the
Bank is not normally involved in resolving issues arising out of political
differences, the Cyprus case provided an unique opportunity for the Bank as
a technical agency to play a critical role in bringing the two sides of
the dispute together, thus enabling a project of benefit to both the Greek
Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities to go forward.
Supervision
8.02     The intervals between the Bank's supervision missions averaged
about six/seven months during the active life of the project. SBN
considered this spacing of visits acceptable and, indeed, the performance
of the Authority, consultants and contractors was such that more frequent
missions would have been redundant. SBN's quarterly reports and close
contact with Bank staff facilitated project supervision. The missions
fielded by the Bank were characterized by the proper balance, continuity
and depth of expertise needed to provide the level of supervision deemed
practical for SBN's project implementation. Bank assistance was provided
for the technical review of the Stage II project. The Bank's contribution
to the development of SBN is regarded by the authority as important and
basic to its genesis and organizational growth.
Working Relationship
8.03     The Bank's relationship with SBN was amicable, mutually coopera-
tive and productive.   In an atmosphere of mutual respect, SBN and the Bank
developed good rapport. This facilitated access by the Bank to other
Governmental agencies when contacts with these were necessary. In addi-
tion, when information was required from bilateral or international
agencies resident in Cyprus, the assistance of SBN was immediate and
productive.
Other
8.04     The issues raised by the Bank concerning cost estimates, enabling
legislation, accounting procedures, and the financing plan proved to be
valid and served as a basis for adequate project appraisal and supervi-
sion. SBN shares the Bank view that the covenants were appropriate and
conducive to the improvement of SBN as an autonomous institution.



- 23 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS
General
9.01     Although the Project Completion Report has been prepared
immediately after the loan closing date, there is little doubt as to the
nature and final outcome of the benefits achieved and improvements
generated through the project. The basic objectives of the project were
the establishment of a viable sewerage authority and the provision and
improvement of sewage services to users, and these have been successfully
achieved with little uncertainty. The degree of achievement was that
anticipated in the appraisal report, although the time required to execute
the project was considerably longer than originally planned due to the
political situation.
Operations
9.02     The physical plant which was envisaged in the appraisal report
was built; and its performance thus far is considered satisfactory. A
temporary treatment problem is the heavy biological loading due to whey
wastes from the industrial estate, but this is expected to be alleviated as
the domestic sewage hydraulic loading increases. Effluent utilization has
not occurred as yet because sewage flow is still at a relatively low
level. Standard criteria and designs which were introduced during and
after the appraisal process fit existing levels of technology in the
country, and are not expected to cause operational problems.
Institutional Development
9.03     The evolution of SBN was accomplished to the degree anticipated
during appraisal. SBI has generally been able to attract and retain quali-
fied staff at an anticipated level of remuneration. The financial and
administrative capacities of the Board have evolved commensurate with its
growing responsibilities. The technical capability of the utility has been
growing at a somewhat slower rate, since the need for technical strength
has not been as marked as in the other aspects of SBN operations. The
eventual departure of the consultant will emphasize the need for greater
technical and operational self-reliance, and this will become more evident
as system connections increase. SBN is aware of its needs in this respect,
and is making suitable preparations.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
February, 1981.



CYPRUS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE (ESTIMATED)
1970                 1971                1972                1973                1974
IT EM                               III  IV   I    ii   III  IV   I    ii   III  IV    I         II   IV    I    i   II    IV
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
DETAIL DESIGN
ENDER PERIOD
BID ANALYSIS
LAND ACQUISITION
SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENT
PLANT CONSTRUCTION
SEWAGE COLLECTION SYSTEM
A) OUTSIDE WALLS
DETAIL DESIGN
TENDER PERIOD
BID ANALYSIS
SUPPLY OF PIPES a FITTINGS                                                   _   _         -    -    -    -         -
SEWER CONSTRUCTION                                                           _   -    -              -                   _         _
B) INSIDE WALLS
DETAIL DESIGN
TENOER PERIOD
BID ANALYSIS
SUPPLY OF PIPES & FITTINGS                                                        _  _    _     _   __    _        _
SEWER CONSTRUCTION                                                                        _                    - __
World Bank-22147      |



CYPRUS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE (ACTUAL)
YEAfl       1970      1971      1972      1973       1974      1975       1976      1977      1978      1979       1980
{TEM~~~~I            _ 3  _ 4 1 21314   1   2   3   4   1 12   314   1   21314   |11l2   314   112   314   112   3  4   |1 |2   3  34   2 1  |2  |3  |4  |1  |2  |3  |4|
DETAI L DESU03IGNRE
BID ANALYSIS
LAND ACGUBSITION            ~m 
SUPPLY OF EGUIPMENT
PLANT CNSTRUCTION.u                                           um        :
SEWAGE COLLECTION SYSTEM
IA OUTSIDE WALLS                                                                                                                                        3
U,
DETAIL DESIGNM                 =I
TENDER PERIOD 
BID ANALYSIS                                                                                       o 
SUPPLY OF PIPES AND FITTINGS
SEWER CONSTRUCTION                                  UaUUUE            
X O) INSIDE WALLS
DETAIL DESIGN
TENDER PERIOD
BID ANALYSIS
SUPPLY OF PIPES AND FIrTINGS
SEWER CONSTRUCTION
X - WORK INTERRUPTED
World Bank - 22145



CYPRUS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 729-CY)
COMPLETION REPORT
COMPARISON OF APPRAISAL FORECAST AND ACTUAL SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS (US$ '000)
Calendar                --- Appraisal Report Estimate ---              ------------- Actual -------------
Year                  Annual     %     Cumulative     %              Annual     %     Cumulative     %
1971                    136     3.9        136       3.9                10     0.4         10       0.4
1972                  1,312    37.5      1,448      41.4               290    10.7        300      11.1
1973                  1,352    38.6      2,800      80.0             1,000    37.0      1,300      48.1
1974                    700    20.0      3,500 Ia  100.0               500    18.5      1,800      66.6
1975                    -        -         -          -                100     3.7      1,900      70.4
1976                    -        -         -          -                -        -       1,900      70.4
1977                    -        -         -          -                190     7.0      2,090      77.4
1978                    -        -         -          -                310    11.5      2,400      88.9
1979                    -        -         -          -                 80     3.0      2,480      91.8
1980                    -        -         -          -                220     8.1      2,700 /a  100.0
/a The Bank Loan was reduced from US$ 3.5 million to
US$ 2.7 million at the request of the Borrower
(letter dated January 12, 1973).



CYPRUS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 729-CY)
COHPLETION REPORT
COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
Category              Description                 Appraisal    Revised /l       Revised /2        Amounts        Variations between Estimated
Report       Estimate I        Estimate II     Disbursed           and Actual Disbursed
Estimate
Amount          Percentage
-------------------------   USS ------------------------          US$                .
I          Pipes, Fittings and Equipment          975,000      975,000          975,000          878,480         96,520            9.9
II         Civil works other than instal-       1,255,000    1,095,000        1,095,000        1,212,944       (117,944)         (10.8)
lation of piping for house
connections
III        Consultant services                    168,000      168,000          188,000          299,910       (111,910)         (59.5)
IV         Interest and other charges on          531,000      309,000          309,000          308,666            334            0.1
the Loan                                                                                                                                     t
V          Unallocated                            571,000      153,000           ]33>000            -           133,000           100.0
Total                                3,500,000    2,700,000        2,700,000        2,700,000
/1 As per letter dated February 16, 1973
/2  As per letter dated January  30, 1976



CYI'IWS
NICOSIA SPEIAGE -'ROECT
WAN 729-CY
CI2FIPITI.A  REPORT
IIIC'351A Sg,iL4: ~IIIAR
Cor_urlsoa of Appraisal Forecast -od Actual I.ece Sttao.nts
---    1973 -------    ------ 1974 ------      ------ 1975        -----       1976 -------     ------ 1977 -------     ------ 1978 -------     ------ 1979 -----
Apprats.l   Aetol     Appraisal    Actal      Appraisal    Actual     Appr3taa1    Aecual     Appraisal    Aetual     Appraisl     Actual     Appraisal    Actual
Report                 Report                  Report                  Report                  Report                  Report                  Report
E-tlf_tv               ftiate         _        Estelate                Ettote                  i Ette E_t__              stl,ste     __       gftiSt
RRevl8ES
Eased so wer eoCsesptLoI                                 6.2         -         28.6          -         59.1          -         78.8                    8 85.4        ,         68.1          -          91.0         -
Based o pro-prty asOss-nst:
Project re                                           153.9     211.9       158.4       216.8        163.2      207.3        168.1         -         173.2      338.8        128.4      326.8        183.7      349.3
Geoersl besajit are.                                  29.2        -          30.2         -          31.0         -          32.0         _          32.9         -          33.9         -          34.9         -
Sales of *tfluent                                         -          -          3.3         _           6.8         _           9.1         _           9.9         _           10.2         -          10.5         -
Total Revenuas                                       189.3     511.9        220.5      216.0        760.1      207.3        288.0         -         301.4      338.8        310.6      326.S        320.1       349.3
OPERATING COSTS
Salarles, Mga. and llo   eo                              6.3        7.4        10.3         9.0        10.3         9.6        10.3        10.1        10.3       1I.2          10.3       19.9         10.3       12.9
EreTty                                                   3.5         -          6.7          -          6.7          -          6.7          -          6.7          _          6.7          -           6.7         -         I
Cheajoals                                                0.5         -          1.1          -           1.5         _           1.6         -          1.7          -           1.8         -           1.9         -         S
Halotesuoce                                               -         0.3         1.0         0.4         1.0         O.S          1.0        0.7          1.0        0.7          1.0        0.5          1.0        1.1
Gemeral erpenses                                         1.0        4.8         2.0         5.0         2.5         5.0         2.5         5.9         2.5         6.9         2.5        27.6 LI       2.5       11.8
bepreeiLtlio                                            24.4        1.0        47.3         1.0        57.4         1.2         57.4        4.7        57.4         4.8         57.4        4.6         57.4        4.6
Total Oparsti.g Costa                                35.7       13.5        68.4        15.4         79.4       16.3         79.5       21.4         79.6       25.6         79.7       52.6         79.8       40.4
Sarplus (DefIcItS before Iot-rest                       153.6     198.4       152.1       201.4        180.7      191.0       208.5       (21.4)      221.8       313.2        230.9      214.3        240.3      308.9
Interest (Net)                                          97.2         -        119.4          -        221.9        66.6       204.2       114.8       196,4       118.0        192.3      126.9        187.5      108.8
lET SURPIJOS (DEFICITJ                                  56.4      J98.4        32.7       201.4       (41.2)      124.4         4.3      (136.2)        25.4      195.2         38.6      147.3         52.8      200.1
Earned Surplus
Was.ac* - beginn0ig *f year                               _       (38.3)       56.4       160.1        89.1       361.5        47.9       485.9         52.2      349.7         77.6      544.9        116.2      692.2
Net Surplos (deficit) for year                          56.4      198,4        32.7       201.4       (41.2)      124.4         4.3      (136.2)        25.4      195.2         38.6      147.3         52.8      200.1
lalaee - and of year. per al".*ce Sheet              S,4       160.1        89.1       361.5        47.9       485.9         52.2      349.7         77.6      544.9        116.2      692.2        169.0      892.3
Return on Net plant () 12                                 -          -           -           _          6.5        12.6          7.6         -          8.3        19.2          8.8       14.7          9.4       15.3
L    tIn.ude 17.4 lor one-tie, revaluation tees for lovable property, paid to                                                                                                                                                 !fl
oepr.t-t of Land and Surveys.
L    Inco befoeg intereat divided by ntt plant in service a beL1poJnB of year.



i.Os...51S.;9 1  qt i. . ** qf'l pa . 60ddn pat ti 3,  ' CV, -Pvats1  17
'0161 .1 p.-s ~43 '9 .o) pld  -11161 "1      jd.oso  .1l,l6 sqi Aq ..I p;.d M.,  17
LIU,CO       '19V00    (90      6011l   '1l       E0911    t*        970     tOg       0Zta'   01rO6     P0(0z   CO        I(        0        VW0     09t                    ... Ao p. P.- .smlq .i 
E*9O 9*i      6011    0.111     1:91l   II1       6*000    E'09      9ooEZ   0,1o      00(     us   CIt    019   C'oo      P9 I VT   16        -                        ....5A j. 9.1IaIsq .- 90q0 qs.a
9~1 V'1       0'D09   SV't     (v o)     C'ot     (Plot)  Wof6)     (016)   (lit      (Cot     I's      (1,011)  9. 09     0'61C   (VIP1)     P9I0t   PliG                        093,0     -3 S  169
VOIi     ,1c      ILC 99909lot i.o   I .1"  I0m1       i91c9   E06E      I161    19i)(        cz 1000  "96   VIlta   viOl1     VItOec  O00g' I    tOOtl  000 VI               IVIN AO HOiitldARO 1416
1000i   0,190     $'ito   0100      91961   It 9O      COil   VP000      60'l"  I*000      COOla   COIt      t9    ~O'io       0*'     6.91       COOt   00!t                       *..Ias 'i"o Is-1
4- Te,   ,O-      P -z    i -         S     TE          r VOl  i1    ~     61    CoO-                                                                                                      ant- 
I6      09        CS      CO9       D1       VI        P                 L L     CO        cl      9         09      V    ~     CO          1  I    t)P0  6t                    .s0..Y-, .-I
0i9t    9 01       ,01.   9.9        Ei       l        ii       6s       C91l   6COO       9.01    1.119     901Z    P0         -      61IEE919
1   91 36     COOq    P66       qi/O    1.101l     P60S   s0001     9VOl     COOl                                                                                                      a 
,:VL                  010.1 0 El                            El.0                              ocCI        -       ct                                                      - odA3 Jo 3-s500
0.00    PlOti     000E    IlOM       000t    PlOtI     0.00    POltz     0.00    VIlz       -      Cl')             0S          -       -- PZi
L60      -        P9 I     -         VO                 -                tIO 090                   t6        6       Cit        O      PO         P 69   91                               09a"
-  -          -       -         -       -         .       -                 -         Coo.-O.."l                            I V   COf.               -                          90909  1*00
-   '         -       cO        -      C          -      COO         -       9tIt      -      VO         -      Cit               016                                           - .  *  . . .., I..
9:90          9.1                 It             761                  0                          W0Z000  0OZ.    01:90     -ioz    Pol6       Pi90t  COL                     .1i1pao    0t,oO
00%                                                                                                                                                                                       sat  AO"uiltti J
C-4
P10C9   P,690     6.1ti   CObL      (I9Z9i  P10, 9     Vi9Ol   V,900     POl     C         E0S09   I'MO      VL9     COtSWI    9VL9    9196      V9i(t   0.10                    SOtlim 'I 03:11161S I90
O~~~90I  0.96Z  -      9~~~~~~~~~~~090            .        9*9~~I'6  ,q  COLo  I-it-  9P169    9.106    U019z0    C000S  9.996      9.191    00             00001 0953 *P**0O5 1000
-  -  -  -       -       .         .       -         .       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=  *-- - - 1   1-o97'                                  090050N---  -
S:L           VZS~to  -         00O      -        P61                                 E 009%I6  9-16O   CoOt    j.o9(      ('001   9*991K    (9      S:9s                                0an1
0 61              601                6"9t              6:01               It.1    -        P60      -        900              0W60               COl II     9                         5)h, 0901
-  -   -         .       .         .       .         .      o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tmo~~ )-  Q90'OL                P010  0W0i-t"pt                                                1~
:--I as, tP_,A*
oo0  .       ~~~~     ~~~6.9  -                   6.1      -                                   .         -                                            .(                        1 .1100d.0) *0910
0*  10         O      P1 .  01                     0.9l   P69       tOz      (0       0VI      L0Z       1.0     0.                                                                 #v..u-; 661409
COO1              COO               P9                 PlC               CII        -       9                1.0                          .                                         19*01
009 91960     0169,   VIAL9      099    P110       619V    (IO90     0160t  -?,,E      Wo0)    S1961     COZO    COilt     P96I     -          )                     noos-.3 09009         9  199
r'w  *~~'~~  1'~T  i'I  1o-ioo.  FF  909 ~~~~T   ?Z'~~Y   l'0      (V1~~~iD  1T   ~~IF        i'iT   ~~          -          -               oo.vt".4 E-9a1 ..noVIo fl1,.A
0.010  P160  6~~~~~~9l0  0.090 ~~~olU  I'    (V'9))  I09M       0Z61    V 900     9ZOZ   P1661     P/661   0ol6      t9)               (CS)
VV~~  410  ?V  STir  CO  P10      C~~~~~  V'7F      0.1     9~~~I0    CI      1'7V   ~~      ~~jj*~        .       .          .      .                         0911090LS,56..9d  T p
6900    T pt',O   0.1      00        0OO -U           (.0      90 S6            ~0 VISO'l          t01         lt    V(        O9)Q)10,9 809ff
.~~~~~~~~-.
IMI 0'4    -44v5~  lp-9 v           I Mv391*  IV.I00MV  totosy  j..tsd4  t9oY   I..lddy    10-15  I.TOt4TAd  I'09'v  1,909388  t'-'3V  t0..9*ddy  isal MIT  I-.dd'
-1i190'la qUV3 W1-3.V p.. 19001* 09110909dV of
owamimm 99wF
11069 m01X00it



NIlCOS A SEIWEACE pROJECT
WAN 729-CY
COI@U75ON REPORT
NIIIOSIA SEWAGE BOARD
C-artaon of Apprasal -ore-sat rod A.Ctal Blance Sheata
197 1 ------   ---- 1972 ------      ------ 1973 ------    ------ L974 ------     ------ 1975 ------    ------ 1976 ------    ------ 197 7 ------   ------ 1978 ------    ------ 1979 ------
Appr s- l  Acruel     App-t.aol  A*tual     Appraisal   Actual    App-sAsal   Actuel    Apprati.l   ActLal    ApprLeal    Actul     Appralnal   Act-l     kpp.lIal.   A.to.l    Appr,sial  Antu l
VLpArn                Report                Report                R.port                Repor.                RepplR epoet                                 Repo-t                Raparc
E.n1.sta   ______     Bllaspts                 st. toE_L_ Et                            EsL"t*      _         KflIate               Eztotatatt  __t__e t.allasta           _     Isttasre _t_
-----_----____-____---____---__----------------_-------------------------------------------------- (C LOO -o--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------._ ---_____
ASSETS
Aenapaga plant                                  236.1    121.7      1,219.1 .  357.9 71   2,363.2  1,113.2      2.871.0   1,518.0     2,871.0   1,607.2     2,871.0   1,640.4     2.871.0   1,879.5     2,871.0   2,034.5     2,871.0   2,317.3
lt..:   opretlllon                               _          _           _         _          24.4      1.0         71.7      2.0        129.1      3.2        186.5      7.9        243.9      12.7       701.3      17,3       358.7      20.9 L
tle Plant                                    236.1    121.7      1,219.1    357.9      2,338.8   1,112.2     2,799.3   1,516.0     2,741.9   1,604.0     2,684.5   1,632.5     2,627.1   1,866.8     2,569.7   2,017.2      2,512.3  2,366.4
ln    for                                         -         -           9.0       -          84.5       -         285.6       -         443.5                 464.7       -         432.1       -         396.6        -        3579         -
I.te,l,l. and napplle.                                                                         -        -                 -          -          -                -       64.7          -       23.9          -       22.5          -       43.4
Ancosota r cee.able                                                                          i -0    119 5         20.9    251.0         24.6    318.4         27.2     244.3        28.5     552.7        29.4     299.3        30.3     282:9
Coah                                             81.5     24.3         20.1    343.3         88.7    233.2         97.     232.7         60.3    223.8          1.1     116.3        11.8     115,9        26.3     536.4        50.7     550.2
TOTAL ASSETS                                 317.6    146.0      1,24B 2     701.2     2.530.0   1,464.9     3,202.8   1,999.7     3,270.3   2,146.2     3.177.5   2,057.8     3,099.5   2,559.3     3,022.0   2,875.4      2,951.2  3,242.9    
L.LAB1 LITIES
Out.taondln Debt:
Lce1 band                                       -        _         400.0    400.0      1,100.0    400.0      1,500.0    4110.0     1,700.0    40u.0      1,700.0    400.0      1,700.0     4uO.0     1,700.0     400.0      1,700.0    400.0
L.o: StUkWtU fond Inontront                   _           - _1.9               -          45.2     12.6         92.3      26.0       148.2     40.7        207,5      57.3       270.4      80.8       337.0     112.3       407.6     161.0
-  -      -        388.1     400.0      1,054.8    387.4      1,407.7    374.0      1,551.8    359.3      1,492.5    342.7      1,429.6    319.2      1,363.0     287.7     1,292.4    239.0
Loan Coclnaonnn.                              61.1    118.2         57.0     169.5        52.6    269.1         48.0     289.8        43.1     293.7        38.0     501.6        32.6     510.0        26.9     743.1        20.9     732.8
Covens.t of Cyprca                           200.0                 200.0       -         20D.0       -         2W.0      200.0       200.0     200.0       200.0        -        200.0     228.0       193.8     228.0        187.2    228.0
IbRD                                          56.5      6.3        603.1    108.8      1.166.2    454.6      1.45.0     650.6      1,427.5    676.7      1.394.8     737,6     1,359.7     752.4     1.322,1     777.6     1,281.7     756.6
Totl Net 46bt                                317.6    124.5      1,248.2    678.3      2,473.6   1,111.1     3,113.7   1.514.6     3,222.4   1,529.7     3,125.3   1,581.9     3,021.9   1,809.6      2,905.8  2,036.4      2,782.2  1.976.4
Stnkl.S Pton                                      -         -            -        -            -      12.6           -      26.0           -      40.7           -       57.3          -       80.8          -      112.3          -      161.0
Sh,ort tern liabilitil.                           -       26.8           -      36.4           -     168.8           -      91.5           -      102.2          -       93.7          -      168.2          -      10.0          _      175.1
E-rned S-rpl. (Deficit)                          -       (5.3)          .     (13.5)        56.4    172.4         89.1    361.6         47.9    473.6         52.2     324.9        77.6     500.7       116.2     621.7        169.0    780.4
Gr-ot - C.-Ver-nLn of Cypru-                     _         _          _          _             -        .            .        -            -         .         _                       -         -           - _                   -      150.0
TOTAL LIATILIftES                            317.6     146.0     1,IR4.2     701.3     2,530.0   1,464.9       3,202.8  1,993.7    3.270.3   2,146.2     3,177.3   2,037.8      3,099.5  2,559.3      3,022.0  2,873.4      2,951.2  3,342.9
=               _                   _ _      -_
/I  Inlod.a 13.5 pafd to Lnd and Sur      efy. 0aparCal or land *tffsltlon. d
2    AJdJ.tna   -d. Ino book of *c,at. CL 1.0



CYPRUS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA
PROPOSED STRUCTURE
(1971)
ISEWAGE BOARD
CHIEF ENGINEER
SEWAGE ENGINEER                      SECRETAR                        ACCOUN~TANO
TECHNICALASSISTANT            I|ACCOUNTS
(RWNG OFFICE)       SUPERVISION)I                                               LKI
TREATMENT PLANT
.             FO~~~~REMAN
SEWER AND HOUSE         MAINTENANCE
CONNECTION              FOREMAN
INSPECTOR
World Bank - 22146



- 32 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 2
CYPRUS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA
ACTUAL STRUCTURE
1980
SEWAGE
BOARD
GENERAL
.MANAGER
SEWERAGE                          ~~~~~~~~ACCOUNTiANT
SEIO                                           ACCO
TECHNICAL       MESSENGER     I   CLERKS   |  ACOUNTING    l
ASSISTANT                     I                 FFCE
TECHNICAL      TECHNICAL     TECHNICAL                                    ASSISTANT
ASSISTANT      ASSISTANT     ASSISTANT                                   ACCOUNTING
OFFICER
DRAWING      MAINTENANCE    TREATMENTRAE
OFFICE     ~AND          PLANT                            RALETERS
SUPERVISION     FOREMAN                        CLETR
'The duties of the Accountant are being performed by the General Manager.
World Bank - 22144



33 -                           ANNEX 5
CYPRUS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN 729-CY)
COMPLETION REPORT
SEWAGE BOARD OF NICOSIA
Table of Actual Incremental Costs and Benefits (C. '000)
(in 1971.price level)
----------- COSTS ---      ---            ----------- BENEFITS
Year            Capital    Incremental    Total           Based on         Based      Total
Operating                     Property       on Water
Costs                        Values      Consumption
1971              105           -          105
1972              154           -          154               -                -         -
1973              650          12          662              191               -        191
1974              269          13          282              195               -        195
1975               32          14           46              180               -        180
1976               12          17           29               -                -         -
1977              156          17          173              229               -        229
1978               80          17           97              183               -        183
1979             167           19          186              177               -        177
1980               85          19          104              180              15        195
1981               -           20           20              180              60        240
1982               -           20           20              180              69        249
1983-
2020             -            20           20              180             72         252
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN - 13.9%






CYPRUS                          -         - -  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0  w   mUL
CYPRUS                                       o g                                     00 20 M00  o E600 KDMTETS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                         TURKEY
Loaoton of sewage treatment plant
Sewerage project area                                                       _
- Trunk sewers             THIShtAP ISBASEDON 1eDO213t. MAItCH 197CL CHANGESSYI
-  Main highways           HAVE BEEN MADEOTORELECT THE PRESENTSITUATION                  lP-
=  Nicoso   municipal boundary                                ;e|
Rivers ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~edt
----Present Cease-fire liTnenaoal~          a Ieasia
O logo  20p   3 0    ,0,(                                                                A. R. E;I      s
METERS
/         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
X  J          <                                 <                t                  .l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IYPt 2892R(PC
CY RUS                                                 0  if  .  DO 0   200   300 b 400 MILES
CYPRUS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00 200 360 a'5a S60 660 KILOMETERS
NICOSIA SEWERAGE PROJECT DETAIL                                T..           U R K E Y
Sewerage Project Areo                               '
Trunk sewers                                 0
Present Cease-fire line  THIS MAP IS BASEDON IBRD 2sL2
-Main highways      MARCH 1970, THE ONLY CHANGES  r     )        Nic  .    SYRIA
. . . .Nicosio municipal boundary  MADE REFLECT PRESENT SITUATION.  CYPRUSt..no
Riven  hMediterranean See     L
no89    490 YA OS  g  890  I                                                   ROA
T   2pt   ~~YAROIt S,S00                                                ISRAEJ j'...  ,:I
____ ____ ____ _ *00__SOO__ _IODO__ ____ _                                      'JORDAN .,
> FF I YETERt 1 l RYAETERS1                                                              - SAUDI
,ARAB IA
C}  W  V        /X     ATE                Z   73\              _     w     __~~"T
t1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b - -~. -                        -frS  //.t*WWSt
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t \r ISo,ohio                            /
PAcL, 1 EI'""'A
OffICIPS CITY WALL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBRAR 18
A _    <r-             >    ~~~~~~~~~~ -8;-------
1,=Fl  I ,'\                         ''''~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilton
prY}   I |                           r-) I    \/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hoe
2                                                    1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~ ARYc ,,, -1 /\



