 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14746

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/30/2015

               Country: Pakistan
             Project ID: P094086                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Pakistan: Balochistan        Project Costs (US$M):                      23.55                24.84
                         Education Support
                         Project - Besp
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      22.00                21.57
      Sector Board:      Education                    Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                               06/22/2006
                                                             Closing Date:            01/31/2011          07/31/2014
         Sector(s):       Primary education (79%); Other social services (21%)
         Theme(s):        Education for all (33%); Gender (17%); Other Private Sector Development (17%);
                          Participation and civic engagement (17%); Rural services and infrastructure (16%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Susan Ann Caceres         Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 3), the project development objective was "to promote
    public-private and community partnerships to improve access to quality primary education, in particular for girls."
    The same objective is noted in the Financing Agreement (p. 4), but this document also specifies that the project
    is "in Balochistan."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project included three components. Appraisal costs are provided in the PAD for the Bank's contribution only;
    estimated Government and total costs by component are not specified. Actual amounts are not provided in the
    ICR.

        Establishment of New Community Schools in Rural Areas (appraisal cost, US$ 13.9 million; actual amount
         not provided in the ICR) was to create new community schools in rural areas where the community was able
         to enroll at least 20 students in a school and there was no girls' school within a two-kilometer radius. Parent
         Education Committees were to be responsible for managing and supervising the schools, with support from
         Community School Implementation Partners (NGOs). Community School Implementation Partners were to
         ensure: (1) community mobilization and selection and registration of Parent Education Committees under
         Pakistani law; (2) training of Parent Education Committee members in management and finance so that
         they could run the schools; (3) support to teachers; and (4) monitoring of the attendance of teachers and
         students, physical conditions in the schools, and quality of learning.

        Support for New Private Schools (appraisal cost, US$ 2.1 million; actual amount not provided in the ICR)
         was to promote educational access in semi-urban and urban areas through the establishment of new private
         schools. Private School Implementation Partners were to be given annual subsidies for facilities and
         material costs to manage the schools, as well as monthly subsidies linked to attendance. Schools were to be
         established when there were at least 50 children (ages 4-9) out of school, no government primary school or
         girls' school within one kilometer, or growing demand or overcrowding in a previously established school.

        Capacity Building (appraisal cost, US$ 4,2 million; actual amount not provided in the ICR) had two
       sub-components:
    1. Training and Skill Development was to finance inputs such as teacher professional development, textbooks,
       and learning materials to ensure quality education in community and private schools. Parent Education
       Committees, Community Implementation Partners, Private School Implementation Partners, and the
       Balochistan Education Foundation (BEF) were to be provided with training on school management,
       accounting, participatory techniques, gender, and monitoring and supervision.
    2. Institutional Support to the Balochistan Education Foundation was to provide financial resources for salaries
       and operational costs, evaluation studies, and the capital cost of constructing a permanent office for the
       BEF, if the Government of Balochistan provided land.

   While the components remained unchanged, the output targets for the number of private schools to be
   established was lowered from 300 to 200 at the midterm review, and the target for the number of community
   schools to be constructed decreased from 450 to 225 schools. Key outcome targets were unchanged.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: The ICR aggregates costs into three categories -- investment, recurrent, and operational costs --
   making it impossible to determine actual spending by component. However, comparing the given information
   with appraisal estimates, it is possible to determine that costs related to the Implementing Agency were much
   higher than appraisal estimates (furniture and equipment was 174% higher; recurrent costs for the Balochistan
   Education Foundation (BEF) were 302% higher; and operational costs for BEF were 137% higher). Capital costs
   for schools were 170% higher than estimated, as actual costs were nearly three times the appraised estimate
   due to escalation in construction costs (ICR p. 26). The ICR (p. xii) indicates that funds were reallocated from an
   unallocated category to finance Community Implementation Partner contracts, equipment for the Balochistan
   Education Foundation, operational expenses, and school construction. Funds originally designated to construct
   an office for the Balochistan Education Foundation were used for office equipment and a refresher training
   course for community school teachers. However, the ICR does not explain why the operational, recurrent, and
   operational costs for the Implementing Agency were much higher than anticipated. The ICR also does not explain
   why non-salary and recurrent costs for schools were much lower than estimated, but the project team clarified
   that this was because the Government only provided recurrent funds for teacher salaries.

   The project team later reported that 70% of project financing was initially to be allocated to establishment of
   community schools in rural areas and 10% of project financing for private schools in urban/peri-urban areas. In
   response to Government preferences during the project's lifetime, project financing was reallocated so that 91%
   of resources were spent on community schools, while 6% of resources were directed to the private schools
   component.

   Financing: The project was financed by an International Development Association (IDA) credit, of US$ 22.0
   million, of which US$ 21.57 million was disbursed.

   Borrower Contribution : The borrower was anticipated to provide US$ 1.55 million, but it provided a higher
   amount, US$ 3.27 million. The project team clarified that the increase was because the Government continued
   to fund community teachers' salaries during the three-and-a-half-year project extension.

   Dates: The project closed three years and six months later than initially planned. A first restructuring on July 15,
   2010 extended the closing date from January 31, 2011 to July 31, 2012 to permit completion of construction
   activities. A second project restructuring occurred on July 20, 2012 and changed the project closing date from
   July 31, 2012 to July 31, 2014 to complete construction activities. The ICR indicates that delays were attributable
   to the worsening security situation in the province and difficulty in identifying partners to provide technical support
   to Parent Education Committees during the construction process. Given the longer project time frame for
   implementation, the midterm review occurred on March 15, 2010, five months later than originally planned.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
   Substantial. Balochistan is the poorest of the four provinces in Pakistan. Service delivery is challenging, as the
   population is dispersed in rural areas; only 24% of the population lives in urban localities. People in Balochistan
   have low levels of literacy, and there are large gender disparities in education enrollment. Issues in the
   education sector include low quality, weak public sector capacity, and limited financial resources.

   The development objectives were aligned with the Millennium Development Goals (i.e. primary enrollment and
   reduction in gender disparities) and the Balochistan Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (2003 and 2009), both of
   which emphasize improvements in human development. Education is one of the four priority areas of the
   Government's Vision 2025 Strategy. Basic education is aligned with a key pillar in the Bank's Country
   Partnership Strategies (FY10-14 and FY15-19), to improve vulnerable lives and inclusion. Thus, the
   development objective continued to be substantially relevant to the Bank's and Government's strategies over the
   course of the operation.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial. There was a logical alignment between the objectives, activities, and indicators to measure
   attainment of the objectives, but there were shortcomings (See Section 10 a).

   Two service delivery approaches were part of design, which kept design simple. One approach was community
   schools, as communities had limited involvement in education in the province. These schools were to be set up
   in rural areas where there was no girls' school within two km. Some schools were to receive infrastructure
   upgrading such as boundary walls and separate toilets for boys and girls. To increase female teachers, provision
   was made to relax qualifications. The other approach was the use of NGOs to establish private schools.
   Experience from a previous project indicated that private schools were able to attract students from poor
   households. However, there were few private sector actors in the province. Accountability was built into design
   through the provision of payment to implementing partners on the basis of their achievement of milestones in
   agreements. Also, parent education committees were to be held accountable to communities through disclosure
   of school procurement and financial matters.

   The project did not address cultural constraints or incentives for girls to enroll. Other options to address the
   enrollment constraints for girls were not part of the design, such as pre-service training to increase the supply of
   female teachers or girls schools. At the time of preparation there were only 12,000 female teachers out of 40,000
   teachers. At the time of preparation there were only 2,472 primary girls' schools in comparison to 6,862 primary
   boys' schools.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

    To promote public-private and community partnerships to improve access to quality primary education : Substantial

    Outputs:

    48,354 students were enrolled in community schools and private schools supported by the project, which exceeded the target (35,0
    students). Schools were supported in all 31 districts of Balochistan.

    25,973 students were enrolled in 633 community schools by the end of the project, which exceeded the target (19,500 students). Th
    was a decline in the number of enrolled students between 2011 (27,687) and 2014 (25,973) (ICR p 26). 17 community schools clos
    due to internal community conflict and unavailability of local teachers (ICR p 26). The project team explained that most of the declin
    was due to students completing school, rather than students dropping out. Teacher turnover remained high due to low levels of sal
    30% less than the minimum wage (ICR p 26). The ICR does not specify the number or turnover rate of community teachers. The IC
    reports that community mobilization and selection of parent education committees had a beneficial impact on perception of schoolin
    and generated increased demand for education, but no specific data in this areas are provided.

    22,381 students were enrolled in 197 private schools, which exceeded the target (10,000 students, and nearly met the target of 200
    schools). The target was lowered from 300 to 200 at the midterm review because of the non-availability of private sector partners th
    qualified under the selection criteria. The private school model was implemented for four years and then discontinued, as the mod
    was found to be not sustainable due to a lack of private sector partners and poor cost recovery by some private school implementa
    partners. An unspecified number of private schools continued after project support ceased (75% of schools, based on an unspecifie
    sample in 2013) (ICR p 19).
219 community schools were constructed, which did not meet the lowered target (225; the original target had been 450). Boundary
were constructed for 189 out of 219 schools. However, the majority of community schools are still without a building (ICR p. 18).

1,000 teachers were trained on topics such as multi-grade teaching, which did not meet the target (2100 teachers). The ICR (p. 27)
notes that this target was unrealistic, as appraisal had estimated a higher number of teachers per school.

An unspecified number of teaching kits were provided to all community schools.

350 parent education committees were trained in school management, financial management, record keeping, and school construc
The ICR (p. 18) suggests that this training contributed to improvement in governance at the community level, but no specific data w
provided.

Outcomes:

Student attendance rates were maintained at 85% in community schools and 86% in private schools, which exceeded the target (70
The target was established based on average attendance rates in public schools.

Student completion rate was 74% in community schools and 85% in private schools, which exceeded the target (70%). The ICR do
not provide completion rates for each grade level.

Teacher attendance was 95% in community schools and 94% in private schools, which exceeded the target (90%).

Overall enrollment in the province increased by 5% due to project-supported schools, according to estimates done by the Balochist
Education Foundation using annual school census data from 2013/14.

There was a 9.6% average increase in language assessments in project-supported schools from the baseline assessment (19.36 m
score) in 2009. This was based on pre-post testing, not annual testing, suggesting that the target of an annual 3% increase was no
met. In 2014 an early grade assessment found that fewer than 5% of children in grade two and only 6% of children in grade five co
correctly read a grade-appropriate paragraph. Only 7% of children in grade two and 13% in grade five had the capacity to write a
sentence in Urdu without a mistake.

There was an increase by 16.17% in mathematics scores in project-supported schools from the baseline assessment (13.75 mean
score) in 2009. This was based on pre-post testing, suggesting that the target of an annual 5% increase was not met. Children's ba
computational and problem solving skills remain weak, based on a 2014 assessment.


To promote access to quality primary education , in particular for gi rls: Substantial

Outputs:

No outputs specific to girls' education are reported, other than the criteria for establishing community or private schools (no existing
girls' school within a certain radius).

Outcomes:

In community schools, 42% of enrolled students were girls at project closure, which met the target (40%). Household survey data f
2004-2005 indicated that the primary enrollment rate for girls was 49% at that time. However, according to the ICR, government
primary schools have a female enrollment rate of 39%, based on 2013-2014 annual census data.

In private schools, 34% of enrolled students were girls, which did not meet the target specified for community schools (40%). These
schools were coeducational, which may have caused some girls in higher grades to drop out. However, the ICR (pp. 13-14) states
boys and girls had similar drop out rates (between 10% and 9% respectively) in 2010. Drop out rates for subsequent years are not
reported in the ICR. Female teachers constituted 53% of the teaching force in these schools (ICR pp. 14-15). Thus, the ICR could
draw conclusions on why the female enrollment rate was lower in private schools than in the community schools.

Girls' enrollment in the province increased by 5.3% due to project-supported schools, according to estimations done by the Balochis
Education Foundation using 2013/14 annual school census data.

The ICR does not provide learning data for girls that would be indicative of improvements in quality of primary education, but it note
that there was a significant differential between boys and girls in grades two and five in basic numeracy in 2014.

The project team later shared data from a 2013 Early Grade Reading Assessment for a sample of Grade 5 students in public and
community schools. While the results are not broken down by gender, they show higher scores in letter names and letter sounds fo
     students in community schools than those in public schools:

     Mean scores for Urdu subtasks for Grade 5 students

                                                        Public sector schools                                         Project community schools

           Letter names                                            53.2                                                          64

           Letter sounds                                           35.8                                                          57

           Nonwords                                                48.3                                                          41




5. Efficiency:

    At the appraisal stage, no economic analysis was conducted. Instead, a fiscal analysis estimated the cost of
    service delivery for community and public schools using 2004/2005 data. This analysis found that community
    schools had nearly double the recurrent costs per student than government schools, but that the two models
    would be similar in more populated areas and with higher student-teacher ratios.

    No economic analysis was undertaken for the completion report. The comparison of education delivery models
    was re-estimated. The costs of community schools were found to be lower than government schools
    (approximately US$ 70 per student compared with US$ 104), but this calculation is heavily dependent upon the
    assumptions used. Monitoring costs for the implementation partners were included in the figure, but not project
    supervision costs by the implementing agency. When the teacher-to-student ratio in community schools
    changes, the cost of delivery matches the figure for government schools. Also, the value of each model cannot
    be stated, as educational quality comparisons were not undertaken.

    There were both positives and negatives in implementation efficiency. The ICR highlights the use of
    roller-compacted concrete structures, which are stronger and less vulnerable to earthquakes. According to the
    project team, 88% of sample schools conformed with design standards. However, there were shortcomings. The
    project closed three years and six months later than initially planned. This was partly attributed to the decline in
    the security situation, but also to other factors under the control of the implementing agency: delays in hiring staff
    and in transferring funds to the parent education committees, lack of qualified procurement staff, and procedural
    issues in the implementing agency. Because of the delays, boundary walls were constructed for only 189 out of
    219 schools, as these could not be completed before the project ended and the contracts were closed.
    Recurrent and operational costs for the implementing agency were much higher than anticipated. Taking all of
    this into consideration, the project demonstrated modest efficiency.

    Efficiency: Modest

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Relevance of objectives and design are rated substantial. Achievement of both objectives was substantially
    achieved, while efficiency was modest. 48,354 students were enrolled in community schools and private schools
    supported by the project. Student and teacher attendance and student completion rates were maintained at
    target levels. Community schools had a higher girls' enrollment rate (42%) than private schools (34%) and public
    schools. Sustainability issues were present with both models. The private school model was implemented for
    four years and then discontinued, when the model was found to be not sustainable due to lack of private sector
   partners and poor cost recovery by some private school implementation partners. Teacher turnover remained
   high in community schools due to low levels of salary, and sustainability depended on Government funding of
   recurrent costs.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Some aspects of the community school model have been adopted by the Government within the follow-up grant
   funded by a Multi-Donor Trust Fund to work on access for girls. An application has been submitted by the
   Government for a Global Partnership for Education grant, and it is anticipated that funding to address girls'
   enrollment will be secured in 2015. An unspecified number of private schools remain operational after project
   support has ended. However, there are several risks to maintaining the development outcome. Community
   schools can only continue with Government funding for salary and non-salary expenses, competitive salaries for
   teachers, and continued training and capacity building for parent education committees. Without this
   Government ownership of the community model, parent education committees could lose power over recruitment
   and retention of teachers. Also, the security situation creates high risks. Thus, there is a high risk to maintaining
   the achieved development outcomes.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank built on previous support to the province and learned from a predecessor project to keep
   components simple given low capacity; to have community involvement during implementation, as this
   increases teacher accountability; and to ensure qualified NGOs were involved in public-private partnerships.
   The Bank team established criteria for the selection of NGOs based on past experience and expertise.

   While the ICR argues that preparation also learned to have a clear strategy and actions to ensure
   sustainability of project-supported structures and to create government ownership in the design, these
   aspects were not adequately considered. The Balochistan Education Foundation (BEF) had responsibility for
   monitoring performance of the new community schools and community implementation partners. It also had
   responsibility for monitoring compliance of schools with the operation manual and arranging for third-party
   monitoring of the schools. Project design established no role for the Department of Education, even though
   sustainability of the community schools would depend on Government resources and ownership. Capacity
   constraints of the public sector (PAD p. 7) were the reason implementation was to be carried out solely by an
   apex organization (BEF) and private sector implementing partners. Yet, capacity development had to be
   targeted to the apex organization and its partners. The project did not provide for strengthening of
   Government capacity, as the operation was to support alternatives to the public sector.

   A Quality Enhancement Review was conducted, which endorsed the design and approach. Comments
   provided during the review related to sustainability, capacity building, and implementation arrangements were
   incorporated into the design. A Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (in 2008) rated design as highly
   satisfactory, but found shortcomings in relation to economic analysis and lack of use of international firms to
   provide technical assistance to the implementing agency and implementing partners. The completion report
   (p. 20) correctly identifies that few international firms provide support.

   There were a number of foreseeable challenges that were not adequately dealt with during preparation:
   availability of private providers and NGOs to become Implementation Partners to provide technical support to
   Parent Education Committees; fiscal sustainability of models; and fiscal sustainability of the Government to
   assume community schools within its budget. The appraisal document and completion report were slim in
   relation to the analyses conducted on these aspects at the time of preparation. While the appraisal document
   identified that sustaining community schools would imply an increase of 4.9% of the primary education
   budget, there was no explanation of how this shortfall would be covered (PAD pp. 14-15), given that one of
   the major constraints in the sector was lack of financial resources and limited revenue generation capacity
   (PAD p. 2), with non-salary budgets in public schools dwindling to almost negligible levels (PAD p. 74). The
   fiscal analysis did not present a review of government revenue to know whether the increase was realistic for
   the Government to assume. The appraisal document lacked estimation and analysis of the number and
   demand of NGOs and private providers, but noted that there was limited participation of the private sector. In
   the previous operation, only one rural school became a private school. The others either closed or remained
   open when they became Government schools (PAD p. 34). Eventually constraints on NGOs and private
   providers caused implementation delays in the operation, and the private school model was later deemed
   unsustainable because of the lack of providers.

   A limited set of options was considered during preparation, rather than considering a range of activities that
   would directly address constraints to girls' enrollment: lack of girls' schools, lack of female teachers, and
   cultural constraints. In addition, third-party monitoring of government schools was not considered to address
   public service delivery concerns and constraints.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank maintained policy dialogue with the government. Supervision was active and tried to resolve
   challenges quickly through regular dialogue. The Bank supervision team was composed of specialists in
   education, fiduciary aspects, environmental social management, and engineering. When the security
   situation declined, supervision was maintained via video conference, missions to Islamabad or Karachi, or
   third-party monitoring. Project restructuring was appropriately undertaken by the Bank team. Several options
   were discussed and attempted to address the need for technical support to parent education committees
   related to school construction. No additional financing could be secured to bridge shortfalls (ICR p. 5), as
   construction costs were higher than anticipated. The Bank team utilized supervision ratings to send signals to
   the implementing agency. For example, implementation progress was downgraded from satisfactory to
   moderately satisfactory in 2011 with continued construction delays in community schools. The completion
   report does not describe efforts undertaken by the Bank to address the poor cost recovery by private
   implementing partners (p. 7) or address sustainability of the model.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government demonstrated its commitment to the autonomy of the Balochistan Education Foundation and
   private sector participation on its Board by making amendments to the Balochistan Education Foundation Act.
   The Department of Finance and the Department of Education coordinated with the implementing agency.
   There was regular transfer of teacher salaries to Parent Education Committees, with only a few exceptions
   (ICR p. 7). The Department of Education recognized community schools, which gave these students the
   opportunity to continue their education in public middle schools when they completed project-supported
   community schools. Also, the Department of Education gave codes to community schools so that they would
   be part of the province's Education Management Information System. The government provided free
   textbooks to community school students and teacher training in the final year of the project.

   However, the Government did not comply with the legal covenant that it was to take on recurrent costs of
   community schools supported by the project from the third year forward. The Government only provided
   funds sufficient to cover teacher salaries, and not recurrent costs. Non-salary funds were only provided once
   in April 2011. This resulted in communities having to pay recurrent costs or reduce teacher salaries. This
   created problems with retention of teachers, as salaries had not been raised in six years. Also, land for the
   construction of a new building for the Balochistan Education Foundation was not allocated by the Government
   as planned.


  Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The Balochistan Education Foundation was project's implementing agency. It provided active supervision of
   the operation, regularly reporting implementation challenges to the Bank. It developed procedures to handle
   internal community conflict and teacher replacement. Despite a challenging security situation, supervision
   was maintained. When in-person supervision was not possible, other alternatives were utilized, such as
   third-party monitoring. Smart phones and other technology were experimented with during the operation as a
   way to monitor schools and teachers. The institutional capacity of BEF (as well as implementation partners)
   was strengthened through the training that was provided. While data were collected and analyzed, there
   were staffing issues with the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit that were not resolved until 2010, approximately
   four years into implementation.

   There were implementation delays in construction due to difficulty in finding community implementation
   partners to provide technical support to parent education committees, unavailability of raw materials and
   skilled labor in communities, and the worsening security situation. There were also issues more under the
   control of the implementing agency that contributed to delays, such as failure to hire an Environmental
   Coordinator (instead these duties were added to the Director and later the Manager). Delays also resulted
   from occasional long waits for funds to be released from the BEF to parent education committees. The BEF
   ultimately hired engineering consultants under a construction manager to supervise and validate school
   construction. The BEF's lack of qualified procurement staff led to delays in awarding of contracts. Procedural
   difficulties in relation to obtaining approval within BEF also created procurement delays.

   The BEF Board met infrequently in the last two years of the project, resulting in delays in hiring of Foundation
   staff, implementation of the satellite monitoring initiative, hiring of an internal audit firm. As a result, the
   Managing Director position remained vacant, which meant that transfers were delayed to parent education
   committees, as the Managing Director is the signatory.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   Indicators were logically aligned to measure attainment of the objectives. Key Performance Indicators were not
   revised during project restructuring. However, targets for non-key performance indicators were revised during
   the project to reflect the lower number of schools constructed and private schools supported. The completion
   report endorses the indicators selected with the exception of one (annual improvement in language and
   mathematics), as it was unrealistic to expect annual assessments. However, proxy measure(s) that
   implementation partners could have readily monitored in relation to education quality, as part of their regular
   duties, were not employed. Targets for girls' enrollment were specified for community schools (40% of total
   enrollment). It is not clear why targets were not specified in relation to girls' enrollment in private schools, as both
   service delivery models were expected to contribute to attainment of the objective.

   Indicators were to be measured by the implementing partners and reported to the BEF. Data collection was also
   supported by staff from the BEF who were to verify at least 20% of community schools. Third-party validation
   was built into the monitoring framework to provide another form of verification.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The BEF was responsible for monitoring and evaluation. M&E was implemented as planned, with the exception
   of the student learning indicator. Measures were taken to engage expertise in the design and development of
   surveys for learning achievement. This resulted in two rounds of testing (2007 and 2009). An Early Grade
   Reading Assessment was implemented in 2013. While this assessment was not comparable with the others, and
   thus did not add to the PDO indicator, it provided important data (see Section 4).

   Implementing partners submitted quarterly data, which were input into the BEF database. A website was
   established and intermittently updated. It contained information about some of the project activities, but not all of
   them. One area lacking information was on the selection process of implementing partners. A complaint process
   was developed. Over the course of the project, 44 complaints were received, of which 43 were addressed (the
   final one was being investigated at the time of the writing of the completion report). Complaints typically related
   to performance of parent education committees, school management, or teacher absenteeism.

c. M&E Utilization:

   A newsletter was disseminated containing project data and information about project activities and achievements.
   Data collected during the project were examined at the midterm review to make adjustments. The ICR notes that
   studies were undertaken during the course of the operation to examine low girls' enrollment, teacher
   performance, and sustainability of private school implementing partners. The ICR does not explain how these
   results informed project implementation.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   Due to construction, the project was classified category B and triggered the environmental safeguard (OP 4.01).
   An environmental framework was established that defined roles, responsibilities, and guidelines. The ICR
   indicates that school construction required conformity with earthquake and flood specifications and proper
   ventilation and lighting in school buildings. The PAD (p. 16) described potential risks to the construction: water
   scarcity, contamination of water with improper waste disposal, and loss of natural vegetation, calling these low
   negative impact, but mitigation measures were not included.

   The BEF was responsible for providing training and monitoring compliance with the Environmental Framework,
   and parent education committees with implementing it. Compliance was also monitored by implementing
   partners. Engineering consultants validated and supervised construction. The ICR (p. 10) indicates that
   environmental safeguard compliance was rated Moderately Satisfactory.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Training in financial management was provided to both the implementing agency and private school
   implementing partners. The ICR does not report whether interim financial reports were submitted regularly, on
   time, and without issues, but the project team later stated that there were no issues with submission of financial
   reports. Accountability for implementing partners was developed by providing payment on achievement of
   milestones and monitoring by the implementing agency.

   Financial management was adequate over the course of the operation, but there was a persistent issue in
   relation to putting in place internal audit arrangements within the BEF. Parent education committees and
   community schools were monitored by implementing partners. An external audit firm reviewed the accounts of a
   sample of implementing partners annually. However, the external auditor was meant to review a sample of 10%
   of schools, but only visited half of them because of security constraints.

   Procurement was carried out in compliance with Bank guidelines and the project procurement plan. However,
   lack of qualified procurement staff in the BEF led to delays in awarding of contracts. Also, procedural difficulties
   in relation to obtaining approval within the BEF created delays in relation to procurement. There was no
   centralized procurement process for building materials or contracting of construction services; instead, parent
   education committees were given grants. The design of community schools was done by a consulting firm hired
   by the BEF through competitive bidding. Engineering consultants provided support to parent education
   committees in identifying areas for procurement of labor and materials.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        There were significant shortcomings in
                                                            Satisfactory      the project's preparation.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately        There were significant shortcomings in
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    the performance of both the
                                                                              Government and Implementing Agency.
                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (p. 22-23) provides a number of lessons, which have been synthesized by IEG as the following:

         Empowerment of communities can lead to high levels of ownership and accountability . Communities
          raised non-salary recurrent funds in the absence of Government funding, ensured that female students
          enrolled and attended, and helped identify and attract teachers to their communities. Monitoring of
          community schools is needed for appropriate implementation.

         Adequate analysis during preparation is required to ensure sustainability of service delivery models .
          Community schools are only sustainable with Government fiscal contributions to salary and recurrent
          expenses, suggesting that Government ownership is needed up front. Private sector participation in
          low-cost education delivery was not a viable option in Balochistan, given the low propensity of households
          to pay. All of these factors were evident at design, but adequate preparatory analysis of these aspects
          was not undertaken.

         Increasing girls' enrollment in Pakistan requires specific attention . While the project optimized the
          conditions for girls to enroll, cultural barriers were not addressed. Girls' enrollment differences were
          observed between community schools and new private schools; however, this was not investigated by the
          implementing agency or the Bank.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    This ICR is concise, but it is inconsistent in its presentation of content and analysis, contributing to some
    differences in ratings between the ICR and this review. Discussion of student learning and why it did not emerge
    as designed is well analyzed, as is the risk to the development outcome. However, there are aspects of the ICR
    that are thin on analysis, particularly relevance of design, efficacy, Bank performance, Implementing Agency
    performance, and lessons. For relevance of design, there is no analysis of the limited options considered, and no
    discussion of the project's results chain. The discussion of efficacy is basically limited to a table of key
    performance indicators. The ICR describes implementation challenges, but many of these challenges are not
    subsequently analyzed as part of the rationale for ratings. The lessons section is not well developed.

    Some information provided in the ICR is not fully explained. For example, the ICR does not state the impact of
    the BEF's failure to hire an Environmental Coordinator, and the consequence of these additional duties for
    environmental monitoring on other entities. The ICR finds that 53% of private school teachers are female, but it
    does not inquire why this percentage is so much higher than at Government schools (where, according to the
    PAD, only 12,000 of 40,000 teachers were female). Some basic information is not addressed in the ICR and had
    to be subsequently clarified with the project team (e.g. why the operational, recurrent and operational costs for
    the Implementing Agency were much higher than anticipated, why non-salary and recurrent costs for schools
    were much lower than estimated, why the borrower contributions were double the appraised value, and whether
    any audits were qualified). Additional important data was later supplied by the project team. This information
    was available at the time of the ICR and should have been included in it. On balance, the quality of the ICR is
    unsatisfactory.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
