Report No. PIC2792
Project Name                   Mexico-Federal Road Modernization (@4)
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Transportation
Project ID                     MXPA43163
Borrower                       Banco de Obras y
Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS)
Executing Agency               Secretaria de Comunicaciones y
Transportes (SCT)
Contact Ing. Jaime Luna
Tel. (5) 519-1270
Proposed Appraisal Date        January 8, 1996
Tentative Board Date           March 6, 1997
1.   Background.    Mexico restored economic growth by substantially
restructuring its economy in the mid 1980s, including privatizing a
large number of state-owned enterprises, opening the economy to foreign
competition and expanding the role of market forces in resource
allocation. A large current account deficit, however, resulted in a
major devaluation at the end of 1994, from which the country is still
recovering. In order to restore trust in the economy, the Government
launched an economic austerity program in March 1995 aimed at: (a)
achieving a budget surplus of 4.4% of GDP in 1995; (b) limiting net
domestic credit creation to a maximum of N$10 billion for 1995; (c)
achieving equilibrium in the current account; and (d) restructuring N$65
billion of outstanding debt of the private sector.
2.   As part of its economic restructuring program the Government has
made significant moves towards privatizing some infrastructure
parastatals, including telecommunications, ports and, to a lesser
extent, railways, airports and energy. The Bank is supporting these
actions with the Infrastructure Privatization Technical Assistance
Project approved in August 1995. The Government has also undertaken
important policy measures in the highway sector, including deregulating
road transport services, privatizing highway construction through
concessions, contracting out a significant part of highway maintenance
services on the federal network and decentralizing highway
administration.
3.   The policy of encouraging private participation in providing
infrastructure and services has led to the private sector building about
5000 km of high standard federal roads by concession. However, the low
geometric design standards of the remaining federal roads, including
many along important export corridors, cause slow travel time, high
transport costs and high accident levels. The first two of these would
help to reduce overall transport costs to Mexico's external trade
traffic and improve the competitiveness of Mexico's exports in the world
market. More than 50% of the federal roads need to be improved (by
adding road shoulders and climbing lanes, rectifying both horizontal and
vertical alignments and, in some cases, widening to four lanes) to



provide adequate capacity, levels of service and safety. Because these
roads typically carry less than 3000 vehicles a day, they are not
attractive for concession and the Government has to undertake the
required investments with public funds.
4.   The Bank has been extensively involved in Mexico's highway sector
since 1960 with 12 loans. After 10 highway investment loans, the Bank
has focussed the two most recent loans, the Highway Maintenance
Project, Loan 2876-ME, and the Highway rehabilitation and Traffic Safety
Project, Loan 3628, on addressing the need for maintenance and
rehabilitation of the federal network. The proposed project, which would
address the need for additional capacity, is therefore a logical follow-
up to the maintenance and rehabilitation projects and the highway
concession program.
5.   Modernizing the federal network also requires improving the SCT's
road management systems and procedures, improving multi-modal transport
operations, vehicle weight and dimension enforcement, road safety as
well as better incorporation of environmental impact assessment and
mitigation measures into road planning and construction. The Government
accords high priority to further improvement in these matters which,
together with the physical improvements mentioned above, would greatly
reduce the cost of transport and thereby enhance its competitive
position vis a vis its NAFTA (North America Free Trade Agreement)
partners.
6.   Project Objectives. The project's general objective is to help meet
the expected traffic growth on the federal road network and to reduce
road transport system costs. More specifically, the project aims to: (a)
improve the service quality of the federal road network; (b) further
improve the safety on the network; (c) further strengthen SCT's capacity
to formulate work programs, efficiently allocate highway funds among
road activities and to implement road projects; and (d) to more
systematically incorporate the assessment of environmental impact and
mitigation measures into road planning, engineering and construction.
7.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's country assistance
strategy for Mexico stresses: (a) the revival of growth by maintaining
disciplined economic management, facilitating private sector development
and removing constraints to growth, such as deficiencies in
infrastructure, labor markets and the financial sector and (b)
environmental sustainability. The proposed project fits into the above
strategy by reducing existing and potential constraints to economic
growth caused by inefficient and costly transportation on Mexico's road
system, as explained in para. 3, and by helping to more systematically
include environmental factors in road planning and construction. Because
Mexico's ports are situated far from the production centers, reducing
transit time and transport costs would have a high impact on the
competitiveness of its goods in the world market. SCT would also benefit
significantly from the Bank's experience in helping to improve the
planning of highway activities on a comprehensive basis as has been
successfully done in with Bank assistance in many other countries.
8.   Project Description. The project, which would finance a four-year
time slice (1996 to 2000) of SCT's Federal Roads Modernization Program,
-2 -



would consist of: (1) civil works to increase the capacity of the
federal network, including providing additional lanes on some road
sections, building climbing lanes on others, improving horizontal and
vertical alignments, providing adequate road shoulders and curbs and
removing hazardous spots; (2) institutional strengthening directed at
SCT and selected state highway organizations for improving management
systems and procedures, training staff and reviewing the role and needs
of the SCT centers in the states; and (3) further support to SCT to
implement actions on road-user charges and road sector financing, to
improve multi-modal transport operations, vehicle weight and dimension
control, road safety and to incorporate more systematically
environmental impact assessment and mitigation measures into road
planning and construction. The federal roads to be included under the
project would exclude those targeted, planned or potentially suitable
for private sector financing.
9.   Project Financing. SCT's modernization program calls for spending
of about N$3-4 billion (about US$500-700 million) during 1997 to 2000,
which is the program's first phase. The Bank would finance about 50; of
the program, excluding taxes, and the Government would finance the rest.
10. Project Implementation. SCT would be responsible for implementing
the project through its three directorates: the Direccion General de
Servicios Tecnicos for carrying out the analysis for selecting sub-
projects to be included in the annual programs, the Direccion General de
Carreteras Federales for the feasibility, engineering and environmental
studies and for contract administration and the Direccion General de
Planeacion for implementing the institutional development component of
the project. The project would be implemented in four years starting
from September 1996. BANOBRAS would be responsible for loan
administration and the supervision of the financial aspects of the
project.
11. Sustainability. The sustainability of the project would be
determined by: (a) adequate maintenance of the project roads after their
improvement; (b) better traffic management to ensure that the expected
levels of service are attained; (c) improvement in traffic policing, as
a complement to removing physical road hazards, in order to ensure the
expected improvement in traffic safety; and (d) the ability of SCT to
more efficiently allocate available highway funds among the activities
on the federal road network. Building on the results of the road-user
charges study being carried out under the ongoing Highway Rehabilitation
and Traffic Safety Project, the project would finance the study of
alternative mechanisms for funding road maintenance, including the
establishment of a road maintenance fund, financed from road-user
charges. The proposed project would further help improve highway
signing, introduce measures to reduce roadside friction and improve the
capacity of the Federal Highway Police to remove incapacitated vehicles.
Assistance for highway safety, being covered under the ongoing Highway
Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project, would be continued and
strengthened under the proposed project. Lastly, efficient systems of
allocating highway funds among different road activities, already
introduced successfully in other countries with the Bank's assistance,
would be introduced in SCT to help ensure that available funds are spent
on the highest priority activities.
-3-



12. Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement. The Bank has made 12 loans
to Mexico in the highways sub-sector, the first seven of which were
regular project investment loans and the last five sector investment
loans. These projects have contributed towards the construction and
improvement of about 20,000 km of federal roads. In addition, the Bank
made a loan to improve the rural roads system in the state of Chiapas
and a Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Loan which
supported, inter alia, Mexico's policy of deregulating highway transport
services. The implementation of the first eight projects suffered from
recurrent problems with cost overruns, insufficient counterpart funds,
procurement problems and long delays in execution. The institutional
strengthening components of those projects also yielded much less
lasting results, mostly because they lacked the Government's ownership.
Under the last two projects, the Highways Maintenance Project just
completed and the ongoing Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety
Project, the situation has improved in the implementation of the
physical components as well in maintenance planning due respectively to
the introduction by the Government in 1990 of a new disbursement policy
which linked budgetary disbursements to the execution of Bank-financed
projects and to the Government ownership being developed during project
preparation and strengthened during project implementation. These
lessons are being taken into consideration in the design and the
preparation of the proposed project. Delays in procurement have also
been a major problem in the past Bank-financed highway projects, but,
with the recent agreement by the Government to use the Bank's standard
procurement documents, procurement under the proposed project should be
much smoother.
13. Poverty Category. Not applicable
14. Environmental Aspects. The road improvement activities under the
project could, in some cases, result in negative environmental impacts.
All road improvement would, therefore, be subjected to an environmental
impact assessment (EIA). Participation Action Plans would also be
prepared for in those cases where resettlement will result from
modernizing existing roads and in the cases of new construction. For all
sub-components identified for implementation during the first year, EIAs
would be carried out before project appraisal. For the remaining
components, which would be selected in subsequent years, the EIAs would
be carried out before the approval of the sub-component to be included
in that year's program. The project should is assigned an environmental
rating of "B".
17. Project Objective Category. The category for this project is
Environmentally Sustainable Development (80%) and Economic Management
(209).
18. Project Benefits. The project would increase transport efficiency
and reduce costs on the federal road network, particularly along the
major export transport corridors, and enhance the country's competitive
advantage in its external trade. It would help in accommodating the
rapid road traffic growth, estimated at about 10% per year, on the major
corridors which will result from the NAFTA agreement. Significant, but
non-quantifiable benefits would also accrue from the institutional
strengthening and training components. The improvement in allocating
-4 -



funds to highway activities would ensure that benefits are maximized.
Strengthening SCT and its regional centers would help increase
implementation efficiency and reduce delays. Finally, the improvement in
environmental awareness and the capacity to incorporate environmental
factors into road planning and the execution of road projects would
prevent damage to the country's natural resources. The estimates of the
net present values and economic rates of return for the individual
investment components in the first year and preliminary estimates for
the remaining project roads will be undertaken before project appraisal.
19. Project Risks. The main project risks include: (a) Reduction of
Maintenance Efforts on Road Network. For the last several years, the
Government, with the Bank's assistance, has concentrated its efforts on
rehabilitating and maintaining the federal road network. This strategy
has worked well. However, the country has reached a point where it now
needs to expand road capacity as well. It must do this in a balanced way
so as not to jeopardize what has been gained in terms of maintaining the
existing system. There is, however, the risk that with the modernization
program, insufficient resources will be allocated to road maintenance.
The risk would be significantly reduced by SCT's ongoing effort to
redefine the federal road program to make it about half of its current
size. Also, the introduction of more efficient systems for allocating
funds among all road activities should help to ensure that economic
priorities are reflected in SCT's use of funds. Lastly, should the
funding of maintenance become a problem, the pace of implementation of
the modernization program would be slowed down to reflect the
availability of funds. (b) Delays in Complementary Action to Modernize
the Federal Road System. SCT recognizes that modernizing the federal
road network also includes complementary actions to improve safety,
traffic flow management, policing and vehicle weight and dimension
control. The project would include measurable annual targets to be
achieved in these areas. SCT's achievements on these would be discussed
at annual review meetings which would also agree on the composition and
size of the annual programs.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 5 -



