Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 15448-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
FEDERAL ROADS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
June 6, 1997
Mexico Country Department
Sector Leadership Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRFNCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency 11nit             -               New Peso (NS)
US$1.00                               N$7.9 (May 27. 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
UTNITS OF WEIGHTS AND] MEASURES
Metric                                    Bitish/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (kmi)                         0.62 mile (mi)
I meter (m)                               3.28 feet (ft)
I gram (g)                               0.0022 pound (lb)
I kilogram (kg)                           2.20 pounds (lb)
I ton                                     2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AADT                           Annual Average Daily Traffic
BANOBRAS                       National Bank for P'ublic Works and Services (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Ptblicos)
CAPUFE                         Federal Road and Bnidge Toll Authonity (Caminos y Puentes Federales de
Ingresos y Servicios Conexos)
CGP                            General Coordination for Planning (Coordinacion General de Planeaci6n)
CVSA                           North-American Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance
DGCC                           Generai Directorate for Maintenance (Dirccci6n General de Construccion y
Conscrvaci6n) of scr
DGCF                           General Directorate for Federal Elighways (Direccion General de Carreteras
Federales) of SCT
DGCS                           General Directorate for Training (Direccion General de Capacitacion Sectorial) of SCT
DGMNPT                         General Directorate for Preventive Medicine in Transportation (Direcci6n
General de Medicina Preventiva en el Transporte) of SCT
DGP                            General Directorate for Ports (Direcci6n General de Puertos)
DGPI                           General l>irectorate for Planning (Direcci6n General de Planeaci6n) of SCT
DGTR                           General Directorate of Toll Roads
DGTT                           General Directorate for Land Transport (Direccion General de Transporte
Terrestre) of SCT
DPE                            Directorate for Programming and Evaluation (Direcci6n de Programaci6n y
Evaluaci6n) of DGCCOP
ERR                            Economic Rate of Return
FHN                            Federal Highway Network
FNM                            Mexican Railways (Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico)
GDP                            Gross D)omeastic Product
GDTR                           General Directorate of Toll Roads
HDM                  :         Highway Design Model
HRR-M                          Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance
ICB                            Intemational Competitivc Bidding
IDB                            Interamerican Development Bank
UNIT                           Mexican Transport Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Transporte)
KPH                            Kilometers per hour (Kilometros por horas)
NAFTA                          North American Free Trade Agreement
NCB                            National Contpetitive Bidding
NBF                            Not Bank Financed
PFCP                           Federal Hlighway and Port Patrol (Policia Federal de Caminos y Puertos)
SCT                            Secretanat for Communications and Transport (Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes)
SECOGEF                        General Secretanat of the Comptroller of the Federation (Seeretaria de la
Contraloria General de la Federacion)
SEDESOL                        Secretariat for Social l)evelopment (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social)
SEDUE                          Secretariat for Urban Development and Ecology (Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia)
SHCP                           Secretariat for Finanze and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito
Publico)
SICC                           Highway Maintenance Management System
SIMAP                          Mexican Model for Highway Project Analyses
SIPUMEX              :         Mexican Model for Bridge Management Systeni
SISTER                         Simulation Model of Highway Maintenance Strategies (Simulation de
Strategies d'Entretien Routier)
SPP                            Secretariat for Programming and Budgeting (Secretaria de Programaci6n y
Presupuesto I
VOC                            Vehicle Operating Costs
Regaional Vice! President                 -                    Javed Husain Burki
Country Director                          -                    Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Sector Leader                      -                    Richard Clifford
Task Manauzer                             -                    Peter Gyamfi



MEXICO
FEDERAL ROADS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Banco de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS).
Guarantor:                 United Mexican States.
Executing Agency:          Secretaria de Comunicaciones y
Transportes (SCT).
Beneficiary:               Not Applicable.
Poverty Category:          Not Applicable.
Amount:                    US$475 million.
Terms:                      Libor-based single currency loan (US Dollars) with repayment
in 15 years, including 5 years of grace.
Commitment Fee:            0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:            See para. 15.
Net Present Value and
Economic Returns:          NPV is US$983 million equivalent discounted at 12% and
ERR is
18.9% for the whole road program.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 15448, dated May 27, 1997
Map:                       IBRD No. 28418






MEXICO
FEDERAL ROADS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Appraisal Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .....................................................1
A. The Economy and the Transport Sector .....................................................1
B. Institutional Framework and Sectoral Planning .....................................................2
C. Government's Transport Sector Policy ......................                         ...............................3
D. The Bank's Experience and Lessons Learned in the Sector ....................                          ....................4
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement .....................................................6
2. THE  HIGHWAY  SECTOR  ........7.............................................7
A. The Highway Network ......................................................7
B. Administration of the Primary Highway Network ....................................................9
C. Highway Maintenance ..........1........................................... 1
D. Sector Issues ..................................................... 11
3. THE PROJECT .....................................................                                                                 16
A.  Project Origin .....................................................                                                   16
B.  Project Objectives ..................................................... 16
C. Project Description ..................................................... 16
D. Project Cost and Financing ..................................................... 22
E. Sustainability .....................................................                                                    22
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................................                                                      25
A. Sub-project Selection, Preparation and Evaluation ................................................. 25
B. Conditions and Procedures for Procurement of Sub-projects ..................................... 25
C. Implementation and Monitoring .....................................................                                     27
D. Accounts and Audits ..................................................... 30
E. Disbursements .....................................................                                                     30
F. Economic Evaluation .....................................................                                               32
G. Environmental AND  SOCIAL  aspects .....................................................                                32
H. Project Objective Category  ..................................................... 33
I. Project Benefits .....................................................                                                  33
J.  Project Risks .....................................................                                                    34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Mexico from February 7 to 21,
1996. The mission members were Messrs. Peter Gyamfi (Task Manager), Gustavo Unda (Transport
Engineer) and Rodrigo Archondo-Callao (System Specialist). Mr. Gordon Bodley and Mrs. Monica
DuQuesnay (Consultants) assisted in the financial and economic analysis of the project. Messrs. Olivier
Lafourcade, Richard Clifford and Martin Stabb assited in the quality enhancement and control of the
project preparation and appraisal. Mr. Juan Carlos Mendoza assisted in the production of this report.



5. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............             ....................... 35
Annexes
Annex A Rehabilitation and Maintenance of the Federal Road Network ......... ................. 36
Annex B Training Program ......................................................... 41
Annex C Performance Monitoring Indicators ......................................................... 43
Annex D Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project Roads ............ ....................... 46
ITEMS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO DEL SECTOR COMUNICACIONES Y TRANSPORTE (1995-2000)
2.    PROGRAMA DE TRABAJO EN EL SECTOR COMUNICACIONES Y TRANSPORTES (1996)
3.    INFRAESTRUCTURA CARRETERA: DIAGN6STICO, OBJETIVOS Y LiNEAS DE AccION
4.    PROGRAMA DE MODERNIZACI6N DE LA RED CARRETERA (1996-2002)
5.    PROGRAMA NACIONAL DE CONSERVACI6N DE CARRETERAS (1996)
6.    RED CARRETERA FEDERAL: ESTRATEGIAS DE CONSERVACI6N (1996)
7.    AUTOPISTA SAN Luis PoTosi - SALTILLO: ANALISIS DE ALTERNATIVAS
8.    MODERNIZACION DE LA CARRETERA TAMPICO - LINARES
9.    APLICACION EN LA SCT DEL MODELO DE EVALUACI6N DE IMPACTO AMBIENTAL
10.   SisTEMA DE SIMuLAcI6N A DIFERENTES ESCENARIOS PARA LA MATRIZ DE ESTADO DE IMPACTO
AMBIENTAL



MEXICO
FEDERAL ROADS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.1   Mexico restored economic growth by substantially restructuring its economy in the
mid 1980s, including privatizing a large number of state-owned enterprises, opening the
economy to foreign competition, expanding the role of market forces in resource
allocation and adhering to a policy of fiscal restraint. This growth has been interrupted by
a large current account deficit which resulted in a major devaluation at the end of 1994,
from which the country is still recovering. In order to restore trust in the economy, the
Government launched an economic austerity program in March 1995 aimed at: (a)
achieving a budget surplus of 4.4% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1995; (b)
limiting net domestic credit creation to a maximum of N$10 billion for 1995; (c) achieving
equilibrium in the balance of payments; and (d) restructuring N$65 billion of outstanding
debt of the private sector. The Government's medium to long term objective, however,
remains restructuring of the economy.
1.2   Fiscal restraint has meant a drastic decline in public sector investments, including
the transport sector (an average decline of about 7.5% per year), during the first half of
the 1990s. To increase funding to the transport sector, the Government has been
encouraging increased private sector participation in the provision of facilities and
services. Most of the Government's success in this area has occurred in (a) the highways
sub-sector, where about 5,000 km of high standard federal roads have been built by
private concessions at a cost of more that US$10 billion; and (b) the ports sub-sector,
where over 80 port terminal concessions have been granted, mostly to the sole users of
specialized terminals.
1.3   The transport sector in Mexico accounts for about 6 % of the government's capital
expenditures, a figure which has been declining in recent years due mainly to the increased
relative importance of private investment. In terms of GDP, the transport sector in
Mexico accounts for almost 10%, up from just over 7% in 1986, reflecting the growth in
transport activity as a result of the Government's new economic policy. Mexico's
economic growth depends critically on the development of its external trade and, for
growth in this area to be sustained, transport infrastructure and services are crucial.
1.4   An expected impact of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) on
Mexico's transport sector is an increase in the annual growth rate in trade between the
U.S. and Mexico from the current 10% per annum to about 15% per annum, by about the
next two years. The impact on transport demand in ton-km will be even greater as the
advantages of "maquiladora" industries locating near the border are eliminated and new
growth occurs in the industrial centers of Mexico at longer distances from the US. The
increased trade and associated high traffic growth will require significant modernization of
Mexico's transport infrastructure along the trade corridors, inter-modal facilities such as



2
storage facilities, services such as cargo identification and documentation and electronic
data interchange systems. The Government's transport policy is aimed at encouraging the
private sector to supply these facilities and services and for the Government to provide
only those, which though economically justifiable, are not financially attractive to the
private sector under a concession scheme. The proposed project would help to modernize
federal roads which fall into the latter category.
B. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK AND SECTORAL PLANNING
1.5   The Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT) is responsible for
managing the transport sector and its agencies through its Sub-secretariat for
Infrastructure, which handles almost all public road transport infrastructure development,
and its Sub-secretariat for Transport which is responsible for operational, regulatory and
tariff matters. The biggest challenge currently facing SCT is the need to adapt to its
changing role: (a) from a builder, operator and provider of services to a manager,
promoter and regulator of the sector; and (b) from an agency with jurisdiction over almost
all roads in the country to one that is decentralizing and that has transferred considerable
responsibilities for road construction and maintenance to the state governments. SCT is
already undertaking the first steps in this transformation process, but the path for future
ones and the details of how the new institutions will function remain to be defined. The
proposed project would provide technical assistance to SCT in the highway sub-sector to
help it move further in the desired direction. In the case of airports and railways, the Bank-
financed Infrastructure Privatization Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3937-ME, FY96)
provides assistance, inter alia, to study suitable organizational structures for managing the
concessions and for regulating the sub-sectors.
1.6   Responsibility for planning in the transport sector has been divided among the
modal agencies upon whose expertise SCT largely relies for the technical assessment of
projects: the Direcci6n General de Puertos (DGP) for ports, the Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico (FNM) for railways and the Direcci6n General de Servicios Tecnicos for roads.
The General Directorate for Planning (DGPI), within SCT, is responsible for coordinating
and formulating the modal plans into an overall sector plan. Sector planning is carried out
in close cooperation with relevant national and regional authorities, the private sector and
other interested parties. In addition to strengthening project evaluation and planning
capacity, for which the DGPI is receiving assistance under the ongoing Highways
Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project (HRTS; Loan 3628-ME, FY93), DGPI needs to
develop a comprehensive highway resources allocation model to help in efficiently
distributing SCT's limited road budget among competing road activities. The proposed
project would provide for the development of such a model.
1.7   Public participation in the development of SCT's program is required by law. The
SCT has been calling public meetings in a number of cities to discuss transport
modernization. Participants, totaling over 8,000, have included public servants from the
federal, state, and local levels, as well as users of all modes of transportation, chambers of
commerce, equipment and vehicle manufacturers, labor unions, and professional



3
associations. The conclusions of the meetings and over 6,000 proposals submitted by
participants and interested groups have been reflected, to the extent possible, in the
formulation of the National Program for Transport Modernization. SCT periodically
evaluates the results of its efforts, using the program as a guide. Based on this evaluation,
SCT reports its progress to the Congress as required in the Planning Law.
1.8   The SCT is gradually addressing planning deficiencies related to identifying,
selecting and programming investments. In early 1991, SCT started to strengthen its
planning unit and gave it a greater role in the analysis and selection of priorities. The
General Coordination for Planning (CGP) was created to supervise all planning within
SCT, including the DGPl and the Sector Planning Committee. CGP's functions and
responsibilities were revised to enhance its coordinating role and an Environmental Affairs
Unit was established to oversee environmental affairs in the transport sector and to factor
environmental impact and its mitigation at the planning stage. Also in 1991, the
Secretariat for Programming and Budgeting (SPP), which approves the proposed sector
investment and operating budgets, established an investment unit to review all major
investments in the sector and to make modal planning more consistent. These functions
are now being carried out by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP). One of
the most beneficial effects of these efforts is that planning transport facilities is being
looked at increasingly from an inter-modal and transport corridor basis.
C. GOVERNMENT'S TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY
1.9   The Government's transport policy, outlined in its Plan Nacional de Modernizaci6n
del Sector Transporte, emphasizes: (a) increased private sector participation in the
provision, operation and maintenance of transport facilities; (b) deregulation of the
transport sector; (c) public provision of those facilities and services which, though
economically justified, are not financially attractive to private investors; (d) SCT's
changing role in the sector from operational to normative and promotional functions; (e)
changes in the organizational and legal structure of the sector; and (f) the transfer of road
responsibilities to the state governments. The Government is steadily, but cautiously
implementing this policy. About 5,000 km of high standard roads have been built by
concession and facilities at some 80 ports have been concessioned. The Government has
also called for bids for cargo handling on the four most important ports: Veracruz and
Tampico on the Atlantic/Gulf Coast and Manzanillo and Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific
Coast. In the aviation sub-sector, the airline deregulation of 1989 has permitted direct
service between the US and many Mexican tourist destinations and now the Government
is seriously considering concessioning the airports. In the case of railways, the
Government is undertaking a major restructuring program aimed at both reducing the high
annual deficits of the FNM and also laying the ground for increased private sector
participation. The program includes dividing the railways into three regions, and
concessioning their operations to the private sector. The Bank is supporting all these
activities through the Infrastructure Privatization Technical Assistance Project (Loan
3937-ME, FY96) approved in August 1995.



4
1.10  As part of its economic restructuring program and to attract private sector
participation, the Government has also substantially deregulated the transport sector and
significantly reduced the Government's direct involvement in operating facilities and in
controlling pricing. Both trucking and inter-urban bus tariffs were deregulated in 1989,
while wharfage and cargo handling charges are increasingly being determined at the level
of the individual ports. FNM has been granted considerable freedom in setting its own
tariffs and in adjusting them to reflect market conditions. Lastly, entry restrictions to the
inter-modal transport industry, previously limited to one monopoly operator, have been
removed with the effect that there are now more than 30 firms competing to the benefit of
users.
1.11   The areas of policy reform in which further changes and progress are required
include: (a) establishing a regulatory framework for managing competition; (b) completing
the restructuring and privatization of the railway, ports and airports; (c) stimulating multi-
modal transport; and (d) establishing institutional responsibilities in the SCT that reflect
the changed role of Government.
D. THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED IN THE SECTOR
1 .12   General. The Bank has been involved with the Mexican Highway Sector since
1960 with twelve loans for the federal highway system, the first seven of which were
regular project investment loans whereas the last four were sector investment loans. In
addition, the Bank made a loan to improve the rural roads system in the state of Chiapas
and a Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Project which
supported, on the transport side, Mexico's policy of deregulating highway transport
services.
1.13  Although the projects were implemented under diverse economic, inflationary and
exchange rate conditions, they all shared common implementation results: they achieved
their physical goals, albeit with considerable time and cost overruns, but had rather modest
impact on institutional strengthening, except for the two most recent projects. The lessons
learned from this implementation experience have been increasingly incorporated in the
last two road projects as well as the proposed one.
1.14  Physical Implementation of the Projects. Practically all the projects were
designed to be completed in four years from loan signature. None achieved this objective
and there was no indication of consistent improvement up to 1990. The First Highway
Project was completed 3-1/2 years behind schedule and the Second Highway Sector
Project ended three years late. The PCRs and Audit Reports have consistently attributed
the implementation delays to slow counterpart allocations and the cost overruns to
insufficient detailed engineering, changes in the scope of works, delays during
construction and unexpectedly-high inflation.
1.15  With regards to the implementation delays, these were significantly reduced when
the new administration decided in 1990 to condition budgetary allocations to the SCT on
the progress in the execution of Bank-financed projects. This decision resulted in the last



5
50% of the disbursement under the Second Highway Sector Project, which was then three
years behind schedule, being made in the last two years of project implementation and the
Highway Maintenance Project, which also had significant delays when the new
disbursement policy was introduced, being completed according to schedule.
1.16  With regards to cost overruns, the Third Highway Project was the only one of the
seven investment loans that achieved some success in reducing cost overruns because the
Bank insisted that detailed engineering had to be completed before loan negotiations. The
Second Highway Sector, the Highway Maintenance Project and the ongoing Highway
Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project (HRTS) drew on this experience, with the result
that the cost overruns of these were substantially less than in previous projects.
1.17  The main lessons drawn from the physical implementation of the projects show the
need for: (a) the Government to continue to give SCT an incentive to speed up
implementation by linking the disbursements of the Bank loan proceeds and the execution
of the SCT's budget; (b) the Bank and the Government holding annual meetings on SCT's
road budget to ensure adequate provision of funds for ongoing projects; and (c) ensuring
that detailed engineering of a substantial part of the project is completed before loan
negotiations. The proposed project design draws from these lessons by incorporating the
actions under (a) through (c) above in the project design and implementation.
1.18  Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms. Although the Bank's sector
reviews from 1964 to 1974 all emphasized institutional and regulatory problems, the
Bank's lending for the first six road projects focused rather narrowly on construction; loan
conditionality was mainly designed to deal with assurances about the implementation of
civil works. Improvement in institutional strengthening therefore was minimal. Starting
with the Seventh Project, the Bank corrected this shortcoming by shifting its focus to
transport sector economics, planning and transport regulatory issues. Success in achieving
institutional strengthening and policy reform objectives have been mixed, as outlined
below. The lessons to be learned from these projects are that: (a) institutional
strengthening and policy reforms take a long time and steady effort to accomplish; (b) the
Government's sense of ownership is indispensable to success and therefore Government
officials should be closely involved in choosing the measures to be included under the
projects and in designing their implementation; and (c) clear up-front loan conditionality
on the important measures should be included under the projects.
1.19  The main institutional strengthening and policy reform achievements from the
Bank's lending to the sector include: (a) improving planning and budgetary coordination
(the First Highway Sector Loan); (b) initiating an increase in highway maintenance
expenditures at the expense of construction, encouraging the SCT to improve work
programming and preparation of multi-annual budgets, revising and introducing more
efficient procurement practices and tying SCT's budgetary disbursements on the progress
in implementing externally-funded projects (the Second Highway Sector Project); (c)
introducing the concepts of highway and bridge maintenance systems, providing for
greater participation of the private sector in carrying out maintenance and introducing
better allocation of road funds to all of SCT's road activities (the Highway Maintenance



6
Project); and (d) deregulating the road transport industry (the Sector Adjustment Project).
The deregulation of trucking had arguably the greatest positive impact of all these
reforms: more than 44,000 new truckers entered the industry within the first two years of
deregulation, tariffs for trucking services fell by about 25% and services improved
markedly.
E. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.20  The Bank's current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mexico, discussed at
the Board on December 17, 1996 stresses: (a) growth with stability by supporting sound
macro-economic management througii enhanced monitoring and closer dialogue,
especially on structural and micro underpinnings of macro policy, and ensuring sound
financial and capital marked development; (b) social development through improving the
efficiency and quality of social sector spending and making a dent in regional
concentrations of poverty through the planned Southern States Initiative; (c)
modernization of the State through improving the regulatory framework to facilitate
private enterprise and to foster competition and supporting an orderly and efficient
process of fiscal and administrative decentralization. The proposed project fits into the
above strategy by: (a) reducing existing and potential constraints to economnic growth
caused by inefficient and costly transportation in Mexico; and (b) facilitating the orderly
and efficient decentralization of the administration of about half of the federal network to
the states by strengthening the state road agencies.
1.21  The Bank has been extensively involved in Mexico's highway sector since 1960
with 12 loans. After 10 highway investment loans, the Bank has focused the two most
recent loans, the Highway Maintenance Project, Loan 2876-ME, and the BRTS, Loan
3628-ME, on addressing the need for maintenance and rehabilitation of the federal
network. The proposed project, which would address the need for additional capacity, is
therefore a logical follow-up and complement to the maintenance and rehabilitation
projects and the highway concession program. Modernizing road transport on the federal
network also requires improving SCT's road management systems and procedures, multi-
modal transport operations, vehicle weight and dimension enforcement, road safety as well
as environmental impact assessment and mitigation. The Government accords high
priority to further improvement in these matters which, together with the physical
improvements mentioned above, would greatly reduce the cost of transport and thereby
enhance its competitive position vis a vis its NAFTA partners. The Bank is providing
assistance to improve these areas under the ongoing HRTS; the proposed project would
deepen and expand that assistance.



7
THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. THE HIGHWAY NETWORK
2.1    Road transport in Mexico is the major mode for both passengers and freight,
accounting for about 99% of intercity passenger movement and about 89% of cargo
movement by land. Road traffic generally grew by 10% per annum in the 1970s and by
about 5% per annum in the 1980s (Table 2-1). Traffic growth occurred despite the
economic recession and substantial real price increases for road freight. Within the context
of NAFTA, traffic growth on the major road corridors, currently estimated at about 10%
annually, is expected to increase to about 15% per annum starting in 1998.
2.2   The 302,000 km of interurban roads in Mexico, of which about 93,000 km are
paved, are classified as federal, toll, state and rural roads in accordance with the source of
funds for the various road programs. The states have jurisdictional responsibility for some
83,000 km of roads. The Government, through SCT, has primary responsibility for the
49,000 km of federal and toll highways. Control and responsibility for the approximately
170,000 km of rural roads is shared by local governments, the states and the federal
government (Table 2-2). The Government is transferring responsibility for rural roads to
the states and local governments. The Federal Highway Network (FHN) has evolved
rapidly, as has the rest of Mexico's road system. In 1952, there were only 27,000 km of
roads, 16,000 km of which were paved. By 1995, the road system had grown to over
302,000 km, about 93,000 km of which were paved (including 6,000 km with four or
more lanes). The system's annual rate of growth has slowed from 8.7% per year from
1952-1975 to 1.7% per year from 1975 to 1991, a sign that the network has reached
relative maturity and that, except for a few areas, the primary network is in place. In the
past ten years, road investment has shifted from extension of the trunk network to
construction of rural access roads and, more recently, to maintaining and widening
existing trunk roads in response to increased travel demand.
2.3   The recently-concluded inventory of the federal road network shows that about 50% of
the network is in poor condition, 35% in fair condition and the remaining 15% in good
condition. Although there is much variance between regions, average conditions on SCT's
federal highways appear to have worsened in the 1980s due mainly to the decline in real terms
of the highway rehabilitation and road maintenance budgets (HRRM) budgets, from about
US$230 million in 1983 to US$120 million in 1989. Because it has had to operate with low
budgets for several years, SCT generally limited maintenance to emergency and repair works.
Conditions on the toll roads are better than on the federal highways. The Federal Toll Roads
and Bridges Authority (CAPUFE), which has higher financial resources per km, has been able
to maintain its toll roads in a very satisfactory manner. The condition of the federal network is
being improved significantly through the HRTS Project which is addressing the budget
problems and increasing SCT's efficiency in using available maintenance funds through staff
training and the introduction of modern maintenance management systems.



8
Table 2-1: Indicators of Highway Demand
Average Annual Growt
Growth Rate
(Percent)         1975      1980     1985      1990          1975-     1980-     1985-
1980      1985      1990
Population (thousands)    60,150   69,655    77,938    86,150        4.0        2.3       2.0
GDP (Billion 1980          3,171    4,470     4,920    5,236         7.1        1.9       1.3
pesos)
PerCapitaGDP              52,718    64,173    63,127   60,778        4.0       -0.3      -0.8
(1980 pesos)
Vehicles in Circulation    3,340    5,828    6,932    9,741          11.8       3.5       7.0
(thousands)
Automobiles                2,401    4,255     4,921    6,754         12.1       3.0       6.5
(thousands)
Trucks (thousands)          888     1,489     1,917    2,893         10.9       5.2       8.6
Buses (thousands)            51        84        94       94         10.5       2.3       0.0
Gasoline Consumption      10,865    18,316   25,217     N.A.         11.0       6.6      N.A
by Road Vehicles
(million liters)
Diesel Consumption         5,499    8,215    12,922     N.A.         8.4       9.5       N.A
by Road Vehicles
(million liters)
Passenger Cars/              40        63        63       78          8.4       0.0       6.7
1000 Inhabitants
Road Network (km)        186,218   212,626   224,255   239,235        2.7       1.0       1.5
Federal Highways (km)     38,292   42,521    44,359   45,743         2.2        0.8       0.6
Source: Asociaci6n Mexicana de la Industria Automotriz, "La Industria Automotriz de Mexico
en Cifras", SCT, SPP. November 1991



9
Table 2-2: Classification of Highways (Length in Km as of 1996)
Jurisdiction
Mexican Classification  Approximate Function    Federal    State    Local
- Federal Highways      Primary (arterials)    42,000*
- Toll Highways         Primary (arterials)     6,200
- State Highways        Secondary (collectors)    -       83,000
- Rural Roads           Tertiary (local)              170,000
*    tAbout 15,000 km of these roads are in the priority network, 13,000 km in the basic network and
17,800 km are of low priority. Lengths are given in two-lane highway equivalent km
B. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PRIMARY HIGHWAY NETWORK
2.4    SCT's two Sub-secretariats divide highway related tasks between them. The Sub-
secretariat for Infrastructure has jurisdiction over the General Directorate for Federal
Roads, the General Directorate of Toll Roads (GDTR), the General Directorate for
Technical Services, and the General Directorate for Maintenance (DGCC). These four
directorates have primary responsibility for the planning/design, toll roads management,
construction and maintenance respectively of roads under federal jurisdiction. The Sub-
secretariat for Transport includes the General Directorates for Tariffs, Land Transport,
and Preventive Medicine in Transportation and the Federal Highway Patrol, which are
responsible for transport services including vehicle regulation, safety and police functions.
SCT also maintains a fully staffed and equipped unit (SCT Regional Center) in each state
to carry out regional construction, maintenance and operations.
2.5    Before 1989, SCT constructed some 950 km of toll roads and 32 bridges.
CAPUFE is responsible for their operation and maintenance. Since 1989, most new toll
roads have been built by private sector companies, which also operate and maintain them
(para. 2.13).
2.6    SCT's General Directorate for Federal Highways (DGCF) designs most of the
federal highways and bridges in house, employing modern techniques; the criteria and
standards used (Table 2-3) are adequate. Most of the construction work is done by
DGCF through contracting, but some modernization (widening) works are handled by
DGCC using the same standards. There are several Mexican consulting firms engaged in
highway and bridge design, and SCT is increasingly using them to prepare the engineering
of major works.



10
Table 2-3: Federal Highway Design Criteria and Standards
CLASS                   E          D         C          B           A2          A4           A4S
Less
ITEM                    than 100   100-500   500-1500   1500-3000   3000-5000   5000-20000   5000-20000
AADT a/  AADT        AADT      AADT         AADT       AADT b/    AADT b/
Design Speed (KPH)
Flat terrain                 50-70      50-70     70-100    80-100         90-110     90-110       90-110
Rolling terrain              40-60      40-60      50-80     60-90         70-110     70-110       70-110
Mountainous terrain          30-40      30-40      40-60     50-70         60-80      60-80        60-80
Radius (M)
Flat terrain                 70-150    70-150    150-350   210-420       270-420    270-420       270-420
Rolling terrain              40-105    40-105      70-210    105-270     150-350     150-350      150-350
Mountainous terrain          20-40      20-40      40-105    70-150       105-210    105-210      105-210
Maximum Grade (%)
Flat terrain                 7.0        .0        5.0        4.0         4.0         4.0          4.0
Rolling terrain              I0.0       9.0       7.0        6.0         5.0         5.0          5.0
Mountainous terrain           13.0      12.0      8.0        7.0         6.0         6.0          6.0
Roadway Standards
Roadway Width (M)            4.0        6.0       7.0        9.0          12.0       22.0          2 x 11.0
Pavement Width (M)           4.0        6.0       6.0        7.0         8.0         2 x 7.0       2 x 7.0
Shoulder Width (M)           -          -         0.5        1.0         2.5         3.0          3.0
Super-elevation (MIM)                -     -    -0.10 Max.
Cross-slope (%)              3          3         2          2           2           2            2
Width of Median (M)          -          -         -          -           -           1.0          8.0
Minimum Sight Distance (M)
Stopping
Flat terrain                 55-95      55-95     95-155    115-175       135-175    135-175      135-175
Rolling terrain              40-75      40-75     55-115     75-135        95-155     95-155       95-155
Mountainous terrain          30-40      30-40     40-75       55-95       75-115      75-115       75-115
Passing
Flat terrain                 -          255-315   315-450   380-485      405-495     405-495      405-495
Rolling terrain              -          100-270   225-380   270-405      315-450     315-450      315-450
Mountainous terrain          -          135-100   180-270   225-315      270-380    270-380       270-380
Bridge Design Standards        -                                      HS20
(AASHTO) c/
a/   AADT = Annual Average Daily Traffic.
b/   Separated Roadways.
c/   American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
Note:   Ranges shown are from "Minimum" to "Desirable".
Source: SCT - Dec. 1995



I1
2.7   After over 30 years of road construction in Mexico, many experienced and well
equipped road construction contractors have emerged. Domestic firms must register
annually, providing detailed data on their operations. There is a wide range of capacity
among them, with emphasis on medium-sized firms able to undertake typical highway
contracts. Mexican firms win most international competitive bidding (ICB) contracts.
SCT personnel supervise construction but private consultants are increasingly being used
for this activity. The Government has reduced its once-dominant role in implementing
highway rehabilitation and resurfacing works and the private sector's involvement in these
activities is resulting in a more efficient implementation of the budget. About 70% of
SCT's highway rehabilitation works is being carried out by contract.
C. HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
2.8   SCT, through DGCC, is responsible for maintaining the 42,182 km of the toll-free
portion of the federal network. CAPUFE, private concessionaires and the state
governments maintain about 1,420 km, 3,167 km and 1,096 km of expressways
respectively on concession with SCT. The toll roads are adequately maintained. DGCC
has also significantly improved its maintenance over the past three years under its
Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance Program (HRRM), being financed
under the HRTS, by: (a) introducing modern road and bridges maintenance management
systems; (b) contracting about 70% of its maintenance to the private sector; (c) training
staff; and (d) increasing significantly its spending on maintenance. SCT's spending on
maintenance and rehabilitation accounts for over 60% of its road budget. The result is that
during the past three years, DGCC has rehabilitated about 5,060 km, resurfaced about
18,700 km and annually maintained about 44,000 km. These achievements exceed the
HRRM's program targets by over 20%.
2.9   The Government's impact objective with the HRRM: is to bring the condition of at
least 50% of the federal road network to "good" condition and the rest to at least a "fair"
condition by the year 2007. To ensure that the modernization program does not shift funds
from road maintenance and compromise this objective, the Government committed itself,
during the mid-term review of the HRTS in March 1996, to: (a) spend at least US$300
million annually, in real terms, on rehabilitating and maintaining the federal road network
under SCT's responsibility in order to achieve the program's goals, and (b) present to the
Bank, by October 31 of each year during project implementation starting in 1997, its draft
road program for the subsequent fiscal year and, by April 30 each year starting in 1998, its
actual road program as updated to fully use the budget approved by the Legislature.
Annex A presents the objectives, progress and future direction of the HRRM.
D. SECTOR ISSUES
2.10  This section discusses the main issues in the highway sub-sector and how they are
being and would be resolved by the ongoing HRTS Project and the proposed project. The
issues cover SCT's future role in the highway sub-sector and the organizational changes it
needs, its institutional capacity, the toll road system, highway sector planning and



12
financing, truck size and weight limits, traffic safety and procedures for managing
environmental impact assessment.
2.11   SCT's Role and Organization. The Government needs to review SCT's evolving
role and organization to reflect two confluent developments: (a) the increasing
participation of the private sector in building and operating toll roads and in carrying out
road maintenance and (b) the Government's ongoing decentralization of road
administration to the states and its plans to transfer about half of the federal road network
to the states. Over the past five years, the private sector has helped to build about 5,000
km of high-standard federal roads which it is operating as toll roads and is considering
another 1,400 km over the next five years. Also, almost 70% of the maintenance of
federal roads is now being executed by private contractors. These developments,
combined with the rapidly-increasing use of consultants in all phases of project planning,
design and construction supervision, are moving SCT progressively into a role of manager
rather than operator in the sub-sector. This would require training of the remaining staff
to play the management role. Decentralization of road administration has been going on
for some time now in the SCT, but the emphasis so far has been on shifting responsibilities
and associated accountability from headquarters to SCT's centers in the states. The
planned transfer of road administration of about half of the federal network would require:
(a) a further review of the role, function, organization and size of the SCT centers and (b)
a review of the technical, administrative and financial capacity of each receiving state in
order to implement a realistic schedule of transfer and provide the necessary funds for the
transferred roads for a realistic time period. The proposed project includes a study on
SCT's future organization, staffing and a training program for staff (para. 3.7 (b)).
2.12 SCT's Institutional Capacity. Modernization of the physical infrastructure of the
federal road system alone would be insufficient to achieve the transport efficiency aimed at
by SCT. SCT needs to increase its institutional capacity. The Government, through the
ongoing HRTS Project is implementing an extensive institutional strengthening program,
comprising: (a) strengthening the capacity of SCT's Planning Coordination Office; (b)
completing the reorganization of the road maintenance directorate; (c) developing and
implementing highway maintenance management systems; (d) continuing the review of
highway cost recovery; (e) implementing revised vehicle size and weight regulations; (f)
implementing a detailed staff training program and (g) strengthening the administration of
traffic safety. Satisfactory progress has been made on items (b) and (c), but the rest of the
program has been slowed down due mostly to delays in hiring consultants or, in the case
of the training component, instructors. Moreover, past experience in Mexico has
demonstrated that effective institutional strengthening in the areas being covered under the
HRTS would require more time and effort than can be covered under the ongoing project.
The proposed project would therefore include resources for continuing and deepening the
institutional strengthening of the SCT (para 3.7).
2.13  The Private Toll Road Concession Program. An issue with which the toll road
concession program has had to grapple with is the high tolls the concessionaires have had
to charge to recuperate both their investment and operating costs. This has led to most
potential users preferring to use alternative, unimproved, but toll-free roads, causing



13
concessionaires to raise their tolls even higher. The need to charge high tolls arises from
the fact that the original concession proposals were evaluated on the basis of how fast the
roads would revert to Government's ownership (i.e., the length of the concession
contract). Consequently, bidders had an incentive to offer unrealistically short concession
periods. The problem was further exacerbated by the high initial construction costs due to
concessionaires being restricted to a set design by SCT. Over the past two years, SCT has
being working with the concessionaires on pilot reduced tolls to stimulate traffic and
therefore overall incomes to the concessionaires. The experiment has proved successful
and the concessionaires have agreed to reduce their toll levels by an average of 60% from
January 1, 1996. To avoid the same problems for the 1,400 km of toll concessions
expected to be awarded from 1996 to 2000, the SCT has revised and improved the
conditions under which the concessions are evaluated and granted. The changes include:
(a) using the lowest required toll, with a pre-determined concession period, as the criterion
to award concessions; (b) leaving the detailed designs to the bidder, with SCT only
stipulating the design parameters; (c) eliminating the arrangement of a guaranteed financial
rate of return; and (d) increasing the concessionaires equity contribution, thereby reducing
the debt component to acceptable levels.
2.14  Planning of Federal Road Activities. Planning of activities on the federal road
network is dispersed among various entities of the SCT. Planning at the project concept
and feasibility stage for construction is done within the Directorate General of Toll Roads
using an HDM-type life-cycle analysis model. Planning of maintenance and rehabilitation
works is carried out by the Direccion de Conservaci6n using a "more user-friendly"
version of the HDM III model known as SISTER. The Direcci6n General de Carreteras
Federales also has its own model for conducting economic analysis. The Direccion
General de Planeaci6n integrates the results of these activities into the federal highway
program. The system, in practice, has two significant drawbacks: (a) the lack of
coordination among the various directorates which leads to a duplication of efforts on data
collection and analysis and (b) the absence of an overall priority ranking of all the
individual activities so that they can compete for the scarce resources. The proposed
project would provide technical assistance to review current road planning processes
within the SCT and modify them to ensure efficient sharing of results from the different
agencies and establish integrated planning procedures (para. 3.7 (a)).
2.15  Highway Financing and Cost Recovery. The Government needs to establish a
financing mechanism to ensure adequate and timely financing of the federal network. In
spite of a major contribution from the private sector (an estimated US$7 billion to build
high-standard toll roads), financing for the federal road network still falls below needs to
restore, maintain and expand it. The Government has been spending about US$300
million annually on maintenance and rehabilitation to restore the network to an acceptable
standard by the year 2008. An increase in spending of US$400 annually would achieve
that goal in the year 2003. Moreover, the modernization of the existing network would
require an additional US$240 million a year of public funds over the next five years, in
addition to an expected private sector contribution of about US$4 billion from the private
sector for more toll roads. Under the ongoing HRTS, the Government is undertaking a
study of various alternative financing mechanisms for the highway sector to ensure its



14
adequate funding. The HRTS is also providing technical assistance to the Government to
implement the study's recommendations on establishing an adequate and reliable
mechanism.
2.16  The bulk of federal highway expenditures over the past five years has been mostly
for road rehabilitation and maintenance (about 60% of the total US$520 million annual
outlays). With the start of the modernization program, there is going to be a strong
competition between maintenance and improvement for scarce resources. The
comprehensive planning model mentioned in para 3.7 would help in allocating available
funds efficiently to SCT's various road activities. In addition, at negotiations the
Government agreed to present to the dank during the joint annual project implementation
review meetings for the proposed project and for the HRTS Project its financing plan for
SCT's road activities for that year. This would enable adjusting the allocations to ensure
that the maintenance commitments are met.
2.17  Revenues to the highway sector come from road-user fees, private-sector financing
of toll road concessions, voluntary contributions from the trucking industry and loans from
international agencies. Road-user fees, mostly fuel taxes, license fees and tolls, estimated
at about US$2,300 million annually, cover adequately the sector's needs. However,
automobiles subsidize heavy vehicles. The Government has undertaken studies to
determine the exact imbalance between automobile and truck charges with a view to
reduce it.
2.18  Vehicle Weights and Dimensions. The Government issued revised regulations
on vehicle weights and dimensions in January 1994 to meet agreed standards under
NAFTA. Consultants, hired under the ongoing Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety
Project have submitted their recommendations to SCT on the type and location of the
weigh bridges to be purchased and implementation is expected to start during the second
half of this year. The SCT is reviewing the pros and cons of the private sector playing a
role in operating the system either as a concession or a management contract.
2.19  Traffic Safety. SCT is now implementing its road safety program very
vigorously. The program has been included as an important objective of both SCT's 1990-
1994 and 1995-2000 National Programs for Transport Modernization. Very significant
progress has been made in improving vehicle inspection, driver training and licensing and
in the removal of hazardous locations. As a member of the North American Commercial
Vehicle Safety Alliance (CVSA), Mexico is under pressure to improve its traffic safety
measures. The proposed project would provide for additional resources to continue the
improvement of road safety.
2.20 Environmental Impact of Highway Projects. Existing Mexican laws provide
for adequate safeguards against adverse environmental impacts from road activities. The
SCT also has the necessary organizational set-up to comply with the laws and has
developed tools which should help to better coordinate the collection and use of data
during the different stages of project development, and internal communication on
environmental issues. Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution establishes the Federal



15
Government's obligation to conserve the nation's natural resources. The General Law on
Ecological Balance and Protection of the Environment, enacted in March 1988,
constitutes the present legal framework to deal with transport environmental issues.
Under this law, the Government must (a) establish federal environmental standards; (b)
evaluate the environmental impact of major projects; (c) carry out environmental
protection actions in areas under federal jurisdiction; and (d) create and manage federal
natural protected areas. In addition, Articles 19 and 20 of the 1993 Procurement and
Public Works Law and Article 12 of its regulation require that the environmental impact
of public works be studied, and that environmental conditions be preserved wherever
public works are carried out. Shortly after the General Ecology Law went into effect the
Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology, SEDUE (recently transformed into
SEDESOL), published a regulation on environmental impact assessments, which defined
specific conditions for mandatory SEDESOL review of an impact assessment, procedures
for preparing and presenting impact assessments, and sanctions for failure to comply with
the regulations. In order to coordinate the execution of environmental impact assessment
of transport projects with SEDESOL, SCT's Environmental Affairs Unit (EAU) within the
General Coordination of Planning has been strengthened to six full-time staff and is
receiving technical assistance under the HRTS Project to introduce models to facilitate
environmental assessments. The project would provide for improved coordination among
EAU and other SCT directorates which are also independently carrying out their own
environmental assessments, with consultants assistance, and to disseminate the results of
EAU's results in improving environmental assessments.






16
THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT ORIGIN
3.1   Preparation of the proposed project started in August 1995 following a request
from the Government for Bank assistance in modernizing the federal highway network.
The project's design and scope resulted from discussions between the Bank, SCT,
BANOBRAS and SHCP during several project preparation missions to Mexico between
August and December 1995. The project was appraised in February 1996 and
negotiations started in Washington in May 1996. Negotiations were suspended because
the Bank and the Government failed to reach agreement on the framework for the
resettlement documents to be prepared for the road modernization sub-projects.
Following protracted discussions, negotiations were resumed on May 15, 1997 and
completed on May 29, 1997. The Government has submitted a Project Implementation Plan,
outlining the project's objectives, scope and composition, estimated costs and financing plan
and the arrangements for project implementation.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.2   The project would have two broad objectives. The first would be to help meet the
expected traffic growth on the federal road network and to reduce road transport system
costs. This would be achieved by: (a) improving the capacity and thereby the service
quality of the federal road network and (b) farther improving the safety on the network.
The second objective would be to improve the institutional capacity to manage the road
network by: (a) strengthening SCT's capacity to formulate work programs, efficiently
allocate highway funds among road activities and to manage environmental impact
assessment and mitigation and (b) increasing the capacity of selected states to manage
their road networks.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.3   The project, which would finance a time slice (1998 to 2002) of SCT's Federal
Roads Modernization Program (FRMP), would consist of: (1) civil works to increase the
capacity and traffic safety of the federal network (about US$800 million equivalent),
including providing additional lanes on some road sections, building climbing lanes on
others, improving horizontal and vertical alignments, providing adequate road shoulders
and curbs and removing hazardous spots; (2) institutional strengthening (US$61 million)
directed at SCT and selected state highway organizations for improving management
systems and procedures, training staff and reviewing the role and needs of the SCT centers
in the states; (3) further support to SCT to implement actions on road sector financing, to
improve multi-modal transport operations, to continue improving road safety and
environmental impact assessment and mitigation measures in the planning, construction
and operation of transport facilities (US$2 million).



17
Federal Highway Modernization Program
3.4   SCT's FRMP is based on the results of a series of analyses conducted by the SCT
covering: (a) road surface conditions, (b) pavement bearing capacity for current and future
traffic, (c) levels of service; (d) safety, and (e) the attractiveness of proposed
improvements to potential private concessionaires. SCT selected about 2,016 km of the
highest priority roads for modernization over the period 1996 to 2002 using public funds.
The roads selected for 1996, about 158 km, have been modernized by SCT using its own
funds; those for 1997, about 122 km, have been contracted out and will be financed
retroactively by the Bank. The selected road sections for the indicative program have high
economic returns, serve important export/import corridors and/or regional integration, are
close to saturation, have poor safety and would not be attractive to potential private
investors. In addition, the project would provide for the improvement of about 200
hazardous road locations (mostly intersections and sharp curves). SCT's findings and
conclusions from these analyses are presented in a report entitled "Programa de
Modernizaci6n de la Red Carretera 1996-2002" which is included in the Project File. The
indicative list of roads, with the current and planned future design standards, is presented
in Table 3.1.
3.5   The SCT also selected two road stretches totaling about 324 km to make up the
1997 and 1998 program (Table 3.2). The Bank has reviewed the feasibility studies,
detailed engineering, environmental impact assessments and socio-economic studies
carried out with consultants' assistance for these roads, and found them acceptable. The
1997 and 1998 road sections were selected using the same criteria to be used for the
remaining project roads during implementation (para.4. 1). During negotiations, the
Government confirmed the composition and scope of the 1997 and 1998 program.
3.6   The works under the program, which are aimed at increasing capacity and
improving safety, would include: (a) eliminating bottlenecks such as narrow bridges and
dangerous intersections; (b) widening and/or adding lanes, building climbing lanes,
improving horizontal and vertical alignment and adding road shoulders; (c) expanding
some of the most saturated lanes from two to four lanes; (d) upgrading and modernizing
road signalization and; (e) removing hazardous spots.



18
Table 3-1:
Indicative Modernization Program and Characteristics - Civil Works
Subproject                   Section                           Length   Upgrading
Beginning at         Ending at       (km)   From  To
San Luis Potosi - Puerto Mexico                                          236
Huizache              Matehuala          34        A2    A4
Matehuala             San Roberto          129     A2    A4
San Roberto           Pto. Mexico          73      B2    A4
Tampico - Linares                                                          198
Cuauhtemoc            Est.Manuel           18      B2    A2
Est.Goni..alez        Est.Zaragoza         61      B2    A2
Barretal              Tomasenio            39      B2    A2
Escobedo              Linares              62      B2    A2
Fresnillo-Torreon-Cuencame                                                 148
Rio Grande            Cuencame             148      C     A2
Tampico-Veracruz                                                           328
Cardel                Gpe. Victoria        131     B2    A2
Tuxpan                Tampico              197     B2    A2
Villahermosa-Merida                                                        490
Villahermosa          Cd. del Carmen       168     A2    A4
Cd. del Carmen        Champoton            149     A2    A4
Camipeche             Bord.                110     A2    A4
Camp. /Yuc.
Border Camp./Yuc.    Merida                65      A2    A4
Saltillo-Monclova                                                          21
Ramal La Muralla      Toward P. Negras    10      Realigmnent
Castaiios             La Gloria            11      A2    A4



19
Table 3-2: Project Data and Status of Preparation for 1997 and 1998 Roads
LENGTH       BASIC       FINAL    RIGHT OF    ENVIRONMENTAL           SOCIOLOGIC
FEDERAL ROAD                        ROAD SUBPROJECT                              STUDIES   DESIGN       WAY ()          IMPACT (*)          STUDY(.)
KMS.         (%)         (%)        (%)               (%)                (%)
PROGRAM FOR 1997
SAN LUIS POTOSI - SALTILLO
HUIZACHE - MATEHUALA                        83          100        100         100              100                 100
TAMPICO - LINARES
BARRETAL - TOMASENO                         39          100        100         100              100                 100
PROGRAM FOR 1998
SAN LUIS POTOSI-SALTILLO              MATEHUALA-SAN ROBERTO                       129          100        100         100              100                 100
SAN ROBERTO-PTO. MEXICO                     73          100        100         100              100                 100
TOTAL KILOMETERS TO BE                                                            324
MODERNIZED IN1997 AND 1998
() Existing right of way, except in the case of new by-passes
()  To be prepared by environmetal experts
(-) To be prepared by a sociologist



20
Institutional Strengthening Component
3.7   The institutional strengthening component would continue, reinforce and expand
actions being undertaken under the ongoing Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety
Project. Specific areas to be covered, proposed by SCT at the start of project preparation,
include the following:
Highway Sub-sector Planning and Resource Allocation. Under the HRTS, the
SCT's Planning Coordination Office has been established and is being
provided technical assistance to prepare project planning and evaluation
manuals. In addition, SCT needs a comprehensive highway planning
resource allocation model to efficiently distribute its limited budget among
competing highway activities. The proposed project would provide technical
assistance to CGP to develop the model and train higher-level staff to use it.
The scope and terms of reference for consulting services for preparing the
model were reviewed and agreed during project preparation. The agreement
was confirmed during negotiations;
Review of SCT's Role and Organization. SCT's ongoing decentralization of
road administration and its increasing normative role requires reviewing its
role in the road sector and re-organizing it accordingly. The project would
provide for technical assistance to carry out the review and to assist in
implementing the recommendations. The project would also provide for
assistance to the road agencies in selected states to improve their
organizations and train staff Terms of reference for the consultants services
were confirmed at negotiations;
Road Traffic Safety. The HRTS is improving road safety through: (a) improving
driver behavior and increasing public road traffic safety awareness, (b)
training inspectors, supervisors and examiners of truck drivers, and (c)
providing technical assistance for research on road safety, conducting
information campaigns, preparing programs to eliminate about 300
hazardous highway locations, and updating vehicle safety standards. The
proposed project would continue the technical assistance for road safety,
especially preparing programs for removing additional hazardous spots.
Improvement in Environmental Control. SCT's Environmental Affairs Unit
(EAU) is being strengthened under the HRTS. To comply with
environmental requirements, SCT has revised its work specifications for
HRRM works and improved those parts related to the coverage of cultural
patrimony, the managing of quarries and pollution control of construction
equipment. These revisions have been included in the bidding documents
for construction of civil works and are adequate. EAU has developed and
is calibrating a simulation model for assessing environmental impacts of
transport facilities throughout Mexico. EAU is currently working in
relative isolation from SCT's other directorates involved in road planning,



21
construction and maintenance. The proposed project would provide
technical assistance to SCT to review its procedures for managing
environmental impact assessments in order to avoid duplication of efforts
and lack of coordination; and.
Facilitation and Improvement of Inter-Modal Transport. The project would
provide consulting services to review and analyze inter-modal transport in
Mexico, including the regulatory framework thereof and recommend
actions for its improvement.
Consultancy Services
3.8   The project would provide for consultant services for assisting:
the general directorate of Toll Roads (GDTR) in the preparation of the traffic and
economic and financial feasibility studies required to identify and select
sub-projects to be included in the program (para. 4.8 (a)); and
DGCF in the preparation of environmental, social and engineering studies,
supervision of construction; and the coordination of the program (para. 4.8
3.9   The project would provide for the improvement of about 200 hazardous road
locations (mostly intersections and sharp curves). These would be in addition to those
included in the works under the 950 km of road sections and the locations being improved
under the HRTS. The works would be undertaken by contract. These improvements
would be based on a master list of hazardous road sections prepared from a combination
of accident statistics developed by DGTT and the Federal Highway Patrol, and from field
visits. Each year, SCT , with consultants assistance, would select the locations it plans to
improve and submit a report to the Bank justifying each improvement, both technically
and economically. The project would also provide for consultant services for detailed
preparation of the program and for supervision of the works.
3.10  Staff Training. The ongoing HRTS includes a sizable staff training program for
the SCT (Annex B). The proposed project provides for deepening the training to SCT in
areas such as bidding and contract administration, budgetary and resource allocation
among road activities and project evaluation techniques and assessment of environmental
impacts and designing mitigation plans. The project would also include training for new
areas such as inter-modal transport and electronic data interchange systems, transport
corridor analysis and planning and highway financing. Lastly, the project would provide
for a parallel training program to the ongoing one under the HRTS for four selected states
in Mexico. Training to be included in the project would also address the highway sector
entities at states' level. At negotiations, the scope for the training component was agreed.



22
D. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.11   The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$ 865 million equivalent with
a foreign exchange component of about US$375 million based on March 1996 prices and
including physical and price contingencies. Identifiable taxes and duties are about US$120
million and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$743 million equivalent. The cost
estimates for the civil works are based upon detailed estimates prepared by the Direcci6n
General de Carreteras Federales (DGCF), with the assistance of consultants, and are
similar to those obtained in recent contracts. The costs of the highway safety training and
technical assistance components were estimated in accordance with prevailing costs of
materials and services. The estimated man-month rate for local consultants varies between
US$4,000 and US$7,000 and for expatriate consultants, between US$10,000 and
US$15,000. The proposed loan of US$475 million would finance 55% of the total project
cost. The Government would finance the remaining US$388 million equivalent. SCT's
budget for 1997 provides a sufficient amount to cover the project's first year program up
to December 31, 1997, the end of Mexico's fiscal year. A summary of project cost
estimates and financing plan is presented in Tables 3.3 and 3.4.
E. SUSTAINABILITY
3.12  The sustainability of the project would be determined by: (a) adequate maintenance
of the project roads after their improvement; (b) better traffic management to ensure that
the expected levels of service are attained; (c) improvement in traffic policing, as a
complement to removing physical road hazards, in order to ensure the expected
improvement in traffic safety; and (d) the ability of SCT to more efficiently allocate
available highway funds among activities on the federal road network. The
implementation of the maintenance management system, developed under the HRTS, and
the adoption of a proposed road maintenance fund being addressed under the HRTS,
financed from road-user charges would help to insure a stable source of funding for road
maintenance. The proposed project would further help to improve highway signs,
introduce measures to reduce roadside friction and improve the capacity of the Federal
Highway Police to remove incapacitated vehicles. Assistance for highway safety, being
covered under the ongoing HRTS, would be continued and strengthened under the
proposed project. Lastly, efficient systems of allocating highway funds among different
road activities, already introduced successfully in other countries with the Bank's
assistance, would be introduced in SCT to help ensure that available funds are spent on
the highest priority activities.



23
Table 3-3: Summary of Project Cost and Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
A. Estimated Project Costs:                           Local   Foreign    Total a/
(US$ Million)
FRM Program                               408.2      272.2      680.4
Consultants Services                        6.8       45.5       52.3
Training                                    0.1        0.9        1.0
Total Base Costs                     415.2      318.5      733.7
Contingencies
Physical                              41.5      31.9        73.4
Price                                 31.7      24.4        56.1
Total Contingencies                   73.3      56.2       129.5
Total Project Costs                       488.5      374.7      863.2
B. Financing Plan:
Government of Mexico                      388.2        ----     388.2
IBRD (multiple currency)                   100.3     374.7      475.0
Total Financing                           488.5      374.7      863.2
a/ Totals may not add up due to rounding



24
Table 3-4: Project Costs and Annual Expenditures (US$ Million)
PROJECT COMPONENT                       ANNUAL EXPENDITURES ()--- ---  TOTAL()
1998     1999    2000      2001     2002
A.CIVIL WORKS (Indicative)
HUIZACHE-MATEHUALA                          21.56    21.56                                  43.13
MATEHUALA-SAN ROBERTO                       43.13    28.75                                  71.88
SAN ROBERTO-PTO. MEXICO                              28.75    28.75                         57.50
LA MURALLA                                                     8.34                          8.34
CASTANOS-LA GLORIA                                    3.59                                   3.59
CUENCAME-RIO GRANDE                         20.41    20.41                                  40.83
VILLAHERMOSA-CD. DEL CARMEN                 24.15    24.15                                  48.30
BORD STATES CAMP./YUC.-MERIDA                        18.69                                  18.69
CUAUHTEMOC-EST. MANUEL                       7.91                                            7.91
GONZALEZ-ZARAGOZA                           17.25                                           17.25
BARRETAL-TOMASENO                           10.78                                           10.78
ESCOBEDO-LINARES                            12.22                                           12.22
CARDEL-GUADALUPE VICTORIA                                              32.99    32.99       65.98
CAMPECHE-LIM.EDOS.CAMP.NYUC                                            21.08    10.54       31.63
CD. DEL CARMEN-CHAMPOTON                                      21.28    21.28                42.55
EST. MANUEL-MATAMOROS                                         32.58    16.29                48.88
SOTO LA MARINA-MATAMOROS                                    50.3125    50.31    50.31      150.94
SUBTOTAL: A                                157.41   145.91   141.26   141.95    93.84     680.37
B. CONSULTANTS SERVICES
(a) INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
BUDGET ALLOCATION IMPROV.                             0.21     0.21                          0.42
NATIONAL AND STATE PLANNING                  0.50     0.50     0.25                          1.25
HIGHWAY DECENTRALIZATION                     0.52     0.50     0.50                          1.52
INTERMODAL TRANSPORT                                  0.22                                   0.22
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE FINANCING                         0.21     0.21                          0.42
(b) STUDIES AND SUPERVISION
STUDIES (*-..)                                        4.38     4.24     4.26     1.58       14.45
SUPERVISION                                  7.87     7.30     7.06     7.10     4.69       34.02
SUBTOTAL: B                                  8.89    13.31    12.47    11.36     6.27       52.30
C. TRAINING                                           0.25     0.25     0.25     0.25        1.00
SUBTOTAL: C                                           0.25     0.25     0.25     0.25        1.00
TOTAL COSTO BASE                           166.30   159.47   153.98   153.56   100.36      733.67
D. CONTINGENCIES
PHYSICAL (10%)                              16.63    15.95    15.40    15.36    10.04       73.37
PRICE (---)                                  4.39     8.52    12.49    16.81    13.90       56.11
SUBTOTAL: D                                 21.02    24.47    27.89    32.16    23.94      129.48
TOTAL: PROJECT COST                        187.32   183.94   181.87   185.72   124.30      863.14
Cost estimates include taxes amounting to 15%
Based on the project implementation schedule
) 2.4% per year from 1998 onwards
(**) Final engineering studies for the 1998 program have been completed






25
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. SUB-PROJECT SELECTION, PREPARATION AND EVALUATION
4.1    The investment sub-projects to be implemented during 1997 and 1998 were selected
during appraisal and agreed at negotiations. The sub-projects to be executed each year
thereafter would be selected and submitted to the Bank for its review by October 31 of the year
preceding the year of implementation. The submissions would be supported by detailed
reports on the economic, financial, environmental, social and technical studies for the selected
sub-projects. These studies would be carried out by consultants/experts acceptable to the
Bank. Each investment sub-project will meet the following criteria:
have a positive NPV and an ERR, calculated in accordance with a method
satisfactory to the Bank, of at least 12%;-
have a detailed financial analysis of each sub-project demonstrating that they are
not attractive for private concession;
not involve negative environmental impacts for which satisfactory mitigation
measures have not been clearly defined through acceptable environmental
assessment;,
have resettlement documents acceptable to the Bank for projects involving
resettlement;
have a structural design life, in the case of roads, of at least 20 years (unless a
technical study demonstrates that a shorter design life is appropriate).
The above procedures and criteria were confirmed at negotiations.
4.2    For studies, technical assistance and training, the following would be required to be
submitted to the Bank before the annual review:
for studies and technical assistance, detailed terms of reference, manpower
requirements, cost estimates and implementation schedule; and
for training courses, seminars and workshops, the specific objectives, trainers' CVs
and fees, number of participants by agency, duration and detailed cost
estimates.
The above requirements were confirmed at negotiations.
B. CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR PROCUREMENT OF SUB-PROJECTS
4.3    The Bank loan would help to finance only contracts related to project components
selected according to the criteria outlined in para. 4.1 and that the tendering is in
accordance with procedures and design standards agreed with the Bank. SCT would be



26
directly responsible for the procurement of items under the project. SCT has the capacity
to carry out the procurement program under the project.
4.4   All project components financed under the proposed Bank loan would be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995). Procurement
procedures would be as follows:
a) to the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10 million or more each and would be awarded
through international competitive bidding (ICB) and prequalification procedures, using
standard documents agreed with the Bank. Civil works valued at less than US$10
million equivalent, up to an aggregate of US$200.1 million, would be procured
through national competitive bidding procedures (NCB), using standard documents
agreed with the Bank, and where foreign bidders would have the opportunity to
compete. All bidding documents would include specifications to safeguard the
environment during construction. It is not foreseen that there would be any
procurement of goods in this project.
b) Consultants for studies, supervision, and technical assistance would be selected and
engaged following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
The cost of these services are expected to aggregate to US$61.5 million. For complex
time-based assignments, Bank-issued standard forms of contract would be used.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
4.5   All contracts for civil works estimated to cost US$10 million equivalent or more
would be subject to the Bank's prior review of the procurement documentation
(advertising, bidding documents, bid evaluation, and contract award). The total value of
these contracts would be US$600.3 million and would represent about 75% of all Bank-
financed civil works. Prior review would also be required for the first two contracts for
civil works to be awarded under NCB procedure, and for all contracts for consulting
services valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more for consulting firms, and of more than
US$50,000 equivalent for individuals. The provisions of the Guidelines requiring prior
Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists selection procedures, letters of invitation,
proposals, evaluation reports and contract, would not apply to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent each, and to
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to Bank prior review would not be applicable
to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (iii) assignments of critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value
to US$100,000 equivalent or more; and (v) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the value of the contract to US$50,000 equivalent or
more. The financing for training would be based on a detailed program to be submitted to
the Bank for approval.



27
4.6   Project cost breakdown by procurement method is presented in Table 4-1; the amounts
in parenthesis show allocations of loan proceeds. Procurement arrangements were confirmed
at negotiations.
C. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
4.7   BANOBRAS will be the Borrower and will on-lend the loan proceeds to the
Government (for SCT) under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with
Government bearing the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. It will be a condition of
loan effectiveness that Borrower and the Guarantor enter into contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for the transfer of loan funds.
4.8   SCT would be responsible for the preparation/execution of most of the project
components through its various Directorates, as follows:
DGTR for identifying the sub-projects for the annual programs and canrying out
the feasibility, social and financial studies and for technology transfer to the
states;
DGPI for preparing the annual highway budget and for transferring highway
planning capabilities to the states road agencies and for organizing and
making operational the entity that would administer the funds generated
through the road users' charges;
DGCF for preparing the final engineering and environmental and social impact
assessments for the sub-projects to be included in the annual program, for
managing the execution of the civil works and for implementing the
resettlement documents;
DGMPT for implementing the assistance for traffic safety; and
DGTT for implementing the staff training components of the project, including
supporting the training of the states highway staff.
The social impact analysis to determine the need for involuntary resettlement and to design
the resettlement documents will be carried out by qualified social scientists under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. SCT will be responsible for implementing resettlement
actions arising from the project. SCT has been using both state and municipal level
entities to assist it in carrying out resettlement actions depending upon each particular
case. SCT will use mechanisms acceptable to the Bank to carry out resettlement cases
under the proposed project. During negotiations it was agreed that institutional measures
acceptable to the Bank for carrying out remedial measures in accordance with the
resettlement framework shall be in place and to be fully operational prior to the time that
any such remedial measures are required and, in any event, that they shall be in place and
operational not later than one year after the date of the Loan Agreement.



28
4.9     Project supervision is expected to take place at least three times during the first
year of project implementation and at least twice a year to monitor progress of the
proposed project. Supervision missions at the appropriate point of the annual budget
cycle would seek assurance of the adequacy of the funding required for the annual
modernization programs. Because of the country-wide nature of the project, supervision
requirements are expected to be about 20 staff weeks per year.
Table 4-1: Procurement Methods and Disbursements (US$ Million)
I. Procurement
Procurement Method
ITEM                     DESCRIPTION                     ICB     NCB   Other a/ TOTAL
Civil Works    Highway Modernization
Contracts over US$ 10 million               600.3                      600.3
(Bank financing)               (315.3)                    (315.3)
Contracts under US$ 10 million                      200.1              200.1
(Bank financing)                       (105.1)           (105.1)
Subtotal: Civil Works                    600.3   200.1              800.4
(Bank financing)               (315.3)  (105.1)          (420.5)
Consultants
Services       (a) Institutional Strengthening                                    4.5       4.5
(Bank financing)                                  (3.9)     (3.9)
(b) Other Consultants Services                                   57.0      57.0
(Bank financing)                                 (49.6)    (49.6)
Subtotal: Consultants Services                  61.5      61.5
(Bank financing)                                 (53.5)    (53.5)
Training       Courses and Seminars                                               1.2       1.2
(Bank financing)                                  (1.0)     (1.0)
Subtotal:Training                                         1.2       1.2
(Bank financing)                                  (1.0)     (1.0)
TOTAL (*)                                      600.3   200.1    62.7    863.1
(Bank financing)               (315.3)  (105.1)  (54.5)   (475.0)
(*) Totals include taxes and duties and may not add up due to rounding
al "Other" includes direct contracting, and the Bank's consultants selection procedures
Figures in parenthesis are the respective amnounts financed by the Bank loan and include contingencies



29
II. Disbursements
% of net
Amounts             Expenditures
Category                                     To be Financed
(1) Civil Works                        357.4                 53%
(3) Services                           45.5                  100%
(4) Training                            0.9                  100%
(5) Unallocated                        71.2
Total                                  475.0
FY1 998   FY1999   FY2000   FY2001   FY2002   FY2003   FY2004
Annual        80.0      80.0     80.0     90.0     75.0      50.0     20.0
Cummulative   80.0    160.0    240.0    330.0    405.0    455.0    475.0
a/ "Other" includes direct contracting and the Bank's consultant selection procedures.
4.10   Semestral reviews, in April and October of each year, and coinciding with those of
the ongoing HRTS project, would be held to review the progress in project
implementation and to agree on the program for the current year. The reviews would
focus on:
(a)    the progress against the previous annual project implementation schedule;
(b)    the level and composition of SCT's road budget for the fiscal year in which
the review takes place;
(c)    the performance against the project monitoring indicators; and
(d)    the finalization of the selection of sub-projects for the current year, taking
into consideration the balance in SCT's road budget.
SCT would provide a report on progress of each component of the project, at least one
month before the date fixed for the annual review.
4.11 In April 2000, the Government and the Bank would conduct a mid-term review of
progress in project implementation, which in addition to items covered in the annual
reviews, would focus on:
the adequacy of funding for activities in the federal road network, including that
for the ongoing project;
the progress made on the institutional aspects being supported under the loan;
the implementation road improvements included in the project;



30
the progress in the commitments and disbursements of loan funds, to be assessed
on the basis of the summary expenditures and on the physical progress of
all eligible sub-projects;
the progress in the training program, including the number of staff successfully
trained and the impact of the training on SCT's capacity;
the progress made in bringing the federal network to good condition; and
the future direction of the project, including any necessary changes in objectives
and scope.
4.12  In addition to the above, during negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that the SCT would provide: (a) every six months, progress reports to the
Bank for monitoring purposes, on the basis of a format and methodology acceptable to the
Bank; and (b) within six months of the closing date, an input to the Project
Implementation Completion Report.
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
4.13  Agreement was reached during negotiations that BANOBRAS will: (i) maintain
and cause to be maintained the records and accounts adequate to reflect its operations and
financial position; and (ii) have the records of the project accounts audited in line with the
standing arrangements between BANOBRAS and the Bank and that the use of statement
of expenditures and the special account (para. 4.16) would be subject to a separate
opinion in the audit report.
E. DISBURSEMENTS
4.14  Standard disbursements profiles prepared by the Bank for the LAC region, and in
particular for Mexico, indicate that a seven year period is required to obtain full
disbursements for this type of project. The disbursement period has accordingly been
estimated at seven years and the closing date on June 30, 2004 (Table 4-2). However, if
SCT decides to accelerate project execution and SHCP agrees to provide the funds
required to match the loan funds necessary, the project could be completed in about four
years. The initial allocations of loan proceeds and the corresponding percentage to be
disbursed by category are shown in Table 4-1. Disbursement would be made on the
following basis: (a) 53% of the expenditures on civil works; (b) 100% of total
expenditures on consultant services; and (c) 100% of total expenditures on training.
4.15  Disbursements under the project will be made against full documentation of
expenditures except for the following items, for which disbursement would be on the basis
of statement of expenditures (SOEs): (a) civil contracts costing less than US$10 million
equivalent; (b) consultant contracts with firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent and with individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; and (c) training.



31
SOE records will be made available to Bank staff as required for inspection during
supervision.
4.16   To expedite project execution, a Special Account would be opened in the Central
Bank, with an authorized allocation of US$25 million equivalent. The first advances from
this account will be limited to US$15 million equivalent until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the loan account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments have reached US$75 million equivalent. Retroactive financing of US$ 30
million equivalent (about 6% of the loan) was agreed at negotiations for expenditures
incurred on works and consulting services initiated between June 30, 1996 and the loan
signature date. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
Table 4-2
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year     Disbursements       Cummulative      Cummulative
per quarter      Disbursement       Percentage
1998 September 30, 1997        35.0
December 31, 1997         15.0               50.0
March 31, 1998            15.0
June 30, 1998             15.0               80.0            16.8%
1999 September 30, 1998        20.0
December 31, 1998         20.0              120.0
March 31, 1999            20.0
June 30, 1999             20.0              160.0            33.7%
2000 September 30, 1999        20.0
December 31, 1999         20.0              200.0
March 31, 2000            20.0
June 30, 2000             20.0              240.0            50.5%
2001 September 30, 2000        20.0
December 31, 2000         20.0              280.0
March 31, 2001            25.0
June 30, 2001             25.0              330.0            69.5%
2002 September 30, 2001        20.0
December 31, 2001         20.0              370.0
March 31, 2002            20.0
June 30, 2002             15.0              405.0            85.3%
2003 September 30, 2002        15.0
December 31, 2002         15.0              435.0
March 31, 2003            10.0
June 30, 2003             10.0              455.0            95.8%
2004 September 30, 2003         10.0
December 31, 2003         10.0              475.0           100.0%
Assumptions:
Loan Signing Date:           July, 1997
Loan Effectiveness:          September, 1997
Project Completion:    December 31, 2003
Loan Closing Date:           June 30, 2004



32
F. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.17  The economic analysis has been carried out for the physical component of the
project, except the removal of hazardous spots for which an economic analysis would be
carried out as the spots are studied and selected during project implementation. The
activities captured by the analysis cover about 90% of total project base cost. The
economic benefits from improving SCT and the state road agencies' capacity, even though
expected to be substantial, are not quantified. The estimated combined economic rates of
return (ERR) for the indicative federal road program for 1997 to 2002 is about 18.9%,
with a net present value discounted at 12% of US$983 million.
4.18  In addition to the ERRs, the selection of the individual road sections to be included
in the highway modernization program took into consideration the importance of the
roads in the external trade transport and in regional integration and accident reduction.
For the economic analysis of the selected roads, a modified version of the Bank's HDM III
model, the HDM-Q, which takes into consideration road congestion and capacity
constraints as well as roadside friction, was used. The model predicts the life-cycle cost of
different modernization and subsequent pavement management options and selects the
combination with the minimum life-cycle costs, including the cost to road users and the
SCT. The life-cycle costs of road modernization include: road construction and
maintenance costs, vehicle operating costs, cost of time and accident costs. The accident
costs were put in the model as an exogenous variable. The traffic on the project roads
ranges between 2,100 and 31,000 vehicles per day. The value oftime used in the analysis
is based on only work-related trips and estimated as the frill value of the salary of heavy
vehicle drivers and 50% of the value of earnings for those traveling in private cars. Annex
D outlines the economic analysis for a typical road section, the San Roberto - Puerto
Mexico road (80 km). The full analysis is included in the Project File.
4.19  A sensitivity test of the variation in the ERRs against possible 20% changes in
construction costs and benefits as well as excluding the savings in time shows that all
project roads still yield ERRs of at least 12% and positive NPVs. An analysis performed
to test the effects (risk) of postponing the modernization of the typical road, San Roberto
- Puerto Mexico, shows that the net benefits are reduced if the investment is postponed by
two or three years. This postponement would, however, not make the modernization
economically non-feasible.
G. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS
4.20  The road improvement activities under the project might, in some cases, result in
negative environmental impacts. All road improvement would, therefore, be subjected to
an environmental impact assessment (EIA). For all sub-components identified for
implementation during the first year, EIAs have been carried out, reviewed by the Bank
and found satisfactory. For the remaining components, which would be selected in
subsequent years, the EIAs would be carried out before the approval of the sub-
component for inclusion in that year's program. SCT's environmental affairs unit (EAU)
is being strengthened under the HRTS. Moreover, to comply with environmental



33
requirements, SCT has revised its work specifications and improved those parts related to
the coverage of cultural patrimony, the management of quarries and borrow pits, pollution
control of construction equipment and work crews and disposal of waste materials. These
revisions are included in the bidding documents for civil works construction and are
adequate. SCT is also taking steps to improve the coordination among EAU and other
directorates of SCT carrying out their own environmental assessment in order to eliminate
duplication.
4.21   Since the proposed project is a time-slice operation and the social impacts,
including involuntary resettlement, of the civil works sub-projects to be carried out beyond
1998 are not yet known, agreement was reached at negotiations on a framework for
preparing resettlement documents, should they be necessary. The roads being modernized
in 1997 and those selected for 1998 were studied by a qualified sociologist and found not
to cause any need for involuntary resettlement. In order to ensure that any involuntary
resettlement caused by modernization of other roads or complementary works, such as by-
passes and junctions, which may not be part of the project, but connected with the project
roads, are adequately handled, it was agreed at negotiations that such complementary
works would also be subject to the resettlement framework mentioned above. In the
event of the need for involuntary resettlement in either of the above cases, it was agreed at
negotiations that the Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank satisfactory
resettlement documents for such affected persons or families not later than the date on
which it submits the road sections or complementary works for the Bank's review and
approval; and (b) thereafter carry out the actions recommended by the resettlement
documents in accordance with their terms.
H. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORY
4.22  The applicable categories for this project are Environmentally Sustainable
Development (80%) and Economic Management (20%).
I. PROJECT BENEFITS
4.23  The project would increase transport efficiency and reduce costs on the federal
road network, particularly along the major export transport corridors, and enhance the
country's competitive advantage in its external trade. It would help in accommodating the
rapid road traffic growth, estimated at about 10% per annum, on the major corridors
which will result from the NAFTA agreement. Given the free competition in Mexico's
trucking industry, the savings in vehicle operating costs would be passed on eventually to
consumers and the general population including the low income sector. Significant, but
non-quantifiable benefits would also accrue from the institutional strengthening and
training components. The improvement in allocating funds to highway activities would
ensure that benefits are maximized. Strengthening SCT and its regional centers would
help increase implementation efficiency and reduce delays. Finally, the improvement in
environmental and social awareness and the capacity to incorporate environmental and
social factors into road planning and the execution of road projects would prevent damage



34
to the country's natural resources and would adequately compensate persons adversely
affected by the projects.
J. PROJECT RISKS
4.24  The main project risks include: (a) Reduction of Maintenance Efforts on Road
Network. For the last several years, the Government, with the Bank's assistance, has
concentrated its efforts on rehabilitating and maintaining the federal road network. This
strategy has worked well. However, the country has reached a point where it now needs
to expand road capacity as well. It must do this in a balanced way so as not to jeopardize
what has been gained in terms of maintaining the existing system. There is, however, the
risk that with the modernization program, insufficient resources will be allocated to road
maintenance. The risk would be significantly reduced by SCT's ongoing effort to redefine
the federal road program to make it about half of its current size. Also, the introduction
of the proposed road maintenance fund and more efficient systems for allocating funds
among all road activities should help to ensure that economic priorities are reflected in
SCT's use of funds. Lastly, the pace of implementation of the modernization program
would be tailored to the availability of funds to implement a balanced road budget for the
STC. (b) Delays in Complementary Action to Modernize the Federal Road System. SCT
recognizes that modernizing the federal road network also includes complementary actions
to improve safety, traffic flow management, policing and vehicle weight and dimension
control. SCT's achievements on these would be discussed at annual review meetings
which would also agree on the composition and size of the annual programs. (c)
Environmental and Social Risks. Possible negative environmental and social impacts from
the project would be mitigated through the environmental safeguards built into SCT's
bidding documents, the strict requirements for environmental impact assessment in the
project and close monitoring of resettlement and their implementation of the resettlement
documents.



35
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1   During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
as a condition of loan effectiveness, the Guarantor and the Borrower would enter
into contractual agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the transfer of the
loan funds (para. 4.1);
SCT would present to the Bank, by October 31 each year during project
implementation starting in 1998, its draft road program on the federal
network for the subse(cuent fiscal year and by April 30, each year starting in
1998, its actual road program as updated to use fully the budget approved
by the Legislature (para. 2.9);
the composition and scope of the first and second year road programs (para. 3.5);
the scope and terms of reference of the technical assistance and implementation
schedules for: (i) reviewing the role and organization of the SCT; (ii)
developing the comprehensive road planning model and (iii) reviewing
inter-modal transport (para. 3.7);
the scope of the staff training program (para. 3.10);
the arrangements, eligibility, criteria and documentation for sub-project selection
(paras. 4.1 and 4.2);
procurement procedures (paras. 4.4 - 4.6);
the scope and content of the semestral and mid-term project implementation
reviews (paras. 4.9 - 4. 10);
performance and impact monitoring indicators for the project (para. 4.10)
the auditing of the project account would be in line with standing arrangements
between BANOBRAS and the Bank, and that the use of statement of
expenditures and the special account would be subject to a separate
opinion in the audit reports (para. 4.13);
procedures for environmental reviews and a framework for preparing resettlement
documents for subprojects (paras. 4.20-4.21); and
the loan disbursement arrangements, including the establishment of a Special
Account (paras. 4.14-4.16).
5.2   With the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank Libor-based single
currency loan of US$475 million for a period of 15 years, including five years of grace.



36
Table A-1: Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing, and Maintenance Program 1993-1996
DGCC Budget Requirements, Physical Targets and Accomplishements
1993             1994             1995         1996        Total 93 - 96   |
Target  Actual  Target  Actual  Target   Actual   Actual   Target (T)  Actual (A)   A/T
I. Financial Targets
(1993 Mexican N$ Million)
Total                1000.2  1330.5  1065.0  1086.7  1125.9   765.5   1298.0    3191.1    3182.8    99.7
(a) Pavements                      833.2  1156.4   866.4   953.0   941.2   712.7   1118.2    2640.8    2822.1   106.9
Rehabilitation                   284.0   407.6   444.6   344.1   608.3   224.3    729.5    1336.9         976.0    73.0
Resurfacing 1/                   341.7   158.9   246.0   320.9   165.8   209.7    201.9        753.5      689.5    91.5
Routine Maintenance & Equipm. If    207.5   589.9   175.8   288.0   167.1   278.7    186.8     550.4    1156.6   210.1
(b) Bridges
Rehabilitation/Improvement        50.0    70.9    69.5    56.4    68.4    49.6        69.3     187.9      176.9    94.1
(c) Miscellaneous                  117.0   103.2   129.1    77.3   116.3       3.3    110.5      362.4      183.8    50.7
II. Physical Targets
(a) Pavements
Rehabilitation   KM. 4/          722.0  2375.0  1151.0  1097.2  1745.0  1590.5   1625.0    3618.0    5062.7   139.9
Resurfacing       KM. 4/        7661.0  5863.0  5543.0  7580.0  4187.0  5245.6   4463.0   17391.0   18688.6   107.5
Routine Maintenance KM. 4J    33600.0 46000.0 35790.0  46183.7  35790.0 41774.0  35790.0  105180.0  133957.7   127.4
(b) Bridges
Rehabilitation/lImprovement UNITS  76.0   120.0    45.0   102.0    85.0   102.0       74.0     206.0      324.0   157.3
i1. Impact Indicators
(a) Highway Pavements: % of
Highway length in fair to good
condition
Strategy 88 (basic strategy)     40.0    27.0    36.0    43.0    35.0    50.0        39.0
Strategy 87                      39.0    27.0    41.0    43.0    40.0    50.0        44.0
Strategy 13                      38.0    27.0    44.0    43.0    52.0    50.0        50.0
(b) Bridges: units in need of repair 2/
Alarm                            66.0    80.0    32.0    60.0       0.0    30.0       0.0
Urgent                          214.0   213.0   181.0   245.0   168.0   260.0        83.0
Less urgent                     265.0   316.0   256.0   620.0   256.0   920.0    256.0
14- Noviembre - 1995
11 Fuente: Reporte de las Residencias Generales en Metas Financiadas Actuales
2/ Las Metas del Programa Presupuesto fueron estimadas en base a Inspecci6n de 821 Puentes: sin embargo durante 1994 y 1995 se complemento la
inspeccion de los 6346 Puentes existentes en la red federal
3/ Estimado
4/ Las Cantidades fisicas mostradas como actuales (Realizados) provienen de los informes de la Residencia General y en muchos casos incluye obra
realizada con un partida presupuestal diferente



37                          Annex A
Table A-2
Table A-2: Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance Program
Estimated DGCC Budget Needs and Physical Targets (1996 - 2000)
1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Target  Target  Target  Target  Target
1. Financial Targets
1996 Mexican N$ Million
Total           2,143.5 3,000.0  2,878.0  3,170.0  3,151.0
(a) Pavements                 1,790.1  2,585.2  2,443.1  2,782.1  2,815.2
Rehabilitation               907.8  1,723.1  1,801.1 2,159.1 2,165.1
Resurfacing                  406.9  415.1   156.0   152.0   155.1
Routine Maintenance &        475.4   447.0   486.0   471.0   495.0
Equipm.
(b) Bridges
Rehabilitation/Improvement   113.3   145.0   150.0   138.0   135.0
(c) Miscellaneous              240.0   270.0   285.0   250.0   201.0
11. Physical Targets
(a) Pavements
Rehabilitation   km        1,549.1  2,655.1   2,642  3,287.1  3,643.1
Periodic Maintenance km    3,714.2  5,691.1  2,159.1  1,762.0  2,114.0
Routine Maintenance km    42,085.0 38,139.0 38,870.0 38,224.0 39,091.0
(b) Bridges
Rehabilitation/Improvement    127     132     137     126     123
units






Figure 1: Projected Plhysical Conditioni of the Federal Road Network
(Assuming Expenditures of US$ 300 Million per Year)
40000                                                                                . _  ......
37500
35000 - - ----
32500 -
30000 - -
27500 -
25000       _                                                  ;
E    22500 -,
20000       .                             . .: ;
17500-                                                    :    :           :  :             :               X
15000 - - ----
12500                              -                                :.
10000   -.......
7500 -..
5000
2500
O  ------,-                        ,|,                          ,,I'I'
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
IEn    Good         Fair   El Bad         g   V. Bad |        Year






39                            Annex A
MEXICO
FEDERAL ROADS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of the Federal Road Network
A. Institutional Arrangements
1.    The Secretarfa de Comunicaciones y Transporte (SCT), through its Direcci6n
General de Conservaci6n de Carreteras (DGCC), is responsible for maintaining the un-
tolled portion of the federal road network, about 42,182 km. CAPUFE, private
concessionaires and the state governments are responsible for 1,420 km, 3,167 km and
1,096 km respectively on concession with SCT. Since the beginning of 1997, SCT has
been negotiating with the states to take over about half the federal road network.
2.    Maintenance of the expressways by CAPUFE, the private concessionaires and
the states, financed out of the tolls collected by these entities, is adequate. DGCC has
over the past three years significantly improved its maintenance performance through:
(a) introducing modern road and bridge maintenance management systems; (b)
contracting about 70% of of its maintenance to the private sector; (c) training its staff;
and (d) increasing significantly its spending on maintenance and rehabilitation, which
accounts for over 60% of SCT's road budget.
B.   Government's Objectives with HRRM
4.    To restore the federal network, the Government embarked on a Highway
Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance Program (HRRM). The Government's
objective under the program, being financed with the Bank's assistance under the
HRTS, was to bring the condition of all SCT-maintained roads in the federal network
(about 42,833 km) to at least a "fair" classification and no highways in poor condition
by the year 2008.
C.   Program Implementation
5.    The program's physical and institutional strengthening performance has been
fairly good; each year about 44,000 km have received routine maintenance, about
6,200 km resurfacing and about 1,700 km rehabilitation or reconstruction under the
program. On the institutional side, an operational, modern maintenance management
system has been put in place in DGCC with the assistance of consultants (BCEOM,
France). The system has permitted more rational selection, budgeting and monitoring
of rehabilitation and maintenance activities as well as the revision of the program to
reflect changing road conditions and availability of funds.
6.    The Government's performance in meeting the program's financial
requirements and its commitments under the HRTS project has been satisfactory on the



40                            Annex A
average: spending was above commitments for 1993 and 1994 and below for 1995. The
total spending for the first 3 years of the program have been equal to the commitments
undertaken under the HRTS (see Table A-1). These commitments were, however,
themselves only about 70% of the sums required to implement an optimum
maintenance program, i.e. one that would maximize the net present value to society.
They were considered acceptable to the Bank, however, in view of the difficult
financial situation the Government was going through then.
7.    An analysis of the physical work done since the start of the program in 1993
shows that the rhythm is acceptable. All roads in the federal network which are not
slated for resurfacing, rehabilitation or periodic maintenance receive adequate routine
maintenance each year. At the rate of 7,900 km of rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance per year, all roads in the network would be covered by these operations
within the next six years, compared to the cycle of 6 to 8 years traditionally considered
adequate, depending on traffic volumes.
D.   Revised Program Objectives.
8.    DGC has carried out an analysis of condition of the federal network based upon
more recent, detailed and reliable road condition inventory and assuming different
alternative levels of financing, using its maintenance management system, SISTER.
The results, presented in Figure 1, show that, should the annual allocation in real terms
be retained at US$300 million equivalent, the 1996 level, at least 50% of the network
would be brought to "good" condition and the remaining 50% to "fair" condition, the
original program objective, in the year 2008 compared to 2007. On the other hand,
funding the program at N$3.0 billion or US$400 million equivalent would accomplish
that goal in the year 2003.
9.    During the Mid-Term Review of Implementation of the HRTS in 1996, the
Government agreed to increase the funding for the HRTS to at least US$300 million
equivalent per year starting January 1997. The 1997 maintenance budget was actually
slightly higher than US$300 million and, if maintained, would permit achieving the
original program's goals by the year 2008. Should the Government's financial
situation improve, the Government undertook to increase the annual expenditures to
attain the goal in the year 2003. The revised financial and physical targets for the
program are presented in Table A-2.
10.   A detailed presentation of alternative funding scenarios and the corresponding
network conditions is included in the Project File.



41                               Annex B
MEXICO
FEDERAL ROADS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
A Introduction
SCT HAS EMBARKED ON A VERY SIGNIFICANT STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM UNDER THE
ONGOING HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND TRAFFIC SSAFETY PROJECT (HRTS). HRTS'
TRAINING PROGRAM AIMS AT:
(a) strengthening SCT, both at headquarters and in the regional units (Centros, SCT), in
all areas of highway rehabilitation and maintenance;
(b) improving SCT's performance in all areas of transport planning, contract
administration, works supervision and quality control;
(c) strengthening SCT in administering driver licensing, and vehicle inspection; and
(d) equipping the training centers at SCT's regional centers with basic training facilities.
2.    The detailed list of training areas and the number of staff expected to benefit are
included in Table B-i. Progress in implementing the program has been considerably delayed
due to delays in recruiting instructors.  It is now estimated that the program would be
completed by the year 1999 to 2000, instead of the original completion date of 1996. It was
therefore decided that the training program under the proposed Federal Roads Modernization
Program (FRM) be kept to a minimum in order not to overload SCT.
B. The Training Program under the FRM Project.
3.    The FRM would provide for deepening the above training in areas such as: (a) bidding
and contract administration (beneficiary, DGCF); (b) budgetary and resource allocation among
road activities(beneficiary, Oficiria Mayor); (c) project evaluation techniques (beneficiary,
DGP); and (d) the assessment of environmental social and economic impacts and designing
mitigation/compensation plans (beneficiaries, DGCF, DGST and CGP). The training would
also finance training in new areas such as: (a) inter-modal transport and electronic data
interchange systems (beneficiary, DGTT); (b) transport corridor analysis and planning
(beneficiary, DGP); and (c) highway financing (beneficiary, DGP). Lastly, the project would
provide for a parallel training program to the ongoing one under the HRTS for four selected
states in Mexico.
4   The proposed program under the project, to be carried from 1998 to 2001, would reach
about 780 participants over the 4-year period as shown in the table below. A more in-depth
training program would be developed following the re-organization study for the SCT.



42                               Annex B
Table B-1 Training Program (1998-2001)
Number of Participants and Estimated Costs
Beneficiarie  1998  1999  2000  2001       Total       Total
s                                    (1998-       (U$
2001)      Thous.)
DGCF           80   120   120    80            400         500
DGP             10    20    20    10            60         100
DGTT            10    20    20    10            60         100
DGE            40    50    50    40            180         100
DGST           20    20    20    20             80         200
Totals        160   230   230   160            780       1,000



43                                Annex C
MEXICO
FEDERAL ROADS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Performance Monitoring Indicators
A. Indicators
1.    The indicators to be monitored for measuring the project's performance are grouped
into five: (a) input indicators, which measure the efficiency in the delivery of inputs to the
project; (b) output indicators, which measure the efficiency of the implementing agency in
executing the project; (c) outcome indicators, which provide an indication of the sucess in
achieving the project's objectives; (d) impact indicators, which measure the degree of
attainment of the project's broad objectives; and (e) sustainability impact, which indicates the
degree to which the main factors/conditions needed for the project's sustainability are being
ffilled. A list of these indicators and the agreed benchmarks are presented in Table C-1.
B. Organizational Arrangements for Monitoring
2.    SCT would be responsible for measuring the project's performance. SCT would be
assisted by the Instituto Mexicano de Transporte (IMT) and consultants, as necessary, with
financing under the project. To permit a "before" and "after" project comparison, benchmark
measurements would be made, for those outcome and impact indicators to which they are
applicable, before project implementation starts. The results of the performance monitoring
would be discussed during the annual review of project implementation and would be an
important input into the project Implementation Report after loan closure.



44                                Annex C
Table C-1: Performance Monitoring Indicators
Indicators                                     Benchmark
1998     1999     20004    2001      2002
Input Indicators
Counterpart Funds US$ m    25.0     65.9      112.4    107.0    89.7
Bank Loan Funds US$ m      25.0     65.9      112.4    107.0    89.7
Output Indicators
Km of Highways             160      265       255      195      70
Modernized
% of Contracts Completed    60      70        80       85       90
on Time
No. of Staff Receiving              160       230      230       160
Training                   _ _ :
Outcome Indicators
% of Completed Roads with  100      100       100      100       100
targeted improved capacity
Ratio of actual and projected  90   90        90       90        90
time savings for completed
roads
Ratio of Actual and        80       80        80       80        80
Projected Vehicle Operation
Cost Savings for Completed
Roads
Impact Indicators
% Decrease in Transport    20       20       20        20       20
Costs on Completed Roads
% Reduction in Serious     10       15       20        20       20
Accidents
%:Reduction in No. of All   5       10        10       15        15
Accidents on Completed
Roads
Sustainability Indicators



45                                Annex C
Km of Federal Roads        2110      2264     2745      3096      1633
Rehab./Recons.
Km of Federal Roads        1764      2275     995       1000      1000
Receiving Periodic
Maintenance
Km of Federal Roads        39277    39277    39277    39277    39277
Receiving Routine
Maintenance
Funds Spent on Maintenance  3170     3151     3200      3321     3450
(N$ Million)                       I         I        I         I        I






46                                Annex D
MEXICO
FEDERAL ROADS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project Roads
l. Economic Analysis
A. Methodology
1.    SCT used economic tests, Net Present Value and Economic Rates of Return, to pre-
select the roads to be included in its federal roads modernization program. SCT then prepared
in-depth economic analysis on about 2016 km of roads to be modernized in years 1997-2002
using the HDM -Q model. The model measures the benefits from the road investments in the
form of vehicle operating cost savings and time savings to the economy against the cost of the
investments and subsequent maintenance of the road over the 25-year life of the
investments.The HDM-Q is the modified form of the HDM III model which can take into
consideration congestion effects. The model predicts the life-cycle costs of different
modernization and subsequent pavement management options and selects the combination with
the minimum life-cycle costs to society, including the cost to road users and the SCT. The
model computes, for a given road and traffic, first the free-flow speeds and then adjusts these
speeds to take into account the congestion level. The resulting speeds are then used to compute
the vehicle operating and travel time savings. Although accident savings are expected to be
considerable, it is difficult to quantify them to any reliable degree. The estimates for these
savings are therefore not included in the best estimate analysis of the roads, but have only been
added to the benefits in the case of the sensitivity analysis. A sample of the economic analysis,
using the San Roberto - Puerto Mexico Road (80 km), one of the first-year roads is presented
below.
Traffic
2.    The San Roberto - Puerto Mexico (SR-PM) road section forms part of the most
important road axis in Mexico, the Mexico - Nuevo Laredo road which carries over 9,000
vehicles per day (vpd) of which more than 60 % are trucks. The SR-PM road section carries
about 7,958 vpd of which 46% are passenger vehicles, 2% buses and 52% heavy vehicles.
Based on historic traffic growth and future projects of economic growth, the rate of growth of
traffic has been estimated at a modest 2% per year for all vehicle types. This a conservative
assumption since the current average annual growth is between 5 % to 7 %. Therefore, in the
sensitivity analysis an average annual growth of 5% has also been tested. Because a financial
analysis of toll alternatives to the proposed investments has shown them financially
unattractive, it has been assumed that there will be no traffic diversion from the project road.
Vehicle Operating Costs (voc)
3.    The vocs used in the model are those incorporated in the HDM model modified to
reflect unit costs in Mexico. The benefits from reduced vehicle operating costs arise from both
the better riding surface after modernization and the reduction in roadside friction from
increased road capacity. The initial roughness has been measured at 5.3 IRI (international
roughness index) and the final, after the road investment, estimated at 2.1 from experience in
Mexico with similar works. The vocs with and without the project are shown in Table D-1.



47                                Annex D
Time Savings
4.    The time savings from the investments represent the differential in average travel times
between the existing nearly congested roads and those on the improved roads which would
permit a level of service of at least "B". The HDM Q model estimates these time savings
automatically based on traffic levels and composition and the geometrical design standards of
the existing and improved roads.
5.    The value of time is quantified separately for truck and bus drivers and their mates -
for whom the average full value of wages and compensation is used - and for private car
drivers and their passengers - for whom the value of time is discounted.
Investment Costs
6.    The modernization of the road, which comprises road widening and provision of wider
shoulders as well as overlaying the surface, is estimated to occur in 1998 with an overlay in
the year 2016. Annual routine maintenance and resealing, when the damaged area reaches
50%, would be carried out each both in the 'with"and "without"project cases, but, in the
without case, there would also be an overlay in the year 2007. The investment costs used in the
analysis are estimates based on unit prices in recently received bids for similar works. The
economic costs for both benefits and agency costs have been calculated as total costs minus
taxes. No shadow prices have been used since the valuation of cost and benefit inputs is
undistorted market prices.
B. Summary Results
7.    The costs and benefit streams during the life-cycle of the San Roberto - Puerto Mexico
Road, and the results of the economic analysis are shown in Tables D-1 and D-2. The
proposed modernization of the San Roberto - Puerto Mexico road section would yield a Net
Present Value of US$40.9 million, discounted at 12%. The corresponding economic rate of
return would be 25.2%. The 1997-2002 indicative program would yield an NPV of about
US$983 million and an economic rate of return of 18.9%.
C. Sensitivity Analysis
8.    A sensitivity analysis, assuming reasonably likely variations in costs and benefits,
shows for the SR-PM road section that, with a combined increase of 20% and a decrease in
benefits of 20%, the ERR falls to 21.5 % (Table E-3). The IRR increases to 28.5% if a traffic
growth rate of 5% p.a. is assumed. For all the project's civil works combined, the NPV
discounted at 12% would be US$920 million, and the economic rate of return 19.4%. These
figures are, however, only indicative -since the current list of roads in the program is very
tentative. For the whole project, a 20% increase in investment costs would reduce the ERR to
14.9% while a decrease in benefits of 20% would reduce it to 14.3% The NPV would still be
positive in all cases.
II. Financial Analysis
9.    The financial analysis of the Tampico - Linares road, one of the roads in the second
year program, is presented here as an illustration of the analysis to determine if an alternative



48                                 Annex D
road financed by the private sector and operated as a toll road would be attractive to the private
sector under reasonable assumptions of toll levels and length of concession period. The
objective is to ensure that public funds are not substituted for would-be private funds in
improving public infrastructure. Using private funds would release public funds for other uses
and would lead to more efficient use of resources since, in the toll road case, the public would
be given the option to pay tolls for an improved level of service over a long period of time.
On the other hand, the private sector would only undertake to finance the alternative roads if
the potential return on capital exceeds that from available opportunities in Mexico.
A. The Analysis
10.   The existing road in the modernization program is made up as follows (see Figure 1):
Tampico - Altamira
Altamira - Est. Manuel
Est. Manuel - Gonzalez.
Gonzalez - Llera de Canales
Llera de Canales - Cd. Victoria
Cd. Victoria - Barretal
Barretal - Lim. Edos. Tam/Nuevo Leon
11.   The sections of the road with inadequate capacity and therefore requiring urgent
attention are:
Entronque Llera - Ciudad Victoria    - 58.0 km, ADT 4,350 with 15% trucks; and;
El Barretal - Linares  -116.0 km, ADT 2,858, with 16% trucks.
Economic rates of return for the two sections, calculated using the same methodology as the
San Luis Potosi - Huizache road above, yield economic returns of 17.8% and 14.8%
respectively.
12.   The tolled alternative would consist of:
Alt. A: Cuauhtemoc - Ciudad Victoria - 156 km, ADT 1,416; and
Ciudad Victoria - Linares   153 km, ADT 2,448.
13.   Under the alternative of a toll road, the existing road would need to be maintained in a
reasonable shape to provide a free alternative to users, as required by Mexican Law. The main
variables used in the toll alternative analysis are as discussed below.
Traffic
14.   The traffic data, collected by consultants in their feasibility studies, gave the following
results:
(a)    Base year daily volumes are cars 1,416 and 2,448 respectively, as shown
above;



49                                Annex D
(b)    A uniform growth of 2.5% was predicted by the consultants, except in the
initial years of the toll operation. It was assumed that there would be a drop of
10% in traffic immediately following the introduction of tolls. This would be
followed by a period of growth so that, by the 10th year, the traffic would be
equal to that predicted originally assuming the 2.5% annual growth. Traffic
beyond year 10 is projected to continue its 2.5% annual growth.
Construction Costs
15.   The construction costs of the toll road alternative are estimated at US$282 million or
US$912,223 per km, based upon the experience of SCT. Overlays, at a cost of US$129,809
per km are expected to be applied to the road every - years. Routine maintenance has been
estimated at US$1,481 per km per year. A physical contingency of 20% has been applied to
all costs.
Financing Conditions
16.   Based on the results of SCT's studies, the concessionaire can obtain financing for 40%
of the initial outlays, with the remaining 60% coming from reserves or a call on shareholders
capital. The loan conditions would be as follows:
(a)    A loan of 40% of initial construction cost would be obtained with a two-year
grace period. During construction, interest is added to the loan principal.
Amortization of capital and principal would be over 7 years with equal annual
installments. Interest is calculated over the outstanding balance at the end of
each year; and
(b)    The interest rate would be 11 % per year. The corresponding interest payments
are included as an operating cost to be offset against revenue since the loan is
intended to lever up the return on shareholders capital.
Toll Administration Costs
17.   The cost of collecting tolls and administering the system are estimated to be 10% of
gross revenue.
Concession Life
18.   To avoid the problems which have plagued the private toll roads program due to the
short concession period, SCT intends to grant the concessionaires a period of 30 years for the
new concessions.
Toll Rates
19.   The toll rates are estimated as 85% of the expected reduction in costs to road users in
the fifth year following the inauguration of the new road. These rates which compare
reasonably with CAPUFE's rates are: US cents 1.72 for cars, US cents 3.44 for buses and US
cents 5.16 for trucks.



50                                 Annex D
II. Results
20.   The flows of revenue and costs are shown in Table D-3. The estimated rate of return
on share capital would be -6.9% which is unattractive to the private sector.



51                                            Annex D
Table D-1: Economic Analysis of San Roberto - Puerto Mexico Road
Cost and Benefit Streams (US$ millions)
Road Length = 80 km
Without Project                                                         With Project
Year    Traffic   Type of Work  ERI  Agency  Vehicle Op. Accident  Total    Traffic   Type of  IRI    Agency   Vehicle Op. Accident    Total
(ADT)                mm/m   Costs       Costs      Costs   Costs   (ADT)    Work   mm/m    Costs           Costs      Costs'      Costs
(VOC)
1998     6353       Overlay     3.6  5.26       98.6S   0.00      103.94      6353    Modern.  3.6       49.90      98.68       0.00    148.58
1999     6511                  3.7  0.10        89.11    0.38     89.59       6511    Conaerv.  2.1      0.10       81.39       0.00   81.49
2000     6674                   3.9  0.10        92.17    0.46    92.73       6674               2.2      0.10      83.48       0.00   83.58
2001     6841                   4.0  0.10        95.39   0.54    96.03        6841               2.3      0.10      85.61       0.00   85.71
2002     7012                   4.2  0.10        98.76   0.6      99.46       7012               2.3      0.10      87.79       0.00   87.89
2003     7187                   4.3  0.10       102.49   0.64    103.23       7187               2.5      0.10      90.03       0.00   90.13
2004     7367                   4.5  0.10       106.54   0.ou     107.32      7367               2.5      0.10      92.34       0.00   92.44
2005     7551                   4.7  0.10       111.03   0.71     11-1,84     7551               2.6      0.10      94.71       0.00   94.81
2006     7740                   5.0  0.10       115.52   0.74     116.36      7740               2.7      0.10      97.16       0.00   97.26
2007     7934       Overlay     2.9  5.25       120.86   0.76     126.87      7934               2.8      0.10      99.69       0.00   99.79
2008     8132                   3.0  0.10       113.68   0.76     114.54      8132               3.0      0.10      102.31      0.00   102.41
2009     8335                   3.1  0.10       118.48   0.76     119.34      8335               3.2      0.10      105.38      0.00   105.48
2010     8544                   3.3  0.10       122.37   0.76    123.23       8544               3.4      0.11      109.01      0.00   109.12
2011     8757                   3.4  0.10       126.44   0.76    127.3        8757               3.6      0.12      112.93      0.00   113.05
2012     8976                   3.5  0.10       130.73   0.76     131.59      8976               3.8      0.12      116.94      0.00   117.06
2013     9201                   3.7  0.10       135.28   0.76    136.14       9201               4.0      0.12      121.04      0.00   121.16
2014     9431                   3.8  0.10       140.16   0.76    141.02       9431               4.2      0.12      125.24      0.00   125.36
2015     9667                   4.0  0.10       145.43   0.76     146.29      9667               4.4      0.12      129.52      0.00   129.64
Avg.                            3.4                                                              3.2
Economic Comparisons
Without Accident Savings                    Without Accident Savings
Year     Decreased   Decreased     Net    Decreased  Decreased    Accident       Net
Agency       User      Benefits   Agenry     User    Cost Savings   Benefits
Costs      Costa                  Costa     Costs
1998     -44.64       0.00      -44.64    -44.64      0.00         0.00       -44.64
1999      0.00        7.72       7.72       0.00      7.72         0.38        8.10
2000      0.00        8.69       8.69       0.00       8.69        0.46        9.15
2001      0.00        9.78        9.78      0.00       9.78        0.54        10.32
2002      0.00        10.97      10.97      0.00      10.97        0.60        11.57
2003      0.00        12.46      12.46      0.00      12.46        0.64        13.10
2004      0.00        14.20      14.20      0.00      14.20        0.68        14.88
2005      0.00        16.32      16.32      0.00      16.32        0.71        17.03
2006      0.00        18.36      18.36      0.00      18.36        0.74        19.10
2007      5.15        21.17      26.32      5.15      21.17        0.76        27.08
2008      0.00        11.37      11.37      0.00      11.37        0.76        12.13
2009      0.00        13.10      13.10      0.00      13.10        0.76        13.86
2010      -0.01       13.36      13.35     -0.01      13.36        0.76        14.11
2011     -0.02        13.51      13.49      -0.02     13.51        0.76        14.25
2012      -0.02       13.79      13.77     -0.02      13.79        0.76        14.53
2013     -0.02        14.24      14.22     -0.02      14.24        0.76        14.98
2014      -0.02       14.92      14.90     -0.02      14.92        0.76        15.66
2015      -0.02       15.91      15.89     -0.02      15.91        0.76        16.65
ERR= 25.2%                                ERR =26.3%
NPV = 40.9                                NPV = 44.8



52                                Annex D
Table D-2: Economic Analysis of Roads
Sensitivity Analysis Results
(US$ millions)
Sensitivity Analysis Results
Scenarios            San  Roberto  - Whole
Pto. Mexico      Project
1. Base Case                          25.2          19.4
2. Cost Increased by 20%              26.1          14.1
3. Benefits Decreased by 20%          26.6          14.3
4. Excluding Accident Benefits        25.7          15.5
5. Costs Decreased by 20%             21.5          12.3
and Benefits Decreased by 20%



53                                                                    Annex D
Table D-3: Financial Analysis of Tampico - Linares Road
Estimation of Financial Returns
(US$)
Estimate of Financial Returns      1             2            3             4            5             6             7            8             9             10
Revenues                         -7,974,366   -32,456,587   -30,794,934   -25,518,468   -20,241,271    -1,541,667    -9,686,101    -4,952,074    -4,430,648    -4,382,883
Depreciation and Amortization     1,346,090    5,476,963     5,957,098     5,957,098    5,957,098     5,957,098    5,957,098     5,957,098     6,244,212   465,193,807
Investments                      92,185,933
Available Credit                 63,398,368
Debt Service                                   5,283,197    10,566,395    10,566,395    10,566,395    10,566,395    10,566,395   5,283,197
Cash Flow                       -35,415,841   -32,262,822   -35,404,231   -30,127,765   -24,850,568   -19,573,782   -14,295,398    -4,278,173  1,813,564     1,861,329
Accum. Cash Flow                -35,415,841   -67,678,663  -103,082,893  -133,210,658  -158,061,226  -177,635,008  -191,930,406  -196,208,579  -194,395,014  -192,533,685
11           12            13            14           15            16           17            18            19           20
Revenues                         -3,659,847    -2,937,086    -2,886,946    -2,834,432    -2,779,909    -3,262,483    -3,206,271    -3,149,190    -3,089,598    -3,030,143
Depreciation and Amortization     5,570,311    4,896,411     4,896,411     4,896,411    4,896,411     5,433,189    5,433,189     5,433,189     5,433,189      543,319
Investments
Available Credit
Debt Service
Cash Flow                         1,910,464     1,959,325    2,009,465     2,061,979    2,116,502     2,170,706    2,226,919     2,283,999     2,343,591     2,403,046
Accum. Cash Flow               -190,623,221  -188,663,896  -186,654,431  -184,592,452  -182,475,950  -180,305,245  -178,078,326  -175,794,327  -173,450,736  -171,047,690
21           22            23           24            25            26           27            28            29           30
Revenues                         -2,776,807     1,703,772    2,129,716     2,658,128    2,725,118     2,795,030    2,866,814     2,938,873     3,014,447     3,089,794
Depreciation and Amortization     5,241,135      823,893       461,879
Investments
Available Credit
Debt Service
Cash Flow                         2,464,328    2,527,665     2,591,595     2,658,128    2,725,118     2,795,030    2,866,814     2,938,873     3,014,447     3,089,794
Accum. Cash Flow               -168,583,361  -166,055,697  -163,464,102  -160,805,974  -158,080,857  -155,285,827  -152,419,012  -149,480,140  -146,465,692  -143,375,899
Return on Capital = -6.9%



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28418
Tij..o.                                                      10
'~~~~~~~~~~~'
a  Cs  S O { N  O ( R A j  C\H I H  A H U A                                                                                                               FEDERAL ROAD
1g   - H rmosills _   [   <  \    <    ..   /   Cd. Acufio                                                                             M E X I C O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E   IC 
1         ~~~                   ~~0 ->h. (    S gOuhoL.p P.d.Nors                                                                             /                        FEDERAL ROADS                                                  -
MODERNIZATION PROJECT -
flia Boalta   ~  i.dod ObtaElS..
Eod. H U.......T  ,/                                                             -     FEDERAL ROADS TO BE MODERNIZED
!    ,  oAXA  o  Ua'ojooa  '9           Porrol I    _                   M  iclona  nro0   -~     n-                                                             DIVIDED HIGHWAYS
m  C.,tanl.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~SELECTED MAIN ROADS
CSeLIFO2%A 0                       )<>e l_ 2 \ < > giG:orio) / N_\l ~ RIVERS
S,3U R             L., machi                                                                                                                                        0 ntjrr  ntanoro.  0   SELECTED CrTIES AND TOWNS
10  STATE CAPITALS
* NATIONAL CAPITAL
X  +\\Cu1i\s6n  DURANGO 0  t   t.  ,26  P.uerrtLInuEes    -/.                                                --~  STATE BOUNDARIES
La>How Pa0                                               C)nncon~ej            DuWt%ZrE~Coo                                   G                               ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
oL     100      200     300      400     500 KILOMETERS
C.    S.. L..                                                  WV .-I                                                                                D0         100          200           3     MILES
N   ARIT  ,A-  Cd V.11       P-                                                                                          'Pt..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'t
AgydT".]                                                               A9W G  ulI f  o f  M  e x i c o            Progreso            TiaimT    Ju6r
P-P A C I F I C   O C E A N  1  J:rv u x p                                                                                        Merido                      C
P                                                                                                                     YUC BAT  yaIi P
-20.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ta..1G.dlj,I.lo-,2
(cI CASTANOS LA GLORIA                                               -e                                                             .JIP                                                                     NTA, *
VILLAHERMOSA-CD.DEL CARMEN                                  -\                Ut)~o Pa                                TCA          JBaP            y  a    Nam Pe Che
CUAUHTEMOC-EST MANUEL                                   Maon               ,qzno0            CAChatu,na
( MATEHUALA-SAN ROBERTO                                                                                          OR t                                                                       CAM PECHE7
( SAN ROBERTO-PUERTO MEXICO                                          Lo- rIS                                                                                   TAB A       4_
CUENCAME-RIO GRANDE                                                   L.  rnad-na                   -- 
( GONZALEZ-ZARAGCZA                                                                 ZC_P
Acop   t  O   A  )(  <   C   A t_         i       L ~~~~~~~~CH IA Aee S 1           BEIZ
( ESCOBEDO-LINARES                                                                                                            0    CA.
~~~~~~~ C~ A                              /i          . Mloo_tln_ ttna  
Thimp .np  pdodaond by tn Map O.aig. Unit F Tha W BrmL                                                                                                                 - P.,t E.                                                                /
Th. bo-nndri., coon, d-omninaolo and o,ef,m im.na-e..,                                                                                                                                                                 GUATEMALA
Ahon on -hi, mop oo not .ply, on f, pate  Th. World 8ank Ctnp,
any jdg.at on- . lgol .enaofanyb n y j-mtnYi a any an-n                                                                                                                                                                                    (  HONDURAS
100-                                                                                      90pac,erlo
MAY 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:         15448   ME
Type:     SAR



