Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13807
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
REFINERIES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3104-UNI)
DECEMBER 20, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Western Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
Calendar 1989              January-June 1993
US$1                 -      N 7.36              N 22.34
NI (100 Kobos)      -      US$0.14              US$0.04
MEASURES AND UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
1 megawatt  (MW)                         -      1000 kilowatts
1 ton of crude oil                       -      7.0 barrels of crude oil
1 barrel                                 -      159 liters
1000 barrels per day (bpd)               =      52,000 tons per year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
NNPC -       Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
SAR   -      Staff Appraisal Report
TA    -      Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 20, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Refineries Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3104-UNI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Nigeria - Refineries Rehabilitation Project (Loan
3104-UNI) prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
Tlhe implementation of the project coincided with a reorganization of the Borrower's corporate
structure which contributed to the difficulties of managing the project. In addition to frequent changes
in the top management of National Nigerian Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), the decision-making
process within the Corporation remained extremely cumbersome and the proposed decentralization and
delegation of authority to the management of the refineries never took place.  As a result, the
implementation proceeded very slowly and only one third of the loan-US$ 9.2 million-was disbursed.
Two fires, the first at the Warri Refinery in 1991 and the second at the Kaduna Refinery in
1993, had a significant effect on the operations and performance of the refinery. These fires highlighted
the operational problems of the two refineries, and reduced the relevance of the project objectives
(minor rehabilitation of the refineries). After the damages were repaired (reportedly at a cost of
between US$ 80-100 million for Warri and somewhat more for Kaduna), the refineries are still
operating at much below capacity with little improvement in sight. The problems of technical and
managerial skills, operating practices and safety procedures are still unresolved.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. It provides a candid account of a project that suffered two
years of delay before the loan was signed and was never really "owned" by the Borrower. Since the
bulk of the expected results did not materialize, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory. The
project's sustainability is rated as unlikely and its institutional development as negligible. No audit is
planned.
Attachment
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
REFINERIES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3104-UNI)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE  ..................................................   i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ......................................  ii
PART I - REVIEW  FROM  THE BANKS'S PERSPECTIVE   .................  1
A. Background  ..........................................   1
B. Project Objectives and Description  ...........................    2
C. Project Design and Organization  ............................    3
D. Project Implementation  ..................................    4
E. Sustainability of Project Results .............................    7
F.  Bank Performance  .....................................    8
G. Borrower Performance  ..................................    9
H. Project Relations  ......................................   10
I.  Consulting Services  ....................................   10
J.  Project Documentation and Data  ............................   10
PART II - REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .....1....... 11
A. Introduction  .........................................   11
B. Project Implementation ..................  11
C. Bank Performance  .....................................   12
D. NNPC Performance  ....................................   12
E. Project Documentation  ..................................   13
F.  Project Result ........................................   13
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ..........................   16
Table 1: Related Bank Loans or Credits ..........................   16
Table 2: Project Timetable  ..................................   16
Table 3: Loan Disbursements  ................................   17
Table 4: Project Implementation ...............................   18
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing   ...........................   19
Table 6: Project Results ....................................  21
Table 7: Status of Covenants .................................   22
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources  ..............................   23
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of ihdr    |
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bedisclosed without Wor]d Bank authorization.l






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
REFINERIES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3104-UNI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Refineries Rehabilitation Project
in Nigeria, for which Loan 3104-UNI in the amount of US$27.7 million was approved on
June 29, 1989. The loan was closed on June 30, 1993, on schedule. Only US$9.2 million
of the loan was disbursed, with the last disbursement being made on December 29, 1993.
The remaining US$18.5 million was canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division of the
Western Africa Department, Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and ILI)
and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation for this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of
the project in March 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
and Guarantee Agreements, supervision reports, consultant's reports, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to improve NNPC's approach to preventive
maintenance and decision making on investments and repairs at the Kaduna and Warri oil
refineries so as to achieve profitable operation by: attaining the design throughput by
eliminating bottlenecks; improving reliability through better maintenance; strengthening
operational management; introducing safety measures and protecting the environment through
appropriate treatment of effluents. These objectives were to be achieved through Bank
financing of $13.1 million for equipment and materials, $4.7 million for engineering, studies,
and training, $6.0 million for a revolving fund for supplies, and a commensurate allocation
for contingencies.
Implementation Experience
2.    In general the project was not implemented as planned. Two years elapsed between
appraisal (1988) and loan signature (1990). Considerable delays affected the project from the
very beginning. Project management teams were not set up as agreed. The original schedule
was neither followed, nor replaced by an updated one. The Special Account facility was not
utilized as intended. During the disbursement period major accidents damaged and idled both
refineries requiring substantial investments for the repair of facilities outside the project. By
the time the loan was closed, four years after Board approval, only 33 percent of the funds
had been disbursed for purposes related to the project ($9.2 million of a total of $27.7
million). There were constant differences of opinion between the Borrower's headquarters
and the refinery units concerning "ownership" of the project. Consequently procurement and
disbursement procedures were slow and uneven. The implementation of the project coincided
with a reorganization of the Borrower's corporate structure which contributed to the
difficulties of managing the project. Improvements in management did not occur, and might
not have been possible since wholesale changes of key personnel were made in 1990 and
again in 1993.
Results
3.    The bulk of the expected results did not materialize. Accidental fires damaged the
production facilities of both refineries and the repairs required large infusions of cash from
NNPC; these were made without conducting a critical analysis of the causes of the accidents.
As the cost of the repairs was of the order of $200 million, the contribution of the $9 million
of Bank funds by themselves is not measurable. Without a thorough fact finding report or an
investigation of the causes of the accidents, an improvement in performance was difficult to
achieve. There is no information that would point to an improvement in performance; in fact,
there is very little information on the recent operation of these plants. The Warri refinery is
known to be operational again and the Kaduna refinery is out of service at this time (January
1994).
Findings and Lessons Learned
4.       The experience showed the difficulties of reconciling Bank objectives and
procedures for procurement and disbursement with NNPC corporate culture; the same had
already been observed in the Gas Technical Assistance Project that overlapped in time with



- iii -
this project, (see PCR 12637). It also showed the pitfalls of implementing a project when the
authority and responsibility of the levels of management is not clearly defined or delegated.
This resulted in a situation where no one level or manager assumed 'ownership' of the
project within the Borrower's organization. This problem proved hard to remedy. One of the
reasons may have been that the Bank loan was too small to have any leverage for solving a
sensitive issue such as the management structure in the refineries and within NNPC. This
issue was identified as the core problem by the first diagnostic study, and attempts by the
Bank to start a constructive dialogue did not elicit any response by the borrower. The Loan
Agreement also included several covenants concerning operation and reporting which were not
complied with. Yet the Bank did not follow up nor did it formally insist upon compliance
with these legal obligations; thus missing an opportunity to underline to the Borrower the
importance it attached to the success of the project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
REFINERIES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3104-UNl)
PART I - REVIEW FROM THE BANKS'S PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:       Refineries Rehabilitation Project
Loan No.:           LN 3104-UNI
RVP Unit:           Africa Region
Country:            Nigeria
Sector:             Energy
Subsector:          Petroleum
A.    Background
1.1    The petroleum subsector is the mainstay of the Nigerian economy. It accounts for
approximately 20 percent of the GDP and provides a large part of the country's export
earnings. Nigeria's proven oil reserves are ample (over 17 billion barrels of crude) and they
may increase by a similar amount if the probable reserves are confirmed. At the present rate
of extraction the flow of oil will continue for another 20 years or more, although a gradual
decline is expected after the turn of the century.
1.2    Long-term investments in exploration and production must continue if the sector is to
maintain its productive capacity and continue its contribution to the economy. One way of
increasing the flow of oil for export is to contain the domestic consumption of oil products.
To this end Nigeria has begun some inter-fuel substitution, and has introduced moderate price
increases intended to slow down the growth of domestic consumption. The Egbin power
station, which accounts for just under 25 percent of available generating capacity has been
converted to natural gas, and domestic fuel prices have been raised to approximately one third
of international levels. Thus there remains ample scope for progress. Oil can also be saved
by improving the efficiency of the oil refineries; a reduction of their losses and of their
internal consumption would leave more crude available for other purposes.
1.3    The petroleum subsector is dominated by a parastatal agency, the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). It is wholly owned by the government, and it uses a number
of joint ventures, mainly with multinational oil companies, to develop and operate production
facilities. The profits from its operation provide approximately 80 percent of the
Government's revenues. Unlike the arrangement used for the production of oil and gas, the
two refineries at Warri and at Kaduna were operated directly by NNPC without specific cost
controls. The plants themselves have never operated at or approaching design output, despite
repeated rehabilitation efforts. As part of the 1988 restructuring the refineries were to
become business units with their own profit and loss statements.
1.4    During the course of the implementation of the Gas Technical Assistance Project,
Loan 2390-UNI, the problems of the refineries came into focus, and the Bank agreed to study
the problems with a view to eventually finance a major rehabilitation of the two plants. In
this first phase, the Bank further agreed to finance in addition to the studies, also some



- 2 -
components that were urgently required for safety, for environmental protection, and to
replenish a stock of spares and catalysts for immediate production needs.  The same
engineering consultant who had advised NNPC during the construction of the Warri refinery
was retained to define the basic needs in these areas.
B.    Project Objectives and Description
1.5    The objectives of the project ranged over several areas:
(i)   institutional - to improve the capacity of NNPC for economic evaluation of
investment options to attain least cost and maximum benefit solutions for the
management and operation of the Warri and Kaduna refineries; this would
dovetail with the institution building work of the Gas Technical Assistance
Project;
(ii)   rehabilitation needs - to identify the problems and to evaluate the needs for
rehabilitation of the two refineries;
(iii)   plant reliability - to establish preventive maintenance and corrosion protection
programs, and achieve a more reliable plant operation;
(iv)   environmental - to increase the capacity of the treatment plants to match the
quantity of waste water; this would reduce pollution from effluent to
environmentally acceptable levels.
(v)   training - to provide necessary training for NNPC personnel in plant
inspection, preventive maintenance and environmental protection measures.
1.6    The project included the following components:
For the Warri refinery:
(i)    Study of the power system and of the power generating equipment to deal
with the problem of excessive vibrations of the turbo-generators, and with the
resulting disturbances to the power system;
(ii)    Rehabilitation and expansion of the waste water treatment plant;
(iii)  Installation of a system of above-ground water pipes for fire protection to
replace the original underground pipe system now unserviceable due to
corrosion.
(iv)   Expansion of the condensate recovery system to cope with the needs of the
new steam drives that have replaced electric drives in many auxiliaries.
(v)    Procurement of miscellaneous components; new sensors and a new
uninterruptible power supply for the process control system, laboratory
equipment for quality control, and a supply of spare parts.
(vi)   Replenishment of spares and materials stock, including catalysts.



-3-
For the Kaduna refinery:
(i)    Rehabilitation and expansion of the water treatment plant, as for Warri;
(ii)   Improvement of the condensate recovery system by adding steam traps and
piping;
(iii)   A new computer system for data logging and recording, as the original one
(installed in 1978) had become obsolete and was inoperative.
(iv)   Laboratory equipment to replace unserviceable items, and items for which
spare parts are no longer available.
(v)    Replenishment of spares and materials stock, including catalysts.
General study and training activities:
(i)    Diagnostic studies of operations at each refinery;
(ii)   Engineering studies to define the rehabilitation needs of the two refineries;
(iii)   Workshops on preventive maintenance, corrosion protection and
environmental protection;
(iv)   Training program for the subjects listed under (iii) above, as well as on
operating economics, energy conservation, inventory control and inspection
procedures.
Spare Parts, Essential Chemicals and Catalysts
Replenishment of spares and materials stock, including catalysts and chemicals to
maintain uninterrupted operation at both refineries.
C.    Project Design and Organization
Conceptual Foundation
1.7    The project objective was clear: to identify the cause of the problems and to fund the
most urgent improvements needed for safety and for environmental protection, and
maintenance spare parts. In 1988 the Warri refinery operated at a level of approximately 3.5
million tons per year, as compared with a design capacity of 5.5 million tons. Likewise, the
Kaduna refinery produced approximately 2.9 million tons against a capacity of 5.0 million
tons per year. Production shutdowns were frequent and the refineries were operating between
200 and 250 days per year rather than for the expected 335 days.
1.8    A concurrent goal was to upgrade the managerial and technical skills of the operating
staff, as well as their ability to deal with operating problems. A program of personnel
training was funded to improve operation and maintenance. It included instruction on
preventive maintenance procedures, environmental protection measures; as well as diagnostic
studies of the operation, and engineering studies for the refineries' plant and processing units.



While the management problems at NNPC were known, it was assumed that the
implementation of the 1988 group reorganization would solve the major ones; and that there
would be a unity of purpose, shared by the Bank, the Ministry, the NNPC management in
Lagos, and the operating management at the refineries.
Appropriateness
1.9   There was no doubt that the refurbishing of the components included in the project
was necessary and urgent. The refurbishing alone was not sufficient nor was it expected to
achieve a fundamental improvement for two main reasons. The rehabilitation covered by the
loan was only an initial phase, limited in scope to dealing with the auxiliaries. It was to be
followed by a much larger second phase that would cover the main processing units; its scope
was to be defined by the engineering studies mentioned above. Thus it was not a self
contained project but only the beginning of a larger one. The first phase was estimated
(1987) to cost $21 million, the second phase was later estimated (1991) at $200 million.
There are indications that NNPC did in fact expend funds of this order of magnitude to deal
both with rehabilitation and with repairs after major accidents. Further, it was implicitly
recognized that an appropriate management structure to execute the project did not exist at the
time. Thus a covenant was included which required that project management teams be set up
in the refineries. The Borrower, however, retained overall control at headquarters; this may
indicate that there was hesitation from the beginning about transferring authority from Lagos
to the refineries. As to the operation of the refineries, the opinion of the survey teams of two
major oil companies was that the core of the problem lay in the operating management and
staff, and that the hardware failures were merely a symptom of the overall problem.
Iigh Level Commitment
1.10   The Government had shown ambivalence about the project even before loan approval.
After the first round of negotiations, in the fall of 1988, the Bank rounded up the amount of
the loan from $27.7 million to $28 million and transmitted the documents to Nigeria in 130
copies as requested. The rounding was not to be acceptable to the Nigerian authorities on
procedural grounds, and they insisted that the original amount of $27.7 million be reinstated.
This was done and delayed board approval by six months to June 1989. In July 1989 the size
and purpose of the loan were questioned in the Nigerian Cabinet, which queried why NNPC
should need to borrow such a minor amount. Explanations were produced, and eventually the
Cabinet gave clearance for the loan to be signed in May of 1990, almost one year later.
Apparently not everybody on the Borrower's side shared wholehearted enthusiasm for this
operation.
D.    Project Implementation
Distribution of Authority
1.11   The implementation of the project was hampered by the Borrower's corporate
structure. This included at least four discernible levels of authority. The cabinet
level(Minister of Petroleum) dealt with the approval of the loan; the top management of the
NNPC Group, Operations and Planning, authorized major contract awards and expenditures;
the administrative echelons of the Finance Department in Lagos were responsible for carrying
out the procurement and disbursement process; the management of the two refineries was to
deal with the technical and contractual selections, but was not given the spending authority for



- 5 -
the foreign exchange component. With this fragmentation of authority, problems of
coordination were inevitable, and it is not easy to pinpoint the responsibility to any specific
party. This type of problem might have been prevented if project management teams had
been established and given all the necessary authority. This was not implemented in an
effective manner, and the project was not executed expeditiously.
1.12   NNPC had been aware for some time of the need to reorganize its structure into a
more effective operation. A management consultancy and a staff training program were
financed under the Gas Technical Assistance Project of 1986, and concluded with a
recommendation to decentralize authority and responsibility, which NNPC accepted. By
September 1988 nine separate business units had been created, each in the form of an
individual corporate entity. The Warri Refinery and Petrochemical Company, and the Kaduna
Refinery and Petrochemical Company were two of these entities. In reality none of these
entities were allowed to become independent units, or to function as cost or profit centers.
For all practical purposes the NNPC headquarters in Lagos retained control.
1.13   In retrospect, it appears that the Bank aimed at improving the technical and
managerial efficiency of the NNPC, specifically that of its refineries, and looked for long
range macroeconomic results. NNPC on the other hand, was concerned with the day to day
operation of the corporation, and was not facing an emergency grave enough to justify
shaking up its management structure and its operating culture.
1.14   While a few activities began promptly, most lagged. The diagnostic surveys of the
refineries were undertaken in early 1990, even before the loan had been signed, and the
procurement process for the Warri fire waterlines and water treatment began soon thereafter.
The diagnostic studies recommended that as a first priority, the operating management should
be brought up to industry standards; the hardware problems being a symptom rather than the
cause of the unsatisfactory operation of the refineries. The recommendations were not
implemented, nor did NNPC submit a report on the matter, as asked for by the Bank. In
1991 the refining facilities at Warri were damaged by a major fire, and the repair work cost
between $80 and 100 million. The urgency of this task reduced the relevance of the Bank
project for Warri. The Kaduna refinery underwent a major rehabilitation in 1992, using
mainly other sources of funds, then it suffered a major fire in 1993, and is currently being
repaired by the original supplier at a cost in the same range as repairs were for Warri. Return
to operation is planned for mid-1994. The engineering studies that had been provided for in
the project were never carried out; yet they would have been of great value before embarking
on the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the refineries. These two major refinery fires have
had a significant effect on the operation and performance of the plants; the Bank, however
received no first hand information from NNPC, nor from site visits, and learned of the
accidents only through press reports and trade information.
1.15   The initial payment into the Special Account was disbursed shortly after effectiveness,
in November 1990, but the account was neither replenished, nor utilized further. Subsequent
disbursement applications were slow to come. The next disbursement was requested at the
end of 1992, and the bulk of the applications arrived after April 1993. In many instances the
applications were presented without the necessary supporting documents, such as signed
contracts and invoices, and had to be returned for completion. In the end only 33 percent of
the loan was disbursed, i.e. $9.2 million against the $27.7 million available. According to
schedule the implementation should have been completed in 33 months; but since 45 months
after loan approval only twenty percent of the loan had been disbursed, no extension was



- 6 -
granted. It was obvious that the project had been overtaken by events and was not likely to
achieve its intended objectives. Also the problems in the refineries were of a more
fundamental nature, and NNPC preferred to deal with its emergencies in its own way.
1.16   The financing plan at appraisal is reproduced below along with the amounts actually
disbursed:
SUMMARY FINANCING PLAN
_________________________         (US$    m illion)
Source of Financing         Plan at Appraisal         Actually Disbursed
Foreign Exchang
Bank                                 27.7                        9.2
NNPC                                                            n.a.
Bank
NNPC                                 115
Total Cost                    39.2                        9.2
n.a. = Not available
1.17   Compared with the original allocations, the resources of the loan were utilized as
follows:
FOREIGN EXCHANGE COST
(in thousands of US Dollars equivalent
Project Items             Planned Expenditure          Actually disbursed
A. Warri Refinery
Waste Water Treatment                         3,313                      1,268
Fire Water Lines                               1,550                     1,198
Spare Parts                                    1,600                     1,245
Laboratory Equipment                            428                        467
Other, and Contingencies                      &M                             0
Subtotal Warri                           13,500                      4,178
B. Kaduna Refinery
Laboratory Equipment                            375                      1,097
Other, and Contingencies                       5.525 
Subtotal Kaduna                           5,900                      1,097
C. Studies and Training                       2,300                        350
D. Catalysts and Spares                       60                           5
Grand Total                              27,700                      9,176



1.18   There are minor differences between the above records of disbursement kept by the
Bank, and those of NNPC, see part II, apparently due to the rates of exchange used. It is
also noted that the $1.245 million of pump spares are recorded by the Bank for Warri
Refinery (A), while NNPC has included them in general spares (D).
1.19   The Warri refinery used the loan for four out of the seven project components. Three
components had costs close to the budget (fire water lines, spares, and laboratory equipment).
One, the waste water treatment plant, used less than 40 percent of the funds allocated, nor are
its results known as completion was scheduled for January 1994. Warri did not utilize any
Bank funds for the two power components nor for the instrumentation; neither the power
study, nor the condensate recovery system were implemented. Warri opted for buying two
new 30 MW gas turbines, rather than repairing its two high pressure steam turbines, as
anticipated in the project.
1.20   Kaduna used the loan only for one component out of the four expected. They
purchased a large quantity of laboratory equipment and the investment was somewhat greater
than originally provided for. The components for which Bank financing was not used were
the waste water treatment plant, the condensate recovery system which were purchased under
negotiated contracts, and the new process computer. The procurement of this latter item is
reported to have been held up at headquarters who appears to disagree with the refinery
management on the technical details. It is unlikely that the reasons for these changes will be
ascertained as the engineering office was destroyed in the 1993 fire and the manager has been
replaced.
1.21   The allocation for engineering studies, training and workshops was not used, except
for the diagnostic surveys and a brief training course on mechanical seals. The allocation for
catalysts was fully utilized.
1.22  In retrospect the fact that the project was not implemented as planned, largely due to
the way the refineries were managed and operated, and the accidents that occurred in the
plants during the life of the loan, the project lost its objectives and ended up dealing with only
a small part of the needs.
E.    Sustainability of Project Results
1.23   The project did not achieve the lasting results envisaged as its original objectives.
Some of its physical goals were met, such as the fire water lines and the waste water plant at
Warri, laboratory instruments, catalysts and spare parts for operation at both refineries. It is
assumed that the expenditures had some beneficial effect, but there are no objective
measurements to confirm this. Engineering studies and training programs were not
implemented.
1.24   The uncertainty concerning results is largely due to the lack of effective reporting by
the Borrower. A list of seven monitoring indicators was included in the SAR, but neither
were they mentioned in the supervision reports, nor did the Borrower ever supply the
expected quarterly reports when they were due.
1.25   The quarterly reports for 1992 and some of the 1993 ones were supplied in 1994. As
the data was incomplete (lack of depreciation and financial charges) the rates of return could
not be calculated. However, since there is no indication that the anticipated benefits did
materialize, it is likely that the rates of return were either negative or close to zero at best.



- 8 -
1.26   The project did not produce a documented change in the performance of the
refineries. The largest item of expenditure, the catalysts, was a consumption item in the
production; it may have prevented untimely shutdowns of the units for want of catalysts. It
can only be hoped that the expenditure on laboratory equipment may help quality control, and
that the investment in the waste water treatment plant may eventually improve the
environment.
1.27   The partial data presented hitherto on effluents are not sufficient to judge whether
there has been a change in the impact.
1.28   The issue of project sustainability does not arise by itself insofar as the loan did not
finance a free standing project, but rather was devoted to pay for deferred maintenance items
and to replenish supplies for operating purposes. As such it must be considered that the loan
was an experimental operation intended to develop a major rehabilitation project; it gave a
relatively small amount of support, which was undoubtedly useful at the time. There is no
evidence that it had any long term effect.
1.29   The NNPC refineries continue to be operated as before. While the daily throughput
of Warri reached 75 percent of design capacity after the repairs, the yearly throughput for
1993 was 3.4 million tons of crude, i.e. not appreciably different from the 1988 throughput of
3.5 million tons. The situation is not dissimilar at Kaduna where a throughput of 2.7 million
tons was reached in 1993, as compared with almost 3.0 million tons in 1988. Kaduna is
reported to be under repair after an operating accident, and the level of production after it
returns on stream will owe more to the latest work than to the rehabilitation project.
1.30   The waste water plants ought to have reduced the level of environmental damage due
to the effluent. This is, however, difficult to demonstrate as measurements, recordings and
reporting are not regular.
F.    Bank Performance
1.31   The Bank staff displayed remarkable dedication and persuasion during the
identification, preparation, and appraisal of this project. It persevered with patience during
the aimost two years it took to move from appraisal to effectiveness. During the
implementation phase, supervision missions were carried out, and most meetings held at
NNPC headquarters. Procurement documents were processed promptly, and so were
disbursement applications when they arrived with their supporting documents. The Bank staff
were diligent in their efforts.
1.32   Or. the other hand there is no written record of the Bank either having reminded or
pressed the Borrower to comply with the covenants contained in the loan agreement, such as
those concerned with project management, technical or financial reporting. Possibly it was
done verbally.
1.33   The problem, if any, lies in an underestimation of institutional risks, and in the
assessment of the manageriai performance that could be expected from NNPC units. The
instability of management became manifest in 1990, when most of the top management of
NNPC was changed; the same occurred in 1992, and again in 1993, when many of the
managers were dismissed and some were accused of malfeasance. In the interval before new
officers were appointed, disbursements by the Bank ground to a halt, for want of authorized
signatories. Against such an uncertain background it is not surprising that managers are loath



-9-
to take initiatives, and to assume responsibilities outside the confines of what is explicitly
mandated by procedures.
1.34  Improving the efficiency and profitability of the refineries would have involved a
change in the system of management, or in the actual management culture. Whether this is
possible, and at what cost, is a moot point. There are indications that NNPC is considering
whether the refineries could benefit from direct management by experienced operators, as is
the case in their production joint ventures. At present, however, only the second refinery in
Port Harcourt is under contract management by an independent operator; the performance
from 1991 to date has been in line with industry standards. Whether this is the only solution
or not, one of the lessons of this project seems to be that engineering solutions should be
applied hand in hand with improvements to management problems.
1.35   Not surprisingly, in matters of procurement the problems were similar to those that
showed up during the same period in the Gas Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2390-UNI).
Bank procedures, although not conceptually difficult, were obviously foreign to the NNPC
culture. Seminars and training sessions in procurement and disbursement procedures were
given by Bank staff in Nigeria; but improvements were small. Only the waste water
treatment plant at Warri was awarded under a competitive bidding procedure; and the
construction was delayed by three years. From the experience of this project and from that of
the earlier Gas T.A. project one may conclude that if NNPC is expected to follow established
Bank procedures in procurement and disbursement, substantial delays should be anticipated.
G.    Borrower Performance
1.36   The Borrowers's approach at the higher levels of management and administration was
characterized by the politeness and courtesy that is customary in their relationship with the
Bank. On the other hand, the Borrower did not "take ownership " of the project. Its interest
was insufficient to implement the project as planned, and to make use of the allocated funds.
Almost two years (1988 to 1990) were lost between appraisal and effectiveness. Which level
of authority within NNPC was the bottleneck is probably not very relevant; the fact is that the
project was not executed as planned, nor were the funds disbursed in full. The loan was
predicated on the implementation of the 1988 reorganization of NNPC. The decentralization
of authority to the new refining companies did not occur to any meaningful extent, and to this
day the NNPC headquarters in Lagos maintain control over the major decisions of the
refinery companies, and sometimes over the minor ones.
1.37   The procedures for handling this project were rather complex. The top management
in Lagos retained the final authority for approvals of procurement and contracting; it even
included a central procurement unit. Administrative and disbursement matters were handled
by the appropriate office of the Finance Department in Lagos. The result was that
procurement activities were cumbersome, and that disbursement procedures were delayed.
Withdrawal applications were few in number and slow in coming. Many of the applications
for disbursement were submitted without the required documentation and had to be returned.
1.38   At the operating level in the refineries, the Borrower's staff was cognizant of the
physical goals of the project, produced their procurement documents accordingly, and
forwarded them to headquarters, where they were processed as described above. It is
doubtful whether the same unity of purpose existed for the goals of managerial change
expressed in the SAR. In fact little, if anything, was done in that direction.



- 10 -
1.39   The Borrower did not comply with the covenants of the loan agreement dealing with
the execution of the project, except for the one concerning the diagnostic studies. The others
included: establishing a $6 million imprest account for the refineries; ensure compliance with
limits of pollutants emitted; treat waste water in accordance with such limits; carry out
engineering studies to establish rehabilitation needs; present and implement a program for
workshops and training.
1.40   The responsibility for administration of the loan became diffuse. Since both
procurement matters and disbursement requests were handled slowly, the latter ended up
bunched close to the disbursement date. It appears that NNPC used its own funds for the
purchases it needed, and asked for reimbursement from the Bank only for those that could fit
within the Bank's guidelines.
1.41   Compliance with financial covenants concerning records and information was partial
and tardy. In the absence of annual reports it is not known whether the clauses covering
insurance of facilities and revaluation of fixed assets were complied with.
H.    Project Relations
1.42   The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was polite but distant, even
though individual Bank staff who visited Nigeria at different times were treated very
courteously. Cooperation was uncertain and slow. From the Bank's viewpoint it was never
too clear where the bottleneck was in the chain of authority. While professionals at each
refinery were named as project managers, they could not function effectively for lack of
support by headquarters, who retained the ultimate power of decision.
I.     Consulting Services
1.43   Only a very small part of the consulting services included in the project were
procured, and no more than approximately 10 percent of the budget was utilized. These were
the diagnostic surveys, consisting of inspections to the refineries by teams of experts drawn
from major international oil companies. The reports were produced swiftly, they were
factual, and included well documented recommendations. The recommendations focussed on
operating practices, safety procedures, and on staffing questions. The reports did not place
the same emphasis on environmental problems as the Bank team had. Possibly for that reason
and for the emphasis on management issues, much less of the funds were expended for such
goals, such as waste water treatment and instrumentation.
J.     Project Documentation and Data
1.44   The agreement stipulated that the Borrower should set up a project management team,
and periodic reporting was established as one of their duties; but the documentation submitted
by the Borrower was scant and irregular. Given the low interest that NNPC showed in
utilizing Bank financing, the omission of effective reporting is not entirely surprising.
1.45   The framework for producing the necessary data existed. It had been outlined in the
SAR with the list of Project Monitoring Indicators, and in the Loan Agreement with a list of
covenants on financial reporting. These data were neither supplied by NNPC nor did the
Bank insist formally that this be done.



- 11 -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
REFINERIES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 3104-UNI)
PART II - REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Introduction
2.1   Part II of this report is an assessment of the implementation of the Refineries
Rehabilitation project form the NNPC's perspective. It will discuss the problems which
impeded maximum utilization of the loan and the lessons learnt with a view to improve future
performance, considering that out of US$27.7 million, only 33 percent was actually drawn
down between May 1990 when the Loan Agreement was singed and at conclusion in
December 1993. Comments will also be made on the Parts I and III which represent the
Bank's opinion on key implementation issues.
B.    Project Implementation
2.2    The Refineries Rehabilitation loan was initiated in 1988, and signed in 1990 with the
aim of improving the performance of both the Kaduna Refinery and Petrochemical company
(KRPC) and Warri Refinery and Petrochemical Company (WRPC). The objectives include:
*  repairing the assets to improve capacity utilization of existing facilities through
preventive maintenance procedures, funding and spareparts inventory planning;
*  rectifying the malfunctioning of various support facilities;
*  improving and institutionalizing preventive maintenance system and corrosion
protection programme in both refineries to reduce frequent breakdowns of
facilities;
*  improving the functioning of the waste water treatment system to cope with
increased load of contaminated water, thus reducing environmental pollution.
2.3   In addition to the two years delay to signature, further delay was experienced during
implementation, during which the equipments had deteriorated beyond the original levels.
This resulted to the expansion of the scope of two of the components in KRPC. Apart from
the fact that the corporation has to meet the Bank's requirements, the allocation to these
components became grossly inadequate and needed to be highly supplemented from internal
sources. NNPC Board approval was also required in view of the level of commitment
involved. The suspension of the Board further complicated issues until the loan finally
expired. Earlier in the process, there was very poor response from bidders. The Bank's
approval was eventually sought to enable the NNPC analyze only two responses as against its
minimum requirement of five.
2.4    As the project progressed, there was also a significant change in focus especially as it
concerned WRPC. Three (3) components namely Condensate Equipment, Instrumentation and
Power Generating System study were suspended awaiting the completion of the Power Plant
and Utilities Revamp in the refinery. Similarly, the objective to train staff was also not fully
achieved as management expressed preference to training staff on the job.



- 12 -
2.5    Generally speaking, the most successful were the purchase of spareparts and catalysts
which were significantly disbursed, waste water revamp and the retroactively financed
fire/waterline for WRPC which were fully disbursed as against the Bank's opinion that only
40 percent was drawn. The laboratory equipment and diagnostic studies for both refineries
also benefitted substantially from the loan.
C.    Bank Performance
2.6    Disbursement applications were promptly processed except towards the end of the
project when applications were returned unpaid with complaints of incomplete documentation.
We commend the assistance of the Residence Mission in ensuring that things were sorted out
and reimbursements finally made. Generally speaking, there is a feeling that the Bank's
procedures are sometimes very inflexible and unclear.
2.7    Disbursements were credited to categories other than those indicated on the
application form. This resulted to the differences in the summary accounts by category
prepared by the Bank in Part III and the summary table prepared by NNPC. Other
discrepancies are attributed to exchange rate differences.
2.8    During the period, it was also obvious that there was limited communication between
the mission and the disbursement department of the Bank. This is reflected in difficulties
experienced by NNPC as issues discussed and agreed during technical meetings became very
difficult to implement.
D.    NNPC Performance
2.9   The performance of NNPC in the execution of the project was limited by problems
already discussed in this report.
2.10   Firstly, as the scope of some projects were expanded, NNPC had to go back to the
Bank for approvals at every stage from the terms of reference, list of contractors, bid analysis
to fnal choice of contractor and Agreement. In addition to this, NNPC Board approval was
also required for the high level of commitment.
2.11   Secondly, the procedures for operating the two accounts namely the Refineries
Rehabilitation Account and the Special Account were sometimes unclear and complex.
Furthermore, the procedures followed by beneficiaries made coordination of fund
disbursement cumbersome. In most cases, Letters of Credit would have been established with
in-house funds and the requirements of the World Bank for reimbursement became difficult to
meet. The situation was worsened as it involved many small components. We agree with the
Bank's view that the involvement of several departments especially with the procurement
process was cumbersome as retrieval of relevant documents was not easy. It is important to
comment here that the direct disbursement procedure used for the Gas Technical Assistance
loan seemed much easier.
2.12   Thirdly, maintaining the two accounts in the Midland Bank was not to the advantage
of the corporation because Midland Bank could not give the required comfort letter to enable
NNPC use the Bank's special commitment facility. Consequently, NNPC was forced to
establish Letters of Credit with its funds to seek for reimbursement later.
2.13   Finally, NNPC performance was also constrained by changes of key officers both in
the Bank and within the corporation. While it took a considerable length of time for such



- 13 -
officers to acquaint themselves with the Bank's/NNPC procedures, each new leadership had a
different focus. Signatures also had to be changed and authenticated at the federal
Government level.
E.    Project Documentation
2.14  In contrast to the Bank's view, quarterly reports on the progress of the project were
submitted to the Bank except in situations where no significant changes were recorded. The
audited accounts for the loan were also sent though later than stipulated in the Loan
Agreement.
F.    Project Result
2.15   Total disbursement as earlier indicated was only about 33 percent mainly for
laboratory equipment, WRPC waste water revamp, WRPC fire waterline and consumables
like spareparts and catalysts. We cannot but agree with the Bank that, given this level of
achievement and the major repairs carried out and financed from other sources, actual benefit
accruing from the Refineries Rehabilitation loan cannot be well estimated.
2.16   The Bank rightly noted in its report, that the problems of the refineries are
fundamental and solutions require decisions and actions far larger in scope than the Refineries
Rehabilitation project contemplated.



STATUS REPORT FOR REFINERIES REHABILITATION LOAN 3104-UNI
Loan Amount                  USS27.7 million
Effective Date               May 1990
Closing Date                 June 30, 1993
COMPONENT                       OBJECTIVE                   ALLOCA77ON        DISBURSEMENT RIARKS
Engineering Studies     To determine requiremrent for achieving              2.30                       This was not concluded
design capacity utilization and operation
Diagnostic Studies      improvement.                                                   KRPC $160,000  Fully Disbursed
WRPC $125,000
Training                To expose staff to refinery economics,                         KRPC $0.064M   Management expressed preference to
l___________________  energy and utility conservation, etc.                                              training on the job.
Spareparts               For critical spareparts, chemicals and              6.00      WRPC $2.382M   Fund largely utilized
l ___________________    catalysts                                                      KRPC  S2.434M
WRPC
Waste Water Revamp       To improve waste water treatment                     3.3       FF 6M ($l.lM)  NNPC fully reimbursed
facilities                                                          $150,000                                                   _
Fire/Water Line         To replace, relocate fire/water pipes                1.55            $1.094M   Project concluded and reimbursement
with carbon steel pipes.                                         (FF 5.918M)  effeocted.
Laboratory Equipment    To enhance quality of laboratory service            0.428             $0.429M   Fund fully utilized
Condensate Equipment    To improve efficiency of existing                   2.075                   -  This was suspended because of the
system                                                                         power plant and utilities revamp
Instrumentation         To replace inefficient and obsolete                 1.479                       project.
instrument
Power Generating                                                            0.242
System
Spareparts               To procure spareparts for maintenance.              1.60             S0.054M   Fund partly utilized



COMPONENT                       OBJECTIVE                    ALLOCAMMON          DISBURSEMENT                    REMARKS
KRPC
Data Logging/Shipping    To improve computer system.                        1.535                    -  Scope expanded to full-fledged
Computer                                                                                                 Distribution Control system.
Initial delay by poor response of
Vendors.
Allocation was inadequate.
Condensate Recovery      To rectify defects in the Condensate               0.650                     -  Initial delay by poor response of
Recovery System                                                                 Vendors
Corporate Board approval still
outstanding.
To be financed through other sources
of fund.
Laboratory Equipment    to improve laboratory services.                     0.375              S1.338M   Utilized fund was more than
allocation.
Waste Water Revamp       To modify and replace Waste Water                  2.215                        Was to be retroactively financed but
treatment facilities.                                                           fund was to be transferred to Data
Logging.
Unallocated                                                   3.9
TOTAL (S Million)                                            27.9              S9.33M
Subtract exchange rate adjustment                 - S179,716.59
in respect of Applications 1 - 20
= $9.150.283.5



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA - REFINERIES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3104-UNI)
PART HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1
Related Bank Loans or Credits
Loan number and Title,               Purpose                    Status
Year of Approval                                                                l
LN. 2390-UNI, Gas Technical  To support the first major    $7.49 million disbursed.
Assistance, 1984             gas infrastructure project, to  Loan closed.
strengthen the country's
institutional capacity.
(US$25 million)                                   l
LN. 3116-UNI, Power System   To assist NEPA in the      $32.5 million disbursed.
Maintenance, 1989           rehabilitation of 8 power
stations, 100 substations,
960 km of HV transmission
lines (US$70.0 million).
LN. 3317-UNI, Oso            Commercial development of  $174.2 million
Condensate Field             Oso offshore field by      disbursed.
Development, 1991            NNPC/Mobil to produce
100,000 bpd of condensate.
(US$218 million).
Table 2
Project Timetable
Item                Date Planned   Date Revised    Date Actual
Identification                                                            1987
Preparation                                                               1988
Appraisal Mission                                                     05/24/88
Loan Negotiations                      12/01/88                        12/01/88
Board Approval                         06/29/89                       06/29/89
Loan Signature with NNPC                                              05/18/90
Guarantee Agreement with Nigeria                                      05/18/90
Loan Effectiveness                                                    08/08/90
Loan Closing                           06/30/93                       06/30/93
Loan Completion                        12/31/93                        12/29/93



- 17 -
Table 3
Loan Disbursements
DISBURSEMENTS IN $ MILLIONS
Loan 3104-UNI
Bank Fiscal Year    Estimated            Actual Cumulative   Actual % of
and Quarter        Cumulative                               Cumulative
1989/90      1                    7.00
2                    10.75
3                    16.00
4                   21.25
1990/91      1                   23.20               0.00             0.0
2                   24.01                3.00            10.8
3                   24.88                3.00            10.8
4                   25.57                3.00            10.8
1991/92      1                   26.25               3.00             10.8
2                   26.94                3.00            10.8
3                   27.70                3.00            10.8
4                                        3.00            10.8
1992/93      1                                       3.00             10.8
2                                        5.47            19.7
3                                        5.47            19.7
4                                        8.52            30.8
1993/94      1                                        8.65            31.2
2                                        9.18            33.1
Note: The remaining $18.52 million was canceled on December 29, 1993.



- 18 -
Table 4
Project Implementation
1.    The indicators listed below were defined at the time of appraisal as appropriate for
establishing a project monitoring system:
(i)    Keeping records of inspection and maintenance of major equipment at each
refinery.
(ii)    Keeping record of pollutants in waste water effluent, including oil content,
phenol, and biological oxygen demand. Holding their levels at the Standards
of the US Environmental Agency or equivalent.
(iii)   Maintaining strict safety standards for the handling of petroleum.
(iv)   Keep detailed technical and financial records of inputs and outputs of each
refinery, for the purpose of assessing production costs.
(v)    Hire suitable professionals and train them in project evaluation and planning,
preventive maintenance, pollution control, and safety procedures.
(vi)   Preparation of quarterly reports to the Bank on the progress of the project.
(vii)   Preparation of quarterly and annual financial statements for each refinery.
Actual Performance
2.    Records covering the above indicators have not been submitted to the Bank during the
implementation period.
3.    In May 1994 some partial records were submitted including:
-  Major maintenance work undertaken at Warri in 1990 and 1992.
-  Analysis of composition of liquid effluents at Kaduna during the 1992 and 1993,
but no record of the actual quantities released into the Rumi river.
-  Quarterly financial reports for 1992 and 1993 for both refineries.



- 19 -
Table 5
Project Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
(in millions of US Dollars)
Item                                   Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Local   Foreimn    Total         Local  Forei2n     To2ta
A. Warri Refinery
1. Power System Study           0.006     0.242    0.248             -         -         -
2. Waste Water Treatment         1.025    3.313    4,338           NA      1.268       NA
3. Firc Water Lines             2.039      1.550    3.589          NA      1.198       NA
4. Condensate Recovery          0.811     2.075    2.886              -        -         -
5. Instrumentation                  -      1.479    1.479                      -
6. Spare Parts                  2.039     1.600    3.639           NA      1.245       NA
7. Laboratory Equipment             -    0.428    0.428               -    0.467     0.467
Subtotal, Base Costs          5.920    10.687   16.607           NA     4.178       NA
B. Kaduna Refinery
1. Waste Water Treatment        1.322     2.215    3.537             -         -
2. Condensate Recovery          0.795     0.650    1.445              -        -         -
3. Laboratory Equipment             -    0.375    0.375               -    1.097     1.097
4. Computer                         -    1.535    1.535               -        -         -
Subtotal, Base Cost           2.117     4.775    6.892             -    1.097     1.097
Total. Base Costs             8.037    15.462   23.499           NA     5.275       NA
Physical Contingencies   1.188     2.253    3.441                      -
Price Contingencies      2.275     1.685    2.960                      -
C. Enginoering Studies,
Work-Shop, Training          -    2.300    2.300            NA     0.350       NA
D. Spare Parts, Chemicals           -    6.000    6.000               -    3.552     3.552
and Catalysts
Total Proiect Costs     11.500    27.700   39.200           NA     9.177       NA
Note.  The symbol (-) indicates that no expenditure was made under the loan.
The symbol (NA) signifies that the data is not available.



- 20 -
B. Project Financing
Planned
Source                           Loan Agreemeni                       Final
(US$'000)                   (US$'000)
IBRD
Expenditure Categories
1. Works and goods for Warri Refinery     9,100                        2,578
2. Works and goods for Kaduna Refinery    3,800                         2,577
3. Firelines at Warri and wastewater      2,600                            0
system at Kaduna
4. Spare parts, chemicals and catalysts   6,000                         3,672
5. Studies, workshop and training         2,300                          350
6. Unallocated                            3 0        
Total Loan                         27,700                        9,176
Cancellation effective December 29, 1993 : US$18,523,580



- 21 -
Table 6
Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators               Appraisal         Estimated at       Estimated at Full
Estimate          Closing Date      Development
Condition of Important
Plant Components
Records of Measurement
of Pollutants
Technical and Financial        (*)                (*)
Data to Assess Process
Margin
Quarterly and Annual
Refinery Reports
(*) Data have been requested from the Borrower.
B. Economic Impact
Not applicable
C. Financial Impact
Not applicable



- 22 -
Table 7
Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Loa Agpreement                     Section     Complianc            tau
Open a "special account"           2.02 (b)    During execution    Done
Repay interest and principal       2.05 (a)    Twice yearly        Not yet due
and 2.06
Open a "refineries account" and    3.02 (a)    By July 1, 1990     Not complied
have it audited                    and (b)     continuing          Not complied
5.01 (b)
(iii)
Set up a Project management team   3.03        During execution    Not complied
Review and ensure environmental    3.04 (a)    Continuing          Not complied
compliance
Treat waste water as per standards  3.04 (b)    By July 1, 1991    Not complied
Complete diagnostic studies        3.05 (a)    By December 31,    Complied
1990
Complete engineering studies       3.05 (b)    By June 30, 1991    Not complied
Program and conduct workshops      3.06 (a)    By October 1,       Not complied
and (b)     1990
Management and plant operation in  4.01 and    Continuing          No evidence is
accordance with sound practice     4.02                            available
Maintain insurance cover           4.03        Continuing          Not complied
Establish preventive maintenance   4.04        By December 31,    Not complied
procedures                                     1990
Maintain and audit records         5.01 (a)    Continuing          Not complied
and 5.01
(b) (i)
Submit audited reports within six  5.01 (b)    Continuing          Not complied
months of end of period.           (ii)
Afford access to records           5.01        Continuing          Not complied
(b)(iv)
Revaluation of fixed assets        5.02        Continuing          Not complied



- 23 -
Table 8
Use of Bank Resources
A.      Staff Inputs
Stage of Project
Cycle                        Planned    Revised    Actual            Comments
Through Appraisal                                        0.0        0.0        30.7   1988 to 1989
Through Board Approval                                   0.0        0.0         6.3    1989
Board Approval through Effectiveness                    0.0         0.0        10.3
Supervision                                             0.0         0.0        33.7   1990 to 1993
TOTAL STAFF WEEKS                                                     81.0  1988 to 1993
B. Missiorns
8. Use of Bank Resources (continued)
B. Missions
Month/    Number of    Days in   Specializatuon                           Performan      Type of
Stage of Proiect Cycle                Year        Persons        Field    Re-presented a!                         ce Ratine     Prob
Through Appraisal
Identification 1                       09/87          2            8       Eng + Fin for Refinery Rehabilitation     na            n
Identification 2                       11/87           1           4       Eng of Refinery Rehabilitation            na            n
Identification 3                       02/88           1           4       Eng for Refuinery Rehabilitation          na            n
Avpraisal Throuzh Board Approval
Appraisal                              05/88          2            30      Eng + Fin                                 na            n
Postappraisal                          08/88           3           6       FIN                                       nta           n
Board Approval Through Effectiveness
Follow-up                              03/90          3            3       Eng                                       na           Pro
Follow-up                              06/90           1           9       Eng                                       na
Supervision
Supervision 1                         08t90           6            8       Eng                                        I       Proc.
Supervision 2                         04/91           2            5      Eng + Eco                                   3       Proc +
Supervision 3                         06/92            1           5      Eng                                         3       Exec
Supervision 4                         03/93            1           4      Eng                                         3       Proc +
Exec
Proc +
Exoc
a! Specialization Acronyms: Ope - operations officer, Eco - economist, Eng - engineer, Fin - financial analyst
b/ Key to Project Status: I - atiafactory, 3 - major problems
ct Key to Problerms: Proc. - procurmcent, Exec. - cxecution problems



