Page  1
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3104 UNI
                              Loan Agreement
                    (Refineries Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                  NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
                            Dated May 18, 1990
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3104 UNI
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1990 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM
CORPORATION (the Borrower), a statutory corporation established and
operating under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
      WHEREAS (A) the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
Page  2
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "NNPC Act" means the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
Act, 1977 (Act No. 33) of the Guarantor;
      (b)   "Refineries" means the Warri Refinery and the Kaduna Refinery
of the Borrower, and "Refinery" means either of these;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
      (d)   "Naira" means the currency of the Guarantor.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($27,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per
annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum
above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior
to the commencement of such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
      (c)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing
                  on each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  including the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
                  signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
                  30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per annum, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Page  3
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor an annual
guarantee fee equal to 10% of the interest payable by the Borrower to the
Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and refining practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon any of its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open and maintain in
dollars an account (the NNPC Refineries Account) in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The NNPC Refineries Account
shall be used exclusively to meet expenditures relating to maintenance spare
parts, chemicals and catalysts required for the normal operations of the
Refineries.
      (b)   The Borrower shall not later than July 1, 1990, pay $6,000,000
equivalent into the NNPC Refineries Account and thereafter not later than
January 1 and July 1 of each year pay into the NNPC Refineries Account
amounts sufficient to replenish the NNPC Refineries Account to the limit of
the imprest of $6,000,000 equivalent.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause each Refinery to establish and
thereafter maintain a Project management team consisting of a full-time
Project manager assisted, as and when required, by engineers from various
disciplines, a procurement specialist and a cost accountant. The Project
management team shall have functions and terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall review from time to time and
ensure compliance with norms and limits for pollutants resulting from
refining operations.
      (b)   The Borrower shall not later than July 1, 1991, cause the
introduction of efficient procedures to treat waste water at the Refineries
in accordance with good refinery practices and said norms and limits.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1990, complete the diagnostic operations studies referred to in Part C.2 of
the Project and promptly thereafter furnish to the Bank the results of the
said studies. The terms of reference of the studies shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1991, complete the
engineering studies referred to in Part C.2 of the Project and promptly
thereafter furnish to the Bank the results of the said studies. The terms
of reference of the studies shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than October 1, 1990, prepare and furnish to the Bank
for its review and comment a program for conducting workshops and a training
program for the activities referred to in Part C.1 and 3 of the Project,
together with a schedule for implementation; and
      (b)   thereafter conduct said workshops and training in accordance
with said schedule, taking into account the comments received from the Bank.
      Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
Page  4
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                 Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and refining practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering,
financial and refining practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1990,
establish and maintain preventive maintenance procedures in the Refineries
acceptable to the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE V
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) and the records and accounts for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the and of each period
                  covered by such an audit: (A) certified copies of its
                  annual financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested;
            (iii) have the NNPC Refineries Account referred to in Section
                  3.02 of this Agreement audited annually, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable co the Bank; and
            (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as well
                  as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
Page  5
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 5.02. The Borrower shall have the fixed assets in operation
of the Refineries revalued as necessary and shall make the results of such
revaluation available to the Bank.
                                ARTICLE VI
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a change shall
have been made in the NNPC Act which would materially and adversely affect
the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event
specified in Section 6.01 hereof shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VII
                                Termination
      Section 7.01. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Group Managing Director of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      For the Borrower:
            Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
            Falomo Office Complex
            P.M.B. 12701
            Lagos, Nigeria
Page  6
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  NAPETCOR                      21610
                  Lagos                         21661
                                                21643
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Michael J. Gillette
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                  NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
                  By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works and goods                    )
    for Part A.2                       )
    through 5 and 7           9,100,000)
    of the Project                     )
                                       )
(2) Works and goods           3,800,000)
    for Part B.2                       )
    through 4 of                       )
    the Project                        )
                                       )
(3) Works and goods           2,600,000)
    for Parts A.6                      )        100% of foreign
    and B.1 of the                     )        expenditures
    Project                            )        and 90% of local
                                       )        expenditures
(4) Spare parts,              6,000,000)
    chemicals and                      )
    catalysts for                      )
    Parts A.8 and                      )
    B.5 of the                         )
    Project                            )
                                       )
(5) Studies, workshop         2,300,000)
    and training for                   )
    Parts A.1 and C                    )
    of the Project                     )
Page  7
(6) Unallocated                3,900,000
         TOTAL                27,700,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $2,600,000, may be made in respect of Category
(3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
November 1, 1988.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the Borrower's
capacity to effectively manage repairs and rehabilitation of its assets in
the Warri and Kaduna Refineries; (b) improve capacity utilization and
operational efficiency at the said Refineries; (c) improve and
institutionalize a preventive maintenance and corrosion protection program
at the Refineries; and (d) effectively treat all wastewater of the
Refineries and reduce pollution.
    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Warri Refinery
1.  Carrying out a study of the power plant including the three turbo sets
with a view to arriving at fully guaranteed solutions to the identified
problems.
2.  Modification to the wastewater treatment system in order to install
capacity adequate to treat all wastewater.
3.  Modification, repair and, if necessary, redesign of the condensate
recovery system to reduce overloading and improve its efficiency.
4.  Replacement of field transmitters for pressure, flow and level
instruments, and installation of new uninterrupted power supply systems,
connected with power supply from busbars of each substation.
5.  Replacement and renewal of laboratory equipment for quality control.
6.  Replacement of underground fire water lines with carbon steel overground
pipes and reinforced resin underground pipes.
7.  Acquisition of spare parts to repair plant and machinery.
8.  Acquisition of spare parts for annual maintenance, chemicals
and catalysts.
Part B:   Kaduna Refinery
1.  Modification to the wastewater treatment system in order to install
capacity adequate to treat all wastewater.
2.  Modification, repair and, if necessary, redesign of the condensate
recovery system to improve its efficiency.
Page  8
3.  Replacement of the data logging and shipment computer and acquisition
of related software.
4.  Replacement and renewal of laboratory equipment for quality control.
5.  Acquisition of spare parts for annual maintenance , chemicals and
catalysts.
Part C:   Workshops, Training and Studies
1.  Organization of workshops at the Warri refinery training center for
personnel of the Borrower in preventive maintenance, corrosion protection
and environmental protection.
2.  Carrying out of: (i) diagnostic operations studies; and (ii) engineering
studies including the preparation of cost estimates to define the long-term
requirements for the Refineries to achieve design capacity and to design
operational improvements.
3.  Training of the Borrower's personnel in refinery operations and related
topics such as refinery operating economics, energy and utilities
conservation, preventive maintenance, inventory control, corrosion
protection, inspection of equipment and machinery, pollution control,
project planning and project monitoring.
                               *   *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
December 1, 1992                              730,000
June 1, 1993                                  755,000
December 1, 1993                              785,000
June 1, 1994                                  815,000
December 1, 1994                              845,000
June 1, 1995                                  875,000
December 1, 1995                              910,000
June 1, 1996                                  945,000
December 1, 1996                              980,000
June 1, 1997                                1,015,000
December 1, 1997                            1,055,000
June 1, 1998                                1,095,000
December 1, 1998                            1,140,000
June 1, 1999                                1,180,000
December 1, 1999                            1,225,000
June 1, 2000                                1,270,000
December 1, 2000                            1,320,000
June 1, 2001                                1,370,000
December 1, 2001                            1,425,000
June 1, 2002                                1,475,000
December 1, 2002                            1,535,000
June 1, 2003                                1,590,000
December 1, 2003                            1,650,000
June 1, 2004                                1,715,000
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                  Premium
Page  9
                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                  balance outstanding on the Loan on the
                                  day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                     0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                     0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                       0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                     1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
3.  Bids for goods and works for Parts A.2, 3 and 6, and B.1 through 3 of
the Project shall be invited in a two-step procedure, by first requesting
technical proposals subject to technical clarifications and adjustments,
followed by the submission of priced bids in the second step.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Federal Republic of Nigeria
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison
of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and
2.56 thereof).
2.  Proprietary items or items that need to match existing equipment for
purposes of standardization may be procured by direct negotiated purchase
from the actual manufacturer or supplier of such items already in place, if
in the opinion of the Bank: (a) such items cannot be obtained from another
source; and (b) the cost of such items is reasonable.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
Page  10
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A.1 and C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows
:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
Page  11
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  12
