Document of
The World Bank                          riLE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2646-BT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
February 8, 1980
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units    =    Pula (P)
1 Pula                  100 Thebe
1 Pula             =    US$1.2182
US$1               =    Pula 0.82
MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)           =   0.039 inches
1 meter (m)       2             3.28 feet
1 square meter (m )         =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)       2 =   0.6214 miles
1 square kilometer (km )  =   0.386 square miles
Degrees Celsius (0C) x 9/5 (C) + 32  =  Fahrenheit (OF)
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................................     I
II.   DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS             ...................      1
Socio-Economic Setting ..................................                 1
Development Objectives ........  ......................                   2
Manpower and Employment ....  ....................                        3
III.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ....          ................................        6
Background, Objectives, Policy and Strategy ....            .........     6
The Organization and Administration of the Education
System ........................................... ...                 8
The Formal Education System  .           ............................     8
The Nonformal Education System .....           .....................     12
Financial Aspects of Education Development ...........         ...       13
Role of the Bank in Botswana Education ...............         ...       14
IV.   THE PROJECT .............................................                 16
Objectives ..............................................                16
Project Components .......          ...............................      16
Community Junior Secondary Schools ....            .............   16
Youth Brigades .......         ..............................      17
Botswana Training Center .....          ......................     19
Institute of Development Management              ................  19
Monitoring and Evaluation Studies ...............         ...      20
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN .....              ....................  21
Project Cost          ............................................      21
Financial Plan ....          ......................................      23
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Botswana in
May/June 1979 composed of Messrs. J. L. Scearce (architect-deputy division
chief), N. J. Colletta (general educator), R. F. McMahon (technical educator-
consultant) and Ms. R. P. Brandenburg (economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                        Page No.
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ...    23
Implementation  .......  ........................... ........  23
Procurement  ................ ................................... *......  24
Disbursements   .......     ..........................  ... * ....... .  25
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS ......................    26
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................    27
ANNEX 1  -   Tables and Charts
Table 1  -   Comparative Education Indicators
2  -   Projections of Primary School Enrollments and
Trained Teacher Requirements and Supply
3  -   Projections of Secondary School Enrollments and Trained
Teacher Requirements and Supply
4  -   Projections of Youth Brigades Trainees, Instructors
and Employees
5  -   Government Expenditures on Education
6  -   Projected Recurrent Expenditures of the Ministry of Education
7  -   Summary of Project Costs
&  -   Estimated Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
9  -   Implementation Schedule
10  -   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1  -   Educational Pyramid
2  -   Ministry of Education Organization Chart
3  -    Structure of Educational System
ANNEX 2  -   Criteria for Siting of Community Junior Secondary Schools
ANNEX 3  -   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
ANNEX 4  -   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP      -   IBRD 14265



BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Data (Est.) 1978
General
Area                                  570,000 km
Population                            766,000
Per Capita Income                     US$620
Literacy Rate                         35%
Education
Enrollment in Primary Schools         145,460
(Grades 1-8)
- as % of 6-13 age group              80%
Enrollment in Secondary Schools       16,086
(Grades 9-12)
- as % of 14-19 age group             20%
Enrollment in University of
Botswana and Swaziland              688
Recurrent Expenditure of Ministry   P 23.3 million
of Education (FY78/79)
- as % of Government Recurrent        25.5%
Expenditure
Total Expenditure of Ministry of    6.1%
Education as % of GDP (FY78/79)






BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
GLOSSARY
ATC       -    Advanced Teacher Certificate
BRIDEC    -    National Brigade Development Center
BTC       -    Botswana Training Center
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
CJSS      -    Community Junior Secondary Schools
DANIDA    -    Danish International Development Agency
DNFE      -    Department of Non-Formal Education
EEC       -    European Economic Community
IDM       -    Institute of Development Management
ILO       -    International Labor Organization
JC        -    Junior Certificate
JCE       -    Junior Certificate Examination
MFDP      -    Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MLGL      -    Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MOA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOE       -    Ministry of Education
MOH       -    Ministry of Health
MWC       -    Ministry of Works anrd Communications
NBCC      -    National Brigades Coordinating Committee
NCVT      -    National Center for Vocational Training
NFE       -    Nonformal Education
NDP       -    National Development Plan
NORAD     -    Norwegian Agency for International Development
ODA       -    British Overseas Development Agency
PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
PSLC      -    Primary School Leaver Certificate
PSTC      -    Primary School Teaching Certificate
RECC      -    Rural Extension Coordinating Committee
RSA       -    Republic of South Africa
SIDA      -    Swedish International Development Agency
UBS       -    University of Botswana and Swaziland
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development






BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Botswana has requested Bank assistance in imple-
menting its educational plan prepared as a part of its Fifth National
Development Plan (NDP V), 1979-85. Although the NDP V is still in draft
form, the general concensus within the Government is that no significant
changes in its educational aspects will occur during finalization, now
expected in mid-1980. The education plan is soundly constructed, and
implementation of its contents should result in a much improved educational
system.
1.02      The specific objectives of the education plan to be assisted under
the proposed project would be: (a) development of a network of low cost
community junior secondary schools; (b) expansion of Youth Brigades to support
rural vocational training; and (c) training of civil servants and public
sector personnel in management skills, accountancy, public finance and com-
merce by expanding the Botswana Training Center and the Institute of Develop-
ment Management.
1.03      After initial discussions with the Government in July 1977, a
sector memorandum prepared by Bank staff identified the principal needs of
the education and training sector. In January and November 1978, as well as
in January 1979, Bank education missions visited Botswana and further helped
the Government develop this proposed second education project. The project
was appraised by Bank staff in May/June 1979.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
Socio-Economic Setting
2
2.01      General.  Botswana has an area of 570,000 km , is slightly
larger than France, and occupies the central portion of the great plateau
of Southern Africa. The relatively flat ground surface averages about 1,000
meters in elevation. A semi-arid continental climate prevails, and the
annual rainfall, averaging 450 mm, is highly erratic and unevenly distributed;
this leads to frequent drought and crop failures. Precipitation is seasonal,
occurring most often during the period from November through April. Tempera-
tures generally range between 5 C and 38 C with wide daily variations occur-
ring particularly during the winter months (May through October).



- 2 -
2.02      Mainly situated in eastern Botswana, the population is estimated
at about 766,000 (1978) and is increasing at about 2.3% p.a. Although the
urban population comprises only about 10% of the total (73,000 persons resi-
dent in five towns), the country has one of the world's highest urbanization
growth rates, with the urban population growing at about 15% p.a.
2.03      Since Independence in 1966, important diamond and nickel deposits
have been discovered, and their exploitation has brought remarkably high
levels of economic growth and substantial increases in modern sector employ-
ment. Most people, however, continue to live outside the major towns, and
the incomes of many have remained virtually unchanged by this process of
modernization. The situation is further aggravated by the uncertain rainfall
and the water scarcity, which affect both the livestock sector and the sub-
sistence agriculture on which large numbers of the rural poor depend. The
economic growth derived from capital intensive investment in mining and
industries has benefitted mostly the urban population. The benefits accruing
from beef production have also been very unequally distributed, since 45% of
rural households own no cattle. There is some degree of income inequality
among economic sectors; for example, in 1976 the earnings of Central Govern-
ment employees were four times greater than those of the wage earners in the
agricultural sector.
2.04      In 1977, agriculture (livestock) contributed about 25% to GDP,
wholesale and retail trade 20% and mining and quarrying about 15%. In 1977,
the total labor force in Botswana was estimated to be 384,000. Of this
number, 62,700 (16%) were employed in the formal sector of the country;
11,000 (3%) were classified as domestics, 46,000 (12%) were employed outside
Botswana, 31,000 in the mines of the Republic of South Africa (RSA), and
264,300 (69%) were engaged in agriculture and hunting. Traditionally, large
numbers of Batswana were recruited for work in the mines of RSA.  However,
with recent policy changes, the RSA is recruiting primarily from the Bantustans.
The net result has been a 65% decrease in employment of Batswana in the RSA in
the period 1976-78, together with a 33% reduction in remittances.
Development Objectives
2.05      Botswana is currently finalizing its NDP V, 1979-85. 1/  The prin-
cipal objectives of the Plan are expected to be economic growth, employment
creation and rural development. Further diversification of the economy
requires that high priority be given to promoting industrial and commercial
activity.  Such diversification is essential to prevent an increase in
dependency on the mining sector which, while generating revenue used for the
development of other sectors, has only a limited potential for employment
growth.
2.06      The rapid expansion of Government activities during the period of
the NDP IV has resulted in a demand for skilled manpower that exceeds the
growth in available trained local manpower. This imbalance is not likely
1/   Botswana revises its five-year plan every three years.



- 3 -
to be resolved in the medium term. Therefore, it is expected that Government
will continue to rely upon the employment of expatriates for several years
to come. There is also strong evidence that the increased use of skilled
manpower by the Central Government has diverted manpower away from Local
Government and from the parastatal and private sectors, thereby causing
bottlenecks in the development of these subsectors.  In order to prevent an.
accentuation of this trend, manpower ceilings were imposed on Ministries
during the preparation of the 1979/80 budget (paras. 2.09-2.10).
2.07      Another constraint throughout the NDP V will be the availability
of public revenue. It is expected to rise from P143 million (in 1979/80
constant prices) in FY1978/79 to P263 million (also in 1979/80 constant
prices) in 1984/85, an average rate of about 10.7% p.a. However, this growth
rate is not expected to be steady; over the period 1978/79-1981/82 public
revenue will grow at an estimated 5.7% p.a. and at an estimated 15.9% p.a.
over the period 1981/82-1984/85. The latter growth rate is almost entirely
based on the expected mineral revenues from the Jwaneng diamond mine. If this
development does not meet present forecasts, the NDP V will have to be revised.
Manpower and Employment
2.08      General.  Wage employment increased at the high rate of 13% p.a.
from 1968 to 1972, when it totalled 40,200 (not including about 8,000 domestic
servants). Over the next five years it grew at an average annual rate exceed-
ing 9%, such that in 1977, there were 62,700 wage employees who comprised
about 16% of the active labor force in the domestic labor market. The per-
centage distribution of wage employment by sector in these two years is as
follows:
1972 1/ 1977 2/
Agriculture                                11.6      6.7
Mining and Quarrying                        4.0      9.0
Manufacturing                               6.4      6.6
Electricity and Water                       /a       1.5
Construction                               15.6     11.0
Commerce                                   19.0     16.0
Transport and Communications                3.0      2.9
Finance/Services and
Community/Social Services                 7.6      7.3
Education                                   8.2      9.2
Central Government                         22.2     24.6
Local Government                            2.4      5.2
/a  Not separately available - included under manufac-
turing.
Source: 1/ Staff Project Report, An Education Project in the Republic
of Botswana, World Bank, May 10, 1976;
2/ Employment Survey (August, 1977), Central Statistic Office,
Ministry of Finance and Planning, Gaborone, Botswana.



Together, the Central Government, commerce and construction comprised over
one half of the total wage employment. The structural changes in the economy
that took place between 1972 and 1977 are reflected in changes in the sectoral
distribution of employment. While the share of wage employment in agricu'lture
declined, the shares of mining and local government increased. In particular,
the share of the Dcal government sector in total wage employment more than
doubled between 1972 and 1977.
2.09      Modern sector.  There is a chronic shortage of locally qualified
personnel in the Government sector at the degree and diploma level, e.g.,
accountants, administrators, and managers, as well as clerical workers.
Such shortages are evidenced by the following: (a) vacancies at ministerial
establishments are about 60% of the established posts; (b) development projects
(included in the NDP IV) are behind schedule and are reported to be unsatisfac-
torily serviced and maintained after completion for lack of trained personnel;
and (c) localization is slow in the Government and almost nonexistent in
the private sector. Manpower shortages are so severe that a rationing system
has been developed by the Government (para. 7.01). However, since agreement
has been reached by Government on the appropriate establishment of each
Ministry (para. 2.06), during the NDP V a larger proportion of skilled man-
power should be available for the private and parastatal sectors thereby
enabling them to contribute to economic growth and employment creation more
aggressively than in the past.
2.10      The Government has made estimates of output from the University,
from degree-level courses taught overseas, from teacher training colleges,
and from other third-level education institutions. Of the reported 1,220
Central Government jobs which require a degree or diploma, 800 or 66% are
currently held by expatriates. When allowance is made for wastage of about
2% p.a., the stock of 420 Batswana will be reduced to 370 by 1986. Some
620 Batswana will become available for employment in the Central Government
during the period 1979-86. Preliminary allocations of post Form V leavers
with degree and diploma training are illustrated below:



-5-
SUPPLY OF DEGREE AND DIPLOMA MANPOWER /a
Allocation
Private Sector
Yr. Entering  Increase       Not           Parastatals,       Central    Secondary
Employment   in Total  Available /b   Local Government  Government  Teaching
1979         205          10               41                 74         80
1980         190           9               40                 68          73
1981         209          10               36                 54        109
1982         275          14               58                 77         127
1983         306          15               69                 82         140
1984         339          17               84                 87        151
1985         364          18               96                 89        161
1986         450          22              111                 86        231
Total      2,338         115              535                617      1,071
/a  Percentage allocations change between 1979 and 1986 as follows:  Private
sector, parastatals, and local government 21% to 26;, Central Government,
38% to 20%; and secondary teaching 41% to 54%.
/b About 5% of the graduates will be self-employed, will emigrate or
otherwise be unavailable.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Development Planning: Macro Economic
Unit, 1979.
The needs for further upgrading and training of personnel in the above cate-
gories are expected to be met through courses and seminars offered at the
Institute of Development Management (IDM), the main functions of which are
explained below in paras. 3.18 and 4.12.
2.11      The shortage of trained personnel is not limited to the degree or
diploma level. Interviews with employers and other studies revealed that
almost 75% of the skilled workers in commercial, clerical, and related occu-
pations in parastatal and private organizations should have had vocational
training, but only 25% had received such training. In particular, the Report
of the Presidential Commission on Localization and Training in Botswana
indicated that among the 350 established posts in five Ministries, there were
110 vacancies at mid-level. Of the 240 persons in post, the supervisors felt
that at least 50% could benefit from additional upgrading and training. In
addition, this type of middle-level manpower is required for other Ministries,
for Local Government, and for industrial and commercial organizations. The
needs for public service training are expected to be met partially by training
given at the Botswana Training Center (BTC) (para. 3.18 and para. 4.09). The
BTC will offer training in secretarial skills, public-finance administration,
and accounting and auditing as well as special courses for the Ministry of
Local Government and Lands (MLGL).
2.12      Rural sector.  In order to support development in rural areas, the
education sector will have to provide the knowledge and skills required for
increasing rural productivity. Nonformal training programs are needed for
youth who cannot be absorbed by the modern sector labor market or by the



- 6 -
formal education system. At present, there are about 88,000 young people
in the 14-18 age group who have a primary school education. Of this number,
about 16,000 are attending school on a full-time basis, and 7,500 are employed
either as skilled or unskilled workers in the modern sector. This leaves
about 63,000 young people in the non-monetized sector (about 72% of the age
group).
2.13      There are various nonformal training programs under several Minis-
tries addressed to this target group, e.g., the Youth Brigades and the Depart-
ment of Non-Formal Education (DNFE). There are also programs under the
Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Health (MOR) (para. 3.23). Although
numerous, most of these programs have small capacities. For example, each
Brigade Center can take only about 80 trainees p.a. and the estimated maximum
number of trainees at the 16 Brigade Centers is therefore about 1,280, or only
about 5% of the annual primary school output. In view of the contribution
which the Brigades can make to the development of local communities (para.
4.05), the intake capacity needs to be expanded.
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background, Objectives, Policy and Strategy
3.01      The early development of formal education in Botswana was undertaken
primarily by various missionary societies and a limited number of local,
private groups. At Independence in-1966, Botswana did not have a public
education system. About 66,000 students were enrolled in private primary
schools, which numbered fewer than 200. Only about 1,300 students were
enrolled in the four secondary schools that offered a full five-year course.
Since Independence, the education system has grown rapidly, with primary
school enrollments doubling and secondary enrollments increasing tenfold
between 1966 and 1978 (Annex 1, T-1, T-2, and T-3). Enrollment ratios now
stand at about 80% of the 6-13 age group in primary education and at 20% of
the 14-19 age group in secondary education (Chart 1). In spite of these
advancements, the high rate of economic growth has caused a widening gap
between the supply and the demand for educated manpower (paras. 2.09-2.10).
Furthermore, the poor quality of instruction in scientific and practical
subjects has resulted in the sector's failing to provide the appropriate
manpower required for either the rapid expansion of the modern sector or the
improvement of the traditional agricultural sector (paras. 2.10-2.13).
3.02      In 1975, the Government, aware of the above problems, commissioned
a review of the sector by a team of international experts. The report--
"Education for Kagisano" (social harmony)--was completed in April 1977 and
was subsequently issued for public debate. The debates led to the over-
whelming acceptance of the Commission's recommendations, cautioned only by
the financial and staffing constraints of actually implementing it within
the proposed time frame. After the public debates, the Government incorpor-
ated the major recommendations of the report into a "White Paper" which was



approved by the Parliament in August 1977. In January 1979, the Commission
was reconvened to provide further guidance on the priority and rate of imple-
mentation of its recommendations as well as on other related programming
matters. The recommendations of its earlier report were reaffirmed, espe-
cially that acknowledging the need to develop low-cost, day junior secondary
schools, to realize the goal of a nine-year universal basic education course
by the 1990's. The Commission also restated its position that practical
(vocational) subjects should not be introduced into the primary curriculum per
se but rather that practical subjects should be integrated into the regular
basic school courses.
3.03      On the basis of the National Commission's recommendations and the
"White Paper," the Government outlined its policy for education in the NDP V
period as follows:
(a) to increase educational opportunities and reduce inequali-
ties as far as resources permit;
(b) to contribute to the balanced development of the country
by seeking to satisfy manpower requirements for all sectors;
and
(c) to promote personal qualities such as respect for national
ideals, self-reliance and concern for other people and to
encourage the full development of individual talents.
3.04      To achieve these objectives the Government has prepared a strategy
which has the following principal elements:  (a) improvement of the quality of
and access to primary education; (b) development of a new structure to ulti-
mately provide nine years of basic education for all by the 1990's; 1/ through
the expansion of secondary education in both the public school system and in
the private community schools; (c) reformulation of the curriculum to
emphasize the acquisition of basic knowledge and skills needed in a rapidly
changing society and economy; and (d) increased emphasis on part-time learn-
ing, out-of-school education, and the combination of learning and work.
3.05      The program to carry out this strategy can be summarized as follows:
(a) an increase in primary education enrollment in order to attain a seven-
year universal primary education for the 6-13 age group by the early 1980s,
and an improvement in equity and quality by the elimination of tuition fees
at the primary level and the expansion of pre-service and in-service teacher
training; (b) a 50% increase in secondary school enrollment to be effected
during the next six years, along with the localization of junior secondary
school examinations and the development of a training college for junior
secondary school teachers; (c) a strengthening, reorganization and gradual
expansion of technical and nonformal education in line with existing and
projected availability of instructors; and (d) an expansion of the Botswana
campus of the University of Bostwana and Swaziland (UBS) to cater to an
anticipated enrollment of some 1,200 in 1985.
1/   The present 7:3:2 structure will remain intact until a sufficient number
of secondary school places are available to enable the shift to the new
6:3:3 structure.



- 8 -
3.06      The specific measures to implement this program are discussed
below, together with the major issues confronting the sector.
The Organization and Administration of the Education System
3.07      Overall responsibility for primary, secondary, nonformal, vocational
and higher education lies with the Ministry of Education (MOE) (Chart 2),
which accounts for about 95% of total enrollments and about 80% of the operat-
ing costs in education and training institutions. Responsibility for agricul-
tural and health education rests with the MOA and the MOH, respectively. The
MOE oversees the development of education sector plans, curriculum development,
teacher training, and public school administration and supervision. In
addition, the MOE insures the application of government regulations in private
schools. Botswana is divided into ten districts and four townships, each
having an education officer responsible for inspecting schools and advising
district councils on educational matters. The district councils are elected
local authorities with statutory responsibilities in the sphere of primary
education including school construction, maintenance, equipment, and shoulder-
ing certain administrative costs. The Rural Extension Coordinating Committee
(RECC), an interministerial body under the leadership of the Ministry of
Finance and Development Planning (MFDP), coordinates the nonformal education
programs of the various Ministries and Departments.
3.08      In the next five years, this administrative structure will be
strengthened in order to facilitate the transition from the existing 7-3-2
structure (Chart 3) to a new structure featuring six years of primary educa-
tion, three years of junior secondary education, and three years of senior
secondary education. The new structure will be introduced gradually as
sufficient secondary places become available and until then, the system will
continue to be based on seven years of primary education followed by a
secondary education in two cycles of three and two years, respectively.
The Formal Education System
3.09      Primary education presently lasts seven years and leads to the
Primary School Leaver Certificate (PSLC). Except for a few English medium
private primary schools, the medium of instruction, up to grade four is
Setswana and thereafter English. Fees of about P3 (about US$3.7 equivalent)
p.a. are charged in all public schools, but the Government plans to abolish
all public primary school fees by 1980 (para 3.05). The student:teacher
ratio has decreased from 34:1 to 31:1 since 1974; this ratio is more generous
than those prevailing in most other African countries at a similar level of
development. The Government plans to maintain the current ratio as a part of
the quality and efficiency measures discussed above; however, the average
number of pupils per teacher will be increased to about 35:1 if finances
prevent the maintenance of the present ratio.
3.10      Internal efficiency and access.  In 1978, there were about 145,500
students enrolled in primary schools (Annex 1, T-2). Primary school enroll-
ments are equivalent to about 80% (95% including overage students) of the
relevant age group; about 55% of the students are female (Chart 1). Repetition
in primary schools has decreased significantly since the introduction of



- 9 -
automatic promotion in 1967. By increasing enrollments to about 222,800 in
1985, thereby providing primary education for all, a positive effect on equity
is expected. At the same time, new curricular and administrative measures
(para. 3.11), together with the expected improvement in teachers' qualifica-
tions (para. 3.16), aim at a gradual improvement in the quality and efficiency
of the first level of education. SIDA is assisting primary school construction
in rural areas. While there are pockets of isolated and semi nomadic school-
age children who do not go to a primary school, access does not appear to be a
major problem as indicated by a gross enrollment ratio of 95%.
3.11      Quality of education.  Automatic promotion, instituted as a measure
to improve efficiency, has created new problems in the increased output of
school leavers who do not meet the standards expected by the Government. The
introduction of the Grade-4 examination scheduled for 1980 is an attempt
to identify slow learners and to provide remedial instruction early in the
cycle. Also, with the help of USAID, the curriculum is being redesigned
under the auspices of the newly formed Curriculum and Evaluation Unit in
the MOE.
3.12      Secondary education comprises five years:  three years of junior
secondary education leading to the Junior Certificate (JC) and two years of
senior secondary education (Chart 3) leading to the Cambridge Overseas School
Certificate (COSC). Secondary education enrollment has expanded at an average
of about 11% p.a. over the last five years, and although the enrollment ratio
is comparatively high, this subsector fails to meet the manpower needs of the
country (paras. 2.09-2.12). Government and aided schools charge fees varying
from P80 to P150 p.a. (US$97 to US$183 equivalent). 1/ The student:teacher
ratio averages about 22:1 for Government and aided schools and about 28:1 for
community schools. Although these may appear to be uneconomically low for a
country of Botswana' s per capita income, the Government proposes no changes at
this time but intends to keep the situation under review, in view of the long
periods that teaching posts may remain vacant. In the course of supervision,
pertinent developments will be discussed with the Bank.
3.13      Internal efficiency and access.  In 1978, there were about 11,000
students enrolled in Government and aided secondary schools and about 5,000
in community junior secondary schools (CJSS) (Annex 1, T-3). The total
enrollment represents about 20% of the 14-19 age group. Fifty-six percent of
the students are female. Dropout rates are about 2% p.a. in Form I and about
5% p.a. in Forms II-IV in Government and aided schools. Dropout rates in
private community junior secondary schools are about 15% for Form I and 25%
for Form II. As a result of Government development efforts, these are
expected to improve to about 10% per year. It is anticipated that the
dropout rate will remain constant for Government and aided schools.
1/   Government schools are fully financed apart from fees.  Aided schools
are publically assisted schools in which the Government officially
provides varying amounts of capital and technical services. Community
junior secondary schools are private schools which officially receive
only the technical services of the Government and depend upon the
community for capital assistance.



- 10 -
The Government plans to attain a net enrollment ratio of about 32% by 1985.
Of the total enrollment, about 40% will be in private community schools;
however, teacher shortage may prevent the attainment of these targets. With
this expansion, overall equity will be increased with the improved access to
secondary education. The current distribution of secondary school places as
represented by a Gini coefficient 1/ of .232 compares favorably with that of
Malawi (.278) and Kenya (.339).
3.14      Quality of education.  Recent results of the 1978 Junior Certificate
Examination (JCE) show an overall pass rate of 90% for Government and aided
schools and a 52% pass rate for community junior secondary schools. The
difference in performance is particularly significant when comparing results
in mathematics and science subjects where the pass rate was 90% for Government
and aided schools and only 47% for community junior secondary schools. This
poor performance by the students of community junior secondary schools is
attributed to the lack of science laboratories and equipment and qualified
teachers. At the senior secondary level, the COSC examination results have
shown a downward trend over the past eleven years, with the overall pass rate
dropping from about 80% in 1967 to less than 50% in 1978. This has occurred
because the examination system has yet to be localized while the enrollment
base has been broadened.
3.15      In the past, the secondary school curriculum has placed little
emphasis on Tswana language and culture and practical studies. With USAID
assistance, the Curriculum and Evaluation Unit of the MOE is currently revis-
ing the curriculum and syllabus to include, inter alia, Tswana language and
culture, integrated science, and at least one practical subject for all
students throughout the secondary cycle.
3.16      Teacher education.  In 1978, out of approximately 4,600 primary
school teachers, about 1,800 (almost 40%) were noncertified. 2/ The primary
school teacher wastage rate is about 3% p.a. (Annex 1, T-2). In order to
improve teacher qualifications as well as meet requirements for new teachers,
the Government is expanding its in-service primary teacher training program
and is building a fourth primary teacher training college. Government and
aided secondary schools employ about 500 teachers of whom approximately 63%
are noncitizens. Community junior secondary schools employ about 225 teachers,
most of whom are noncertified Zimbabwe-Rhodesians (Annex 1, T-3). Due to an
acute shortage of qualified science teachers in the community junior secondary
1/   Percent of distributed goods (e.g. capacity, teachers, recurrent
costs per student).
2/   Primary school teacher training is a two-year post-junior secondary
course that culminates in the Primary School Teaching Certificate
(PSTC). At present, secondary school teachers are trained at the
University in a two-year post-senior secondary course that results
in the Advanced Teacher Certificate (ATC). A Bachelor's degree
in education is also awarded at the University after four years of
successful study.



- 11 -
schools, the Government is trying to fill the gap, for the short term, with
volunteers provided by multilateral and bilateral agencies; for the long term
a new junior secondary teacher training program is being planned. At present,
all secondary teacher training takes place at the University Faculty of
Education which produces an annual output which is expected to grow from about
50 in 1979 to about 110 in 1982. Plans include phasing out the junior
secondary teacher preparation part of this program when the new college is
established. ODM and USAID are the main external sources of support for
teacher training.
3.17      Vocational and technical education is given high priority in the NDP
V in order to meet the growing needs of the modern sector (paras. 2.09-2.13).
At present, vocational training is provided by a number of Government and
private agencies. Technical departments of the various ministries (e.g.,
Telecommunications, Roads, and Water Affairs) have their own training
facilities and programs.
3.18      The Botswana Training Center (para. 2.11) was initially established
in 1968 to provide skill-development courses in the building, electrical,
and general engineering trades. In addition, the BTC conducted informal
training programs for commercial and Government employees in administrative
skills, revenue procedures and typewriting. The BTC is being assisted by
UNDP. Since the establishment of the National Center for Vocational Training
(NCVT) in 1973 (para. 3.19), the BTC has concentrated entirely on upgrading
and preservice training for private sector "white collar" occupations. For
training in higher-level administrative skills, the Institute of Development
Management (IDM), a regional institution established with CIDA support in
1974, offers short courses for senior management personnel, primarily of
the public sector.
3.19      The NCVT operates directly under the MOE's Vocational Training
Division. It offers two- and three-year, full-time courses at the craftsman/
technical level in carpentry, plumbing, electrical skills, mechanics and
welding.  Recently, the Government renamed the NCVT the Botswana Polytechnic.
The Government plans to expand facilities to emphasize middle and higher-level
technical training; the ODA is providing assistance in this area. In addition
to the proposed expanded Botswana Polytechnic, the Government plans to open
a training center for the automechanics trade and a technical wing at Selibe-
Pikwe Secondary School.
3.20      The Youth Brigades comprise a network of some 16 Centers which
combine training at the craft and artisan level with production activities
designed essentially for primary school leavers. The Brigades originate
through the local initiative of community members and are incorporated as
private nonprofit entities assigned by numerous voluntary organizations.
For administrative purposes, several Brigades catering to different skill
areas, (e.g., automechanics, carpentry, and building) share facilities in
a Youth Brigade Center. In 1978, the 16 Centers housed about 60 Brigades
having about 1,280 trainees (Annex 1, T-4). A National Brigade Coordinating
Committee, functioning under the auspices of the MOE, provides some financial



- 12 -
and technical support for the Brigade Centers. In addition, a recently opened
National Bridgade Development Center (BRIDEC), which was financed under the
first Bank-assisted education project (Loan 1274-BT-1275-T-BT), addresses the
needs of instructional and administrative training.   Although the Brigades
are helping to meet the nation's requirements for craft- and artisan-level
skilled manpower the needs for such skills remain great (para. 2.13). There-
fore, the Government anticipates that the number of Brigades will expand from
60 to about 90 over the next five years. The Youth Brigades are expected to
become a major source of trained craftsmen.
3.21      The Botswana Agricultural College provides two- and three-year
certificate courses in farming and animal husbandry. The Agricultural
Extension Service and a network of four rural training centers both offer
direct training to farmers. Since the extension service reaches less than
15% of the farm families, the Government is encouraging the expansion of
Brigade agricultural activities in cooperation with the MOA for demonstration
activities which would complement those of the extension workers. Training
for nurses is conducted at the MOH Nurse Training School and at local hos-
pitals and dispensaries.
3.22      Higher education.  The Botswana campus of the University of Botswana
and Swaziland offers four-year degree programs in education, economics, admin-
istration, science and other disciplines, as well-as an advanced training
program for secondary school teachers. In 1978, about 688 students were
enrolled in UBS with an additional 300 university-level students studying
abroad. The UBS is staffed by about 85 lecturers of whom about 78 are
expatriates. A USAID-assisted study on higher education in Botswana was
recently conducted. Plans are now underway to expand the UBS (para. 3.05).
The Nonformal Education System
3.23      Nonformal education (NFE) in Botswana has only recently been given
priority by the Central Government, following the appointment of a chief
education officer in the newly formed Department of NFE in the MOE; the
Department is being developed with Unesco assistance. Several Ministries
have introduced NFE programs for their own specific purposes. For example,
the MOA has an extension department involved with radio programs and it
produces written materials for farmer education (para. 3.21). The Department
of Community Development has organized and established literacy courses and
youth clubs throughout the country. The Department's field workers have
established Village Development Committees and they encourage the participa-
tion of villagers in planning local development. Health education programs
have been launched by the MOH in connection with the distribution of foods
through school feeding programs and the World Food Program. Voluntary
agencies such as the Red Cross, the Botswana Council of Women, and the
Young Women's Christian Association have assisted in the health education
effort, in addition to providing other programs of instruction for their
members.



- 13 -
3.24      Under the first Bank-assisted education project, a nonformal educa-
tion program for adults is being implemented in conjunction with the develop-
ment of Matsha Community College. 1/ The content of such programs ranges from
functional literacy to courses in civics and health. The Institute of Adult
Education of the UBS, has been training adults as nonformal educators and
providing extension courses. The DNFE offers a program of distance learning
that stresses secondary school equivalency skills for adults throughout the
country. The DNFE have also been involved in experimental literacy work and a
national literacy program is about to be launched.
Financial Aspects of Education Development
3.25      The financing of education is largely the responsibility of the
Central Government. Since 1976/77, with the introduction of the Unified
Teaching Service, the salary payments of all primary school teachers were
transferred from the district councils to the MOE; only supporting services
are paid by the district councils. At the primary level parents still pay a
tuition fee to help defray the costs of educating their children. At the
secondary level, fees vary according to the type of school(public versus
private); from 1980 all tuition at the primary level will be abolished.
3.26      Unit recurrent costs are about P100 p.a. for primary students,
P440 for day junior secondary students, and P590 for day senior secondary
students; an additional P140 is provided for boarding students at the
secondary level. Unit recurrent costs for university students are about
P4,500 of which the bursary element represents P1,250. With the exception
of the high unit cost of university education, due primarily to the early
stage of development of the University, these figures compare well with
those prevailing in nearby Southern African countries, e.g., Zambia and
Swaziland.
3.27      The enrollment increases anticipated in the NDP V are summarized
as follows:
1979             1985
Primary Education                       158,300          222,800
Secondary Education:  public            12,330            16,770
private           5,150           10,850
Higher Education                            760            1,200
1/   Matsha Community College is a planned multi-purpose education center
located in the Western Kalahari region which will provide junior
secondary education for about 320 boarding students, and adult educa-
tion courses for about 3,600 out-of-school youth and adults per annum.



- 14 -
The expansion of the system will be accompanied by quality improvement mea-
sures that will inevitably increase the cost of education to some extent. For
example, the unit recurrent cost of primary education is likely to increase
by some 10% in real terms from 1979 to 1985, unless the student: teacher ratio
is revised upward from the recent trend (para. 3.09); our projection assumes
a gradual increase in the average number of pupils per teacher. Ca the other
hand, the increase in secondary education unit costs will be limited since
the Government will give priority to the development of low-cost, community-
based day schools.
3.28      The draft NDP V projections in constant 1979/80 prices indicate
that the Central Government's total recurrent and capital expenditures on
education will rise from an estimated P37.8 million in 1979/80 to an estimated
P49.0 million in 1984/85 (Annex 1, T-5). The ratio of recurrent and capital
expenditures is approximately 7:1, which is 'in line with other African coun-
tries. The MOE's total expenditures as a percentage of total Government
expenditures were about 19% in 1978/79, and it is reasonable to assume that
this figure will rise to about 22% by 1984/85. In 1978/79 the recurrent
education expenditures represent about 25.5% of total government recurrent
expenditures and are expected to reach about 28% in 1984/85. Recurrent
expenditures for education during the NDP V will be allowed to grow in real
terms by about 10% p.a. with a ceiling of 10.4% p.a. imposed by the cabinet
(Annex 1, T-6). This is higher than the growth rate of any other Ministry
but lower than the 15% p.a. growth rate allocated to education in the NDP
IV.
3.29      Education development expenditures will be limited to about P29.0
million over the NDP V period, which is a reduction in real terms with
respect to the allocation for the NDP IV period. Given these guidelines,
the MOE will have to institute measures designed to prevent increases in
costs per student. Specifically, the MOE intends: (a) to develop junior
secondary schools on the basis of community self-help with Government con-
tributions to capital development and the provision of only certain teachers;
and (b) to review fees for secondary education in order to ensure that bur-
saries which represent about 5% of the recurrent budget for education are
awarded only to those in genuine need. For post-secondary education, bur-
saries will continue to be provided to all students because of the urgency
of meeting manpower needs.
Role of the Bank in Botswana Education
3.30      Past experience.  The first Bank-assisted education project (Loans
1274-BT/1275-T-BT, May 1976) is viewed as supporting the first phase of the
Government's education investment program designed to help meet the manpower
requirements of the economy. The objectives of the first project are:
(a) to increase the number of secondary school places by about 30%; (b) to
provide secondary school teachers to replace expatriates and meet expansion
needs; (c) to expand adult education programs for out-of-school youth and
adults; and (d) to provide a multi-purpose rural education center to serve
the needs of the Western Kalahari region. Implementation of the project is
satisfactory and completion with full disbursement is expected by the May
1982 Closing Date.



- 15 -
3.31      Lessons learned.  Although the project has not yet been completed,
several lessons have been learned. On the physical implementation side,
disbursement delays in the first project have probably resulted from the
lack of a full-time architect, a quantity surveyor and a finance officer. A
finance officer has now taken up post and the Government is requesting that a
bilateral donor provide the other specialists needed; no further problems are
anticipated in this regard. Also, the lack of periodic reports to provide an
overall view of the progress to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the
Government has probably further contributed to delays in disbursements.
Agreement has been reached that semi-annual reports will be prepared for use
by the Government and the Bank to identify possible difficulties. The PIU is
expected to be formally institutionalized in the near future and is taking on
additional development work beyond that financed by the Bank. In this respect
the Government has been encouraged, with limited success, to localize the
staff; however, due to the lack of trained manpower, it is expected that
progress will be slow.
3.32      On the educational side, preliminary reviews conducted in the
course of project supervision have indicated that more economical facilities
for public secondary education expansion should be undertaken. These reviews
have also revealed that the Brigades program is generally effective but that
it needs further strengthening in evaluation and certain managerial aspects.
Finally, the reviews have pointed out the shortage of teachers and instructors
in the sciences and the practical subjects.
3.33      These lessons have been applied to the design of the proposed
second education project as follows: (a) provisions have been made for the
adequate staffing of the PIU (para. 6.02); (b) priority has been given to the
development of community schools (paras. 4.02 and 4.03); (c) measures to
reinforce the Brigades have been included (paras. 4.05 and 4.08); and (d)
attention has been paid to the present and projected teacher supply (para.
4.04). In addition, whereas the project would center on the provision of
physical facilities, it has been developed in close cooperation with other
agencies such as USAID, UNDP, and CIDA, who are providing significant tech-
nical assistance programs for software development on a grant basis.
3.34      Future strategy.  The Government of Botswana's present and proposed
policy for education development is sound and meets Bank criteria for assis-
tance to the sector. In the area of primary education, the needs are mostly
qualitative and involve only modest expansion; they are being catered to
principally under projects assisted by bilateral agencies (paras. 3.09-3.11).
Bilateral agencies are also providing considerable support to specialized
teachers and higher education (paras. 3.15 and 3.22). Secondary education
is expected to continue to be the main focus of Bank assistance, together
with certain well-defined elements of the nonformal and technical/vocational
education subsectors. By placing emphasis on secondary education, the Bank
will at the same time assist in meeting manpower needs and broaden the base
of the sector so as to develop a nine-year universal basic education.



- 16 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project covers a five-year program (mid 1980 to 1985)
and supports some of the principal educational objectives of the NDP V (para.
3.03): (a) development of a network of community junior secondary schools
(CJSS) in order to allow eventual universal access to this level of education;
(b) expansion of rural vocational training principally for primary school
leavers; and (c) improved training of civil servants and public sector per-
sonnel in management skills, accountancy, public finance and commerce.  These
three objectives would be furthered by the projects three main components:
(a) a program of assistance for existing and new community junior secondary
schools; (b) continuation of the assistance provided under the first Bank-
assisted education project for the Youth Brigades; and (c) expansion of the
Institute of Development Management and the Botswana Training Center.
Project Components
4.02      Community junior secondary schools (Grades 8-10).  The Government's
long-term strategy for secondary education is based on the Report of the
National Commission on Education and the 1977 Government White Paper No. 1
"National Policy on Education" (para. 3.02). One of the main programs included
in the White Paper is the development of CJSS to eventually allow the extension
of basic education from the present seven years to nine years; during this
change, the primary cycle of seven years would be reduced to six years (para.
3.08).
4.03      The Paper sets no precise time-table for attainment of universal
junior secondary school education because progress will largely depend on the
availability of resources which might be devoted to education over the long
term (paras. 2.07 and 3.27). However, the target set for the end of the NDP V
period is that at least half of all standard VII primary school leavers should
be admitted to junior secondary schools. This means that junior secondary
school enrollment should rise as summarized in para. 3.27. Expansion of
Government and aided schools is being financed under the Bank assisted first
education project as well as under other schemes. The doubling of enrollments
in the privately financed community schools will depend to what degree the
local communities respond to the Government's incentives for establishing such
schools. These incentives include professional services, provision of some
teachers, and financial support. To obtain such assistance, the local com-
munity has to comply with the Statutory Instrument No. 144 of 1978 "Education
(Private Secondary Schools) Regulations." All CJSS, schools, enrolling 5,150
students, have complied with these regulations. Because of limited develop-
ment resources, the curriculum in use is nearly devoid of science-based
subjects and mathematics. Therefore, the proposed project includes assis-
tance for about 11 of the 16 schools so that they may be provided with
science laboratories, classrooms, administrative offices and site develop-
ment. This action would make improved curriculum and instruction available
for about 3,850 students.



- 17 -
4.04      The proposed project also includes a total of about 1,680 student
places to be distributed among about seven new CJSS; the actual locations of
these schools would be chosen in accordance with criteria outlined in Annex
2. The Government has confirmed that the locations would be selected in
accordance with these criteria. Each school would have an average of 240
students. The total number of new places is one third of the targeted increase
for the CJSS during the Plan period. It is probable that effective junior
secondary school expansion will be limited by the severe shortage of teachers,
particularly in mathematics and the sciences (para. 3.32). During the Plan
period, and based on its projections, there will not be sufficient qualified
Batswana teachers to meet the needs of all junior secondary schools; the
deficit of mathematics and science teachers is expected to increase from about
240 in 1979 to 335 in 1985. At present, the gap is partially filled by
expatriate teachers (about 120 in April 1978), many of whom are provided by
voluntary agencies. In arts subjects, a deficit of 210 Batswana teachers in
1979 is expected to be reduced to 60 by 1985. An increase in teachers supply
and improvement of their training facilities require urgent attention from the
Government to meet the needs of planned student enrollment expansions. The
Government has provided (a) a satisfactory plan for resolving the long- and
short-term problems of secondary teacher supply, particularly for mathematics
and science subjects; (b) assurances that an adequate number of suitably
qualified teachers would be made available to staff the facilities provided
under the proposed project; (c) assurances that, in consultation with the
Bank, it would take action as may be necessary to ensure: the progressive
equalization of the level of fees charged by the CJSS with the national level
of fees changed by Government secondary schools. It is expected that the
equalization of fees will take place over a lengthy period of time and at a
rate which can be absorbed by available resources. The existing bursary
scheme would be extended so as to apply on a non-discriminatory basis to
students attending CJSS included in the project i.e. students would receive
assistance according to individual needs; and (d) the Board of Governors of
the CJSS would submit project memoranda, to the PIU through the Government
Committee, providing details on their requests for assistance under the
project. The plan under (a) includes proposals for employment of expatriate
teachers and including agreements with voluntary and bilateral agencies, until
local institutions are expanded to provide a sufficient supply of qualified
Batswana teachers. It is expected that only in the late 1980's Botswana
secondary schools will be staffed by citizens.
4.05      Youth Brigades.  The proposed project includes a continuation of
assistance for Brigades similar to that provided under the first Bank-assisted
education project (para. 3.30). The Brigades provide skill training mostly
for primary school leavers, yet some trades taught at the Center (e.g., motor
mechanics and electrical) call for a higher level of education than that
possessed by primary school leavers; hence, some secondary school leavers are
recruited to train for such trades. Since their introduction in 1965, the
Brigades have made steady progress in training skilled manpower at a basic
vocational level. The usual pattern is that youngsters of about 16 years of
age are trained in a vocational skill, e.g., building, carpentry, textiles, or
mechanics. After two or three years, these trainees take the appropriate
government trade test and are released for employment. Some of the recurrent
costs are recovered by productive work in real-work situations; about 50% of



- 18 -
the trainees' time is devoted to production. In 1976, a tracer study was
made of the trainees who had completed courses since 1965.  Of the 1,300 who
had completed training, 450 responded to a questionnaire; 83% of them had
found work within three months and 11% within six months after completion of
training. Furthermore, 80% of those employed were situated in jobs related
to the skills they had acquired. More comprehensive evaluationr and tracer
studies are about to be undertaken by BRIDEC, but the results of the 1976
study are sufficiently encouraging to merit continued assistance to the
Brigade movement. The present Brigade evaluation system being operated by
BRIDEC under the auspices of the NBCC should be further strengthened (para.
3.32). The Government has submitted a satisfactory plan to further strengthen
and institutionalize the present evaluation system. Included would be the
submission of an annual report of the Brigade programs to the Bank within
three months after the end of the Government's fiscal year.
4.06      The Brigades are not under direct Government control.  They are
administered by local Boards of Trustees who set policies and determine the
priorities for their specific centers which are then, in turn, reviewed
by the National Brigades Coordinating Committee (NBCC). This procedure
is accepted by the Government since the autonomy of the Brigades ensures
local decision making, participation and flexibility. The Government has
provided assurances that the Board of Trustees of the brigades would submit
project memoranda, to the PIU through the NBCC, providing details on their
request for assistance under the project.
4.07      There are three major elements of Government assistance to the
Brigades: development capital, training subsidies of P240 p.a. per trainee,
and the provision of training and extension activities by BRIDEC, financed
under the first Bank-assisted education project. Although at this stage
of development, the Brigades are far from being self-supporting, their con-
tribution to the financing of their activities represents an important saving
for the Government. The Brigades considerably relieve the heavy burden which
would be placed on the Government if an equal amount of vocational training
were to be directly financed by Government resources.
4.08      The assistance included under the proposed project would provide for
about seven Brigade Centers and about nine Agricultural Brigades (para. 3.21).
A Brigade Center generally comprises several Brigades, e.g., a Builders'
Brigade, a Carpentry Brigade. The locations of the new Centers and Brigades
would be approved by the NBCC after appropriate preliminary preparation has
been done by the local communities involved and the Boards of Trustees
formed. The new Centers and Brigades would be sited in rural areas, and for
this reason special emphasis is being given to increasing the numbers of
Agricultural Brigades. In the past, agricultural brigades have encountered
problems due to poor management and inadequate agricultural expertise.  In
order to help address these problems the MOA has recently established a post
for a full-time agricultural specialist to act as a liaison officer between
MOA and the agricultural brigades. An assurance has been obtained from the
Government that this officer will be appointed not later than September 30,
1980. A program for the timely selection of sites has also been discussed
with the Government.



- 19 -
4.09      Botswana Training Center (BTC).  In 1962, the BTC in Gaborone was
opened and began to provide lower- to middle-level training for civil servants
and public sector employees in administration, accounting and bookkeeping and
shorthand and typewriting (para. 3.12). In 1975, the BTC was placed under the
direct control of the Director of Personnel in the Office of the President.
In 1977, the National Commission on Education recommended that the BTC be
expanded to become the National College of Commerce and Administration, a
recommendation which is included in the 1977 White Paper (para. 3.02).
4.10      In January 1978, in support of this recommendation, UNDP, with
the ILO as the executing agency, approved a project to assist the BTC.
Provisions were made for ;5 man-years of technical assistance, six fellow-
ships, equipment and vehicles, monitoring and technical review. The UNDP
input amounts to about US$1.3 million equivalent over four years.
4.11      The development objectives of the UNDP project are to introduce
two new courses, one in commerce and accountancy and the other in public
finance and accountancy, as well as to raise the standard of secretarial
training so that graduates can fill secretarial positions in private,
parastatal and public sectors. When fully operational by the end of 1980,
the new courses in commerce, accountancy, and public finance would have
240 students enrolled on "day-release" 1/ and "block-release" 2/ courses,
each for three years' duration. Since only half the students attend at
any one time, a capacity of 120 student places is required for these courses.
About 75 students are enrolled in the existing 15-month, full-time courses
for secretarial training and this enrollment is expected to increase to
120 students. Since present accommodations at the BTC are inadequate to
support these enrollment increases, the proposed project includes classrooms,
seminar rooms, a typewriting room and administrative offices of appropriate
capacity. For women students living outside Gaborone and attending the BTC,
a 40-bed hostel is also included in the proposed project.
4.12      Institute of Development Management (IDM).  The IDM was established
in 1974 as a largely autonomous regional institution within the University of
Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland (para 3.18). Following the withdrawal of
Lesotho from the University in 1975, the IDM, on the recommendations of its
Advisory Board and with the approval of the three governments, became a
separate regional body under a Governing Board.
4.13      The IDM provides courses, seminars and workshops designed to help
middle and senior-level personnel gain a fuller understanding and competence
1/   Day-release:  Students attend the BTC either in the mornings or in
the afternoons and spend the rest of the day at their employment.
Two groups of students attend BTC daily.
2/   Block-release:  Students attend the BTC for six months per year and
spend the rest of the year in employment. Two groups of students
attend BTC annually.



- 20 -
in performing their responsibilities. Over the IDM's five years of operations,
about 110 courses have been conducted with nearly 2,000 participants from the
public, parastatal and private sectors. The courses offered include adminis-
tration and management for public service and the private sector, financial
management, pe-sonnel management, as well as more specialized needs in educa-
tion, health services, agriculture, rural development, local administration
and related fields.
4.14      CIDA's evaluation of the IDM in 1977 concluded that the Institute
offered high-quality courses that were both relevant and useful. CIDA
is giving major support to IDM, principally in technical assistance and
fellowships, and it has recently approved a grant of about US$4.0 million
equivalent to provide staff and staff development until July 30, 1983. The
Institute has also received assistance from the Ford Foundation and the
Norwegian Agency for Development (NORAD), which together financed the con-
struction of the facilities at the Gaborone campus; UNDP has assisted with
the costs of participants attending courses. At present, the facilities at
Gaborone are inadequate to meet the expanding requests for courses, not only
from students in Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland, but also from other African
countries. Consequently, the proposed project would provide classrooms,
seminar and library rooms, and administrative offices to accommodate the
projected expansion of courses over the next four years.
4.15      Monitoring and evaluation studies.  The Planning Unit of the
MOE, in cooperation with the Central Statistics Unit, is currently planning
tracer studies for primary school leavers, Form III leavers, Form V leavers,
and Brigade leavers during the course of implementation of the Five-Year Plan
(1979-85). In addition, both the Youth Brigades (para. 4.05) and the IDM
(para. 4.13) are in the process of developing more comprehensive evaluation
systems for their respective programs. The Bank will receive and, as appro-
priate, review the results of these studies.
4.16      The Government has given assurances that  it would prepare and
furnish to the Bank a completion report on the execution and initial
operations of the proposed project; its costs and the benefits derived; the
performance by the Government and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement; and significant lessons learned during project
implementation. This report would be prepared by the PIU and the MOE in
cooperation with other relevant agencies or departments by not later than
three months after the Loan Closing Date.
4.17      Female participation in the formal education system in 1978 was as
follows: at the primary level (Grades 1-7), females represented about 55%
of the total enrollment, at secondary level (Form I-V), 56% and at the univer-
sity level, 33% (Annex 1, C-1). The proposed project is specifically provid-
ing; upgrading of the junior secondary level where the female participation
is proportionally the greatest; hostel accommodations for women at the BTC
(para. 4.11); and the Brigades are expected to cater to women for training
in, inter alia, textiles, handicrafts and agriculture.



- 21 -
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$15.0 million
equivalent, including customs duties and taxes estimated at about US$0.4 mil-
lion. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given in
Annex 1, T-7 and T-8, and are summarized as follows:
% of
Pula (Millions)       US$ (Millions)       Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Cost
I. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment & Vehicles
1. New Junior Secondary
Schools (7)              0.70    1.29  2.04    0.92   1.57   2.49   24
2. Upgrading of Junior
Secondary Schools (11)  0.54    0.80  1.34    0.65   0.98   1.63   16
Sub-total (1+2)        1.29    2.09  3.38    1.57   2.55   4.12   40
3. New Brigade
Centers (7)              0.72    1.47  2.19    0.88   1.79   2.67   26
4. Agricultural
Brigades (9)             0.13    0.51  0.64    0.16   0.62   0.78    7
Sub-total (3+4)        0.85    1.98  2.83    1.04   2.41   3.45   33
5. Botswana Training
Center                   0.23    0.29  0.52    0.28   0.35   0.63    6
6. Institute of Develop-
ment Management           0.08    0.10  0.18    0.10   0.12   0.22    2
Total I                2.45    4.46  6.91    2.99   5.43   8.42   81
II. Professional Services
(A/E)                       0.17    0.41  0.58    0.21   0.50   0.71    7
III. Project Administration
1. Technical Assistance    0.17    0.51  0.68    0.21   0.62   0.83    8
2. Operational Expenses    0.27    1.12  0.39    0.32   0.15   0.47    4
Sub-total III          0.44    0.63  1.07    0.53   0.77   1.30   12
Total Base Cost
I-III (Dec. 1979)        3.06    5.50  8.56    3.73   6.70  10.43  100
IV. Contingencies
1. Physical (8%)            0.25    0.43  0.68    0.31   0.52   0.83
2. Price (33%)               1.10    1.97  3.07    1.34   2.40   3.74
Sub-total IV            1.35    2.40  3.75    1.65   2.92   4.57
Total Project Cost
(I-IV)                 4.41    7.90 12.31    5.38   9.62  15.00
of which tax                             0.31                    0.38



- 22 -
5.02      Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
have been derived from a review of available data carried out by Bank staff,
together with the Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC) and PIU staff,
and based upon recent quotations received for similar components in the first
Bank-assisted education project.  The cost of civil works for Phe Brigades is
also based upon experience from the first education project, taking into
account the reduced labor cost of trainees involved in the work. The proposed
schedules of accommodations for the various proposed institutions are functional,
and the furniture and equipment would be of the type pertinent for the country's
needs in accomplishing the educational objectives of the project. The average
cost per square meter for the community junior secondary schools varies. For
example, in the proximity of Gaborone and along the line of rail, the cost is
about US$188 equivalent, whereas the cost is about US$319 equivalent for the
two schools located in the remote areas of the country; the differences
resulting from the higher costs of labor, materials, transportation and site
development. These costs compare with the average cost per square meter in
other Eastern African countries as follows: Malawi - 1979, US$190; Swaziland -
1979, US$160; Kenya - 1978, US$190; and Mauritius - 1978, US$273:  (based
upon exchange rates which reflect the scarcity of foreign exchange). Unit
costs of international specialists, who are expected to be recruited locally,
are estimated at about US$33,000 equivalent per staff-year.
5.03      Customs duties and taxes.  All items specifically imported for
the proposed project would be exempt from customs duties and taxes in line
with the practice of the Government to grant custom and tax exemption to
imports for educational purposes. Some of the materials to be used in
the construction of the proposed institutions would be acquired on the open
market and would be subject to customs duties and/or taxes. Of the estimated
civil works and professional services costs, about US$0.38 million equivalent
would represent customs duties and taxes.
5.04      Contingency allowances.  For physical contingencies, 10% has been
added to the base cost of civil works and professional services and 5% to
furniture, equipment and vehicles. Price increases from the base cost date
(December 1979) have been applied in accordance with the implementation
schedule shown in Annex 1, T-9 at the following rates:
Civil Works        Furniture,
and Prof.         Equipment
Year               Services           & Vehicles
1980                18% p.a.           10% p.a.
1981                14% p.a.            8% p.a.
1982-85             12% p.a.            8% p.a.
Projected price increases were obtained on the basis of a review conducted
with the Chief Quantity Surveyor of the MWC and the staff of the PIU, as well
as on the basis of past experience.



- 23 -
5.05      The foreign exchange component has been calculated as follows:
(a) civil works, 60%; (b) furniture, 80%; (c) equipment and vehicles, 90%;
(d) professional services, 70%; (e) technical assistance, 75%; and (f)
project administration, 30%. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$9.6 million equivalent or 64% of the total
project cost.
Financial Plan
5.06      The financial plan provides for Bank assistance of US$10.0 million
equivalent, or 68% of the project cost net of taxes as follows:
US$ million equivalent
Botswana   Bank
Category                           Government  Loan   Total
1.   Civil works (including force account
work by Brigades)                           2.40     4.00    6.40
2.   Construction materials for CJSS             0.14      0.23    0.37
3.   Furniture, equipment and vehicles           0.15      1.50    1.65
4.   Professional services (A/E)                 0.21     0.50    0.71
5.   Project administration:
(a)  technical assistance                  0.21      0.62    0.83
(b)  operational expenses                  0.32      0.15    0.47
6.   Unallocated                                 1.57     3.00    4.57
Totals                           5.00    10.00   15.00
of which taxes:                  0.38       -      0.38
5.07      While ODA, EEC, DANIDA, CIDA, UNDP (ILO), USAID and other agencies
are assisting elements related to the project, formal cofinancing arrangements
are not contemplated. Recurrent costs generated by the proposed project
are estimated at about US$3.1 million equivalent p.a. at 1979 prices, or
about 6.4% of the estimated recurrent cost of education in 1984/85.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Implementation
6.01      Schedule.  The proposed project would be implemented in about five
years, including six months for finalization of accounts and withdrawals
(Annex 1, T-9). Project completion is expected by December 31, 1984 with a
Closing Date of June 30, 1985. The implementation schedule is based upon
experience derived from the first Bank-assisted education project.



- 24 -
6.02      Administration.  The PIU established in the MOE, for implementation
of the first Bank-assisted education project, would be responsible for the
administrative and financial control of the proposed project, including
liaison with the Bank. This Unit would also be responsible for coordination
with the various Ministries and Departments involved in the project.  Any
appointments to he positions of project director (manager) and architect
would be made after consultation between the Borrower and the Bank. 1/ DANIDA
is expected to provide the services of a project director. Technical assist-
ance and operational expenses for the PIU are included in the project cost.
Technical assistance would provide for the services of a procurement officer,
an assistant architect, an assistant quantity surveyor, and about two clerks
of works for a period of five years each. Each appointment to the staff of
the PIU financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan shall be a person
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. To permit the PIU to adequately control
and monitor the implementation of the project components dealing with brigades
and CJSS, assurances were given by the Government that the Board of Governors
of the community junior secondary schools and the Brigade Trusts which seek
assistance under the project would prepare project memoranda proposing in
detail the facilities and services to be constructed, installed or provided;
the contributions to be made by the community or the Brigade Trust the site
location; the capital expenditures to be financed; the construction, installa-
tion and procurement procedures to be followed; the proposed utilization of
such facilities; the financial and economic justification for the proposals
and such other information as may be required. The Government has given
assurances that semi-annual reports on implementation progress will be
submitted to the Bank for review within two months after the periods ending on
March 31 and September 30.
6.03      Professional Services (architectural/engineering).  Design and
supervision of the construction of the community junior secondary schools,
the BTC, and the IDM components would be carried out by locally established
consultants selected and commissioned on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. These consultants, except those for the IDM, would work under the
technical direction of the MWC. The consultant for the IDM would be under the
technical direction (for both design and supervision of construction) of the
campus planner of the UBS. In addition to the normal supervision of construc-
tion carried out by consultants, the clerks of works in the PIU (working
under the technical direction of the MWC and consultants) would provide
supervision for the community junior secondary schools and the BTC on a
regular basis. The design of the Brigades facilities would be carried out by
the Brigade Draftsmen Unit using standardized documents.
6.04      Because of the urgent need for the facilities in the proposed
project, particularly at the BTC and the IDM, design work should be under-
taken promptly and retroactive financing is recommended for the services
of architectural/engineering consultants. In particular, retroactive financ-
ing is recommended for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1980, estimated
at US$150,000 equivalent, of which about US$100,000 would be eligible for
reimbursement.
1/   As set forth in the First Education Project Loan Agreement.



- 25 -
6.05      Site selection.  Satisfactory sites exist for the expansion of
the 11 community junior secondary schools, the BTC and the IDM. Site selec-
tion for the new Brigades would be made in accordance with established
satisfactory procedures which have been successfully applied by the NBCC
(para. 4.06) in the first Bank-assisted education project. Locations and
sites for the seven new community junior secondary schools would be selected
in accordance with criteria contained in Annex 2. A program for the timely
selection of sites was discussed during negotiations.
Procurement
6.06      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement, except as follows:
(a)  civil works for the Brigade Centers and Agricultural
Brigades;
(b) civil works contracts costing less than US$250,000
equivalent each; and
(c) furniture, equipment, vehicles and construction material
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each.
6.07      Item (a), listed above, would be carried out by the departmental
forces of the Brigades utilizing force account procedures which, based upon
experience in the first project, have proven to be an economic and efficient
method because of: (i) their small size and the scattered and remote rural
locations; and (ii) the utilization of the Carpentry and Building Brigades
trainees in carrying out the work. The cost of (a) is estimated at US$3.4
million equivalent including contingencies. Items under (b), estimated at
US$2.1 million equivalent and items under (c), estimated at US$0.6 million
equivalent including contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles to
be awarded by ICB are estimated at about US$6.6 million equivalent including
contingencies.
6.08      Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of furni-
ture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed grouping and cost estimates
would be reviewed by the Bank. Items would be grouped to the extent practic-
able to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk procurement. Review of
tender evaluation documents prior to award would be required only for contracts
above US$250,000 equivalent for civil works and US$50,000 equivalent for
furniture, equipment and vehicles.
6.09      Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower,
over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.



- 26 -
Disbursements
6.10      Disbursements (Annex 1, T-10) would be made on the basis of:
(a) 62% of civil works (including construction materials for the
CJSS and force account work by Brigades);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported construction
materials for the CJSS, furniture, equipment and vehicles;
(c) 90% of local expenditures for locally manufactured furniture
and equipment;
(d) 80% of total expenditures for imported but locally procured
furniture, equipment and vehicles, and for technical assistance;
(e) 70% of total expenditures for professional services; and
(f) 30% of local expenditures for operational expenses.
6.11      All disbursements would be fully documented except for:  (a) civil
works executed by the Brigade's departmental forces utilizing force account
procedures and (b) operational expenses for project administration (paras.
6.06-6.07), for which disbursements would be made against a certificate of
expenditure, the documentation for which is not submitted for review, but is
retained by the Borrower and available for inspection by the Bank during the
course of a project supervision mission. Based upon experience in the first
Bank assisted education project, the Brigades and the PIU have satisfactory
institutional capacity to use the statement of expenditure procedure.
6.12      Auditing would be required on an annual basis for expenditures
financed under this project and, in particular, for work carried out by
departmental forces (force account) and for operational expenses under
project administration. Auditing would be performed by auditors acceptable
to the Bank applying satisfactory auditing procedures. Reports should be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year of
the Government.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
7.01      The principal benefits of the proposed project are expected to be in
the area of manpower development. The project has been developed to reduce
Botswana's critical shortage of trained manpower and to replace expatriates
throughout the economy. For example, the severe shortage of secondary school
graduates is such that a rationing system exists in which the Directorate of
Personnel allocates graduates between government departments and the private
sector or directs them towards further education. Of particular concern to
the Government is the shortage of graduates who proceed to those occupations



- 27 -
that require higher education and which demand a basic training in science and
mathematics (paras. 2.08-2.13). Assistance to the community junior secondary
schools would help eliminate these weaknesses in the educational system. The
Government's agreement to assist community junior secondary schools (para.
4.02) is contingent upon considerable effort from the local communities them-
selves in establishing, operating, and financing the schools; consequently,
much of the financial burden is removed from Government, thus enabling a more
rapid expansion of enrollments than would otherwise be possible.
7.02      Like the community junior secondary schools, the Youth Brigades
are the responsibility of their respective communities, which have, within
the wide limits set by the NBCC, the autonomy to develop, finance and operate
the Brigades in the best interests of the community. Development of the
Brigades since their inception in 1965 has been slow but steady; in recent
years, the Government has been attaching greater importance to their expan-
sion. With the formation of BRIDEC, adequate advisory and instructor training
facilities are now available for a more rapid expansion of the Brigades. The
proposed second project would enable an increase from the present 60 to about
90 Brigades over the next five years.
7.03      The expansion of the BTC and the IDM under the proposed project
would enable increased student enrollments and better utilization of the
highly qualified staff being supplied by other donors.
7.04      The risks involved, in relative order of importance, are:  (a) a
possible shortage of qualified mathematics and science teachers in junior
secondary schools; and (b) the forniation and possible difficulties in the
operation of the Agricultural Brigades. The Government is aware of these
risks and specific steps (summarized in paras. 4.04 and 4.08) will be taken
to minimize them.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The Government has provided a satisfactory plan to:  (a) resolve
problems of secondary teacher supply (para. 4.04); and (b) strengthen and
further institutionalize the present Brigade evaluation system, including
the submission of an annual report on the Brigade programs (para. 4.05).
8.02      Agreement was also reached that:  (a)  site locations for the
community junior secondary schools will be selected in accordance with
agreed criteria (paras. 4.04, 6.05 and Annex 2); (b)  an adequate supply of
qualified teachers will be made available to staff the facilities provided
in the proposed project; that the fee level for the community junior secondary
schools would progressively be equalized and the existing bursary scheme
extended to the CJSS included in the project on a non-discriminatory basis;
and that the Board of Governors of the CJSS and the Board of Trustees of the
Brigades would submit project memoranda to the PIU through the Government



- 28 -
Committee and the NBCC respectively, detailing their request for assistance
under the project (paras. 4.04 and 4.06); (c) a liaison officer between the
MOA and BRIDEC would be appointed (para. 4.08); (d) a report on the execution
and initial operations of the proposed project would be submitted within three
months of the ilosing date (para. 4.16); (e) appointments to the positions of
project director (manager) and architect will be made after consultation
between the Borrower and the Bank (para. 6.02); (f) semi-annual progress
reports would be submitted to the Bank for review within two month after the
periods ending on March 31 and September 30 (para. 6.02); and (g) audit
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of
each fiscal year of the Government (para. 6.12).
8.03      Retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures incurred
after January 1, 1980 for professional services (architectural/engineering)
estimated at US$150,000 equivalent, of which US$100,000 would be eligible
for reimbursement (para. 6.04).
8.04      Subject to the conditions above, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$10.0 million equivalent to the Republic
of Botswana.



29 -
ANNU 1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION  INDICATORS                                                 -ABLE    1
................................                                                  I
AUGUST 21. 1979                                                       Page    1  of  2
.............
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------
GNP/    % GW    A  TOTALA            OF PUBLIC                                 :001.  Av.pql.                              SEC
:CAPITA: OEVOTED:PVBLIC    EDUCATION    :LITER-    PRI,  COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TFA'H:PROW9SS-    SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
:  AT   : TO EDU..  EXP,   RECURRENT    :ACY                :ENROLL:T70N          :OENTS;SALARY ZN:10M RATE   fNROLL:0ffMTS:ENROLL;
MARKET: (PUSLICi0fVOTfO:IEXP ALLOCATED:  RATE   RATIO  -RATE FOR:PER   :RELATTOPI  FROM Pgt. :QATIO  :PER   :RATIO  :
POP. :PRICES: EXP.             TO    :        TO:        :(% Of   : MET   :P*I.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP    :TO SEC.                NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.  (US0! ONLY)               ED.U. :Pat. SEC. HI.:AOULTS); (%Y   :CYCLEM ;Eft    :CAPTTA                     "(19)         I!%)   :ER       I%)
(2)                  (4)                        (6)    ' (7)          (a)       (9)       (to)       i-it)      :(12)   :(13) :(14)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA           74    TAG 5,62OG           5.3y    9.51Y   24Y  sly   ISY                   go        93D        260       2.00        990        sto       ISO    16.815Y
CANADA            73   22.8   7.135          7.3    14.7       30    37    26       94        99        97         Is        2.0                    90        la      16.00
GERMANY F 1110.75   61.8   6,670             5.0    iO.2       31EY 64-- 261Y   99            90        is         23EY       ...        "Y         84Y       22C    20.211V
JAPAN             75  111.6   4.450          AAE   2O.TE    AOUY 37UY tlUY  92                m         "C         25        2.08        99C        95xy    20C    24.69Y
NETHERLANOS    75   i3.7   5.425             9.4    22.40    21    39    25         99        95        95         29        2.0         97         30       20       i2.00
NEW ZEALANO    73    3.IG 4.20OG             3.2    ...        39    24    29       go        99        99         26         ...        99         47        19     24.00
NORWAY            76    4.0   8.043          7.2    14,4       54    24    is       99        99        99         la         i5        991E       62        11      Ii.00
SWEDEN            76    8.2   8,150          S.S    t4.0       23    29    12       29       99         92         16         ...        907        sac       i3     30.OOC
U.K.              75   56.0   3.780          7.1    13.9       26    41    la       99        99         ...       24        2.0          ...       so        i7     2l.OOX
U.S.&.            76 214.4   7,950           3.4    15.8    ...    72-- 25          92E       92        99         22                    99         93        ig     24.00
EUROPE
GPEECE            76    9.1  2,590           2.6    10.4       37    26    21       see      99         820        3i       2.0          7oc-       so       27       is.00
IRELAND           14    3.IG 2,62OG         5.t    13.90    43Y   41Y   IAY    96           108AY       99A       35        ...          95A        ssxy    19       15.47Y
PORTUGAL          77    9.7   i,SSO          3 6    15.A       4i    21    Is       700        82       so.        i9       2. 0         7S-        35        12       5.00
ROMANIA           75   212   1,240          4.0      6.4      36    1 9     13     9-1       loix      ...        21       ...          98         49       22       10.00
SPAIN             74   35.84 2,99OG         2.48   15.2A    49Y  22Y   tSy    94A    115x                        35A       ...                     7axy    30       17.98Y
AFRICA
ALGERIA           78   17.3   1.110H         7,4    I4.3FY   34    26    21         377      86         49        38         4.0         55         31       27       6.00
BENIN             74    3.211   looG         7.2M   3S.OY    470   23D   100    110          4AXY       706        53Y      25 -:S      430        ii(Y    396       0 74Y
gorSWANA          78    0.8       620        5.4    19.0       48    39    13       35        so        70         3i        9.0         so         20       22        1.5
8URUNDI           73    4.1       i3OH       2.7    22.14    4GR   33R   21R    25           23X        45         32        9.0         22          3A      Is       0.5
CAMEROON          76    7.7       31A        3,7    21.5       33    A3    20       ...      so         49         52       4.0          20          90      24       0.940cy
C.A.R.            74    I.SF    22OF         3.00   t7.00    ass   iss _            ...      79xt       25        GSY       ...          te          SXY    27lay    0.21Y
CHAO              75    4.0       i2o        3.0    10.0       78    22   ...       Is       29XSY    30-         63gy    is 0            a          2XSY   30        OOlay
CCNGO(S)          74    1.3F    51OF         6.0    is.3       40    32    21       507    13zx         63        63         6.0         48         33X      22       3.40
EGYPT             76   38.2       310       5.914    -         30    32    25       44       76         so        31                     79         45       20        12.00
ETHIOPIA          77   22.0       ioo       2.4    12.5        44    31    14       to       26         ...       so                     63          a       38        ...
GABON             74    O.SF 2,54OF          5.00   20.50    250    90   t 10    ...    loov            23C        46C       5.0         ISA        31Y      2te      0.22Y
GAMBIA            76    0.5       00         3.3    11.5       46    25      6      10       27         90        33                     92         13       215
GHANA             7A    9.9f    SW           ...    19.7y    43Y   22Y   20YO   ...          SOXY       625       30Y                    148        35xy    lacy    i.OSY
GUINEA            76    4.7       isof      4 - 3140  ...      30    31    30       ...      3OX        64        45        12 - OF       86         13X      26        4.00
IVORY COAST    76    7.0          sto       15's    23.t       33    46    13        9A      so         as        43         7.0         47         IIXY    26        1 64Y
-CENYA            75   i3.3       240        5.9    26.0       67    27    10       40       907        607       34         6.0         30         is       27        1 0
LESOTHO           75    1.2       tao       12.OP   23.0       49    is    20       40       as         io        32         7.GN        SI         to       24        100
LIIBERIA          75    1.5       410       2.4    13.2        27    is    20       73       58         ...       3s         2.0         ...        t2       26        I.IOAY
MADAGASCAR        77    8.0       240        4.0    24.0       S3    28    ts       so       90         33        44         6.0         39         14       23        1.70
MALAWI            77    5.6       I 41)      2-2      9-3      40    I 7    22      29       sex        21        St         S.n          9          SA      21       0.47
MALr              75    1.7F       9OF       4.2M   33.OF    45F   37F   fSF    IOF          22XF                  48F      9.SF         SOF         GX      21
MAURITANIA        71    i.3F    32OF         4.1y   2O.Oy    ...   ...   ...    IOA           17XY                 22A       ...         ...         3XY    24A        ...
MAURITIUS         76    0.9L    Sao          4.7    i2.i       50    26       a     soc      94         92         24        4.5          90        45       32        1. -50
WOROCCO           76   18.2       520        6.3    15.2       3SR   4SR   13R    23         65X        33         40                    33         17X      22       4,00
NIGERIA           74   7S.OF    34OF         4.10Y 2A.20Y   23Y   IGY   42Y    ...    .49X'f            ...        340Y      ...         ...        IOXY    20cy    O.JRY
RWANOA            73    4.11'   IOOF         3.2C   26.00        ..  ...   ...    23         52         ...        51                                2       13       0.23cy
SENEGAL           77    5.1       420        5.0    23.0       46    3A    20       10       32         ...       49        10           20         10       21-       I 3
SIERRA LEONE   73    3.OF    20OF            3-4    23.4       3t    36    30       157      34X        45        32         4.CE        68         t3X -   21        C). 53ey
SOMALIA           78    3.8       110        5.0    i2.0       69    31    21       Go?      agx        so        27        12.0         76          5       14       0.10
SUDAN             76   15.9       290        4.5    19.9       48    36    Is       20       34         74        33         3.8         33         t4       24         1.24
SWiZILANO         78    0.5       56(        7.1    12.2       37    33    23       65       92X        49        37         4.OH        66         32A      20         2.0ox
TANZANIA          76   15.1       ISO        6.5    17.4       42    21    12       so       78X        81        49         3 0         to          4.      is       0.34
TOCC              77    2.4       300        5. 5    26.3      30    29    21       la       74         40        as         6.0         52          -       44       2.00
TUNISIA           73    51`G    SOOG        6.3    23.4       37    43    1 a      55       72         81        41         6.0         31         14       21       3.00
UGANOA           _7 5   11.6      230        3.40Y 1-3.70Y   34EY 40EY 22EY   25A            53xe       -.         34EY      ...         IAA         SXCY   21A       0 56Y
UPPER VOLrA    77    5.3          lis        3.4    23.9       31    1 6    32       SC       13        23        Si        2A 1        19          2       23        1.0
ZAIPE             76   29.6       140       6.0    22.0        dg    26    25       1 -3     86-        4A        42X        2 0         41         13X      27       I.ocx
ZAMBIA            76   -3. 1      AAO        5.8    fS.9       54    22    22       39       97X        80        49         7 0         2i         Is       23       1.50
CENTRAL AMEQICA ANO THE CAR18SEAN
---------------------------------
BARBAOOS          76    0.2   1,620          8.1   22.1        43    31    to       99      106X        99         21        3.,         99         94X      17        ...
COSTA RICA        75    2.0       960        5.28   22.78    !78   25a   123    age    109xy            658        296       3 e        588        52xy    298    17 lsy
CUSA              78    9.S   9.500          9.0    11.0    ...   ...  ...          96       ga         go         22        2.-,        96         65       t's     is 00
OOMINICAN REP 71    4,SG    79OG             3.0    13.9       42    24    22       St       80         i7        54         3.00        63         14       24       7 00
EL SALVADOR    77    A,i          $70       4 0    27.2        64      a    27      62       sex        32        39         2.2         41         23       21       7 00
GUATEMALA         73    6.2G    70OG         1.9    16.0       55   113    14       47       64         2s         3s        3-C         69          a       25       4 09Y
14A 171           76    4.7       200        1.0      8.0      61   21    11        2M       25F        13        ssu        3.0         6 11        4       ...        0.7
HONDURAS          713    2.9G    40OG        4.212  IS.SG    62G   ISG   i9G    53           -8         30        35         3 0         68         II       17       4CO
JAMAICA           76    2.1   i.070          9.9    162       37    33    22       BGE      91         52        39         4 5         94         64       2-J      758
MEXICO            75   59.9   1,0540         3 100  12.000   5ty   26Y   12Y    76          112xf       31        46         3.0         63         3sxy    23A       a97EY
AirCAiZAGUA       74    2.3G    70OG         2-5    14.2       6 t    t3    !3      57       65         21         37        20         93         17       24       700
TRINIDAO & T 17    1.1  2.185               4,5    i4.1       48    32    20       95       98         gi         30        3 0         49         62       24
SOUTH AMEQLCA
------------
SCL:vrA           76    5.8       315F       -3.0    17 IF                          38        t7s                  2 4                               AB       ISO
6RAZ:L            75  110.OG  1.30CG         5.0    12 A       42E   20E    37E  64A         SGG                   27cy                  ...        26G       i5cy    6Ztoe
CHrLc             75   10,341 I.OsnG         3. spy 12'spy   23Y   loy   50Y                 '19.,                 35Y                              4axy    -        Is 55,
-01-31413 IA      74   24.313   65CG         3,30Y 21.2L)Y  A40V 220 ily                   '(-! ,     20        33Y        4           90         36x    14A       667
-CUAOCR           713    7 3G    70OG        3 10   27"C         ..  -        _.   69       10,11,      ..I       311C                   . .        3oxy    "C
GUYANA            74    081`   SICF         5.aN   14.7Q    47    35    14         93A      '9 1Z     39         33        6.,          19        S2A      Z4          o
P4PAGUAI          74    2.6G    GSCG         I a    11 0       5L    1 3    2 2     91       13 2       215        30                    65         -        12       5 _'
-ERU              75   16-OG    84OG         4.20Y 21.70Y   40Y   22Y   t5,`   72           tjj'       38        3901      3           To         4SAY    220Y   'J 41-
URUGUAY           75    2.3G  I 37OG         2-3    15.3       46    34    :0       9.       133'        ..       24                    33                  10
VENEZUELA         73   t2.3G 2.54OG          4 6    199       300   230   350    7'A        8,         ...       33         Z                      33       ...         63c,



-30-
TABFL E1
COMPARATIEEUAINIOCTR                    CNO                              Page  2  of  2
AUUT21. 1979
GN~P/   % GNP   A  TOTAL;%  OF PUBLIC                                 :PRI. -AV.PQI.                         SEC
:CAPITA: DEVOTED:PUSLIC :EDUCATION    :LITER-   PRI. :COUPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEA-H PRdGRESS-7 SEC.  STU- :HIGHER:
AT      TO EOU.   EXP. : RECURRENT    ACY         :ENROLL:TION       -OENTS:SALARY !N ION RATE  ENROLL:OENT S :ENROLL:
MARKET~ (PUBLIC:OEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER   RELATTED:   FROMA FQI. RATIO :PER   :RATIO
POP.  PRICES: EXP.          TO    :     TO:       :(% OF      NET   :PRI.SCH. TEACH- TO GNP   To SEC.         NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.: (USS): ONLY)  :EOU.  :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS): (%   :CYCLE(/,): ER                CAPITA       (%)        (I   :ER       ()
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77M 14.3        I8OG      1.8   11.6    47   19l  1s    12          29X       69       37       3.0G        62       BA      17      '.(0
BANGLADESH      73  8O.4G    900        1.2   20.2      44Y  22Y  21Y   23D    56X          . ..     480       . .       I..      23XD   28        ..
CHENA(TAIWAN) 73  16.3G 1.050G    3.2    14.0    28   41   22    82               98C       94       40      14.0        84       sic      26     20.OOCC
INDIA           75 620.4G    1400      2.6VY ..             .298                  65XY      .        43A      .                   29XY   20AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA       76 130.9G   2800       3.0    11.0    28   32   IS    SOB         79EX     43E       30E      2.0       52E'   IREX    S4E        2.00
IRAN            73  33.8G 2.060G       3.3   12.6    506   188  128   50          77       74A       32       5.08       BOA      24      32      4.32CY
IRAQ            75  11.5G 1,390G    6.7c   I6.30R    _   ..         _    28C      93Xf    . ..       22       ....                35XY    25C     8.47Y
JORDAN          77   2.3    997        4.6K   7.1K   25R  509    3R   70          97X       e1       32       2.0 *      91       se      22      $0.60
KOREA           78  37.0  1.242        2.8   17 6    35   29   36    93    'O2T             94       49       2.9        91       80      45      8.00
LEBAN4ON        72   3.2G 1.070G    3.5   18.0    39   40   10    68              86       66        19       2.0        63       26U     25     23.00
MALAYSIA        75  12.6    8a0        6.7   26.0    42   34   is    SOC          95       93        32       3.7        78       48      28       3.00
NEPAL           78  12.SF    IIOF      1.1   10.0    29   20   41         19      59        26       31       2 3        64       14      24      0.8
OMAN            72   O.8F Z.300F       1.7N   3.8    96        -   -      20      24X       99       27F      7.0        . ..     0.4X     9       ..
PAKISTAN        75  71.3G    180G      1.6   16.2    45   25   18    21           47X       so       39       2.0        . ..     17X      18     B 00
PAPUA N.G.      75   2.8G   4500       5.6   16.1    38   16   24    32           577       73P      31      Ii 01       90       12X7    24      0.90?
PHILIPPINES    74  43.20   4200        2.6   14.9    73   is   $2    67          fO4X       . ..     34      15.0        .        46X      . ..   21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.20 2.6800       2.7Y   9.2T   39y  39Y'  t7Y   758   lORTy          72A       31F      .          99A      4AAY   24       7.68y
SYRIA           75   7.80   8300       3.6    8.9    39   25   26    53           89       70        35       2.0        92       45      21      12.00
THAILAND        77  44.1    410        4.OV  20.0    55   30   iS5   SAP          63   ..30          35       5.OU       70       28      25      3.00
TURKEY          73  40.9G 1.0100       5.6CY 2.c         .          .     .    .0..1.BSY   . . .     34Y      .             .     24Y     270Y'  5.83Y'
YEMEN           73   5.4G   3000    0.6        4.0     45F  21P  23P   10         ISA       18       36       5.0        75        2X     19      0.0561'
YEMEN P.0.R.  76    1.7    280         6.6      ...    57   28      a    20       Ea9      48        30       5.0       94        2iX    24       0.10
--   - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -    - - -  - -  - - -  - - -
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OP COUNTRIES:                   94    90       88   88  -85    87         95       74        95         68       77       94      91        84
RANGE:                              (0.6-  (3-8-  (25- $5-  $2-   (3-    f4-    (13-            (19-       (I 9     (7-       (.4-    (9-      ('01-
12.0 133.0)   96 ) 47$  41)   98)           1331')   99 )      9 $     25.0       99)      s0o      39)   23.0)
OUARTILES:UPPER                      5.1   21.2    54   32   22    73           94       75        46         7       83        36      25      7.0
M4EOIAN:                 3.9   16.3    45-  23   i8    s0           78       55        36         4       63        17      23      2.3
LOWER :3.0   12.4    38   iB   12    20                             53       30        32         3       43         9      20        .9
--   - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                A.1970 OR BEFORE            M-CURRENT PRICES                         O:URCES:
-MAGNfTUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 6=1971                           N-GOP                                     ---
O UESTIONABLE                     C.1972                      P-INCLUOING FOREIGN AID                   -OLUMNS:  AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0-1973                          0-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                        OR IBRO MISSIONS
COMBINED WITH PRIMARY           E-1974                      9-MINISTRY OP EDUCATION (MOE) 0NLY                 3 TO 14 IBRO MISSIONS
..UNDER REVIEW                     F.1975                      S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNESCO
G1t976                      T-EXCLUOING CENTRAL GOVT.                                   STATISTICAL
H1i977                     U-PUBLIC ONLY                                                YEARBOOK
K-1978                     V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X-INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y.UNESCO SOURCES
--  -  - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEPUL IN THE EVALUATION OP VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS 0- TELATIVE STAGES OP EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT OATA.CROSS-NATIONAL COM.PaRISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE SEEN COLLECTED LARGELY B1' THE BANK MISSIONS FYOM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE 
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA PROM UJNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITION; AND WITHIN LIMITS. TO CHECX THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK I- WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WOR'K. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING. QUALI~ICATIONS SHOOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
(1)EOUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING.  FORMAL AND NON-FOFPAL:
2)2rPRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS T  ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE "-ILY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT Is
DOUBTFUJL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EOUCATION'(COLS.3.4 ANO0 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EOUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND OUASI-PU83LIC AGENCIES;
(5)"ENROLLMENT RATIOS-(COLS 7. 12 AND I4) REFER To SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGI-1.E CHILDREN ENROLLED PULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBUECT TO A WIDE MAR TN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC OATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND EN(ROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREGUJENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS W140 F INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



BOTSWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTIONS OF PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS AND TRAINED TEACHER REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY
1974-1985
Actual                                                        Estimated
1974     1975      1976      1977      1978     1979          1980      1981     1982      1983      1984      1985
1.  Total Enrollment l/                       103,700   116,300   125,600  137,300  145.500  158,300          167,800  178,700  186,600  195.500  210,100  222,800
2.  Teachers Required 2/                        3.050      3,510      3,920    4,500    4,640    5.030          5,244    5,415    5,488    5,586    6,000    6,022
3. Qualified Teacher Supply                     2,050      2.230      2,430    2,640    2,850    3,050          3,280    3,500    3,810    4,120    4,560    4,980
4. Wastage of Qualified Teachers                   10         20         40        70        90       90           100      110       110       120       140       150
5.  New Supply of Qualified Teachers              190        220        240       280      300       320          320       420       420       560       560       560
6.  Net Increase of Qualified Teachers            130        150        170       200      210       230          220       310       210       310       420       410
7. Employment of Unqualified Teachers           1,000      1,280      1.490    1,860    1,790    1,980          1,964    1,915    1,678    1,466    1,440    1,042
8.  Qualified Teachers as Percentage of            67         64         62        59        61       61            63       65        69        74        76        83
Total Required
(All figures are rounded.)
- Enrollment projections are calculated on the following assumptions: (i) 10% increases in grade I enrollments in
1979 and 1980, and 5% increases each year thereafter; (ii)  Repetition rate:  25% p.a. at grade IV following the
introduction of a national test in 1980;  25% grade VII repetition rate (historical); and other grades 0 % based
on automatic promotion;    (iii) 5% p.a. drop-out rate for all grades  (historical); and (iv) these factors together
result in a projected average annual growth rate of primary enrollments of about 6% p.a.
2/ 
-   Derived from number of classes i.e. one teacher per class plus additional teacher in large schools.  On average,
teacher-pupil ratio is about I to 31. It is expected that on costs and finance grounda, it will gradually increase                                                M l
3/  to a more economical 1 to 36 ratio.
-   Projected wastage rates are estimated at 3% p.a. to 1985.                                                                                                           I-'
Source:   Ministry of Education and Bank staff estimates, May 1979.



BOT SWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTIONS OF SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS AND TRAINED TEACHER REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY
(i) Government and Aided (Forms 1-5)
(ii) Comnunity Schools (Forms 1-3)
1974-1985
Actual                                                              Estimated
1974       1975       1976        1977       1978        1979       1980        1981        1982       1983        1984       1985
1.  Enrollments (i) Government/Aided I/                    7,055      8,434       9,558    10,219    11,136        12,330    13,650       14,500      15,060    15,610       16,180     16,770
(ii) Community 2/                         3,253      3,664      4.433       5,106      4,950       5,150      5,400       6,250       7,200      8,250       9,500     10,850
Total                              10.308      12,098     13.991      15,325    16 086    17,480    19,050    20,750    22,260    23,860              25,680    27_620
2.  Teachers Required 3/ (i) Government/Aided                350         397        443        443         505        580         640        680         700         720        750         770
(ii) Community                    142        173         211        206        226         230        240         250         260        300         340        400
Total                                  492        570         654        649        731         810        880         930         960      1,020      1,090       1,170
3. (i) Trained Teacher Supply (a) Citizens                    75          94        113         135        166        220         270         330        390         440        480         500
(Govt/Aided Schools)   (b) Non-Citizens              275        303         330        308         320        360         370        350         310         280        270         270
Total                                  350        397        443         443        486         580        640         680         700        720         750        770
(ii) Trained Teacher Supply (a) Citizens                    48         42          60         72          20         20          20         30          50        100         170        200
(Community Schools)    (b) Non-Citizens                                                             50         50          70         90         110         130        150         150
Total                                                                                 70         70         90         120         160        230         320        350
4.  Wastage of Trained Citizen Teachers                         5          5         10          10         15          20         20          25         30          40         45          50
5.  New Supply of Citizen Teachers
(a) Graduates 5/          6/                             12          24         -           28         35          25         30          30         55          55        Nil          60
(b) Diploma/Crtificate/                                  12          20         24          18         40          40         65          75         75          90          95        100
Total                                   24         44          24         46          75         65          95        105         130        145          95        160
6. Net Increase in Trained Citizen Teachers
(for following year)                                                                                   60          45         75          80        100         105          50        110
7. Trained Citizen Teachers as Percentage of Total
(i) Cossaunity/Aided                                    21          24         26          30         33         41          44         49          56          61         64          65
(ii) Comsunity                                          nta         n/a        n/a         n/a          9           9          8          12         19          33         44          50
(All figures are rounded.)
1/  1979-85 National Development Plan, Draft Education Chapter programme for Government/aided schools projected average annual growth rate of about 57 p.a.
Drop-out rates: 2b p.a. Form 1, 5% Forms 2 and 4 and about 48% flow rate between Forms 3 and 4 (based on historical data).
2/  1979-85 National Development Plan, Draft Education Chapter targets for cosmunity schools.  Projected average annual growth rate of about 13 % p.a.
Drop-out rates: 101 p.a. Forms I and 2.
3/  Pupil:teacher ratio averages about 22:1 ior Government/aided schools and about 28:1 for community schools.
4/  10% p.a. for Mathematics and Science graduates and teachers of practical subjects, 5% p.a. for all others.
5/  Four year degree and concurrent certificate  in education to be replaced in 1980 by four year degree and one year postgraduate professional training
(hence no graduate otutput in 1984) .
6/  Three year Diploma in Secondary Education; two year Certificate for teachers of practical subjects.                                                                                      -
-source:  Ministry of Education and Bank staff estimates, May 1979.



BOTSWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTIONS OF YOUTH BRIGADES TRAINEES, INSTRUCTORS AND EMPLOYEES
1975-1985
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Trninees -/
(a) Existing Centers                 840    1120    1170    1280    1370    1470    1570    1680    1800    1920    2060
(b) New Centers                      -       -        -       -        -        100     270      360      500      500     500
(c) New Agricultural Projects        -       -        -       -        -         10       15      20       30       35       40
Instructors 2/                        80      120     140      145     140      160      185     200      230      240      260
Employees 3/                         235      480     740      865     995    1145    1315    1560    1840    2150    2400
Total                1155    1720    2050    2290    2505    2885    3355    3820    4400    4845    5260   w
(All figures are rounded.)
1/ Assumes a net 7% average annual trainee growth rate for existing 16 Brigade Centers and steady increase in
enrollment at seven new centers to approximately 72 trainees each by 1983. Physical expansion is being
planned to accommodate this projected expansion.
2/ Projected average instructor-trainee ratio of approximately 1:10.
3/ Assumes a 15% average annual employee growth rate for existing Brigade Centers and 50 new employees annually
at the new Brigade Centers from 1982-1985.   The greater relative increment in employees to trainees reflects
a new initiative planned for the new Brigade Centers from 1982-1985.
Source:  Ministry of Education and Bank staff, May 1979



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 5
BOTSWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Government Expenditures on Education
To
Total Government Expenditure and GDP, 1976/77-1985/86
(Pula million)
Government
Government   (2) / (1) Expenditure on (4) / (2) (4) / (1)
GDP       Expenditure  Per Cent        Education   Per Cent  Per Cent
FY          (1)          (2) 1/       (3)             (4) 2/      (5)        (6)
Actual
1976/77        300.0          99.8        33.2           15.8         15.8       5.2
Estimates
1977/78        354.8         116.0        32.6           19.9         17.1       5.6
1978/79        496.5         159.0        32.0           30.5         19.1       6.1
1979/80        582.2         170.0        29.2           37.8         22.2       6.4
Projected
1979/80) price
1984/85        854.8         222.5        26.0           49.0         22.0       5.7
Source: Ministry of Finance and World Bank staff estimates. June, 1979
1/ Excludes public debt and appropriations from Revenue.
2/ Includes Ministry of Education and university but not education and training
under other Ministries.



BOTSWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Projected Recurrent Expenditures of Ministry of Education-/ by Level, 1979/80-1984/85
(Pula OOO's)
Average Growth Rate
1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      p.a. 1979-1985
1. Headquarters                                    395          418           442          467          494          522             5.7%
2. Bursaries                                     1,555        1,986        2j191        2,356         2,550        2,694             11.6%
3. Primary Education                            12,073       12,969       13,895       14,927        16,124       17,576              7.7%
(i) Unified Teaching Service                   125          135          146          159          172           187             8.4%
4. Secondary Education                           7,142        8,158        9,036        9,884        10,824       11,750             10.4%
5. Vocational Training
(includes BRIDEC and grants to Brigades)    554             753          945        1,141        1,227         1,322            19.0%             1
6. Botswana Polytechnic                             553          708          822          908          999        1,097             14.6%            @
7. Non Formal Education                            251          285          324           368          418          476            13.6%
8. Curriculum Development                           222          253          289          331          378          432             14.2%
9. Teacher Training                                 931       1,068        1,263        1,576         1.902        2,166             18.4%
10. University                                    3,000        4,321        4,600        4,809        4,948        _51%88            ll.l
Total                                      26,801       31,054       33,953       36,926       40,306       43,310             10.1%
1/ Prices reflect Third Salaries Review Commission.                                                                                      Ix
Source: Ministry of Education



BOTSWANA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Suommarv of Prolect Cotto
(Polo 1 = USs 1.2182)
STUDENT PLACES                                                                 CIVIL WORKS                                                                                   Projere                TOTAL COST
________ ________ ________ __ GCroo   Aer  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _iopnenL                                     ft of -s io...I  Ad.io ioS, _ i_o    -    _ _ _    -
tf            Site                         Ac-demle A                SCoff  |     Tonl          Font_ro  Eq.d                            (Tecs. 0, A   .      -
oisting       New     Tonl          mInfroolcotnee   Cososunsi                                           Hs         Civil Works                  Vehlelos    Services          nd Oprli-s           Polo          US$
1. PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
1-7  Ne- C-ossont,y Jr. Dec. -Shools (7)            |               1,000     1,680       6,720           186,250          378,000       1,241,650       -           -        1,805,900        99,000    134,320       270,885              -           2,310,105      2,014,170
8-18 Upg-rdiog of C-oEonity Jr. Sec. Schools (11)   5,000             1/      5,000        6,030          147,760              -           985,060       -           -        1,132,820        75,000    136,000       169,923              -            1,513,743  j 1,844,042
Sob-Eto.l (1-18)            5            ,10        1,000    6,680       012,50           334D1 3                 78,                                  0 00 2,226,780  -  2,938,720  124,000    270,320  -440,808                       3,823,848    4,658,212
19-25  New Brig.de Cneners (7)                          1,290         500    1,790         8,596           70,923          145,043       1,104,693                313,712    1,634,371        135,365    421,205         32,688             -           2,223,629      2,708,825
26-34  AUrSi-le.raL Brigades (9)                           80          40       120        1,008            7,659           163,575         52,200       -        100,836       324,270       115,425    203,400          6,485                            6 049,580     791,318
Nob-conol (19-34)                       1,370         540    1,910         0,604           70,502          300,010       1,156,093               414,548    1,958,641         250,790    024,605        39,173              -           2,073,209    3,500,143
35.  dotswana T-sin.g Conccr                                          -         -          1,312           64,354                          211,569   217,455         _          49.,378        13,000       9,000       74,000                             589,378       717,980
36.  1oOtitlte of Development M .n.ge-oet                                                    4 _  _  056   22,368              -           149,112       -           -          171,480        12,000         -          25,722             -              209,202       254,850
Sub-total (1-30)                          _           _         _        24,122           499,314          086,618      3,744,284   217,455    414,548    5,562,219           449,790    903,925       579,703              -           7,495,637      9,131,185
II.  PROJECT ADMIINISTRATION
Techoi-el A..iot.nc-                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6 _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  -  -  -  075,000  675,000  022,205
Op-roti-ool Exp-e-ss                                   _           _         _            _               _                _              _           _           _            _              _                         -             390,000           390,000       475,090
Sob-ttl1l iR                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,065,000        1,065,000      1,297,383
TOTAL  BASE  COST (DECEMBER 1979)                            =499,314                                                          06,618    3,744,284    217,455    414,548    5,502,219            449,790      903,925    579,203          1,005,000         0,500,037    10,428,567
III,  CONTINGENCIES
UEfne-noo- -- Phynicol -- (82)                        _                    _            _                                 _             _           _           -          556,222         22,490       45,196      57,970             8- 01,878                     830,664
Price Incretsc (337)                                  _           _        _            _                _                _              _           _          _        2,457,393        119,000      237,000    257,342               -           3,070,735      3,740,769
S.b-t.tl IIT                                                                         _ _ _ _ _  _ _                                                         3,013,615        141,490      282,196    315,312               -           3,752,613    4,571,443
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                           _           _         _                   _        _                 _             _                       _        8,575,834       591,280   1,186,121      895,015         1,065,000        12,313,250   15,000,002
/  Does nor inreis-e student e.rollent but effects abon- 3,850 student pl.es.
by opgr-ding of e.isting faRilitie-.
Dooroe  ITBRD



r_37 -
BOTSWANA                         AANNEX 1
TABLE_8
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
% of
Pula (Millions)         US$ (Millions)      Base
Category                       Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
1. Civil Works
a) Site Development and
Infrastructure               0.52    0.67    1.19   0.63    0.82    1.45   14
b) Buildings
(i) Academic & Communal    1.50    2.24    3.74   1.82    2.73    4.55   44
(ii) Boarding               0.09    0.13    0.22   0.11    0.16    0.27    2
(iii) Staff Housing          0.16    0.25    0.41   0.20    0.30    0.50    5
Sub-total 1                  2.27    3.29    5.56   2.76    4.01    6.77   65
2. Furniture                        0.09    0.36    0.45   0.11    0.44    0.55    5
3.  Equipment & Vehicles            0.09    0.81    0.90   0.12    0.98    1.10   11
4. Professional Services (A/E)      0.17    0.41    0.58   0.21    0.50    0.71    7
5. Project Administration
a) Technical Assistance         0.17    0.51    0.68   0.21    0.62    0.83    8
b) Operational Expenses         0.27    0.12    0.39   0.32    0.15    0.47    4
Sub-total 5                  0.44    0.63    1.07   0.53    0.77    1.30   12
Total Base Cost
1-5 (Dec. 1979)              3.06    5.50    8.56   3.73    6.70   10.43  100
6. Contingencies
a) Physical (8%)                0.25    0.43    0.68   0.31    0.52    0.83
b) Price (33%)                   1.10    1.97    3.07   1.34    2.40    3.74
Sub-total 6                  1.35    2.40    3.75   1.65    2.92    4.57
Total Project Cost (1-6)     4.41    7.90   12.31   5.38    9.62   15.00
of which tax                                  0.31                    0.38



BOT SWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year                                      1                        2                         3                        4                         5
Project CxsfpO...ets
Quarter                                       1      2     3     4      5     6     7      8     9     10    11    12    13    14    15    16     17    18    19    20
1.  Civil Worke                                               US$ Millions
1-7     New Connonity Jr. Sec. Schools (7)                    2.20                          ...* ***   ***   ###   ###   4#4   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   .xx   xxx   xxx   xxx                 ..x     ..x    eve ww   ww
8-18    Upgrading of Coeuxsity Jr. Sec. Schools (tl)          1.38                                                                 ... ***   ***   ***   44*   444   xxx   xxx   xxx   SXX   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx v..  w
Sub-tota1 1-18                                  3.58
19-25   New Brigade Centers (7)                               1.99                                                    xxx   xxx   .x.   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   .x xxx   xxx   xxx   ...   oxx   ev    ev
26-34   New Agri-lt-ral Brigades (9)                          0.39                                             xxx        xxx   xxx   xxx ...    . ne   xxx   xxx   xxx   nan   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   vw   ww
Sub-total 19-34                                 2.38
35      Betswa-n Tr-intng Center                              0.60                           .* **   _._   XX   X   XXX e.       XXX ..      .. .V
36      Institute ef Develepment Management                  0.21                          .***   ***   ___   xxx   xxx   xxx .    v   ev
Tetal 1-36                                      6.77
II.  Furniture. Equaipment and Vehicles                            1.65
III.  Professoneai SorvixoX (Architectural/Engineering)             0.71
IV. Pro-c-t Adti.istratioX
(a)  Te-hnical A-sittan..                                    0.83
A-o t.  Archite-t              5   staff   years                                                 ---     ---  ---   ---     ---  ---     ---  ---     ---  ---   ---   ---    ---   ---    ---   ---    ---     ---  ---   -
ASXt.  QuaXtity    Surveyor    5   ''     "                                                                         ---     ---  ---     ---  ---     ---  ---     ---  ---   ---   ---    ---   ---    ---     ---  ---   --
Prxoremeet Mlacager           5 "        "_.                                                          __    __     __    __     __    __    __     __    __     __    __     __    __      _    __ __ __ __ __
Clo k    of   w oeks                                                                             -       --   --    ---     --   ---     ---  ---     ---  ---   ---   ---    ---     ---  ---   ---    ---     ---  ---   ---
Clerk of wosk- 5   ''                                                                                        -- ___   ___   ___   ___   ___   ___   ___   ___   ___   _  _  ___   _  _    ___   ___    __                  _
(b)  Professin.al Services (Arclhiectural/Engineeruig)       0.47
TOTAL bASE COST (I-IV) (D.c. 1979)                  10.43
Estimated effetlive  date 7/1/80                                       Project  -ooplecio- datc  12/31/80 4 --
Closing daet  6/30/85
LEGEND:                 Selection of ...nultafnt  (A/E)                              -     T -eXd-t and award ph.ox
D =      Jtgn a-d -o-st-cti.n document phase                       x     Mnbili-atinn and .on.t. u tion pha-e
#     S= -ection and aurvey of Xte vit                                   Defects liability period
t                                                                                 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=



-39-                        ANNEX 1
TABLE 10
BOTSWANA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS 1!
(US$ Millions)
Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarter           Disbursements           Disbursements              Balance
10.00
1                    -                        -                   10.00
2                  0.10                    0.10                    9.90
3                    -                     0.10                    9.90
4                  0.50                    0.60                    9.40
5                  0.40                    1.00                    9.00
6                  0.52                    1.52                    8.48
7                  0.56                    2.08                    7.92
8                  0.68                    2.76                    7.24
9                  0.60                    3.36                    6.64
10                  0.54                    3.90                    6.10
11                  0.58                    4.48                    5.52
12                  0.73                    5.21                    4.79
13                  0.84                    6.05                    3.95
14                  0.88                    6.93                    3.07
15                  0.73                     7.66                   2.34
16                  0.63                    8.29                    1.71
17                  0.52                    8.81                    1.19
18                  0.43                    9.24                    0.76
19                  0.38                    9.62                    0.38
20                  0.38                   10.00
1/ From date of loan effectiveness



-  40 -                                                  ANNEX 1
CHART 1
,    ^                  o B  -  U, _O                  Co    C F.  RO       CO oO l_     0      0             N
_    N    n o   0    N    O    N    C O            0 Il    O  O    N    . N  Nt                      U
CD~~~~~
O _ _ *,. 9, .~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  C_' _    N   NO   N    N    L . RC
N    O
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o _ _ N                                                                         a A
; ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     .U              N      N  
< I  Z                     N     .           ,                 _              _
LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
ci0 '
CL <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..' . .-.-..                          ' _  ..  .,  .,..., ..-.,,_O
A Q O N 8 >-Z22 sS ' '-'S _ -,S5,.,.-, 5 ............... ...           ... .   ..... .. ..   ,'  'S  . ............ __Z
J                                                                N         :
....: '. .,    ...   ....- "- .::
... -..::- --- :: .  -  : . .   ..'..   .. "
: S~~~~.S  '' ' s"''      " ....    .....    .,._A
-      -    -:-  C    . :...  -   - .-
:: ....  ...    .. .   .....":   .. . : .:.:: ..:
.. .      ...:   .....::-  ::    :::  ,
r... ..    :,SS:    ..' .     .... S .:S: . .:' :: _ A
0                     CC _______________ __ S
C>~~~~~~~~~~~~ --C_wA
...   ....     .. .   ....:   ....   .........
........ ..... ....- .....
2..   ...   .. . :.. .    .. :
-. ...,,. ...
<~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~. ... ... .A .. ..5 -_.._._.
CO-          0>                          CU
Gi       z
CC Co  _
Cr <                                                                                         .
COO   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~..... .....
CC  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .. ..  .. 



BOTSWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
P   SECRETARY
E  PERMANENT SECRETARY
|DEPUTY PERMANENT SECRETARY|
ADMINISTRATION
FINANCE
RUNIFIED          PRIMARY AND                               CURRICULUM            BOIPELEGO
TEACHING             TECEREUCTON                           ADJVLUTONUI
_EDUCATION            SECTION         _EDUCATIONTEACHING                       _ TEACHERLEDUCATION                         DEVELOPMENTPROJECTSERVICE  TR A
ADULT
EDUCATION                               IN-SERVICE             SUBJECT
BRIDLESFIELD                               TEAM               ADVISERS
OF CE RDS
  BOTSWANA  |                         | BOTSWANA                                  TEACHER
EXTENSION                                TRAINING             SCHOOLS
COLLEGE                                  COLLEGE
|  CURRICULUM   |  TEACHING AIDS           SCHOLS              RESEARCH
| DEVELOPMENT  l  l  PRODUCTION             =ROAD              AND TESTING         EXAMINATIONS
UNIT               CASTING              CENTER
World Bank - 20616



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM (1979)
l    2    3       4     5      6     7        8      9    10       11    12                13   14    15    16           17       GRADES
I     l     I     I     I      I     l        I      I     1        1-     1               1     1      1     I          1   
6     7     8     9    10    11   12          13    14   15        16    17                18   19    20    21           22        AGE
TECHNICIAN
CRAFT TRAINING      TRAINING
TYPIST                ACCOUNTING AND COMMERCIAL
TRAINING              TRAINING
PRIMARY                SECONDARY
TEACHER'               TEACHER                     THIRD LEVEL
BRIGADES              TRAINING               TRAINING                     TRAINING ABROAD
IJUNIOR               SENIOR                 U.B.S.                        U.B.S.
PRIMARY                                    |SECONDARY (FORMS)   SECONDARY (FORMS)    PART I                            PART II
EMPLOYMENT                                                                EMPLOYMENT
AGRICULTURAL           AGRICULTURAL
CERTIFICATE LEVEL      DIPLOMA LEVEL
TRAINING               TRAINING
PUPIL NURSES'          STUDENT NURSES'
TRAINING               TRAINING
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANAGEMENT TRAINING c 
/ PSLC - PRIMARY SCHOOL LEAVER CERTIFICATE                  EMPLOYMENT                                                                   Z
JC   - JUNIOR CERTIFICATE                                                       L                                                  ME
O COSC - CAMBRIDGE OVERSEAS SCHOOL CERTIFICATE                                  -EMPLOYMENT                     V       B
Worrldl Bank-1 C4l1



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
BOTSWANA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Criteria for Government Support to and Siting of
Community Junior Secondary Schools
In order to obtain support, a proposed new school has to meet the
following criteria:
1.   Be in full compliance with the Government Education Act (Cap 58.01)
"Education (private secondary schools) Regulations, 19M8." 1/
2.   Be located in a catchment area adequate to provide a sufficient flow
of students to enable efficient utilization of facilities. 2/ The
catchment area should be such that the school would be able to attract
students from all socio-economic strata of the population.
3.   Be sponsored by a local community whose commitment to the founding
of the school and its continuous future efficient functioning is
reasonably assured in terms of the general financial standing of the
community and their record of work on community projects generally.
4.   Be located as far as possible in areas where the relevant junior
secondary age group is currenty under-represented at the junior
secondary level.
1/   These regulations require that the school will conform to Government
curricula, student:teacher ratios, fee structure, facilities design,
maintenance of financial accounts, and generally sound managerial
and financial policies and procedures.
2/   The schools are presently all non-boarding, and because of resource
constraints are likely to remain so in the foreseeable future.



BOTSWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Component                    Obiective               Indicators          Measurement Time Frame               Baseline Data
Youth Brigades          1.  Improve quality of       - Trade test "C"       - Annually                    - Pass rate of 75% on
skill training            results                                               trade test "C" in 1978
2.  Provide skill train-   - Tracer study          - June 1980 and June 1978   - 1976 trater study esti-
ing relevant to employ-                          for baseline data; the        mate 80% trainees em-
ment opportunities                               2 year follow-up.              ployed within 3 months
3.  Increase the number    - Enrollment data    - Annually prior to and           - 1978 total enrollment
of trainees by approx-                           after addition of new          of 1282 trainees
imately 550 by 1985                              centers
Community Junior        1.  Improve quality of       - Junior Certifi-    - Annually                      - Junior Certificate Exam
Secondary Schools           education in existing    cate Exam results                                      results 1978 overall pass
schools, especially                                                             rate   52%; science : 46%
in areas of science                                                            math   49%
and math, to pass
rates comparable to
Government/Aided
schools:  overall
pass rate=9O%; science=
89%; math=90% by 1985.
2.  Fifty percent increase - Enrollment data    - Annually                        - Total enrollment 1979:
in enrollment to about                                                         5,150
10,850 by 1985.
Institute of Develop-  1.  Increase the enroll-   - Enrollment data    - Annuall
ment Management              ment in management                                                           - 1978 enrollment is 598 in
courses.                                                                        37 courses.
2.  Improve the rele-       - Employer inter-
vance and quality         views
of training.
Botswana Training       1. Increase enrollment    - Enrollment data    - Annually                         - 1978 enrollment in commer-
Center                      of commercial train-                                                            cial section is 1131 stu-
ing section to 1620                                                            dents in 84 short courses
students in about 108
courses by 1985
2. Improve the relevance   - Employer inter-
and quality of training.  view.
Source:  Ministry of Education and Bank staff.
Date:    June, 1979
I,      S 



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
BOTSWANA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower
1. National Development Plan 81979-85) - Draft Education Chapter,
February, 1980
2. Report of the National Commission on Education - Vols. I and II
April 1977
3. Government Paper No. 1 of 1977 - National Policy on Education
4. Budget Speech, 1979
5. Employment and Labour Use in Botswana - Vols. I and II, December,
1978
6. Report of AD HOC Committee on Farmers Brigades to NBCC on 21-22
September 1978
B.   Reports Related to the Project
1. Project preparation documents - proposed Second Education Project,
May, 1979
2. Institute of Development Management - Prospectus, 1979
3. Institute of Development Management - Fourth Annual Report, 1978
4. Follow-up Study of Graduates from Brigade Centers, July, 1976
5. Education (Private Secondary Schools) Regulations, 1978
6. Botswana Training Centre Annual Report, 1977-78
7. Botswana Training Centre Special Report, June, 1978
8. Botswana Training Centre - Prospectus for Diploma Courses in
Commerce and Accountancy and in Public Finance and Accountancy
9. Botswana Brigades - Prospectus, 1979
C.   Working Papers and Tables
1. Architectural Working Papers
2. Educational Working Papers






BRD 142o'
ANOA N                                                                        ",;\'A'SI                                                            ~BOTSWANA
*9*9~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - TX<SECQNI2 ,EDUCATION PROJECT'
Mohem~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i    OTO*89890A  *9A09a00)98r
I   I*90TT0T*0F00VL09*9LN00oA~AIM, I9*
- ---------         *     o,t
I                                                                                                                                              *9*00 *'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4o '0*9'~~~~I~ lI
Il                                         .                   000'9Ary.........
I? N    Dl E   S    I'
'5                                                                                           .    -.-   oOoOtookO,,o,,oNO  Bolwo 
Ngm
%7N7  -- -                                                                                     I
I Iko                                                                                                   n e-'
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
N-'
8  I                                                                                                                                                                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ AMB[A
Tshalbong         ~           ~           4 -o                                                                                                                f    ITWA AZ*Lf
K    9K Np   ~~~~              9K   ~     ~ ~ ))~'~~ ~~                           *                               *ooo*09'su,910,roo'o                                           -if~~~~~~AEUBNo



