LOAN NUMBER 1828 BT
Loan Agreement
(Second Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1828 BT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreemcnt accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and GuaranteQ
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Brigade Trust" means a trust established as a separate
legal entity to provide non-formal educational and vocational
training under the direction of a board of trustees by a deed of
trust entered into pursuant to the Laws of Botswana;
(b) "Community Junior Secondary School" means a privately
owned secondary school under the control and management of a
Board of Governors, and established as a separate legal entity
registered under the Education (Private Secondary Schools) Regula-
tions S.I 144 of 1978 made pursuant to the provisions of the
Education Act CAP 58:01 of the Laws of Botswana;


﻿-2-
(c) "CJSS Committee" means the interministerial committee
comprised of representatives of the Ministries of Education,
Finance and Development Planning and Local Government and Lands
and such other persons as the Borrower may from time to time
determine, responsible for the review and approval of proposals
for the construction or upgrading of Community Junior Secondary
Schools submitted to it by the Board of Governors thereof;
(d) "Fifth National Development Plan (NDPV) 1979-1985"
means the national development plan so entitled, adopted or about
to be adopted by the Borrower in respect of the fiscal years 1979
through 1985;
(e) "First Education Project Loan Agreement" means the
Loan Agreement (Education Project) between the Borrower and the
Bank Uated May 28, 1976 and "First Education Project Loan" means
the loan provided for thereunder;
(f) "MOE" means the Ministry of Educ,-tion of the Borrower;
(g) "NBCC" means the National Brigade Coordinating Commit-
tee, a committee established by the Borrower in May 1969 to
advise MOE on Brigade Trust matters and comprised of representa-
tives of Brigade Trusts and Government Departments, with a full-
time employee of MOE as Secretary;
(h) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
within MOE pursuant to Part C of Schedule 2 to the First Education
Project Loan Agreement, the Project Manager and Procurement
Officer now respectively designated as the Project Director and
Procurement Manager; and
(i) "Project Memorandum" means a project memorandum to
be prepared and approved in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 hereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ten million dollars ($10,000,000).


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) In support of applications to withdraw the proceeds
of the Loan, and in addition to such other documentation as may be
requested by the Bank, the Borrower shall submit certificates
described below in the cases indicated:
(i) in the case of withdrawals under Category (1) (a)
in respect of civil works carried out by Brigade
Trust force account, a certificate signed by
competent officials of such Brigade Trust and
countersigned by the Project Director of PIU
certifying the expenditures incurred for labor and
materials for the purposes of the Project; and
(ii) in the case of withdrawals under Category (5)
in respect of operational expenditures, a certifi-
cate signed by the Project Director of PIU certify-
ing the amounts and nature of the operational
expenditures incurred for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.


﻿Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, architectural and educational
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01
(a) hereof, the Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Borrower
and the Bank may otherwise agree, Parts A and B of the Project
shall be carried out in accordance with the Project Memoranda to
be prepared in respect thereof by Community Junior Secondary
Schools and by Brigade Trusts, and approved by the Borrower, in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 hereto.
(c) All amounts expended by the Borrower in respect of the
Project shall be made available, or deemed to have been made
available, by the Borrower by the way of grant to the Community
Junior Secondary School or Brigade Trust concerned or to the
Institute of Development Management, as the case may be.
(d) For the purposes of Section 3.01 (a) and (b) hereof,
responsibility for the administration and financial control of the
Project shall be vested in the PIU, working, as regards Part B of
the Project, in consultation with NBCC.
Section 3.02. Each appointment to the staff of PIU financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan or of the First Education Project
Loan shall be of a person whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, in
order to assist the Borrower in the design and supervision of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose


﻿-5-
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and who shall be assisted in
the day-to-day carrying out of such supervision by the Clerks of
Works of PIU.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through its Ministry of Agricul-
ture, shall by September 30, 1980, or such later date as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree, appoint a suitably qualified and
experienced agricultural specialist to act as liaison officer
between the Ministry of Agriculture, the Brigade Development
Center in Gaborone and agricultural Brigade Trusts.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, .11 goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the ,oan shall
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower, acting through PIU, shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower, acting through PIU: (i) shall maintain
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites incluied in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank not later than May 31 and November 30 in each year, a
progress report as to the carrying out of the Project up to the
March 31 or September 30 immediately preceding such date, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (iv) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,


﻿- 6 -
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than three months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and for the construction
and operation of the facilities included in the Project and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot


﻿-7-
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political cr administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof aud of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause PIU and each
Brigade Trust and Community Junior Secondary School participating
in the Project to maintain records adequate to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their respective operations and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall cause PIU and each such Brigade
Trust and Community Junior Secondary School to: (i) have their
respective accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
each of the foregoing and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause PIU: (i) to maintain
accounts and fiscal statements for each fiscal. year based on such
records showing the consolidated operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of all departments and agencies
and of each Brigade Trust and Community Junior Secondary School
participating in the Project; and (ii) to furnish such financial
statements, signed by the Project Director of PIU to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of such fiscal year.
Section 4.04. In respect of all expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditures in accordance with Section 2.02
hereof, the Borrower shall cause PIU and each Brigade Trust
and Community Junior Secondary School concerned: (i) to maintain
separate accounts in respect of such expenditures; (ii) to retain
until five years after the Closing Date all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts, salary slips and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures and shall enable the Bank's accred-
ited representatives to examine such accounts and records; and
(iii) make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for audit of such
accounts.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take out and maintain, or
cause each Brigade Trust and Community Junior Secondary School
participating in the Project to take out and maintain, with
insurance companies operating under the Laws of Botswana or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that an adequate
number of suitably qualified teachers shall be made available to
staff the facilities when constructed or upgraded under the
Project.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, in consultation with
the Bank, take such action as may be necessary to ensure:
(i) the progressive equalization of the level of
fees charged by the Community Junior Secondary
Schools with the national level of fees charged by
government secondary schools; and


﻿-9-
(ii) the extension of its existing bursary scheme so
Ds to apply on a non-discriminatory basis to
students attending CJSSs included in the Project.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause the educational
institutions and facilities included in the Project to be oper-
ated in accordance with appropriate administrative and educa-
tional policies and practices and with due regard to economy.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, equipment
and furniture of such institutions to be adequately inspected
and maintained, and cause all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made in accordance with sound administrative and
technical standards.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a Community Junior Secondary School or a Brigade Trust
shall have failed to perform any of their respective obligations
under an approved Project Memorandum in a manner which may materi-
ally and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project, or any
Part thereof or the operation of the facilities financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; or
(b) any amendment shall have been made to the Deed of Trust
establishing a Brigade Trust participating in the Project or to
the Education (Private Secondary Schools) Regulations S.I. No. 144
of 1978 which may materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of the Project, or any Part thereof, or the operation of the
facilities financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof; namely that any event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date    S \      1     I O     , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being
responsible for Finance and Development Planning is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning
Private Bag 008
Gaborone, Botswana
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             2401 BD
Gaborone
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their represel.tatives theretuito duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                   4,000,000       62%
(a) Brigade Trust
force account
(b) other
(2) Construction materials           230,000       100% of foreign
for Community Junior                          expenditures
Secondary Schools                             and 62% of
local expendi-
tures
(3) Furniture, equip-              1,500,000
ment and vehicles:
(a) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) imported but                              80%
locally pro-
cured
(c) locally manu-                             90% of local
factured                                 expenditures
(4) Consultants'                     500,000       70%
services


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Project Adminis-
tration:
(a) Technical                620,000        80%
Assistance
in respect of
PIU staff
(b) Other operat-            150,000        30% of local
ing expendi-                            expenditures
tures
(6) Unallocated                 3,000,000
TOTAL       10,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then pplicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $100,000 may be made in respect of Category 4 on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to support the five year educational program
of the Borrower set forth in the Education and Manpower Chapter of
the Fifth National Development Plan (NDPV) 1979-1985, and consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:   Community Junior Secondary Schools
(1) The provision of science laboratories, classrooms,
administrative offices and related facilities at
about 11 Community Junior Secondary Schools to provide
improved curriculum and instruction for about 3,850
students.
(2) The construction, furnishing and equipping of about
seven new Community Junior Secondary Schools to be
located at sites to be approved by the Borrower in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank, to
provide places for about 1,680 students.
Part B:   Brigade Centers and Agricultural Brigades
(1) The construction, furnishing and equipping of about
seven centers to provide administrative, educational,
vocational training, productive and related services and
facilities for Brigade Trusts.
(2) The provision of administrative offices, staff housing,
fencing, equipment and materials to provide vocational
training and productive facilities for about 9 agricul-
tural Brigade Trusts.
Part C:   Expansion of Botswana Training Centre and Institute
of Development Management
The construction, furnishing and equipping of classrooms,
seminar rooms, administrative offices and related facilities
to provide about 45 additional places at the Botswana Training


﻿- 16 -
Centre and about 70 additional places at the Institute of Develop-
ment Management, together with, in the former case, a 40-bed
hostel for women.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1985
through   December 15, 1999                  335,000
On June 15, 2000                                  285,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.25%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.55%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                             6.60%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Parts A and C of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods specified in Category
(3) (c) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evalvation and comparison of bids.
2.    After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Botswana if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Botswana equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 21 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; cr (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said cust-oms duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works included in Part B of the Project shall be
carried out by the Brigade Trusts participating in the Project
using Brigade Trust force account in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Civil works to be procured under contracts of an estimated
individual value of up to $250,000 equivalent and construction
materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles to be procured under
contracts of an estimated individual value of up to $50,000
equivalent may be so procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Civil works, construction materials, furniture, equipment
and vehicles to be procured under either Part A or Part C of this
Schedule shall be bulked together in bidding packages to the
maximum extent practicable. Architectural sketch designs for civil
works and master lists and specifications of vehicles, furniture
and equipment, indicating the proposed grouping of such items,
shall be submitted to the Bank for its review and approval and all
the items procured shall be substantially in conformity with the
designs, lists, specifications and grouping for bulk procurement
so approved.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part B above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's


﻿- 22 -
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and for furniture, equip-
ment or vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furni.Ah to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 23 -
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Rorrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the GuidClines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would I'ncrease the cost of the contract, in
the case of civil works by more than 10%, or, in the case of
furniture, equipment and vehicles by more than 15%, of the origi-
nal price, the Borrower shall inform the Bank of the proposed
modification, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons
therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures for the
Preparation and Approval of
Project Memoranda
for the Carrying Out of
Parts A and B of the Projoct
1.   In respect of each Community Junior Secondary School to be
financed under Part A of the Project, the Board of Governors of
the Community Junior Secondary School to be responsible for its
management and operation shall submit to PIU through the CJSS
Committee a project memorandum proposing in detail the facilities
and services to be constructed, installed or provided, the contri-
bution to be made by the community, the site location, the capital
expenditures to be financed, construction, installation and pro-
curement procedu-es, the utilization of such facilities, staffing,
a financial and economic appraisal of the proposals and such other
information as PIU may require.
2.   In respect of each Brigade Center or Agricultural Brigade
to be financed under Part B of the Project, the Brigade Trust to
be responsible for the construction, management and operation
thereof shall submit to PIU through NBCC a project memorandum pro-
posing in detail the facilities and services to be constructed,
installed or provided, the contribution to be made by the Brigade
Trust, the site location, the capital expenditures to be financed,
construction, installation and procurement procedures, the utili-
zation of such facilities, a financial and economic appraisal of
the proposals and such other information as NBCC or PIU may
require.
3.   In the event that PIU shall be satisfied that a project
memorandum submitted to it as aforesaid complies with the provi-
sions of the Loan Agreement and is otherwise acceptable to it, it
shall forthwith submit the same for approval to the departments or
agencies of the Borrower concerned. Upon such approval, PIU shall
notify the Board of Governors through the CJSS Committee or the
Brigade Trust through NBCC accordingly.
4.   PIU shall adopt such procedures as may be necessary to
ensure that the submission of a project memorandum by a Board of
Governors of a Junior Secondary School or by a Brigade Trust, re
the same may be amended by such Board or Trust, and the notifica-
tion of its approval by PIU on behalf of the Borrower shall
constitute a valid and enforceable contract between such Board or
Trust and the Borrower for the development and operation of the
facilities provided for in that project memorandum.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    -L day of         L, 198(  .
FOR SECRETARY


