Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13836
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT 1758-KE; IFAD LOAN 188-KE; OPEC LOAN 407)
DECEMBER 29, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
(IDA Cr. 1758-KE: IFAD Ln. 188-KE; OPEC Ln. 407)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   =       Kenya Shilling (Ksh)
US$1.00 (at appraisal)          =       Kshl6.00
US$1.00 (December 1993)    =            Ksh67.80
SDR1.00 (at appraisal)          =       US$1.18
SDR1.00 (December 1993)   =             US$1.38
ACRONYMS/ABBREVIATIONS
AHSP                  Animal Health Services Project
Al                    Artificial Insemination
CBPP                  Contagious Bovine Pleuro-pneumonia
DVS                   Director of Veterinary Services
DDVS/ADVS             Deputy/Assistant DVS
EC                    European Community
FAO                   Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
FAO/CP                FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FMD                   Foot and Mouth Disease
FTC                   Farmers Training Centre
GOK                   Government of Kenya
ICIPE                 International Centre for Insect Physiology & Ecology
IDA                   International Development Association
IFAD                  International Fund for Agricultural Development
KARI                  Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
KVA                   Kenya Veterinary Association
MALDM                 Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development & Marketing
MOLD                  Ministry of Livestock Development (now part of MALDM)
OAU                   Organization for African Unity
OPEC                  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR                   Project Completion Report
PMSU                  Project Management Support Unit (of VSD)
PS                    Permanent Secretary
RMEA                  Resident Mission in Eastern Africa
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
TA                    Technical Assistance
UNDP                  United Nations Development Programme
VSD                   Department of Veterinary Services
FISCAL YEAR
GOK                    I July - 30 June
IFAD                   I January - 31 December
IDA                    I July - 30 June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Off0o. ef Dbm..r4wW
Operut6 Evuaenu
December 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on Kenya
Animal Health Services Project (Credit 1758-KE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Kenya-Animal Health Services (Credit 1758-
KE) prepared by the FAOlWorld Bank Cooperative Programme. The project was cofinanced by
MAD and OPEC. Part II was submitted by the Borrower.
The project aimed to develop a sustainable institutional framework for the effective delivery
of animal health services by gradually shifting vaccinations and disease prevention from a parastatal
(Department of Veterinary Services-VSD) to pastoralist groups and private veterinarians. The
project was appraised and implemented during a difficult period of Kenya's economic and social
history. Project design was based on optimistic expectations about implementation capacity and the
ability of the Government to provide 60 percent of project costs. One third of the IDA Credit was
cancelled.
While VSD partly succeeded in shifting responsibility for carrying out some disease campaigns
to pastoralists and in training Government veterinarians to assume private practice, these activities
are not sustainable due to inadequate funding.
The project failed to achieve the privatization of animal health delivery because of
Government's lack of commitment to reduce VSD's staff levels, to support private veterinarians, to
provide counterpart funds, and to achieve full cost recovery. During implementation, the project
focussed instead on the provision of physical investments to rehabilitate VSD.
Milk and meat output have decreased since 1990. Accordingly, the project outcome is rated
as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely and its institutional development as modest.
The PCR is of adequate quality. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .                      ..............................................ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE LENDERS' PERSPECIIVE ....                                               ......... 1
1. Project Identity ........................................................  1
2. Background and Sector Context .............                        ..............................  1
3. Project Objectives and Description  .........................................  2
4. Project Design and Organization .............                      ..............................  3
5. Project Implementation .            .................................................  4
6. Project Results and Impact . ............................................... 8
7. Project Sustainability .................................................... 10
8. Bank Performance  . ...................................................  10
9. Borrower Performance .................................................. 11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                               ........ 13
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ..................................  16
TABLES
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits .............                        .............................  16
2. Project Timetable  .....................................................  17
3. Cumulative Loan Disbursements ............                        ..............................  18
4. Project Implementation .................................................. 19
5. Project Costs and Financing .              ............................................. 22
6. Project Results .......................................................   24
7. Status of Covenants ......................                                                                    27
8. Use of IDA Resources ...................... 28
ANNEX 1: Veterinary Aspects ...................... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
(IDA Cr. 1758-KE; IFAD Loan 188-KE; OPEC Loan 407)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Animal Health Services Project
(AHSP) in Kenya, for which IDA Credit 1758-KE, IFAD Loan 188-KE, and OPEC Fund
Loan no. 407 in the amounts of SDR12.7 million, SDR7.1 million and US$5.0 million were
respectively approved on 6 March, 1987, 21 July, 1986 and 22 October, 1986. The project
was also co-financed by the UNDP in the amount of US$0.8 million by way of grant. The
IDA Credit and IFAD Loan were extended twice involving a period of two years, to 31
December, 1993. The OPEC Fund Loan has been extended for a year to 31 December,
1994. About SDR4.7 million of the Credit and SDR1.2 million of the IFAD Loan remained
unutilized. The UNDP Grant was fully disbursed and the OPEC Fund Loan is expected to be
fully utilized.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the staff of the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme (CP) for the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division,
Eastern Africa Region of the World Bank. The report is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Credit and Loan Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
between the Borrower and the Lenders, and information gathered by the CP mission which
visited Kenya in January 1994. Part II has been prepared by the Borrower.
i






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
(IDA Cr. 1758-KE; IFAD Ln. 188-KE; OPEC Ln. 407)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective
The main objective of the project was to develop a viable and sustainable institutional
framework for the effective delivery of animal health services. The project was a successor to
two earlier IDA supported livestock projects (Cr. 129-KE and Cr. 477-KE) and two integrated
agricultural development projects (Cr. 650-KE and Ln. 1303-KE). The livestock sub-sector
played a significant role in the Kenyan economy both as a source of income to many
smallholders, and also as an important element in the dietary intake of Kenyans. A key
bottleneck to the further development of the sub-sector was the deteriorating state of the
country's animal health services. The Department of Veterinary Services (VSD) which was
extensively involved, could no longer provide these services effectively, as Government
resources were overstretched. The project aimed at evolving a strategy to ameliorate this
situation. IFAD was the initiator, mainly targeting the physical rehabilitation of VSD facilities.
IDA joined in later and helped to shift the project's focus away from rehabilitation per se to
restructuring the role of VSD and institutional reform for effective delivery of animal health
services.
Project Implementation
The project got off to a slow start. The IDA Credit and IFAD loan became effective six
months late due to delays in fulfilling conditions of effectiveness, particularly the recruitment
of consultants to review the management systems of VSD. After it became effective, the project
was immediately faced with budgetary problems following the split of the then Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development into two separate ministries. Lack of adequate operating
budget dogged the project throughout implementation, (GOK financed only about US$ 15 million
of the total project costs, against an appraisal estimate of US$ 41.5 million). There were also
suspensions of disbursements by both IFAD and OPEC because of GOK's default on servicing
earlier debts. Other implementation problems, particularly in the early years, included
procurement delays.
ii



The project lost about 18 months due to start-up delays. This, along with the procurement
bottlenecks, resulted in a very low rate of disbursements; as such, when the Mid-Term Review
(MTR) was done in August 1991 (after almost 4 years of project implementation), only about
25% of the IDA Credit had been disbursed. A decision was therefore taken by GOK and the
funding agencies to extend the project by one year to December 1992. This was later followed
by another extension to December 1993. In December 1992, the IDA Credit Agreement was
amended to include an Emergency Drought Recovery Component (EDRC) to which
US$2.5 million was re-allocated.
Actual project costs are estimated to be about US$38 million (including US$1.7 million
spent on EDRC) or about 54% of the appraisal estimate. This financial under-delivery is partly
attributable to over-optimism at appraisal but is also due to GOK's inability to provide adequate
budgetary resources for the project (contributing only 36% of the appraisal target of US$41.5
million). Also the continuous devaluation of the local currency reduced the project costs and
financing when translated into US Dollars or SDR. About SDR5.2 million of the IDA Credit and
SDR1.2 million of the IFAD Loan remained unutilized. The UNDP grant was fully disbursed
while the remaining US$1.0 million of the OPEC Loan is available to GOK through the end of
1994.
Project Results
Initial project performance was beset by delays and project impact with regard to various
components was felt only belatedly. With the exception of the successful pilot trials on tse-tse
trapping, encouragement of privatization of various animal health services, introduction of cost
recovery measures, and provision of inputs, project benefits were not impressive. Thus, in view
of the tardy rendering of the project activities, AHSP could not achieve all that it set out to do.
Overall, AHSP's performance was unsatisfactory, even though the project is deemed to have
ended on a high note. AHSP contributed towards disease control and treatment by providing
large quantities of vaccines, drugs and acaricides. To date, however, the impact of these inputs
on the functioning of VSD has been limited.  The project also eased the transportation
difficulties of VSD by providing the department with 237 four-wheel vehicles, 350 motor cycles
and 600 bicycles. When all of these vehicles have been distributed, each district will have at
least one saloon-type vehicle and one pick-up or lorry. It enhanced VSD's diagnostic facilities
through extensive provision of laboratory and camping equipment, and significant rehabilitation
of the dilapidated buildings and laboratory facilities at Kabete.
Government has also carried out, albeit belatedly, the institutional reforms relating to
strategic management information systems (MIS), defined field duties, veterinary medicine
distribution and stores management systems, and vehicles management, in accordance with the
recommendations of the studies undertaken by consultants. Training was provided to staff to
carry out their responsibilities as defined in these reports. A total of 170 staff received training
towards the end of the project. Had the reports been processed and implemented on time
(1991/92), the benefits in terms of improved institutional efficiency would have been
considerable.
. . 



Although the privatization efforts supported by the project did not show spectacular results,
AHSP made a significant contribution to the development and acceptance, by senior Government
officials, of the new vision of public veterinary services which went far beyond cost recovery
and better management.  The official perception of VSD's role thus underwent a major
transformation during project implementation. GOK staff have already carried out or have
become increasingly committed to privatization of cattle dipping program, the Artificial
Insemination Service (AI), and as far as possible, the privatization of clinical veterinary services.
It also went a long way to withdraw from public sector distribution of veterinary drugs and
medicines. VSD transferred the responsibility of management of about 3,800 dips (80% of total)
to farmer committees; but many tasks have yet to be carried out before these dips are sustainably
utilized. The need for funds to purchase acaricides, the influence of droughts and the need for
accessing dips along the stock routes, are some of the crucial factors which would contribute to
the longer term sustainable management of the dips. Further, the expected establishment of
private veterinary practices did not materialize because the parallel EC funded intervention in
this regard had not taken off by the time AHSP ended. Efforts to privatize Al services have also
been hindered by the continuing availability of an Al service subsidized by VSD. However,
useful steps were started towards cost recovery. The project successfully encouraged GOK to
move towards full cost-recovery for clinical services offered by VSD.
Pilot trials on tse-tse trapping were successfully carried out; however, trials on tick
control were inconclusive. The tse-tse trials were the most successful component of the project;
their success relates to the fact that they were participatory and demand driven and were
implemented efficiently.  Extended community-based participation in tse-tse trapping has
resulted.
The quantifiable financial and economic benefits accruing from the project cannot be
assessed largely because during implementation there were no mechanisms to monitor and
evaluate the expected project benefits of reduced rates of mortality and morbidity, reduced
calving interval rates, higher fertility and faster growth rates of cattle. A recommendation at
MTR for annual sample surveys in selected districts was not implemented.
Sustainability
By far, lack of adequate operating budget for VSD constitutes the greatest threat to the
sustainability of project investments and the eventual realization of its objectives. Unless the
present macro-economic environment changes, GOK's ability to adequately fund the department
will remain constrained or even worsen. The physical inputs of the project such as vehicles,
laboratories and equipment will therefore not be operated to capacity or properly maintained.
The answer lies in VSD further divesting itself of more of its current duties and increasing cost-
recovery for its services. For the activities VSD hands over to communal operation and
management (such as dips), farmers and rural leaders have to be sensitized to the need for
improved management of facilities and ensuring the availability of adequate operational funds.
The issues relating to the lack of adequate operating and managerial resources need to be
addressed, in order to ensure the sustainability of the divestiture activities undertaken by the
Department. The proposed Arid Lands Project (ALP), which would cover the eight Arid Land
iv



districts in North and East Kenya, would assist in managing this lacuna. ALP is envisaged to
include initiatives for the restoration and maintenance / operation of cattle dips, water points,
and holding areas; rehabilitation of traditional livestock routes; and the provision of basic animal
health care services, among others. The project seeks to involve local communities, NGOs and
other stakeholders in planning and implementing these activities; this participatory approach to
development is expected to foster stakeholder committment and thereby increase the prospects
for sustaining activities initiated under AHSP.
Lessons Learnt
The major lessons derived from the implementation of this project are: (a) simplification
of project design and management (a feature attributed to this project in the SAR) may not
necessarily produce better results, and adequate attention should be paid to the overall macro-
economic context and the specific ecological and socio-economic setting in which the project is
to be implemented; (b) participatory and demand-driven project activities such as the tse tse
trapping trials under AHSP, which were implemented by an appropriate institution (rather than
being handled through the public sector), are likely to succeed more than others; (c) given the
promising signs of GOK's commitment and support to the privatization process with regards to
animal health services, future projects should aim at supporting efforts in this direction, rather
than diffusing resources to support a variety of activities; and (d) the fmancial burden imposed
on the recurrent budget of the Borrower by the maintenance and operating costs related to public
sector capital investments, should be evaluated up-front as well as during project implementation.
v



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
(IDA Cr. 1758-KE; IFAD Ln. 188-KE; OPEC Ln. 407)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE LENDERS' PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Animal Health Services Project
Credit/Loan No.         IDA Cr. 1758-KE; IFAD Ln. 188-KE; OPEC Ln. 407
RVP Unit                Eastern Africa Region
Country                 Kenya
Sector                  Agriculture
Sub-sector              Livestock
2. Background and Sector Context
General
2.1        The Animal Health Services Project (AHSP) was a follow-up to earlier IDA-assisted
livestock projects (Cr. 129-KE and Cr. 477-KE) and two integrated agricultural development
projects (Cr. 650-KE and Ln. 1303-KE) which had large livestock components. The Government
of Kenya (GOK), realizing the need for further assistance to the livestock sub-sector, approached
IFAD in the middle of 1984 to support a program that would rehabilitate animal health services.
IFAD commissioned the FAO Investment Center (FAO/IC) to undertake a project preparation
mission to Kenya in early 1985. FAO/IC submitted their report in May 1985 on the basis of
which the project was appraised by IFAD in August that year. As at the time, IDA was also
developing a project for animal health, it was subsequently agreed that IDA appraise the IFAD
project so that the two institutions could co-finance it. IDA undertook the appraisal in May 1986.
The project was presented to the IFAD Board at the end of April 1986 arid to the IDA Board
1



in February 1987. The IFAD Loan and IDA Credit were signed in July 1986 and March 1987,
respectively. The OPEC Fund Loan was signed in October 1986.
Sector Development Context
2.2        The Government's Fifth Development Plan, which covered the period 1984-88,
identified livestock, particularly animal health, as one of its priorities for the agricultural sector.
The livestock sub-sector was targeted for specific attention because of its importance to the
national economy. At the time, almost half of all smallholders owned livestock, supplying over
two-thirds of the national milk production. Livestock contributed an average of about 25 % of
the smallholders' income and was essential to balanced nutrition. However, the productivity of
the national herd was low and the sector was loosing substantially through readily preventable
animal diseases. Given a rapidly increasing human population, particularly in the urban areas,
it was necessary to boost the local production of livestock products, particularly milk and beef,
in order to avoid shortages and the country becoming increasingly dependent on imports. Up to
the early 1980s, such imports had been maintained at fairly low levels.
2.3        The overriding policy issue facing Kenya's animal health services in the mid-1980s,
was the extent to which GOK should be involved in delivery of animal health services. The
Department of Veterinary Services (VSD) which was extensively involved, could no longer
provide animal health services effectively, as Government resources were overstretched. There
was therefore a need for a review of the responsibilities of VSD and examination of alternative
ways of delivering animal health services to the farmers, with the aim of leaving VSD with only
its core responsibilities of safeguarding the national herd from serious epidemic diseases and
maintaining strict control of zoonoses. AHSP was designed to further this strategy.
3. Project Objectives and Description
Objectives
3.1        The main objective of the project was to develop a viable and sustainable
institutional framework for the effective delivery of animal health services.
Project Description
3.2        The project comprised of the following eight components:
(a)    the development of strategic management and information systems to
strengthen VSD's policy making, planning, budgeting and monitoring
systems;
(b)    the development of detailed operating and supervision guidelines for front
line field staff of VSD;
(c)    training of VSD staff to introduce and implement the newly designed
management systems and operating guidelines;
2



(d)    support to disease and pest control activities;
(e)    rehabilitation of veterinary laboratories and support to disease surveillance
activities;
(f)    support to the Tick Control Program;
(g)    support to clinical services and extension on herd health; and
(h)    pilot trials for developing cheaper methods of control of tse tse flies and
ticks.
3.3        As shown in Table 5, project costs were estimated at US$70.5 million, of which
IDA would finance US$15 million (SDR12.7 million); IFAD would contribute US$8.2 million
(SDR7.5 million); and the OPEC Fund (OF) would finance US$5.0 million. UNDP committed
a US$0.8 million grant to fund the technical assistance aspects of the project. The remainder
of the costs, US$41.5 million or 59% of total project cost would be contributed by GOK. The
project was to be implemented over a 4-year period.
3.4        In December 1992, the IDA Credit Agreement was amended to include an
Emergency Drought Recovery Component (EDRC) to which US$2.5 million (SDR1.7 million)
was re-allocated. This component was to include a vaccination campaign in 10 ASAL districts.
A new disbursement category was created to finance 100% of expenditures related to these
activities.
3.5        Actual project costs are estimated to be about US$38 million (including
US$1.7 million spent on EDRC) or about 54% of the appraisal estimate. This financial under-
delivery is partly attributable to over-optimism at appraisal but is also due to GOK's inability
to provide adequate budgetary resources for the project (contributing only US$15 million of the
appraisal target of US$41.5 million); thus, GOK was able to contribute only 36% of its
commitment. Also, the continuous devaluation of the local currency reduced the project costs
and financing when translated into US$ or SDR. About SDR5.2 million of the IDA Credit and
SDRl.2 million of the IFAD Loan remained unutilized. The UNDP grant was fully disbursed
while the remaining US$1.0 million of the OPEC Loan is available to GOK through the end of
1994.
4. Project Design and Organization
Design
4.1        The project as initially designed for IFAD financing emphasized the physical
rehabilitation of VSD facilities. However, after IDA joined the project, the focus of AHSP
shifted towards restructuring the role of VSD and institutional reform for effective delivery of
animal health services. Although this conflict of priorities impacted project performance in the
early implementation phase, close coordination between IFAD and IDA and a flexible design
allowed corrections in the project focus as warranted. Nevertheless, in retrospect, a weakness
that emerges in the project's design relates to significant emphasis being placed on capital
investments and physical rehabilitation aspects, thus inadvertently exerting additional pressure
3



on GOK's already over-burdened recurrent budget situation. Had some of these resources been
channelled to the privatization initiatives under the project (e.g., by way of loans to VSD staff
wanting to establish private practices), both project outcome and sustainability would have
benefitted substantially.
4.2        The Project adopted a somewhat simplistic view of the ecological and socio-
economic situation in which it was to be executed. An assessment of three districts (one high
potential, one marginal and one pastoral) was specified for the review of front-line services,
without due importance being accorded to the fundamental differences that exist in Kenya
between the northern semi-desert pastoral areas, the higher potential pastoral and ranching areas
fringing the highlands, the marginal small holding areas with and without tsetse infestation, and
the high potential farming areas of central and western Kenya. These different zones require
different strategies for the effective delivery of animal health services because their needs and
constraints, including privatization and community participation, are not the same.
Organization and Management
4.4        Overall responsibility for project implementation was assigned to the Director of
Animal Services (DVS). A Project Management Support Unit (PMSU) was established at VSD
headquarters in Nairobi for the daily management and coordination of project activities. The
PMSU was primarily staffed by veterinarians. In retrospect, project implementation would have
benefitted from personnel drawn from other complementary disciplines such as economics,
finance, animal husbandry and production, and possibly sociology. Lack of adequate project
monitoring and evaluation is partially attributable to this imbalance in the staff composition, as
are, the lack of adequate project-level financial data and the belated submission of financial
reports to donors. The tick control pilot trials were contracted to ICIPE through KARI. The
arrangement worked successfully.
5. Project Implementation
General
5.1         The project became effective in December 1987, six months late, due to delays in
fulfilling conditions of effectiveness, particularly the recruitment of consultants to review the
management systems of VSD. After it became effective, the project was immediately faced with
budgetary problems following the split of the then Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development into two separate ministries. VSD moved to the new Ministry of Livestock
Development, but with a considerably reduced operating budget than was agreed at loan
negotiation. Lack of adequate operating budget dogged the project throughout implementation,
(GOK financed only about US$ 15 million of the total project costs, against an appraisal estimate
of US$ 41.5 million). There were also suspensions of disbursements by both IFAD and OPEC
because of GOK's default on servicing earlier debts.
4



5.2         Project implementation in the early years was characterized by delays in
procurements, as PMSU staff were not familiar with the donor procurement procedures and
requirements. Local procurement was further complicated by the split funding of the project,
whereby, while the share of project budget funded by the donors was available for purchases,
GOK funding was not always available on a timely basis (due to budgetary constraints) and the
project had to make partial payments to the suppliers while awaiting the release of the GOK
funds to pay the remaining portion of the invoices. This cumbersome arrangement contributed
to project delays.
5.3        Project implementation was somewhat affected by the fact that the initial project
preparatory work by IFAD had stressed rehabilitation of services rather than the redefinition of
government and private sector roles as later set out in the IDA Staff Appraisal Report. As such,
transfer of VSD's responsibilities to the private sector began in earnest only in 1991, targeting
dip management but with little prior notification or sensitization of the farming community
concerning their new responsibilities.
5.4        The project lost about 18 months due to start-up delays. This, along with
procurement bottlenecks referred to above, resulted in a very low rate of disbursements, such
that, when the Mid-Term Review (MTR) was done in August 1991, after almost 4 years of
project implementation (the original project closing date was December 1991), only about 25%
of the IDA Credit had been disbursed. Although, by then, the project had made progress in the
areas related to the handing over of cattle dips to farmer committees, cost recovery and pilot
trials, more needed to be done under the project, particularly with regard to further privatization
of animal health services, and strengthening and refocussing the Veterinary Service Department's
capacity. On the basis of the recommendations made by the MTR mission (on the priority
interventions required), both, IDA and IFAD agreed to extend the project by another year to 31
December, 1992. Subsequently, another extension of one year was accorded. The project finally
closed on 31 December, 1993. OPEC have agreed to extend their loan for a further period of
one year. In December 1992, the IDA Credit Agreement was amended to include an Emergency
Drought Recovery Component (EDRC) to which US$2.5 million was re-allocated.
5.5        The implementation of the individual aspects of the project is summarized below.
Management Systems and Related Training
5.6        After lengthy delays, a comprehensive review of VSD activities and systems was
carried out by an external firm of consultants. Draft reports mainly covering procedural matters
of reporting, accounting, stores management, veterinary medicine distribution and vehicle
management were released to GOK by the consultants in 1988. However, due to belated receipt
of the Ministry's comments on the reports, these could only be finalized in 1991. The
consultants' recommendations have now started being implemented. Another firm of consultants
was later engaged to carry out a strategic review of the VSD with the aim of restructuring it
within the framework of the privatization policy being pursued by GOK. The consultants' draft
report was submitted to the Ministry in 1992 and had not yet been finalized by the time the
project closed.
5



5.7         Staff training started in 1990 and ended towards the end of 1993; material from the
1991 consultancy reports was utilized to structure the later training program. The project
extended training to about 170 members of VSD, comprising 4 Fellowships for Veterinary
Officers (VOs) to study for an MSc in veterinary epidemiology and economics at the University
of Nairobi; short courses for around 75 DVOs, SVOs and more senior staff offered locally at
GOK training institutes, supplemented by the seminars referred to above; further seminars for
56 VOs on monitoring and information systems; as well as courses in vocational skills for
typists, mechanics and drivers.
Rehabilitation of Veterinary Laboratories
5.8         Belated use was made of funds earmarked for laboratory rehabilitation. From 1990
onwards, supervision missions urged that detailed plans be drawn up for this component in order
to help correct deteriorating disease surveillance. Eventually consultancy reports were produced,
including measures to correct the serious dilapidation of buildings at Kabete Veterinary
Laboratories. Furnishings, equipment, electrical fittings, building roofs etc. were all in a state
of disrepair, thus impairing the diagnostic capability of the laboratories. With intensive IDA
follow-up and the active intervention by the current PS of MALDM, work started in November
1993. The civil works were completed in May 1994 and the equipment procured earlier
installed.
Disease and Pest Control Activities
5.9         Except for tick control, little consideration was given to reviewing strategies for
disease control either in different livestock production systems/areas, or by use of other
techniques. The epidemiology and economics unit of VSD was constrained, in part, by the
inadequacy of field reports, a problem which has only recently been addressed. Without such
reports, particularly regarding reliable information about disease incidence, it is difficult to
evaluate the impact of this component. Some nine hundred sera samples collected from various
districts for rinderpest vaccination monitoring showed that less than 39% of cattle were immune
to the disease in 1992, five years after the project had started. However, recovery of viable virus
from field outbreaks of foot and mouth disease was commendably high (89-95% over 3 years)
and allowed for the judicious use of vaccines.
Tick Control
5.10        The process of transferring the management of communal dips from VSD to dip
management committees composed of local livestock owners was started in 1991 - rather late
in the life of the project. The rapid transfer of responsibilities led to inadequate training of dip
committees and failure to comprehend the full extent of their responsibilities. The project
provided funds for the purchase of acaricides, which enabled the committees to accumulate
varying levels of operating funds from collection of dipping charges. However, few committees
were able to build up sufficient funds and the devaluation of the Kenya Shilling in 1993 left the
majority unable to continue. Further supplies of inputs from the project have helped revitalize
operations and the committees are becoming increasingly aware of their responsibilities.
6



5.11       There is evidence of a reduction of dip utilization approach by owners of
unimproved zebu cattle in marginal areas. This may be a valid approach because there has been
no concomitant increase in mortality in those areas from tick-borne diseases (TBD). It is
desirable that the ICIPE trials on the length of dipping intervals be replicated in such areas, so
that strategies for TBD control can be defined for different ecological zones with indigenous
animals and up-graded high potential cattle.
Clinical Services
5.12       The project aimed at facilitating a transfer of clinical services from VSD to the
private sector (veterinary practitioners and drug companies), on the grounds that these services
were not a statutory function of VSD and yet diverted personnel and scarce resources from
higher priority activities. Although there are 55 veterinarians in private practice in Kenya, the
hope that this number would be increased through a parallel EC funded intervention has not
materialized. It is expected that loans will be available through the EC intervention to help
establish or expand 20 private practices during 1994/95. There has been no importation of
clinical drugs by VSD since 1992, and the DVS is committed to further withdrawal as soon as
feasible. Cost recovery measures for various clinical services have also been established and
are being pursued.
Pilot Trials
5.13       Although some time was lost organizing a mechanism for transferring project funds
through KARI to ICIPE, the pilot trials on tsetse and tick control were undertaken on the lines
envisaged in the SAR. They were concluded in 1990 and a final report on the trials was
transmitted by ICIPE to KARI in January 1992. On receipt of the report, VSD actively followed
up with community-based tsetse control in Homa Bay, Kajiado and Kwale. An additional
allocation of US$40,000 was released from project funds to enable further staff and community
training by ICIPE in support of this work. Some training was undertaken by ICIPE during the
1988-90 trials. The on-going work on community based fly-trapping, using ICIPE methods, is
a significant contribution of the whole project. The tick control trials however, were relatively
restricted and had limited applicability.
Emergency Drought Recovery Project Component
5.14       The ICB procurement of drugs and other supplies was started in early 1993, but
due to delays in procurement processing and evaluation by the Department of Veterinary
Services and the application of restrictive evaluation criteria, IDA no objection for only about
half the proposed drugs and supplies was given in May 1993. After protracted correspondence
concerning Kenyan regulations on the irnportation of vaccines and given the lack of competition
for supply of vaccines, finally no objection was given in September for the supply of vaccines
by a local firm. However, the selected supplier was unable to fulfill the supply order (for
vaccines), before the credit closing date of December 31, 1993. Only US$1.7 million (SDR 1.214
7



million) was disbursed against the US$2.5 million made available for drought recovery. The
shortfall was primarily due to non-performance of the local firm selected for supply of vaccines.
6. Project Results and Impact
6.1        Initial project performance was beset by delays and project impact with regard to
various components was felt only belatedly. With the exception of the successful pilot trials on
tse-tse trapping, some encouragement to privatization of animal health services, introduction of
cost recovery measures, and provision of inputs, project result were not impressive. Thus, in
view of the tardy rendering of the project activities, AHSP could not achieve all that it set out
to do, and project impact was rather limited.  Overall, thus, AHSP's performance was
unsatisfactory, even though the project is deemed to have ended on a high note.
Physical Results
6.2        According to PMSU and as shown in Table 4, the Project contributed large
quantities of vaccines, drugs and acaricides for use in disease control and treatment. The Project
also provided VSD with 237 four-wheel vehicles, 350 motor cycles and 600 bicycles. When all
of these vehicles have been distributed, each district will have at least one saloon-type vehicle
and one pick-up or lorry thus greatly facilitating mobility. In addition, some ten prefabricated
houses and offices have been instaUed at seven field stations, and significant quantities of
laboratory and camping equipment have been procured.  With the completion of the
rehabilitation of buildings and facilities at Kabete, the diagnostic capability of VSD has been
further strengthened.
6.3        To date the impact of these inputs on the functioning of VSD has been limited. For
example, although the project provided transport facilities and vaccines, the number of animals
vaccinated still fluctuates from year to year, with the two most recent departmental annual
reports indicating a fall of one million in the number of cattle vaccinated against rinderpest in
1991 compared with 1990. Moreover, sera sampling across several districts in 1992 shows that
less than 39% of cattle had immunity to rinderpest; suggesting that Kenya may be more
susceptible to rinderpest outbreak now than before the project.  On the other hand, the
department has made commendable and consistent efforts to follow up field outbreaks of foot
and mouth disease (FMD).
Management and Administrative Systems of VSD
6.4        Government has also carried out, albeit belatedly, the institutional reforms relating
to strategic management information systems (MIS), defined field duties, veterinary medicine
distribution and stores management systems, and vehicles management,in accordance with the
recommendations of the studies completed by consultants. Training was provided to staff to carry
out their responsibilities as defined in these reports. A total of 170 staff received training
towards the end of the project. It is expected that VSD will soon start implementing the other
recommendations in the report. A draft report on the strategic review of the departmnent was
8



completed in 1992 but is not yet finalized. Had the consultants' reports been processed and
implemented on time (1991/92), the benefits in terms of improved institutional efficiency would
have been considerably higher.
Privatization
6.5        Although, the privatization efforts supported by the project did not show spectacular
results, A-SP made a major contribution to the development and acceptance, by senior
Government officials, of the new vision of public veterinary services which went far beyond cost
recovery and better management. The official perception of VSD's role thus underwent a major
transformation during project implementation. GOK staff have already carried out or have
become increasingly committed to privatization of cattle dipping program, the Artificial
Insemination Service (Al), and as far as possible, the privatization of clinical veterinary services.
It also went a long way to withdraw from public sector distribution of veterinary drugs and
medicines, and steps were taken by VSD to stop selling veterinary drugs where these may be
obtained from local shops. VSD transferred the responsibility of management of about 3,800
dips (80% of total) to farmer committees; but many tasks have yet to be carried out before these
dips are sustainably utilized. The need for funds to purchase acaricides, the influence of
droughts and the need for accessing dips along the stock routes, are some of the crucial factors
which would contribute to the longer term sustainable management of the dips. Further, the
expected establishment of private veterinary practices did not materialize because the parallel EC
funded intervention in this regard had not taken off by the time AHSP ended. A commitment
was also made to withdraw departmental clinical services where private veterinary practices
exist. While efforts to privatize Al services have been hindered by the continuing availability
of an Al service subsidized by VSD (for example, the department now charges KSh4O.00 for
each AI compared to a real cost of around KSh270.00 in Central Province and much more
elsewhere), useful steps were started towards cost recovery. The project successfully encouraged
GOK to move towards full cost-recovery for clinical services offered by VSD.
Pilot Trials
6.6        Pilot trials on tse-tse trapping were successfully carried out but those on tick control
were inconclusive. The trials were the most successful component of the project; their success
relates to the fact that they were participatory and demand driven and were implemented
efficiently. Extended community-based participation in tse-tse trapping has resulted.
Cost Recovery
6.7         The project successfully encouraged GOK to move towards full cost-recovery for
clinical services offered by VSD. It also encouraged VSD to transfer dip funding to the
communities which use them. While the savings from these activities will benefit GOK, their
levels should take into account farm household incomes and zonal location so as to determine
an equitable rate. For example, fewer animals are being dipped than before, as farmers try to
minimize costs. This could be counter-productive as the animals are then exposed to diseases
which are otherwise preventable. On the other hand, the farmers could be right in exposing the
animals to a certain level of tick-borne diseases in order to build up endemic resistance.
9



Financial and Econoniic Impact
6.8         The financial and economic impact of the project cannot be assessed. This is
because during imnplementation there were no mechanisms to monitor and evaluate the expected
project benefits of reduced rates of mortality and morbidity, reduced calving interval rates,
higher fertility and faster growth rates.of cattle. The MTR recommended that annual sample
surveys be initiated, covering 120 farmers in 6 districts, but this has not been undertaken.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1         Lack of adequate operating budget for VSD is by far the greatest threat to the
sustainability of project investments and the eventual realization of its objectives. It is not certain
what share of Government's recurrent budget VSD can expect to command in the future, but the
budget allocations and trends over the project period suggest that there will continue to be
substantial shortfalls between the department's realistic requirements and GOK's budget
allocation to VSD.  Already shortage of operating funds constrains the gainful use of project
vehicles. Moreover, some types of vehicles bought are not well-suited to use in remote districts,
and in one district at least (Isiolo), the project vehicle has been grounded for the past two years.
Lack of operating budget will also adversely affect the operations of the rehabilitated laboratories
due to shortage of funds for maintenance and to buy consumable materials.
7.2         Many of the dips which have been divested from VSD are facing management
problems because of inexperienced operators. They are also facing financial problems partly
because of inadequate contributions from members but also because of the sharp devaluation in
the local currency which has pushed up the cost of inputs. Many of the dips therefore lack
operational funds to buy drugs, acaricides and for maintenance of the facilities. These problems
need to be addressed, in order to ensure the sustainability of this and other divesture activities
undertaken by the Department. In particular, farmers and rural leaders have to be sensitized to
the need for improved management of facilities and ensuring the availability of adequate
operational funds. The proposed Arid Lands Project (ALP), which would cover the eight Arid
Land districts in North and East Kenya, would assist in managing this lacuna. ALP is envisaged
to include initiatives for the restoration and maintenance / operation of cattle dips, water points,
and holding areas; rehabilitation of traditional livestock routes; and the provision of basic animal
health care services, among others. The project seeks to involve local communities, NGOs and
other stakeholders in planning and implementing these activities; this participatory approach to
development is expected to foster stakeholder committment and thereby increase the prospects
for sustaining activities initiated under AHSP.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         Bank performance at appraisal was constrained by the fact that IFAD and GOK had
already gone a long way in finalizing the project document. The change of concept and emphasis
from physical rehabilitation aspects, to the efficient delivery of animnal health services created
10



some hindrances particularly in the early implementation phase of AHSP. The early supervision
missions also seemed to waiver on the main project objectives and tended to be preoccupied with
disbursements. It was not until the MTR of 1991, four years after the project had started, that
supervision focussed adequately on the main thrust of the project.
8.2        As shown in Table 8, eleven IDA/IFAD supervision missions visited the project.
There was adequate continuity of mission members and a reasonable mix of skills. Their
contribution was appreciated by PMSU, in particular, with regard to the flexibility shown when
IFAD and OPEC suspended disbursements and IDA funds had to be re-allocated to alleviate
financial constraints related to core components affected by the suspensions.
8.3    A significant feature of IDA supervision since the MTR was the intensive inter-mission
contacts and follow-up through regular meeting with PMSU and field visits. These, coupled with
more intensive supervision helped improve project implementation as evidenced by the rates of
disbursements and fulfillment of physical targets in the post-MTR period.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        GOK's failure to ensure adequate budgetary allocations to the project was primarily
attributable to the fact that AHSP was implemented during a period of deteriorating macro-
economic environment and budgetary cuts. However, the designation of AHSP as a "core"
project, entitled to priority funding, reflected Government commitment to the project.
9.2         Although there were initial impediments related to donor coordination and lack of
familiarity with the various procurement procedures, PMSU managed the project
conscientiously. As mentioned above, their performance would have been enhanced by a wider
mix of skills and professions.
Project Relationships
9.3        The project relationships were based on mutual cooperation and despite the
involvement of many Donors, the interaction and dialogue between Donors and Borrower
remained constructive.
Consulting Services
9.4        Consultants were engaged to review the administrative procedures of VSD. In
retrospect, this review should not have taken place before establishing a strategic policy
framework for the effective delivery of animal health services by VSD. Subsequently, a
consulting firm was engaged to undertake a strategic framework review, and to examine the
present and future role of VSD. This exercise should have preceded the review of administrative
procedures, and on the basis of its recommendations, existing procedures should have been
reviewed and tailored towards future requirements. A further consultancy was retained to
11



examine VSD's staffmg norms but its report had not yet been presented by the time the project
closed.
Project Documentation and Data
9.5        The SAR and the legal agreements for the project were comprehensive and aided
project implementation. Project records maintained by GOK were however, somewhat
inadequate. The annual work plans produced by the individual cost centers lacked prioritization.
There is no data to monitor project impact and, absence of accounting staff at PMSU has
contributed to the scarcity of project level financial data.
Lessons Learnt
9.6        The major findings and lessons which have been learnt from implementing this
project are:
(a)    simplification of project design and management (a feature attributed to
this project in the SAR) may not necessarily produce better results, and
adequate attention should be paid to the overall macro-economic context
and the specific ecological and socio-economic setting in which the project
is to be implemented. Besides over-estimating the ability of VSD to
operate effectively within the budgetary and administrative constraints of
GOK, AHSP adopted a somewhat simplistic view of the ecological and
socio-economic situation in which it was executed;
(b)    tse-tse trapping and tick control pilot trials were successful because they
were participatory and demand-driven, and because an appropriate
institution (ICIPE) was assigned the task, rather than the trials being
handled through the public sector. The benefits from such inexpensive
activities are many and could far exceed those from the high expenditure
components;
(c)    given the promising signs of GOK's commitment and support to the
privatization process with regards to animal health services demonstrated
under AHSP, future projects should aim at supporting efforts in this
direction, rather than diffusing resources to support a variety of activities;
and
(d)    the financial burden imposed on the recurrent budget of the Borrower by
the maintenance and operating costs related to public sector capital
investments, should be evaluated up-front as well as during project
implementation.
12



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Evaluation Summary
Project Implementation
Too many conditionalities by donor delayed the start.
In allocating GOK US$41.5 million - no consideration was made for staff inputs,
traveling and accommodation, maintenance of plant and equipment which were fully
funded by GOK and therefore did not, quality for re-imbursement. Emphasis was
laid on where the GOK was to provide funding i.e. 85%:15% ratio hence the low
rate in GOK contributions.
Servicing of loans by GOK was beyond the scope of the implementing Department
although it resulted in a lag in implementation especially for privatization of the
acaricide supply and procurement of vehicles.
Procurement: This remained a bottleneck even at the closure of the project nothing
had been done to speed up the procurement procedure on both GOK and donor sides.
Budgetary allocation: At the time of appraisal the economy was good but during the
project life the economy deteriorated affecting the direct implementation, e.g., devaluation
and other external factors.
Project Funds: In the appraisal report the IFAD and IDA were funding similar line
of items of Drug Sera and Vaccine - the biggest item consuming 60% of the funds.
Acaricide falls under this item. Under the same paragraph it was stated that IFAD funds to
be exhausted before utilization of IDA funds - this conditionality resulted in funds under IDA
remaining unutilized because it took up to 4 years of project life to almost exhaust the IFAD
funds.
While it is agreeable that projects can be co-financed, a clear borderline should be
drawn to find out what each donor should fund to avoid unnecessary delays. For the success
of the project GOK contributions should be minimal.
Project Results
Pilot trials: These were not the only successful aspects of the project. They formed
an initial consultancy for two years and therefore were able to be accomplished on time.
However, only the tse tse trials were considered successful as they developed the simple
NGU-traps which can be used for the communities, but the tick control trials did not give
any results.
13



Privatization: The project was not to engage in the process of privatization but as
stated in the SAR, was to facilitate the privatization i.e. prepare the farming communities
to be ready for privatization of Dipping and Clinical services at the end of the project.
Issues on privatization:
Extension was not part of the project therefore the community or farmer was not
fully prepared to accept the privatization and the pilot phase was too short thus the
farmers felt they were being abandoned.
However credit should be given to GOK for taking an initiative to hand over the
Dipping Services to the user, increasing user charges of the clinical drugs and being
prepared to hand over a number of services to the private sector.
The privatization could have succeeded if done in a phased manner and the project
should have been divided in a number of phases with Phase II tackling this issue as
a follow up Phase I to fit in with Structural Adjustment programmes.
Disease control: In the initial years the disease control was notable but in subsequent
years there was drought in neighboring countries and in-flows of animals, brought in diseases
like Rinderpest, which had earlier been eradicated.
The control is a continuous process and cannot be expected to end unless the diseases
are eradicated within the country and in neighboring countries.
Transport: The supply of a fleet of 237-4WD vehicles, 350 motorcycles and 600
bicycles has eased the transport problem and this is appreciated.
Rehabilitation: Rehabilitation of Kabete laboratories has been successfully completed
and virology laboratories which were out of order are being equipped with equipment bought
under the project.
Institutional Reforms and Training: Should have been done at the beginning of the
project but were done at the end due to a delay in finalization of the FAO/Price Waterhouse
report. More support is still needed on the institutional reforms.
Privatization of Artificial Insemination: Was not included in the initial project but
was incorporated in the last few months with efforts being concentrated on training and
awareness.
Privatization of Veterinary Services:  This is an EEC sponsored project to be
implemented by the Kenya Veterinary Association. It should not have been linked to this
project. IFAD or IDA should have initiated a pilot project to be taken up by EEC and any
other willing donors. Hence the failure of rapid privatization of clinical services was due
to lack of funds for the private sector and the DVS could not neglect providing services
14



when there were no established private veterinarians to hand over to. However a lot of
progress has been made and now KVA is ready to implement the project.
Monitoring: In the Appraisal no basis or indictors were put on monitoring and
eventually evaluation of the project. Hence this was not properly done.
Sustainability: Dipping services will be taken up by the communities while for
vaccinations efforts will be made to educate the farmers on cost sharing through extension
process.
Operating funds will need to be increased from the Treasury to enable the department
to maintain infrastructures obtained under the project. An element of vehicle rehabilitation
or repair will be required to ensure the fleet of vehicles purchased is sustained.
The local community participation in Disease Control and other veterinary
components especially dipping and tse tse control, illegal livestock movement need to be
addressed in another project or through the NEP II as an additional component.
Departmental staff need to be trained on management to ensure maintenance of the
various resources.
Lessons Learnt
(i)   It is agreed that livestock and other technical projects should not be over
simplified during the appraisal.
(ii)   Public sector involvement has to be well coordinated especially in research
and privatization so that all stake holders are well informed.
(iii)  Projects should be revised to accomnmodate the changing circumstances from
time of appraisal.
(iv)   Multi-donor projects to be well coordinated making sure that each donor funds
specific or parallel items.
(v)   Since privatization was started in this project, a future project should be
envisaged to continue the process before the communities lose interest and start
expecting government support in all activities.
(vi)   GOK contribution to be reasonable to enable the project to move.
(vii)  The project was too large i.e. area to be covered, that resources were spread
thinly. For proper supervision and funding such projects should cover few regions
and be phased.
15



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Title                          Purpose                  Term        Amount            Conunents
I                               I                (US$M) 
Kenya Livestock Development    Credit for ranch development,     1969-74         n.a.     A partial success, constrained
Project (KLDPI, Cr. 129-KE)     including new group ranches;                              by the 'controversial
inputs to marketing                                       organization set up to
implement the project' (Audit
Rep. 1317, 1976)
Second Kenya Livestock          Expansion of KLDPI to cover new  1974-83        n.a.      Only 58% of the Credit was
Development Project (KLDPII,   areas                                                      disbursed (Audit Rep. 6160,
Cr. 477-KE)                                                                                1986)
Emergency Drought Recovery      Focussed on N. Kenya             1993-          27.2.    On-going, based in part on
Project                         after 1991-92 drought                                     US$2.5 M from Cr., 1758-KE
16



Table 2. Project Timetable
Item                   Planned Date         Revised Date         Actual Date
- Identification a/                                                                  n.a.
- Preparation                                                                        5/85
- Appraisal Mission (IFAD)                 8/85                                      8/85
(IDA)               5/86                                      5/86
- Loan/Negotiations                        9/86                                     12/86
- Board Approval                          11/86              1/87, 2/87             2/87
- Loan Signature                                                                     3/87
- Loan Effectiveness                       6/87                10/87                12/87
- Loan Completion                          6/91                6/92;
9/92;                6/93
6/93
- Loan closing                            12/91                12/92
12/93
3/93;
12/93
a/ There was no formal identification. In mid-1984, GOK approached IFAD to support a programme to
rehabilitate animal health services. It was on the basis of this request that IFAD commissioned the FAO
Investment Centre to undertake project preparation in early 1985.
17



Table 3. Cumulative Loan Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
1987      1988   j   1989        I9     1   1991        1992   J   1993   j   1994
............................. millions of SDRs .
SAR estimate                       0.3       2.2        6.1         9.3        11.7        12.7
Actual                             0          0          1.5        2.1        3.1         3.6        4.6       8.0 Y
Actual as % of SAR estimate         0         0         24.6       22.3        26.5       28.3        36.2      63.0
i   Equivalent to US$10.4 million.



Table 4. Project Implementation                (Page 1)
A. Components
Key Indicators
Unit      SAR Estimate       Actual
Studies, Training & Management
l Consultants                       m/month           24             n.a.
l Staff training                    number           n.a.            170
l Computers bought                  number             3              4
Disease & Pest control
l Vaccines & drugs:
l  Rinderpest                    '000 doses        25,000          n.a.
l  CBPP                          '000 doses        9,300           n.a.
.FMD                              '000 doses       32,500          n.a.
l Staff housing                    no. stations       11             10
Laboratory Rehabilitation
l Cold rooms                        number             8              7
l Extension civil works             number           n.a.         1 (Kabete)
Tick Control
l Acaricides                        '000 ltr.        1,126          1,216
l Dips maintained                     n.a.          10,000           n.a.
Pilot Trials
l Tick control                      number             1              1
. Tsetse control                    number             1              1
19



Table 4. Project Implementation                 (Page 2)
B. Procurements
Item                Quantity Specified at    Quantity Bought
Appraisal
Vehicles
wd pickups/hardtops                        184                   164
2wd pickups                                 43                     43
Traction wagon cars                          8                     8
-t lorries                                 19                     19
Minibuses                                   3                      3
-t trucks                                  4
Tractors                                    2
Conversions to mobile labs                  4                      4
Motorcycles                                300                    350
icycles                                  1,200                   600
Camping Equipment
Officers' tents                             50                    25
ush tents
Camp beds                                  200                    96
Matresses                                  200                    200
amping tables & chairs                    300
Heating & Lighting Equipment
Gas cookers                                 80
as cylinders                              240
Gas lamps                                   80
Pressure lamps                              50                    50
Kerosene stoves                             30                    30
erry cans                                  50                     42
Cold Storage
Cold rooms                                  8                      7
REVCO deep freezers                         6
Freeze driers                               6
Autoclave                                    1
Refrigerators (5-10 ft3)                    110                   101
Deep freezers                               18                     14
20



Table 4. Project Implementation                (Page 3)
B. Procurements
Item                Quantity Speciried at    Quantity Bought
Appraisal
Vehicles
45                    45
Kerosene freezers
Kerosene fridges                           70                     40
Cool boxes                                 660                   840
Flasks                                     30                     30
Acaricides ('000 1) al
Dehan DFF                                  34.4                  133.9
Stelladone                                126.9                 601.4
Supona 50                                  20.1                  263.3
Supadip                                    2.6                   85.3
acdip                                    14.5                  105.7
Asuntol                                                          26.8
Pumps & Generators
ater pumps                                5
Generators                                 n. a.
Laboratory & Clinical Equip.E'
Spectrophotometer                           1
Centrifuges                                 7
ncinerators                                5
Coulter counter                             2                      1
Muffle furnace                              1                     1
Microscopes                                 9                     30
hromatographs                              4                     4
Instrument sterilizers                     50                     50
a/ The quantities of acaricide bought cover 8 years, 1986-87 to 1993-94.
Original specification was in packets, not litres.
c/ Only major items are listed: the full list includes about 40 items.
21



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
SAR Estimate           Estimate Actual!'
Component             Local |Foreign| Total  Local 2j |Foreign !'I Total
..........................  ...............US$.
Disease and pest control         9.0   14.9   23.9
Tick control programme           7.3   14.5   21.8
Vet. labs & surveillance         1.1    1.6    2.7
Clinical services                2.0    3.9    6.0
Studies, training &              0.8    0.8      1.6
management
Pilot trials                     0.1   0.1    0.3
Base Total                      20.3   35.9   56.2
Contingencies                    5.2    9.1    14.3
TOTAL                           25.5   45.0   70.5                         38.28
' No breakdown is available between local and foreign currency costs.
n.a. = The Ministry's accounting records are organized by expenditure categories, and not by component. It was
not possible to reconcile the two.
SOURCE: SAR and PMSU, Nairobi.
22



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
B. Financing-
Unit                                                       Actual as % of
Million       Planned       Reallocation       Actual           Estimate
A. IDA Category
. Vehicles                    SDR             0.85                            0.91             107
. Incremental Support         SDR             9.94         (1.70) b           5.68              57
Costs
. Technical Assistance        SDR             0.64                            0.16              25
. Emergency Drought           SDR              -            1.70               1.25             73
Recovery Project
. Unallocated                 SDR             1.27                              0                -
Sub-total                 SDR           12.70                             8.00             63
(US$15.00 M)                     (S$10.92 M)
SDR            7.05                             5.91             84
B. IFAD                                  (US$8.20 M)                      (U$8.04 M)
C. OPEC FUND                   US$            5.00                            4.00  "           80
D. UNDP                        US$            0.84                            0.84             100
E. GOK                         US$           41.46                           15.00              36
TOTAL                          US$           70.50                           38.28              54
The figures shown here reflect disbursements processed by 13, May 1994 for IDA and I March, 1994 for IFAD.
As per DCA amendment of 28 December, 1992.
OPEC has agreed to avail the remainder of the funds to GOK for utilization not later than 31 December, 1994.
Source: IDA, IFAD and PMSU.
23



Table 6. Project Results
A. Benefit#
Milk & Beef Production                      Appraisal Estimate                     PCR Estimate
Baseline    Without Project I With Project
Milk ('000 t/y)
Smallholder                       521               489                527               N/A b
Large farm                        447               432                452              N/A
Total                             968               921                979              N/A
Beef ('000 t/y)
Dairy herd culls                  29.9              23.6              32.3              N/A
Beef herd culls                   25.0              16.5               30.3             N/A
Steers/bulls                      68.9              63.4              72.8              N/A
Total                            123.8             103.5              135.4             N/A
'  The SAR assessed benefits in terms of milk and beef production as tabulated above. These figures were
derived from assumed changes in individual production parameters, such as calving interval, mortality,
yield per lactation and age at slaughter. The size of the national cattle herd was assumed to remain
constant, with a total herd of around 11 million head comprising 1 million dairy cows (850,000 on
smallholdings and 150,000 on large farms) and a 'national beef herd' of 8 million. No benefit stream was
developed for livestock other than cattle.
b' N/A = Information not available. As the Project included no provision for monitoring these parameters,
they cannot be reassessed at project closure without a major input to collect field data and/or to analyze
survey data derived from other sources. However, country statistics recorded in the FAO Yearbook 1992
suggest that the benefits postulated were not obtained. Fresh milk production in Kenya, for example, is
reported as having declined over the past three years from 2.3 million t in 1990 to 1.8 million t in 1992.
Beef production fell over the same period from 251,000 t to 222,000 t.
Table 6. Project Results
B. Economic & Financial Impact
- No base case ERR was calculated at appraisal.
- In view of the dearth of statistics, and the difficulty of separating Project-related and
extraneous influences, it is not possible to estimate the financial and economic impact
of the Project. The positive net economic impact which the SAR predicted for all years
was almost certainly not realized.
24



Table 6. Project Results
C. Studies
Purpose Defined at Appraisal             Status                    Impact
1. Comprehensive review of VSD's management systems and operational procedures
a. Front-line services
"To specify how animal health services  Draft Report and   Used for training under (c) but not
will be delivered to livestock owners in  Manual 1988;     yet in field use. Proposals and
efficient and cost-effective ways".      revised 1991.     formats relate to the old-style VSD,
with little innovation.
b. Stores, vehicle, financial management etc.
To develop appropriate systems/procedures  Draft Reports   Some parts in use, others pending.
for the above.                           1988-90; revised   Use should improve accountability
1991.             but no major impact on delivery of
improved services is expected.
c. Supplementary review (by different      Draft report 1993; No impact as yet, but provides the
consultants) of management and delivery  comments sent    broader and forward-looking
systems, including options for privatization   May '93; final  perspective lacking in earlier
etc.                                     version still     reports.
awaited.
2. Pilot Trials (by ICIPE)
To reduce costs and increase community  Executed with      No noticeable follow-up to tick
participation in tsetse fly and tick control    slight delay; final control trials, but community-based
report delivered    tsetse-trapping now ongoing in
Jan '92.          three localities with very promising
results.
25



Table 6. Project Results
D. Training
Subject                          Target Group                  Training Provided
1. Training specified at Appraisal
(a) Tick control                           Dip attendants and dipping   Dip-side and FTC training started
committees                   1991 and is continuing.
(b) Clinical services                      district vet staff           (Partially included under (e) in 1993)
(c) Vehicle operations and                 DVOs                         1993: 28 drivers/mechanics for 2
maintenance                             drivers/mechanics            days
(d) Monitoring and information             PMSU staff and others        1993: 56 PMSU and district staff for
systems                                                              2 days
(e) district vet services                  DVOs/SVOs and Executive    1990: 57 DVOs/SVOs/EOs for I
managements                             Officers (EO)                month
1993: 52 staff for 3 days
(f) HQ management                          DDVS and other senior HQ    1990: 19 ADVSs/other staff for 3
staff                        weeks
(g) Training of trainers                   VSD "trainers"               1993: 25 ADVSs etc for 4 days
2. Additional Training
(a) MSc (Epidemiology and                                               4 two-year fellowships at University
Economics)                                                           of Nairobi funded by UNDP 1990-92
(b) Computer operation                     Typists, etc                 Special 10-day course mounted in
1993
(c) Tsetse and tick control                VSD staff and communities    3 staff trained by KIPE and
technology                                                           community training in tsetse control,
now underway
26



Table 7. Status of Covenants
DCA                                       Subject                                         Status                                  Comments
SectionI 
3.03   The borrower shall regularly review with the Association the project's annual work   Partly complied The borrower reviewed the Annual Plans with IDA. However, salary
plan and budget with a view to ensuring that salary expenses within VSD are                  expenses remained above 50% of total operating costs.
maintained at levels not exceeding 50% of the Department's total operating costs.
3.04 (a) The borrower shall (i) establish user charges for dipping services, and (ii) increase    Largely  Government run dips have been handed over to farmer committees in many
such charges annually in order to achieve recovery of full operating costs by  complied      districts. User charges (minimum at cost) have been raised.
completion of the project.
3.04 (b) The borrower shall (i) annually review with the Association user charges for clinical  Largely  User charges for Government-provided clinical services have been reviewed
treatment services; and (ii) maintain the charges at such levels as to achieve recovery  complied  and revised. DVS is gradually ceasing to provide clinical services in areas
of the full cost of operations.                                                              where private vets are established and operating.
3.04 (c) The borrower shall (i) maintain until completion of the projec full cost recovery for   Partially  Drugs are being sold at retail prices. VSD is gradually ceasing to distribute
veterinary clinical drugs distributed by VDS; and (ii) annually review with the  complied    drugs in areas which are well served by private practitioners and
Association the prices of such drugs.                                                        pharmacies/chemists.
3.05   The borrower shall enter into arrangements with ICIPE satisfactory to the     Fully complied
Asociationn for ICIPE to carry out the pilot trials on the control of tsetse flies and
ticks under Part E of the project.
4.01 (a) Shall, through the Director of Veterinary Services, submit semi-annual reports to the  Largely  The project authorities have submitted semi-annual reports which show
Association recording the said project costs and outstanding disbursement claims and  complied  project costs and outstanding disbursement claims. Annual reports are also
showing how the costs and claims are to be reconciled; and not later than six months         prepared, but not always submitted on time.
after the end of each fiscal year, the borrower shall prepare, according to the format
of the monthly report, and submit to the Association, an annual report certifying that
the accounts included in that report are consistent with the fmal unaudited relevant
borrower's ledger accounts.
4.01 (b) The borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts reflecting    Partly complied The borrower maintained separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
all expenditures on account which withdrawals are requested from the credit account          incurred using SOEs. However, the quarterly submissions were not made
on the basis of statements of expenditures; it being specified that said statements shall    regularly.
be prepared on a monthly basis, and it being further specified that the borrower shall,
on a quarteerly basis, submit the said statements to the Association and certify that
they are consistent with the relevant borrower's ledger accounts.
4.01 (c) Borrower shall have the accounts referred to in para. (a) of this Section audited, and  Partially  Audited accounts were subrmitted, but invariably always late.
furnish to the Association, not later than eight months after the end of each such  complied
year, a certified copy of the report of such auditors, as to whether the proceeds of
the credit withdrawn frcm the Credit Account on the basis of statement of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
6.00   The VSD shall prepare annual and semi-annual reports.                         Complied
7.00   The borrower shall establish a vehicle monitoring system with DVS to ensure proper Not complied   A fully workable vehicle monitoring system is yet to be established along
investment planning and management.                                                          the guidelines recommended in the consultant's study.



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff InDuts         _______l
Stage of Project                         '86             '87            '88            '89             '9            '91             '92              '93             '94
C ycle                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ __                   _ _ _ _ _ __                                                                   _ _ _ _ _ _
Preparation/
Preappraisal                            0.6
Appraisal                               4.3            10.2
Negotiation                                            3.2
Supervision                                            8.7            22.0           13.3            11.8           6.5             7.0              4.4             4.9
Other                                                                                                                                                                13.4
TOTAL                                   4.9            22.1           22.0           13.3            11.8           6.5             7.0              4.4             18.3



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
B. Missions
Stage of Project Cycle    Mission Sent by   Month/year        No. of    No. of Days in   Specializations    Performance          Type of
People         Field         Represented          Rating          Problems
Identification                                                             -               -                          -
Preparation                     FAO/CP             5/85
Appraisal                         IDA              8/85            2                               E,V
Supervision   1                   IDA              1/87             1             15                V                 2
2                   IDA             11/87             3             12               L,E                2               R,F
3                IDA/IFAD            8/88             3             10              L,P,E               2               R,F
4                IDA/IFAD            2/89             3             10              L,P,G               2                F
5                   IDA              9/89             2             10               L,E                2                A
6                   IDA              4/90             1             14                L                 3               P,F
7                   IDA              3/91             3              5              E,P,F               2                A
8                IDA/IFAD            9/91            6              13             E,F,L,P              2               A,P
9                   IDA              9/92            4              13             E,L,P,F              2              F,A,P
10                  IDA              2/93            3              15              S,E,P               3                F
11                  IDA              8/93            3              13              S,E,P               2               F,P
Project Completion Report       FAO/CP             1/94            3              10              F,L,V
' There was no formal identification mission for the project.
E = Economist; V = Veterinarian; L = Livestock; P = Procurement; F = Finance; S = Services; R = Consultant Recruitment; A = Audit






Annex 1
VETERINARY ASPECTS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.          During the course of the PCR mission Kwale, Homa Bay, Kajiado and Kiambu
Districts as well as the Kabete Veterinary Laboratories, ICIPE, the Delegation of the European
Mission and PARC Headquarters, were visited to gather information for this
B. DISEASE AND PEST CONTROL
2.         The 1985 Annual Report of the Dept. of Veterinary Services (VSD) is the most
recent in print. Draft reports for 1990 and 1991 have been made available as well as various
district and provincial annual reports and briefing reports compiled by DVO's in Kwale, Homa
Bay and Kajiando.
3.         No clear distinction is made between suspected and confirmed outbreaks of disease
nor is the associated mortality reported accurately. As a consequence various assessments of
project effectiveness are somewhat subjective. The Epidemiology and Economic Unit of the
Division of Veterinary Field Services is presently introducing a standardized reporting system
in an attempt to up-grade the quality of disease incidence reports.
Rinderpest
4.         Rinderpest is a major plague of cattle and several wildlife species with mortality
in susceptible animals of over 90%. An extremely effective and cheap vaccine (US$0.94 per
100 doses) provides life long protection to immuno competent cattle. Political turmoil in
peripheral countries and the influx of refugees presents a great threat to livestock health and the
stated policy of the VSD is to vaccinate all cattle in border districts annually.
31



KENYA: Animal Health Services Project
Annex 1: Veterinary Aspects
5.         Actual vaccination cover in selected border districts showing the approximate
percentage of the total cattle population in brackets is outlined in the Table below:
1984   1985   1987       1988   1989   1990    1991   1992
KAJIADO        0        0         4    245    129    290        188      72
(35%)  (18%)  (41%)   (27%)  (10%)
(0.6%)
KWALE          24       -      33       30    39        60      50       0
(19%)           (26%)   (24%)  (31%)  (48%)   (46%)
GARISSA          -    131        -       -     218    273       192    167
(23%)                    (38%)  (48%)   (34%)  (29%)
WAJIR            -     69        -       -      94      34      203     73
(41%)                    (55%)  (20%)   (119   (43%)
MANDERA          -     37        -       -       -      36      65      56
(38%)                           (37%)   (67%)  (57%)
** S.       65      80        -       -                      77       -
NYANZA       (11%)  (13%)                                     (13%)
HOMA             -     -         -       -       -      -        -      37
BAY                                                                    (8%)
MIGORI           -     -         -       -       -      -        -      18
(14%)
TABLE. Numbers ('000's) of cattle vaccinated annually against rinderpest in selected border
districts. (Approximate percentage of total cattle population shown in brackets)
** South Nyanza was divided into two districts, Homa Bay and Migori, in 1992.
6.    There is an indication of a somewhat improved performance during the life of the project
especially in the North Eastern Province. Elsewhere at no time were more than 50% of the
targeted population vaccinated and usually substantially less.
7.    A limited sero monitoring exercise (900 sera from 4 districts) showed that only 39% of
the animals tested were immune to rinderpest (Ann. Rep. Vet. Lab Services 1992). This is well
below the level required to prevent fresh epizootics recurring.
32



KENYA: Animal Health Services Project
Annex 1: Veterinary Aspects
8.    The number of new outbreaks and the number of cattle vaccinated against rinderpest are
shown in the table below:
No. of New Outbreaks    (No. (000's) Vaccinated
Annually
1985              0                         2717
1990               1                        3195
1991               1                        2112
Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP)
9.    Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia is probably enzootic in northern pastoral areas and
sporadic outbreaks occur elsewhere introduced by trade animals. Control is more difficult
because of the existence of clinically healthy carrier animals which can only be identified by
serological tests. Testing and quarantine are a major constraint to the trade in fattening and
slaughter stock from pastoral areas, moreover the testing of whole populations to eliminate
carrier animals is beyond the capacity of the VSD. More confidence should be placed in the use
of vaccines to control the disease and the VSD should review the policies for movement of trade
stock to (a) semi-marginal ranching areas and (b) high potential areas. The Ti broth culture
vaccine has been tested rigorously and is a highly effective immunizing agent. The freeze-dried
vaccine has been shown to be effective in the field but it is desirable that it be tested by the same
rigorous protocols as used for the broth culture vaccine so that a comparison of immunogenicity
can be made.
Foot and Mouth Disease
10.   The VSD has been able to get a commendably high rate of recovery of viable virus from
field outbreaks of Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD), i.e. 89-95% over 3 years. Since the
vaccines are expensive (US$0.36 per quadrivalent dose, US$0.09 per monovalent dose) and have
to be administered twice yearly this should have allowed the VSD to make cost-effective
selections of appropriate vaccines for prophylaxis and to control the spread of clinical outbreaks.
33



KENYA: Animal Health Services Project
Annex 1: Veterinary Aspects
11.   The number of outbreaks of FMD and the numbers of cattle vaccinated annually are
shown below:
No. of New Outbreaks    (No. (000's) of Cattle
of FMD                          Vaccinated
1985               159                       3318
1990               128                       3094
1991                49                       1665
12.   The direct correlation between the number of new outbreaks and the number of cattle
vaccinated suggest that the vaccinations are carried out in response to disease outbreaks rather
than routinely to prevent disease outbreaks.
Trypanosomiasis Control
13.   Trypanosomiasis is a disease of humans, cattle, small ruminants, horses, pigs and camels.
Wildlife is an important reservoir. Transmission is usually by tsetse flies (Glossina spp)
although trypanosoma vivax can be transmitted by other biting flies. Visits were made to tsetse
control units in Kwale, (Ukunda and Shimba Hills), the Nguruman escarpment in Kajiado district
and the Lambwe Valley in Homa Bay district. At the latter site half the persons questioned had
family members who had been affected by or died of sleeping sickness.
14.   Community-based tsetse control programmes are being promoted or are in place in each
of the above-mentioned sites. Technical assistance is being provided by ICIPE, KARI, KETRI
and VSD. Previously tsetse control has depended on the use of insecticides, bush clearance and
the elimination of game animals; all of which methods are ecologically unacceptable. The
present community-based control programmes depend on the use of various fly traps and odour
attractants.
In Kwale KARI and VSD staff are combining:
(1)   To identify the most effective trap design and other attractants for the existing
tsetse populations
(2)   To identify the principal fly routes out of the Shimba Hills National Park
(3)   To monitor various health and productivity parameters of local cattle prior to
starting the community-based programme.
34



KENYA: Animal Health Services Project
Annex 1: Veterinary Aspects
15.   At Nguruman escarpment the management and repair of fly traps has now been taken
over by a committee of local group ranchers. Traps are placed at approximately 1 km intervals,
more densely in newly opened-up areas. Wear and tear requires that they are replaced every
6-12 months at a cost of about US$8.00 each. The secretary of the management committee
reported that the consumption of trypanocidal drugs had fallen from 20-30 doses a day to 2-3
a month since the installation of the traps.
16.   At Lambwe valley ICIPE staff had trained five trainers to conduct one-day courses for
local villagers. The courses include the local history of trypanosomes and tsetse, the life cydes
of both and the design and making of traps. Since the disease affects both humans and livestock
there was a considerable and intelligent interest from villagers and, although not paid, the
trainers were very confident which reflected on the good training they had received from ICIPE
staff.
17.   The community-based tsetse control programmes are an outstanding sociological and
technical achievement which should be promoted not only in Kenya but in other countries
affected by tsetse fly. It is essential that, as the prevalence of trypanosomiasis decreases, the
management committees maintain their vigilance and replace traps and odour attractants when
necessary. The ecosystem for tsetse survival will not have been altered and the increased
numbers of livestock will provide an increased number of blood meal sources.
C. TICK CONTROL
18.   About 3800 cattle dips are now managed by committees of an original 5000 communal
dips in ECF enzootic areas previously managed by VSD. The process of handing over started
in July 1991. Training of the committees was variable in quality. VSD set guidelines for
computing dip charges but not all dip committees took the advice believing that VSD would
continue to help when in need. IFAD funds provided acaricides initially which allowed
committees to build up operating funds from dipping fees. Few, however, accumulated
sufficient funds and after the devaluation of the shilling early in 1993 the majority were unable
to continue. Latterly IFAD has contributed more acaricides which have been taken up with
alacrity and revitalized many of the committees. The set-back has been beneficial in that it has
drawn the committees attention to their responsibilities. Dipping charges are now between KSh5
and KShl3 per animal.
19.   Visits to dips were made in Kajiado and Homa Bay districts. Few cattle were brought
for dipping because of the drought which had compelled owners to move cattle elsewhere.
35



KENYA: Animal Health Services Project
Annex 1: Veterinary Aspects
20.   In South Nyanza (Homa Bay and Migori) only 4 of an original 68 communal dips are
now functional. In Kwale district annual dipping figures have dropped from 800,000 to 42,000
over 10 years. In both areas the majority of cattle are unimproved zebu. Owners' perceptions
may be valid since in Kwale, at least, there has been no concomitant increase in mortality from
tick-borne diseases. It is desirable that the ICIPE trials on the length of dipping intervals be
replicated so that strategies for TBD control can be defined in different ecological zones for zebu
cattle and up-graded high potential animals.
21.   Gas chromatograph equipment has been available at the Kabete Vet. Labs and Mariakani
Veterinary Investigation Laboratory (VIL). The project has provided more equipment and
technicians have been trained to use it so that each VIL will have one unit while there will be
4 units at Kabete. This will reduce the waiting time for acaricide concentration estimations
which at present is unacceptably long.
22.   There has been no clear policy about the re-deployment of dip attendants since the VSD
has handled over the management to dip committees. A few have been engaged by the
committees themselves.
D. DIAGNOSTIC CAPABILITIES
23.   The deterioration of several buildings at the Kabete Veterinary Laboratories had seriously
compromised the diagnostic capacity of the laboratories. The mid-term mission commented on
the lack of standardization and monitoring of diagnostic techniques at Kabete and the VIL's and
the relative absence of hygiene capacity either to protect operators or to dispose of pathological
material.
24.   At present extensive rehabilitation works preclude all diagnostic work except in the
chemistry/toxicology laboratories which have inadequate fume cupboards and the helminthology
laboratory which has no water.
25.   Most samples are submitted by livestock owners and VIL staff. Few are submitted by
field staff. During 1990 all the laboratories examined a total of 65,000 samples from 20,000
cases investigated. In 1991, 50,000 samples were examined from 23,000 cases.
26.   Veterinary laboratories are essential for accurate diagnosis. Many disease reports are not
authenticated throwing considerable doubts on the validity of the disease incidence reports
submitted to the Epidemiology and Economics Unit.
36



KENYA: Animal Health Services Project
Annex 1: Veterinary Aspects
27.   Since trypanosomiasis, TBDs and helminthiasis are the major enzootic diseases the
Laboratory Service should ensure that all the district and divisional centres have the equipment,
reagents and trained AHA's to carry out the routine diagnostic tests for these diseases.
E. CLINICAL SERVICES AND EXTENSION
28.   These are provided through 248 clinical centres serviced by the Clinical Services and
Extension Division of the VSD as well as by a few cooperative societies and private
veterinarians.
29.   The services supplied by CS.E Division have been constrained by the lack of drugs,
equipment and transport. Over 90% of interventions have been carried out by Animal Health
Assistants (AHAs). It was agreed in 1986 to charge the full cost of drugs while maintaining a
subsidized charge for professional services and transport. Reporting of activities is poor. In
1991 it was claimed that 114,000 cases were treated and earned KSh6.4 million of which only
37% of the drug costs were recovered. These figures indicate that on average 8 cases were
treated weekly at each clinical centre at a charge of KSh56 per case (US$2.00 at existing
exchange rates). If one considers that clinical services were only provided for grade animals
then the figures indicate that 5.2% of the group received clinical attention. If one considers that
all animals including camels, small ruminants and pigs may have required clinical interventions
then only 0.4% of the whole group received any. Obviously these figures are conjectural but
they do indicate the low rate of clinical interventions achieved by the CS.E Division. The
division ceased to buy drugs after 1992 after which time owners and veterinary staff bought
drugs from pharmacies and other outlets.
30.   The most frequent clinical intervention (37%) was the treatment of intestinal worms.
This problem which is widespread, since clinically affected animals are only the visible tip of
the iceberg, would be better addressed by the provision of extension messages to livestock
owners. An integrated Agricultural/Livestock Production Extension Service is in place and it
is to be regretted that the VSD maintains a separate extension service. In Kajiado district there
were informal links between the two which reduced costs and made the extension services more
attractive to livestock owners whereas in Kiambu district the two services were reportedly quite
exclusive of each other. Anthelmintics are very expensive and considerable benefit could be had
in defining worming strategies in different ecological zones in regard to different species, age
groups, etc.
37



KENYA: Animal Health Se-vices Project
Annex 1: Veterinary Aspects
31.   No new veterinary graduates have been recruited into VSD for 3 years and the majority
are unemployed. 55 veterinarians are in private practice, mainly in the high potential areas of
Central Province and Rift Valley Province. A pilot project for the establishment of 20 private
veterinarians has been set up by the Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC) and funded by
the European Development Fund. Over 50 applicants were screened by a Kenya Veterinary
Association (KVA) Steering Committee, of which 20 were short-listed on account of their
experience, area of operation and collateral. Barclays Bank is the lending agency and a KVA
Trust has been set up to act as guarantor. The Bank will re-assess each application before
agreeing a loan. Each applicant may borrow up to KShl.2 million at commercial interest rates.
There is a grace period of 3 months before paying interest and 1 year before commencing
repayment of principal. The project may agree to pay half the interest charges over 10%.
Private veterinarians will not be allowed to manage communal dips but they will be allowed to
carry out artificial inseminations if they wish.
32.   It is probable that the subsidized government clinical service has inhibited the
establishment of private practices. Many of the 55 private veterinarians have set themselves up
recently including a few of the short-listed PARC supported vets who were unwilling to wait any
longer for the project to become operational. Government has agreed to withdraw its own
services where private veterinarians become established. The KVA should strongly insist that
government keep to this undertaking.
F. Al SERVICES
33.   The Al services have over the years had a considerable impact on up-grading the cattle
population and increasing productivity. Smallholders etc. in high potential areas are entirely
dependent on the service to get their cows in calf. The Al Division of the VSD has a bull stud
at the Central Artificial Insemination Station (CAIS) at Kabete and plans to open a second station
in Western Kenya. The Division also provides Al delivery but is constrained by lack of
transport so that many farmers have to supply transport for the inseminator.
34.   There is no legislation, other than disease control regulations, limiting the provision of
Al services to the Al Division. In fact the Division will assist importers of semen by providing
import clearance and storage facilities at the CAIS.
38



KENYA: Animal Health Services Project
Annex 1: Veterinary Aspects
35.   The number of inseminations has halved over the past 10 years, viz:
1982  525,000 Inseminations
1983  463,000 "
1984  385,000 "
1985  486,000 "
1987  385,000 "
1988  359,000 "
1989  410,000  "
1990  396,000 "
1991  250,000  "
36.   At present a charge of KSh4O is made for a primary insemination and up to 3 repeats
whereas the real cost of a single insemination is KSh17O in Central Province and more
elsewhere. This high level of subsidization is a strong disincentive to privatization of delivery
services. Conception rates and calving intervals on 2 smallholder farms visited in Kiambu were
excellent.
37.   In Kwale district a completely different situation was found. Because of lack of liquid
nitrogen containers, room temperature RT semen was used. 97% of all semen samples were
discarded because of immotility, thereby increasing the cost of each usable semen dose by a
factor of 33. In fact the real cost of a single insemination in Kwale district was said to be
KShll,000, at which price the farmer could have been provided with an adult bullock rather
than half a potential embryo. Lack of transport, unsuitable semen, high rates of returns and
frequent abortions caused mainly by endemic trypanosomiasis has brought the AI service into
disrepute. In fact it is highly questionable whether AI services and the consequent up-grading
of cattle are desirable in areas of high trypanosomiasis endemicity and underlines the point made
before that different strategies are required for different classes of animals in different zones.
Should the community-based tsetse control programme in Kwale prove successful the use of Al
can be reviewed.
39



