Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6367-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
December 30, 1986
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a testricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units        : Kenya Pound (KE) and Kenya Shill_ng (KSh)
KShs 20   K£ 1
US$1.00    KShs 16  a/
SDR 1.00 = US$1.18  a/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                    British/American Equivalent
1 hectare (ha)                     2.47  acres
1 kilometer (km)                   0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)                    2.2   pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (t)                   2,204 pounds
ACRONYMS
AHA      - Animal Health Assistant
CBPP     - Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia
cdw      - Cold dressed weight
Cr       - Credit
DVS      - Department of Veterinary Services
EEC      - European Economic Community
FAQ      - Food and Agriculture Organization
FAO/CP   - Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FMD      - Foot and mouth disease
GOK      - Government of Kenya
HQ       - Headquarters
ICB      - International competitive bidding
ICIPE    - International Centre for Insect Physiology and Ecology
IDA      - International Development Association
IFAD     - International Fund for Agricultural Development
KARI     - Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
KCC      - Kenya Cooperative Creameries
LCB      - Local competitive bidding
lit.     - liters
Ln       - Loan
LWB      - Long wheel base
MLD      - Ministry of Livestock Development
OPEC     - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PMSU     - Project and Management Support Unit
SDR      - Special drawing right
t        - ton (metric)
UNDP     - United Nations Development Program
U/V      - Ultra-violet
W/O      - without
2WD      - Two wheel drive
4WD      - Four wheel drive.
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kenya:  July 1 - June 30
a/  (As of December 1986).  Since August 1985, the Kenya Shilling has been
pegged to the SDR at a rate of SDR 1=KShs 17.74. The rate vis-a-vis
the US Dollar fluctuates. A rate of US$1.00=KShs 16 has been used in
evaluating this Project.



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Table of Contents ..........................................  i-i
Final Executive  Project Summary .................................... iii-v
I.   BACKGROUND
A.  Project Background ...................                    ,          1
B.  The Agricultural Sector .........................   ... *.. . 2
C.  Agricultural Development Strategy ...............                #.. 3
D.  World Bank and IDA Finance3 Projects                          ...... 3
II.  THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
A. Economic Context .......to........... 4
B.  Institutions in Animal Health ................................. 8
C.  Animal Health Policy .......        ................. 0..... 11
D.  Issues                                                    ........ 17
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Concept  ...........................    18
B.  Detailed Features*.....*#*            ...     ........      ...... 20
C#  Vehicles ........ 24
D.   Environmental Impact ...                         .........   .  26
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  General  ..............                          .................  26
B.  Field Services ........................* ... .27
C.  Project Monitoring  .....................    ..........  31
D.  Piloc. Trials ........................... 34
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates ......... ..........*.                               35
B. Financing . .................                            ..... 36
C. Procurement              ............            * ......     ... 37
D. Disbursements              ........................... 39
E. Accounts and Audits ........................... 41
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Economic Analysis .......,.................            ........... 42
B. Government Cash Flow .................. .. ........ .*.. ...... 44
C. Foreign Exchange Flow ................. . .... ......... 45
D. Financial Impact on Farmers..*. .  ....  ...  . .......... 45
E. Project Risks        ...        *.... ..........4...... ... . ... 46
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS............ 47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it. -
Tables
Table 1    Summary of Project Costs by Year
Table 1 a Surmary of Project Costs by Expenditure Category
Table 1.1 Disease and Pest Control. Detailed Cost Table
Table 1.2 Tick Control Programme. Detailed Cost Table
Table 1.3 Veterinary Laboratories and Surveillance Activities.
Detailed Cost Tatle
Table 1.4 Clinical Services. Detailed Cost Table
Table 1.5 Studies, Training and Management. Detailed Cost Table
Table 2    Department of Veterinary Services - Existing Fleet of Vehicles
Table 3    Financing Plan
Table 4    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 5a   Export Parity Price of Beef
Table 5b   Import Parity Price of Beef
Table 6    Economic Benefits
Table 7    Project Economic Impact
Table 8    Economic Sensitivity Analyses
Table 9    Government Cost Recovery
Table 10   Project Impact on Foreign Exchange
Table 11   Training Progz-m.
OrLanization Chart: The Department of Veterinary Services
Terms of Reference
Anex 1    - The Government Budget for Animal Health Services
Annex 2    - Technical Assessment, Approach, Monitoring and Impact
Am"x 3    - Non-Personnel Related Expenditures in the Budget
Amnex 4    - The Management of Veterinary Services to Achieve
Sustainability Combined with Effective Service
Annex 5    - The Price of Clinical Certificates
Annex 6    -  Supporting Tables for the Economic Analysis
Annex 7    - Procurement Plan for 1986/87
noP         IBRiD 19789



- iii -
Pinal Executive Project Summary
Couatryt          Kenya
Project Name:    Animal Health Services Project (Ministry of Livestock
Development)
Financing Plan:   IDA                              US$ 15.0 million
IFAD                            US$  8.2 million
OPEC Fund                        US$  5.0 million
UNDP                             US$  0.8 million
Government                       US$ 41.5 million
Total                            US$ 70.5 million
Tentative Board Date: February 17, 1987
Appraisal Date:   June 30, 1986
Background: The World Bank has had limited success in the
livestock sector in Fenya despite extensive irvolvement in the past.
Evaluations of our project experience have consistently indicated that a
primary cause of the poor performance of our livestock projects has been
weak project management systems. The solution is to design projects which
are within the management and budgetary capability of Kenyan institutions.
Mbaagement of field services (such as dipping of livestock against ticks,
artificial insemination and clinical services) must receive special
attention. Experience with an IDA financed dairy pilot project in Kenya
ohows that such services should be developed for the nation as a whole
rather than in separate regional or commodity-specific (dairy, beef)
projects. The Government of Kenya has requested IDA to co-finance a
national animal health services project with IFAD (which separately
appraised the Project in 1985) and with otier donors. The World Bank
agreed to be the coordinating institution for IFAD and participated as such
In the IFAD negotiations. Two key issues in animal health are (a) the high
Goverment subsidies for veterinary services and (b) the Government's open-
ended recruitment of veterinary staff. Both represent a significant drain
on the Government's budgetary resources.
Proiect Obiectives: The proposed Credit is designed to support
the development of a viable and sustainable institutional framework for
animal health services. Specifically, the Credit would assist in (i)
establishing strong field management systems; (ii) developing effective
planning, budgeting and monitoring capacities in the Department of
Veterinary Services; (iii) re-equipping the Department of Veterinary
Services with the required transport and equipment; (iv) supporting the
Department's operations to provide disease protection and clinical



- iv -
services; and (v) supporting research to develop cheaper methods of tsetse
fly and tick-borne disease control. The Project would encourage the
establishment of private veterinary practices by withdrawing the subsidies
on clinical services. A pilot experiment would be launched in parallel to
the main Project to test the effectiveness of veterinary services delivered
by contracted private practltioners instead of the Government.
Prolect Description: The proposed Project would: (i) develop
specific management systems for the Department of Veterinary Services,
including detailed operating and supervision guidelines for front line
field staff and planning, budgeting and monitoring systems; (ii) train the
staff of the Department of Veterinary Services to apply the newly designed
management systems; (iii) support disease and pest control activities; (iv)
rehabilitate veterinary laboratories and support livestock disease
surveillance activities; (v) support the national Tick Control Programme;
(vi) support clinical services; and (vii) support pilot trials for
developing cheaper methods of control of tsetse flies and ticks.
Rationale for IDA Involvement: The rehabilitation of animal
health services is one of Kenya's top priorities for the agricultural
sector and forms an integral part of IDA's sector development strategy. It
would complement the Government's efforts, supported by IDA, to improve its
field services in agricultural research and extension and to strengthen the
management of its resources at the national level.
Actions Agreed: The following actions were agreed at
negotiations: (i) an increase of the cattle dipping fee from KSh 0.30 to
KSh 0.50 per animal and the fixing of drug prices at the level of non-
subsidized Government retail prices including a 33 113% mark-up over the
wholesale procurement price to reflect the full retail cost; (ii) as a
condition of effectiveness, the recruitment of consultants to improve
management systems and training programs for field services and for the
central administration of the Department of Veterinary Services; (iii) the
agreement by the Government to a regular review of the Project budget and
to ensure that, throughout the Project period, salary related expenditures
shall not exceed 50% of the Department's total operating costs; and (iv)
the agreement by the Government to a regular review of all user charges for
veterinary services, with a view to gradually increase user charges to
fully cover costs by the end of the Project period.
Justification and Risks: The proposed Project would oenefit
pastoralists and smallholders who own 90% of the livestock of Kenya. The
Project would reduce the probability of major livestock diseases and
thereby provide greater, and in the case of pastoralists, critical
financial security to the beneficiaries. Production of milk, meat, hides,
skins and dairy heifers would be increased. The Project would sharpen the
skills of the Ministry staff and improve the design, management and cost-
effectiveness of livestock services. The economic rate of return to the
Project is infinite since the Project would have a positive net economic
impact in all years. Possible risks include inadequate budget allocations,
poor cost recovery, delays in procurement and lax Government supervision.



To minimize these risks, the Bank will review and approve the budget
allocated to livestock services. Cost recovery procedures have been
carefully designed and tested in the field and would be closely monitored.
A procurement specialist has been recruited in the World Bank's office in
Nairobi to assist the Government.
Estimated Project Costs:               Local           Foreign       Total
- ---------- -US$ million -----------
Disease and Pest Control                11.2            18.8         30.0
Tick Control                             9.0            18.2         27.2
Clinical Services                        2.6             4.9          7.5
Veterinary Labs and Surveillance         1.4             2.0          3.4
Studies, Training and Management         1.0             1.0          2.0
Pilot Trials                             0.3            0.1           0.4
Total Project Costs                   25.5           45.0          70.5
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA fiscal year   1986/87  19871/88   1988J89  1989J90  1990/91  1991/92
Annual              0.35       2.25      4.60     3.80       2.80     1.20
Cumulative          0.35       2.60      7.20    11.00      13.80    15.00



KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. ProJect Backarouild
1.01         The World Bank Group has been heavily involved in Kenya's
livestock subsector in the past with two livestock projects and two
integrated agricultural development projects including large livestock
components. The two livestock projects (Cr. 129 and 477-KE) were directed
towards the pastoral and ranching acti-ities in the arid and semi-arid
lands. The integrated agricultural devel-.pment projects (Ln. 1303JCr. 650-
KE and Cr. 959-KE) aimed at the development of smallholder agriculture in
high potential areas. Total commitments by the World Bank Group in Kenya's
livestock subsector under these four projects exceeded $40 million. An
Impact Evaluation Report (Report No. 3622) was produced in 1981 for the
First Livestock Development Project (Cr.129-KE). Project Performance Audit
Reports were p:oCuced in 1984 and 1985 for the Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (Ln. 1303/Cr. 650-KE) and the Second Livestock
Development Project (Cr. 477-KE).
1.02         These reports showed that the projects performed poorly
primarily due to weak management systems on which these projects relied.
All projects were affected by (i) institutional and administrative
weaknesses; (ii) an overdependence on weak Government institutions; (iii)
shortages of management expertise; and (iv) inadequate Government budget
allocations. These were multiple component projects in which coordination
between components was poor. The meager management, institutional and
budgetary resources allocated to the projects were dispersed over numerous
components (credit, extension, planning, research, marketing) and were
therefore ineffective. Tnus these projects failed to implement effective
livestock project mansgement systems.
1.03         Past experience has shown that projects must be developed
within the management and budgetary capabilities of Kenyan institutions.
Management of the service delivered to farmers in the field, on which
livestock projects depend entirely, must receive special attention. To
increase the probabilitv- of success, livestock projects should have clearly
defined objectives, a limited number of closely related components and
require principal involvement fram no more than one Government institution.
1.04         In the middle of 1984, the Government of Kenya approached the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) to support a program
to rehabilitate animal health services. In the beginning of 1985, the FAO
Investment Centre sent a mission to Kenya on behalf of IFAD to prepare the
program. Their Formulation Report, dated May 21, 1985, was followed by an
appraisal mission which visited Kenya in August and September 1985. Both
missions coordinated with the Worle' Bank office in Nairobi. Since animal



health is a strategic service in whicn IDA was also developing a project,
it was subsequently agreed that IDA appraise a National Animal Health
Services Project co-financed with IFAD. In April 1986, the World Bank
participated as the coordinating institution for IPAD in the loan
negotiations between IFAD and the Government of Kenya for the Project now
proposed for IDA co-financing. The UNDP will finance the technical
assistance component.
1.05         This report was written by A. Rioust de Largentaye,
Agricultural Economist, EAPCA, and by Dr. M. Creek, Veterinarian, FAO/CP.
In addition to reflecting the findings of the IFAD appraisal mission, the
report is based on an independent appraisal by IDA staff.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.06         Analysis of Kenya's agricultural sector objectives,
performance and constraints is contained in the Kenya Agricultural Sector
Report (Report No. 4629-KE, January 7, 1986) which was distributed to the
Executive Directors in February, 1986. Despite Kenya's progress in
industrialization, the agricultural sector, including livestock, remains
vitally important for the continued growth and development of the domestic
economy as well as for the livelihoods of most of Kenya's people. Kenya ic
fundamentally an agricultural country: agriculture's share of the gross
domestic product (31% in 1984) remains the highest of any sector. The
population is still predominantly rural (85%) and agriculture provides
employment (directly or indirectly) for aearly 70% of the nation's people.
The sector produces nearly all the nation's food and serves as the main
source of export earnings (68% in 1985) and raw materials for the
predominantly resource-based industrial sector.
1.07         While Kenya's agricultural structure has undergone
considerable change since independence in 1963, it is still characterized
by a degree of dualism. Ranches and large farms cover about 40% of total
farmed area, while smallholdings cover the remaining 60%. With the
continuing sub-division of large group-owned farms, the proportion of land
owned and farmed by smallholders is increasing. Smallholder agriculture is
the dominant mode of production, accounting for an estimated 75% of
production and 85% of total agricultural employment. The average size of
Kenya's 1.9 million smallhoidings is 2.3 ha, with over three quarters of
these under 2 ha.
1.08         The vigorous agricultural growth rate (4.7% per annum), which
Kenya achieved during the first decade after independence, decelerated to
an average 3.2% per annum between 1972 and 1983. Over the same period, the
population growth rate accelerated to 3.9%, signalling a decline in per
capita production. Droughts affected Kenya in 1979, 1980 and 1984. Growth
of the agricultural gross domestic product fell to -3.7% in 1984. However,
the sector recovered in 1985 and 1986 with record maize and wheat crops.
Aside from the effects of the drougl-*9, one major factor that cont ibuted
to the decline in agricultural growth since the early 1970s is the poor
delivery of essential agricultural services, including animal health
services, due to weaknesses in Government institutions.



- 3 -
C. Agricultural Development Strare&X
1.09         The Government's Fifth Development Plan, which covers the
period 1984-1988, contains the thrust of Kenya's agricultural development
policy. It states in particular that "Growth in the private sector is the
core of the development process in Kenya" and proposes to provide a more
favorable environment for private sector activity. In its recently issued
"Sessional Paper" on Economic Management for Renewed Growth (March, 1986),
the Government presents a bold strategy designed to achieve an economic
growth rate sufficient to enable a positive growth of incomes per capita
while reducing the rate of population growth which is the highest in the
world (now estimated at 4.1% per annum). The Sessional Paper, while
further supporting the broad objectives of balanced food self-sufficiency
(particularly for maize, wheat, milk and beef) and export production
outlined in an earlier Food Policy Paper (Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1981),
places agricultural growth and rural prosperity at the heart of the
strategy to rekindle economic growth and create new jobs. The Government's
priorities for the agricultural sector are, in that order: (i)
agricultural research, (ii) extension services and (iii) animal health.
1.10         The Bank's strategy for assisting Kenya's agricultural
development supports Government objectives, as described in the Plan and
other policy documents. It is growth-oriented, with 4 primary emphasis on
intensification of production, particularly smallholder production, which
offers much untapped potential and meets complementary goals of income
distribution, employment and foreign exchange generation. The Bank's
operational program is geared (a) to address major constraints and to
stimulate growth. through actions to improve basic farmer services
(especially extension, research, irput supply, marketing, credit and, with
the proposed Project, animal health services); (b) to address key physical
resource management issues (forestry and conservation); (c) to support
better policy planning and implemertation; and (d) to assist in
restructuring public investments.
D. World Bank and IDA Flaanced Proiects
1.11         The proposed Project builds upon the Bank's long and extensive
involvement in Kenya's agriculture sector. To date, the World Bank and IDA
have financed 30 projects in agriculture, forestry and fisheries.
Investments have been spread across all key subsectors, with an emphasis on
smallholders.  Aside frum the livestock and integrated agricultural
development projects (para 1.01), investments have been financed for export
crops (coffee and tea); industrial crops and agro-industry (sugar and
cotton); fooderops and rural development; large and smallscale
irrigation; forestry; fisheries; extension; credit and technical
assistance. Our present portfolio of ten on-going projects reflects
substantial pruning of investments and redirection of efforts towards
strategic priorities, especially improvements in farmer services. Animal
health services constitute one such priority.



1.12         A recent group of Project Completion Reports and Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) has emphasized many lessons for Bank
involvement in Kenya's agricultural sector. Some of these lessons are
reflected in paras 1.02 and 1.03 above. Generally, the World Bank's
experience has demonstrated the importance of good project design, limited
Kenyan institutional and management capacity, the need to recognize the
Impact of policy issues, such as pricing and marketing arrangements, and
the need for better aid coordination. A concerted effort has been made to
reflect the lesson', learned from these projects in supervision, project
preparation and appraisal work, and in support for institutional
development through the ongoing portfolio.
II. THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
A. Economic Context
General
2.01         Most livestock in Kenya are owned by smallholders and by
pastoralists. Almost half of all smallholders own livestock. The
percentage of smallholder income from livestock is estimated to average
about 25% although it varies depending on the area. Available grazing land
and competition with crops are two important determinants of the income
derived from livestock.
2. 02        Livestock numbers are not well known in the absence of a
recent national livestock census. Estimates from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development (1983) indicate there are about 11.0
million cattle, 7.5 million goats, 7.0 million sheep, 0.8 million camels,
0.3 million donkeys and 0.1 million pigs in Kenya. Poultry numbers are
variously estimated between 12 and 27 million. Domestic rabbits number
about 40,000. Of the total cattle numbers,1 about 2.2 million (20%) are
exotic breeds and crosses with indigenous cattle - together referred to as
"grade" cattle.
Supply and Demand
2.03         Kenya produces about 1,600 million liters of milk and about
120,000 tons of beef (carcass equivalent) annually. The productivity of
the national herd is low. It is estimated that the average grade exotic
cow produces about 900 liters of milk per annum compared to an expected
norm of at least 2,000 liters per annum. The offtake of the cattle herd is
estimated at about 9% while mortality stands at about 9 to 10%. Over two
thirds of the national milk production comes from smallholders. Most milk
is consumed on the farm or marketed informally in rural areas with only
about 250 million liters marketed in urban areas almost entirely by the
Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC). The estimated 170 million liters
produced by the pastoralist herds is almost all used for home consumption
as milk forms the most important part of the pastoralist diet. Commercial
supplies to the urban markets have grown little over the past ten years
1/ Distribution by district in Annex 2, Table 2.3



- 5 -
while demand has increased dramatically, mainly due to the rapidly
expanding urban population and to the introduction (1979) of a School. Milk
Programme. Prior to 1979, Kenya was a net exporter of dairy products,
mainly to Uganda. During the 1980s, in spite of the growing demand and
slower growing supply, imports have been kept at low levels. In
consequence, there is a strong demand for milk and milk products at the
going Government controlled prices. In many areas, local prices on
informal markets exceed those paid by KCC. It is estimated that, at
present prices, an urban demand of about 50 million liters is unsatisfied.
Some milk supply gluts appeared in certain areas of Kenya in 1986 because
of the sudden seasonal production increase resulting from unusually
favorable rains. Although the processing capacity of KCC remains largely
under-utilized, its failure to handle the surge in supplies in 1986
resulted from bottlenecks in its facilities for milk reception and
transport. With Danish assistance, KCC is building collection centers in
rural areas to relieve the situation.
2.04         Data on the production of meat is poor but the estimated
amount of 120,000 tons of carcass beef presently produced reflects slow
growth of production over the past ten years with, however, considerable
fluctuations due to droughts. About 60Z of the beef produced is marketed
and the rest is consumed on the farm or in rural areas. Between one ha3f
and two thirds of the production comes from the smallholder sector. In a
normal year, only a small amount (about one fifth of production) comes from
the pastoralist herds, livestock being kept mainly as a family asset.
Marketing is handled mostly by the private sector;  very limited amounts of
cattle now pass through the Government-owned Kenya Meat Commission because
of the latter's quasi bankrupt situation. Kenya was previously an exporter
of livestock products in the form of meat, meat preparations and live
animals. In recent years, growing local demand plus European restrictions
on imports of Kenyan beef have resulted in exports being reduced to about
3,000 tons per year, mainly in the form of processed beef. Only a few
thousand head of cattle are currently exported each year to the Middle
East.
Prices
2.05         The Government fixes producer and consumer prices for milk.
The producer price is the price paid by the Kenya Cooperative Creameries
(KCC), which acts as a buyer of last resort, for milk delivered to its
factories. The price is irrespective of the fat content but varies
according to the season (a bonus is paid for milk delivered in the dry
season). The Government has increased the producer price substantially in
recent years. Currently, the producer price is set at KShs 3.25 (US$0.19)
per liter with an additional KSh 0.50 (US$0.03) bonus for milk delivered in
the dry season between January 1 and March 31. Kenya producer prices are
in line with prices in other milk producing countries although they are
higher than the subsidized world prices equivalent to US$0.13 per liter.
In the densely populated areas of Central and Eastern provinces, there is
in effect a free market for milk and prices are generally above the KCC
purchase price. Typically, milk purchased at the farm gate is sold at KShs
4 or 5 per liter, while local cooperatives buy the surplus at about KShs
3.40.  In the surplus areas, mainly in the Rift Valley Province, most milk



- 6 -
is sold to KCC at the Government price. The average market value of milk
at the farm gate is estimated as follows at KShs 4.06 (US$0.24) per liter:
Farm Gate    Farm Gate
Quantity    Purchase Price       Price     Value (KShs
(million liters) (KShs/liter)   (KShs/liter)   million)
(1)            LL              (3)      (4)=(1)x(3)
Sales to KCC
Wet Season          200           3.25            2.25         450
Dry Season           40           3.55            2.55         102
Other Cooperatives   160            3.40            3.40         544
Door to Door Sales
and Farm Consump-
tion                1,200           4.50            4.50       5,400
Total/Average       1,600                           4.06       6,496
The Government also sets consumer prices.  These fixed consumer prices have
been raised in recent years enabling KCC to operate at a profit.  The
consumer price of fresh pasteurized milk (2.3% fat content) is currently
KShs 6.00 (US$0.38) per liter.
2.06     Beef prices are set for purchases of cattle, on a carcass basis,
by the Kenya Meat Commission (KMC). However, as the Kenya Meat Commission
is close to bankruptcy and is able to pay only for an extremely limited
number of animals (para 2.04), prices are now freely determined by supply
and demand. Maximum retail prices for beef sold in a largely
undifferentiated form are set and enforced. However, in 1985, price
controls were lifted for special cuts such as rump steak and mince. The
current slaughter price is about KShs 17 (US$1.06) per kg of carcass which
corresponds to an equivalent carcass price on the farm of KShs 14.69
(US$0.92) per kg which is intermediate between the export parity price
(US$0.89) and the import parity price (US$0.97) as shown in Tables Sa and
5b.
Livestock Disease Constraints
2.07     At the turn of the century, livestock diseases were the
overwhelming constraint against production. Gradually, the diseases have
been identified and successively brought under control, particularly in the
highland areas, such that exotic cattle have been successfully introduced
thereby allowing a greatly increased productivity - especially in milk
production. However, whereas the native cattle exhibit a high degree of
resistance to East Coast fever (ECF) and foot and mouth disease (FMD),
these two diseases constantly pose the threat of high levels of mortality
and economic 1088 amongst the grade and crossbred cattle. Disease control
policies therefore have to be designed to operate at two levels: a
nationwide level against the major diseases which affect all of the cattle
in Kenya, especially rinderpest and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia,
together with diseases which can be transmitted from animals to man
(rabies, echinococcosis, Rift Valley fever, etc); and at a second more
selective level for the control of the diseases affecting the exotic stock
(ECF, FMD and fertility related diseases).



- 7 -
2.08     In many ways theileriosis (two strains of which cause respectively
ECF and Corridor disease) presents the most difficult decisions for the
policy maker. The causative organism is carried by wild animals
(especially buffalo in the case of Corridor disease) and as yet there is no
vaccine available to protect vulnerable cattle. On the other hand the
organism is transmitted by the cattle tick and hence the strategy for
control up to now has been tick control via dipping or spraying. In an area
where all cattle are dipped regularly, the incidence of ECF is
significantly reduced; small scale producers will obtain additional
benefits if the entire district follows an intensive dipping programme. In
certain countries with limited wildlife populations, a strict dipping
program has even eradicated East Coast fever by breaking the transmission
cycle between cattle and tick (the tick is still present but it no longer
carries the causative organism). Work at the International Laboratory for
Research in Animal Diseases (ILRAD) and by pharmaceutical companies
promises alternative control methods (vaccines, new pharmaceuticals or
acaricides) but none of these can be relied upon to become available in the
near future. Thus, control will continue to be exercised by the relatively
expensive program of intensive dipping.
Livestock Services
2.09     Aside from disease control, livestock services include artificial
insemination, extension, marketing, and credit. Artificial insemination is
provided by the National Artificial Insemination Service which constitutes
a section of the Field Services Division in the Department of Veterinary
Services (Chart). Lack of operating funds and a run-down fleet of vehicles
have caused the performance of the National Artificial Insemination Service
to decline since 1979. Sweden, which supported the establishment of the
Service in the early 1970s, has appraised and is readv to fund a three year
rehabilitation program at a cost of about USS 2 million equivalent.
Because the Government has delayed the decision, required by Sweden, to
gradually increase the fees for artificial insemination, rehabilitation of
the National Artificial Insemination Service has not yet begun. However,
the Government recently decided to increase fees for artificial
insemination and, is expected to approach Sweden. Thus the National
Artificial Insemination Service is expected to be rehabilitated
simultaneously to the implementation of the proposed project. Farmers
receive extension on animal production techniques through the National
Extension Project (Cr. 1387-KE) based on the training-arid-visit system of
management and in a few districts through other donor-supported projects.
This livestock production extension work is increasingly effective. The
proposed Project would effectively increase the quality of the extension on
herd health by increasing the contact between the veterinarian, the farmer
and the extension agents, especially in the high potential dairying areas.
Marketing of livestock products is generally free of Government controls,
with the exception of the Kenya Cooperative Creameries (which has exclusive
rights on the urban dairy markets but also provides the public service of
buying any surplus milk as a buyer of last resort - para 2.05). Grassroot
marketing facilities are in some cases weakened by the unrel.ability of
supplies. Marketing of input supplies, in particular animal feeds for the
livestock subsector, is poorly developed because of limited demand.
Improved animal health services are likely to strengthen marketing channels
by increasing the reliability of the supply of livestock products and of
demand for livestock inputs. The poor development of agricultural credit



- 8 -
is unlikely to represent an obstacle to the success of the proposed
Project. Incremental farmer costs under the proposed Project would be
limited and would be easily covered by incremental cash income (Chapter VI,
Section D). Higher incomes and greater financial security resulting from
the Project are expected to increase smallholders' access to credit.
B. Institutions in Animal Health
Government
2.10     Responsibility for livestock development lies with the Ministry of
Livestock Development which was recently separated from the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Ministry of Livestock Development includes the Department
of Veterinary Services and two main operational divisions (Organization
Chart appended). The Livestock Development Division provides extension on
animal production while the Range Management Division assists group ranches
to manage their activities. By its nature, the Livestock Development
Division is committed to the introduction of improvements in breeding,
feeding and management of livestock which require the existence of a fully
effective veterinary cover.
2.11     The Department of Veterinary Services is organized as shown in the
appgeaded Chart and includes three operational divisions: Field Services,
Veterinary Public Health and Veterinary Research. The Field Services
Division supervises all the field activities of the Department. It is
headed by the Chief Veterinary Field Services Officer and includes five
functional sections. In the field, the main officer responsible for the
organization and coordination of all services provided by this division is
the District Veterinary Officer. The Veterinary Public Health Division is
responsible for providing inspection services for meat, milk, hides and
skins. The Veterinary Research Division provides various support services
to the Field Services Division including the production of a variety of
vaccines and laboratory services. Until 1986, the Veterinary Research
Division contained a specialized Epidemiology and Economics Unit which has
now been transferred to the Project and Management Support Unit (Chart).
The Epidemiology and Economics Unit is responsible for performing
epidemiological and economic analyses for disease control planning
purposes. The unit also provides statistical support services to the
Research Division and maintains data bases on its micro-computer network of
the results of all disease surveys and research conducted by the division.
In addition, the Unit runs a computer-based dip monitoring service and
monitors the issue of all vaccines and trypanocidal drugs to the field
services. Aside from the three operational divisions, a Project and
Management Support Unit has been established to take over the planning and
programming as well as the administrative and financial functions of the
Department of Veterinary Services.
2.12     The District Veterinary Officers established in each of Kenya's 41
districts are key managers in the Department. These officers are also
members of the District Development Committees, which manage district
development programs covering all sectors. As such, the District
Veterinary Officer has general influence on district development policies.
The District Veterinary Officer is under the authority of the Provincial
Director of Veterinary Services.



- 9 -
2.13     Field veterinary services are provided by veterinary officers who
hold a professional university degree, livestock officers who ha:a taken a
three-year diploma after gaining the secondary school certificate and
animal health assistants, who hold a two-year certificate in animal health.
Junior animal health assistants are without any formal professional
training. In 1978 the Department of Veterinary Services took over the
management of communal dips within the "proclawred areas' (para 2.33) which
required a substantially increased number of employees. The Governmen'
recently converted dip attendants, recruited as casual laborers, into
permanent civil service agents. The exact number of staff employed by the
Department of Veterinary Services is not known. Personnel records of the
whole Ministry of Livestock Development are undergoing a major
reorganination. However, an estimate of the staff in the Department of
Veterinary Services is shown below:
Staff Category                    Total Numbers            of which in the
district services
Veterinary Officer                   510                    )  334
Livestock Officers                   180                    )
Animal Health Assistants            1557                       1400
Dip Attendants                      1709                       1709
Drivers                              310                        193
Other                               1280                        735
Total (Department of Veterinary    5546                        4371
Services)
2.14     The Departm1ent of Veterinary Services has some of the best
technical expertise in Africa. However, its management capability is weak,
particularly from a strategic viewpoint. This is reflected in an inability
to concentrate resources to ensure that the priority functions are given
precedence over the less important ones. One factor contributing to this
situation is a deficient information system. Reporting is irregular and of
variable quality, reflecting inaccurate or incomplete information. There
is no quick and reliable procedure for the collection, collation and
analysis of the required management information. The Department of
Veterinary Services needs improved management information systems to
strengthen its strategic management decisions.
2.15     Many problems facing the Department of Veterinary Services stem
from its large size and from its budgetary coustraint. The Department's
operating costs include a large transport fleet and expensive drugs and
treatments. Without adequate budget facilities it cannot carry out its
duties. There has been a decline in the total budget of the Department by
282 in constant prices between 1980181 and 1985/86, with a sharper decline
in transport operating expenditures (-37%) and a collapse in capital
expenditures (-88%). The Government's open-ended policy to recruit all the



- 10 -
newly trained people produced by its training establishment (about 75
veterinary officers, 35 livestock officers and 250 animal health assiatants
are trained every year in Kenya) is putting an increasing andl unsustainable
pressure on the departmental budget.
2.16     The results of poor management combined with the budget shortfall
are first, that vaccination programs, in particular rinderpest, contagious
bovine pleuropneumonia and foot and mouth disease, have deteriorated due to
the lack of adequate transport and the breakdown of the cold storage chain.
In addition, other vaccination programs have been adversely affected as
exemplified by the recent rabies epidemic. Second, the diseasb
surveillance and investigation network of the Department, an essential
prerequisite to any successful disease control activity, has been 3everely
constrained by a lack of transport and by the inability to replace old and
obsolete laboratory equipment. Third, similar problems have been
encountered with vaccine production, particularly in the vaccine production
unit at Kabete where continual breakdowns in equipment have disrupted
production. Fourth, the supplies of acaricides for the cattle dips which
are intended to control ticks and tick borne diseases have been inadequate.
Consequently. during the last quarter of the fiscal year, dips are seldom
refilled or replenished adequately with acaricide, resulting in increased
livestock morbidity and mortality rates and a decline in the dipping rates
as farmers lose confidence in Government services. Fifth, clinical
services have been hampered by a lack of transport, clinical equipment and
drugs. In many areas these services have almost ceased operation.
2.17     The Department of Veterinary Services has a fleet of 1,116
vehicles, including 659 vehicles engaged in activities which would be
supported by the Project. Of these, only 294 or 45% are in running
condition. Details on the vehicle fleet appear in Table 2, appended. The
low proportion of vehicles in running condition is due to several factors.
2.18     First, about half the vehicles are old and are not worth
repairing. These are the vehicles due for disposal. The large number of
unusable vehicles is mainly due to the long procedures for "boarding"
(disposing of) vehicles. These procedures are unrewarding for the
initiator . Second, managing vehicles within the Government regulations
is Lime consuming and involves delays when repairs are due. Delays are
particularly long in the case of repairs for accident-damaged vehicles
which represent 12% of the fleet of the Department3 . A sample of 30
accident cases showed that the average length of time these accident-
damaged cases have been waiting for repairs is more than two years. Third,
lack of funds also contributes to the large proportion of available
vehicles thac are not in running condition.  Of the 337 vehicles considered
available in the Department, 109 or 32% are not running. The total cost of
repairing available vehicles has been calculated to represent about 30% of
the annual operating cost of the fleet, which is reasonable considering the
run-down nature of the existing vehicles. Fourth, the mechanics of the
21IFAD appraisal report, Annex 3 paras 14 and 15
3/IFAD appraisal report, Annex 3 para 16.



- 11 -
Department of Veterinary Services wqork in very difficult conditions with
few hand-tools and very poor facilities. A summary of the current mechanic
establishment and facilities of the Department is presented by district in
the Transport Study, Appendix 6, carried out duritg the IFAD appraisal.
Parastatals
2.19     Three parastatal organizations are involved in livestock health:
The Kenya Agricultural Research Institute, the Wellcome Foot and Mouth
Vaccine Institute and the Kenya Trypanosomiasis Research Institute. The
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute, through its veterinary research
division, conducts basic research into a variety of livestock diseases. A
specialist unit, partly supported by the British Overseas Development
Agency, is responsible for rinderpest surveillance. The Kenya
Trypanosomiasis Research Institute conducts basic research into the
epidemiology of trypanosomiasis and, in so doing, supports the field
control work carried out by the Field Services Division of the Department
of Veterinary Services. The Wellcome Institute produces foot and mouth
disease vaccine and assi3ts in surveillance of the disease by typing the
strrins of virus occurring in outbreaks of the disease.
Private Sector
2.20     A number of pharmaceutical companies are represented in Kenya.
Four companies supply the various acaricides required for the Department of
Vetet.nary Services on an annual tender basis (para 5.12). Veterinary
drugs are also readily available through normal retail outlets. The
Pharmacy and Poisons Ordinance (Cap. 244) details the drugs which can only
be sold on prescription.
2.21     Private veterinary practices are rare, particularly in the farming
areas because private practitioners cannot compete with the subsidized
clinical services provided by the Department of Veterinary Services. In
practice, however, a high demand for clinical services encourages
Government veterinarians to render the service unofficially when the
Department of Veterinary Services is unable, for lack of resources, to
fulfill this task. The proposed Project would encourage private practices
by withdrawing subsidies on clinical interventions.
International Organizations
2.22     Two major international laboratories are located in Kenya, The
International Laboratory for Research in Animal Diseases (ILRAD) and the
International Center for Insect Physiology and Ecology (ICIPE). ILRAD
undertakes research into trypanosomiasis and theileriosis (East Coast
fever) and their vectors. ICIPE undertakes research into the vectors of
these diseases (tsetse flies and ticks).
C. Animal Health Policy (Annex 2)
2.23     Animal health policy in Kenya has concentrated primarily on the
control of epidemic diseases followed by the creation of conditions
suitable to permit the introduction of exotic breeds of livestock and thus



- 12 -
to improve the productivity of the indigenous livestock population through
a process of upgrading. Such are the increases in productivity in the
switch from zebu cattle to grade or cro3sbreds, that when a market for milk
is opened up, farmers make rapid changes in their breeding policies. For
example in Meru district between 1980 and 1982, grade cattle numbers
increased from 57,000 to 95,000 (17% to 27% of the total herd) in just two
years. Since 1974, the Government has engaged in the provision of clinical
services in dairying areas. More recently the principal emphasis has been
on the control of infectious and tick-borne diseases.
Diseas" and Pest Control
2.24     Control of infectious livestock diseases by vaccination, livestock
movement control and disease surveillance, falls under "disease and pest
control" in the budget. These measures are enforced under the Disease of
Animals Act (Cap. 364) of 1965.
2.25     Vaccinations.  Diseases for which vaccination is compulsory in all
or part of the country include rinderpest, contagious bovine
pleuropneumonis and foot and mouth disease. In the case of rinderpest, all
cattle in districts with an international border are required to be
vaccinated annually (Map). In other districts, compulsory animal
vaccination is confined to calves and yearlings. In areas where the
presence of contagious bovine pleuropneumonia is kcnown or suspected to
exist (Map), all cattle are required to be vaccinated annually. All these
vaccinations are performed free of charge.
2.26     For foot and mouth disease control, Kenya is divided into two
areas according to whether vaccination is compulsory or not (Map 4, Annex
2, page 13). 4 In the compulsory vaccination areas, located mainly in the
central highlands, all cattle over two weeks of age are required to be
vaccinated twice yearly. Compulsory vaccination is free except in the
ascheduled" areas, previously the large scale farming areas, where a charge
of KShs 2 per head is levied. If an outbreak of foot and mouth disease
occurar quarantines are imposed and there is a free compulsory vaccination
in the area surrounding the nucleus of the outbreak (ring vaccination).
Outside the compulsory vaccination areas, vaccination is voluntary and a
fee of KShs 4 per vaccination is charged.
2.27     In recent years, financial and other constraints experienced by
the Department of Veterinary Services have resulted in a decrease in
vaccination cover. In seven out of fourteen high risk border districts, the
average vaccination cover against rinderpest was less than 11% and the
maximum achieved was 46% (Annex 2, Table 2.5), which is totally inadequate
to protect the cattle population in those areas against a reintroduction of
4/In addition, around the Aberdare forests in the Central Highlands, a
nucleus area was originally designated a central, unvaccinated disease-
free zone in fulfillment of the EEC regulation permitting the export of
beef to Europe. However, frequent outbreaks of foot and mouth disease
have occurred, exports to Europe have ceased and it is now proposed to
introduce compulsory vaccination in the area.



- 13 -
the disease. Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia has already been observed
in Western Kenya and its presence is suspected in the northern pastoral
districts, although its incidence in these latter areas has yet to be
estimated. The decline in the levels of vaccination against foot and mouth
disease has meant that the incidence of the disease has increased, so that
outbreaks of the disease are common throughout Kenya, with a commet.surate
serious and detrimental effect primarily upon the health and productivity
of dairy cattle. The estimated vaccination coverage in the twice yearly
campaigns is now only 35%.
2.28     Apart from the major epidemic diseases, the Department is called
upon to vaccinate animals against a range of infectious diseases (black
quarter, Rift Valley fever, lumpy skin disease in cattle; blue tongue,
sheep pox and pleuropneumonia in sheep and goats; and fowl pox, fowl
typhoid and Newcastle disease in poultry). Producers must pay for these
vaccinations, although poultry vaccines are often supplied directly to the
producer.
2.29     Livestock Movement Control.  The three main contagious diseases of
cattle are all spread primarily as the result of contact between infective
and susceptible animals. The Department of Veterinary Services controls
movements of livestock by issuing movement permits. In principal, movement
controls become increasingly strict towards the highland areas which
contain the dairy herd. To pass from the outlying areas where vaccinations
against rinderpest and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia are compulsory
into the central highland areas, cattle must go through a quarantine period
in holding grounds. In the case of foot and mouth disease, even in the
areas of compulsory vaccination, movement restrictions are enforced between
districts when an outbreak is confirmed. The control of livestock movement
being the prime responsibility of the police and the judiciary authorities,
special attention would be given under the proposed Project to improve the
liaison between these authorities and the Department of Veterinary
Services, and to educate the public on the importance of controlling
livestock movement.
2.30     Disease Surveillance Activities include the investigation of
suspect outbreaks, the monitoring of vaccination campaigns and estimates of
disease incidence, providing much needed information about the epidemiology
of the diseases. Information is needed for example to remove much of the
uncertainty felt at present about the potential for epidemics of rinderpest
and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia in the northern pastoral areas and
the risk that such epidemics would present to cattle populations in other
areas of Kenya. Less costly strategies for the prevention and control of
these diseases could result from a more accurate assessment of the risks
involved. In addition, functional laboratories are required to investigate
the causes of disease outbreaks. Prompt and decisive implementation of
control measures are not possible without a definitive diagnosis.
2.31     Disease surveillance activities are under the responsibility of
several institutions (para 2.19). In recent years, disease surveillance
activities have been largely disrupted by the lack of transport, equipment
and operating resources.



- 14 -
Tick Control
2.32     The major tick-borne diseases present in Kenya include East Coast
fever (theileriosis), anaplasmosis, babesiosis and heartwater. The control
of East Coast fever has been an essential prerequisite to the development
of the dairy industry. When European settlers established large scale
farms, they invested in dipping or spraying facilities solely for the use
of their own cattle and at the same time they managed the facilities. With
the subdivision of large scale farms accompanied by the spread of ownership
of exotic dairy cattle among small farmers in villages, there was a need to
establish communal dipping facilities. The development of "harambee"
(community) dips received strong political support in the late sixties and
early seventies but it proved much easier to get support to build a dip
than to manage it subsequently. Prior to 1978, the Department of
Veterinary Services was responsible only for the supervision of the Cattle
Cleansing Act and had no responsibility for the actual management of cattle
dips. Increasing concern over the escalating losses due to tick-borne
diseases, in particular East Coast fever, the spread of the vector tick and
an escalating problem of acaricide resistance, arising as a result of
inefficient dip management, resulted in the Department of Veterinary
Services assuming responsibility, through the "Tick Control Programme", for
the management of communally operated dips within the "proclaimed" areas.
2.33     Under the Cattle Cleansing Act (Cap. 354), various districts are
designated as "proclaimed" areas. Proclaimed areas are those in which East
Coast fever is present and where cattle cleansing is compulsory. Because a
stringent control of the vector tick, Rhipicephalus appendiculatus, is
required to protect susceptible exotic and cross-bred cattle against the
infections provoked by ticks, livestock owners in proclaimed areas are
obliged to regularly cleanse their cattle of ticks through a weekly
application of an approved acaricide. Livestock owners can either treat
their animals privately or use the public dip.
2.34     Outside the proclaimed areas, owners may choose whether or not to
dip their animals.   Studies indicate that, for indigenous cattle, only
limited dipping is needed to reduce the tick burdens sufficiently to
increase production, while at the same time permitting sufficient ticks to
survive in order to create an endemically stable situation for tick-borne
diseases. This theme will be studied under the pilot trials component of
the project (para 3.19).
2.35     The Government-operated Tick Control Programme in the proclaimed
areas now includes some 3,440 dips (Annex 2, Table 2.29). In 1983 the
total cattle population in the proclaimed areas was 5.27 million of which
2.11 million were exotic dairy and beef stock (40%). Thus, in theory, if
the law were to be obeyed, the owners of 3.16 million zebu sto zk should
incur the cost of dipping their cattle weekly, reducing their resistance to
infection, for the benefit of the owners of the exotic stock. Until now,
Government charged a fee of KSh 0.30 per dipping (compared to a real cost
of KShs 2.35, see para 3.18), yet still the collection rate is poor.
2.36     In many areas the Tick Control Programme has started to break
down, the incidence of East Coast fever has increased and the future of the



- 15 -
smallholder dairy industry has been placed in jeopardy. The difficulties
of the Programme are due to shortage of acaricide, inadequate control of
acaricide strength in the dip, water supply constraints, inadequate
supervision of the dips, unwillingness of the farmers to dip zebu cattle
and the general lack of operating funds. As a result, the farmers lose
confidence in the Government's ability to provide an effective dipping
service and they no longer take their cattle to the public dip. On
average, the dipping coverage in proclaimed areas was only 27% in 1984
although for "grade" (exotic) cattle the coverage was higher (Annex 2,
Table 2.32). A recent study that the World Bank carried out in Murdng's
district, where most of the cattle are exotic or cross-bred, revealed that
54% of the cattle were dipped at the public dips in 1985. On the other
hand, an on-going pilot project ir. Uasin Gishu district has shown that,
given properly managed and supervised field services, tick-borne diseases
can be prevented on a mass scale through proper management of dips (Annex
4, Appendix 2). The Uasin Gishu pilot project also shows that, in a
district with adequate dairy marketing i$ifrastructure, farmers who own
exotic breed animals are highly committed to dipping their cattle.
2.37     There are two issues to be faced in the Gove.nment's tick control
policy. One is whether, once the dips are operated efficiently and the
benefits are clear, the Government should continue to operate them or
whether, when the dips are self-supporting, attempts should be made to hand
them back to local operation under close supervision of the Department of
Veterninary Services. Second, in those areas with high percentages of zebu
stock, where owners have no interest in up-grading their stock and will not
pay the full dipping costs, whether to review the boundaries of the tick
control area with a view to exclude the non-performing areas. This would
relieve the Department of Veterinary Services of the liability to operate
the dips where produce::s are in default of payment.  The proposed Project
would address these two issues.
Clinical Services
2.38     The emergence of Government-operated clinical services is linked
to the historical development of milk production from exotic breed animals
in the smallholder farming community. After Kenya's independence,
expatriate veterinarians, who were the backbone of private practice in
Kenya, gradually departed. The Government decided to provide clinical
services to smallholders as the only alternative open to the country at the
time. Thus, the first of eighteen Government-run veterinary clinical
centers was established in 1974. These centers operate motorised "clinical
runs" which are routes covered periodically by the veterinary clinician to
dispense treatments and drugs at fixed points by the road-side. As these
centers proved inadequate to meet demand, in 1979 the Government, flush
with funds from the high coffee prices of 1977, designated provincial,
district and divisional offices as clinical centers. There are now 98
centers providing clinical services. However, only the eighteen original
centers operate clinical runs. The other centers provide clinical services
on demand. Clinical services are dispensed by veterinarians and by animal
health assistants under their supervision. Farmers are charged KShs 10 for
a routine treatment on the road side and KShs 30 for a treatment on the
farm. Drugs and vaccine sold by the Department of Veterinary Services are
underpriced.



- 16 -
2.39     The inatitution of clinical centers was received with enthusiasm
and met a real need among the small farmers. However, the rise in demand
was artificially fuelled by the breakdown in preventive services and the
gradual erosion of the official price of drugs. As a result, demand soon
overwhelmed the Departmet.t's capacity to respond.
2.40     Total clinical coverage, for animals as for humans, is expensive
and requires resourcfs that exceed those available to the Kenya Government.
Effective cost recovery from farmers would increase resources and lim.t
demand to cases offering the most substantial financial benefits. Cow
infertility would become a main focus of activity with a natural linkage
being forged between clinical services and artificial insemination. The
regular examination of all breeding cows required to increase cow fertility
would be central to the rehabilitation of clinical services under the
proposed Project.
Veterinary Research
2.41     Veterinary Research is carried out by (i) the Department of
Veterinary Services of the Ministry of Livestock Development; (ii) the
Kenya Agriculture Research Institute; (iii) the Wellcome Foot and Mouth
Vaccine Institute; and (iv) the Kenya Trypanosomiasis Research Institute
(para 2.19). The research mandates of these institutes will be streamlined
and specified during the appraisal of the National Agricultural Research
Project, scheduled for the current fiscal year. The present Project would
support the disease surveillance and vaccine production activities of these
various research institutions.
Cost Recovery
2.42     User charges for veterinary services are levied principally for
dinning in proclaimed areas under the Cattle Cleansing Act and for
veterinary consultations and treatments. With one exception (compulsory
vaccinations in 'scheduled" areas, para 2.26), no charge is levied for
compulsory vaccinations. Other vaccinations and drugs for trypanosomiasis
control are in general supplied at or near cost (with the exception of the
Newcastle disease vaccine for poultry, which is provided free, and rabies
vaccine), as shown in Annex 2, Table 2.40. The dipping fee is a charge for
services rendered. It is not a tax. In case of default, it can be
recovered only by civil action, not by arraignment in criminal proceedings.
2.43     Potentially, the collection of dipping fees is a major source of
revenue for the Government. At KSh 0.30 per dipping, even assuming that
only the 2.1 million grade cattle are dipped 52 times a year, the revenue
to be collected is Ki 1.64 million, which represents 21% of estimated
expenditure on drugs, sera and vaccine of the whole Department in 1986/87.
However, in spite of being largely subsidized, the collection of dipping
fees is poor (KE 0.1 million collected in 1983/84) although this is offset
by the fact that the service provided by the Government is unsatisfactory.
A pilot project in Uasin Gishu district has shown that the situation can be
improved (para 2.36). In that district, where 85% of the cattle are grade
stock and dip management has been made satisfactory, farmers are willing to
dip all their cattle and to pay a higher cost for the service (the fee in



- 17 -
that district is KSh 1.00 per dipping, instead of KSh 0.30 in the rest of
the country). Cost recovery in Uasin Gishu increased from 7% in early 1984
to 532 in early 1986 and is still increasing rapidly.
2.44     Poor cost recovery for clinical services (KE 0.1 million in
1983/84) is the result of three major factors. First, the distribution of
drugs, sera and vaccine has suffered from poor accounting practices.
Second, the drugs, sera and vaccine sold by the Department of Veterinary
Services are underpriced. Third, the Government printer is unable to
supply the Department with the required nuinber of receipt books to issue
payment receipts to farmers.
D. Issues
2.45     There are many issues faced by Kenya's animal health services, as
discussed above. The overriding policy issue is the extent tc which the
Government should be involved in animal health delivery. At present the
policy is one of extensive involvement. The Department of Veterinary
Services has played an important and successful role in pioneering the
spread of ownership of exotic cattle amongst smallholders. However, in
accepting to continue beyond the pioneering stage the operation of
intensive services directly related to the expansion of exotic cattle
rearing, such as communal dipping, artificial insemination and clinical
services, the Government has overstretched its resources and is no longer
able to deliver effectively. The situation hes reached the disquieting
stage where resources are being diverted away from the fundamental twin
roles of the Department of Veterinary Services which are: (i) the
safeguarding of the health of the national herd from serious epidemic
diseases and (ii) maintaining strict control of zoonoses (diseases which
infest both man and animals, e.g. rabies). The open ended Government
policy to recruit all veter.nary and animal health trainees (para 2.15)
further aggravates the problem of Government resource constraints. There
is therefore a need to continuously review the responsibilities of the
Department of Veterinary Servicer3 in order to maintain sufficient
Government resources in the core areas of Government responsibility. The
areas which require particular attention under such a review include:
- cost recovery and cost effectiveness;
- the employment issue;
- the tick control policy (para 2.37); and
- the integration of artificial insemination and fertility
investigation (para 2.40).
These areas would be covered in an annual review of the work plan and
budget of the Department of Veterinary Services. Meanwhile, alternative
delivery systems for addrescing more effectively the other needs of farmers
would be actively explored (Annex 4).
2.46     Thus, the strategy underlying the rehabilitation of the
Government-run animal health services and pursued in the proposed Project
aims at several goals. One is to increase user charges for animal health
services and to limit the expansion of staff. A second is to discontinue
those services which do not address the needs of the farmers and are not



- 18 -
cost effective, while a third would be to provide more effective services
by encouraging private initiatives into areas such as clinical services and
dip management which are beyond the capacities and the core responsibility
of the Government.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept
Obiectives
3.01     The main objective of the Project is to develop a viable and
sustainable institutional framework for the effective delivery of animal
health services.  To achieve thi's objective, the Project would reh.bilitate
the Government's animal health services throughout the country by:
(i)     developing an effective planning, budgeting and monitoring
capacity in the Department of Veterinary Services, based on
more effective management information systems and consistent
with the overall efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development in thl3 area;
(ii)     using management information to define more sharply the role
of Government services in animal health delivery;
(iii)     establishing strong front line operational systems which
would provide the field staff with detailed operating and
supervision guidelines reflecting proven and effective
systems for delivery of animal health services and for
recovery of costs;
(iv)     re-equipping the Department of Veterinary Services with the
required laboratory and other equipment and with vehicles;
(v)     supporting the Department's operations for disease aind pest
control; disease surveillance and investigation; tick
control; clinical services and extension on herd health; and
(vi)     supporting trials to develop cheaper methods of tsetse fly
and tick-borne disease control.
3.02     The Project would encourage the establishment of private
veterinary practices by gradually withdrawing the subsidies on clinical
services and by exploring the opportunities to contract out services like
dip management and artificial insemination. In parallel, although
separately from the proposed Project, a pilot project is being developed to
test the effectiveness of veterinary services delivered by contracted
private practitieners instead of the Government. A pre-design fact-finding
study for the pilot was funded by the World Bank and completed in April
1986. The Kenya Veterinary Association would implement the pilot. This
Association is a non-Government organization managed by Kenya's
veterinarians. Several donors are interested in financing the pilot. If
the pilot is successful, a second phase project could expand the area
covered by contracted private veterinary services.



- 19 -
3.03     By exploring the opportunities for expanded private veterinary
practice, the Project would de-elop the long term solution to the growing
problem of overstaffing in the Department of Veterinary Services. The
problem of overstaffing, however, requires a Government-wide approach as it
is not confined tc the Department of Veterinary Services but affects the
entire Government. Nevertheless, the Project would contribute at its level
to the Government-wide solution by excluding staff costs from Project
financing. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that salary
expenses within the Department of Veterinary Services would be maintained
at levels not exceeding 50% of tha Department's total operating costs.
(Within the increased budget allocated to the Department in 1986/87, this
percentage can be considered a maximum - Annex 3).
Rationale for the Prolect
3.04     The Project would represent the first step of a longer term
program to support one of Kenya's key agricultural subsectors which ranks
high in the Government's priorities for achieving food self sufficiency
(para 1.09) and is an important contributor to agricultural production and
to farm incomes. The Project fits well into our agricultural strategy
(para 1.10). External support is essential to consolidate the gains made
since independence in improving the genetic stock of Kenya's cattle herd
and in providing livestock health protection. The Project would support an
institutionb-bilding effort in line with the institutional reform
activities generally supported by IDA. The Government wishes IDA to
continue to play a lead role in developing the subsector. The financial
contribution of IDA is necessary to cover the external financing
requirements of the Project which exceed the amounts available from other
concessional sources.
Summary Description
3.05     The Project would include the following components:
(i)     the development of strategic management and information
systems designed to strengthen the Government policy-maKing,
planning, budgeting and monitoring systems in animal health;
(ii)     the development of detailed operating and supervision
guidelines for front line field staff of the Department of
Veterinary Services;
(iii)     training of the staff of the Department of Veterinary
Services to introduce and implement the newly designed
management systems and operating guidelines;
(iv)     support to disease and pest control activities;
(v)     rehabilitation of veterinary laboratories and support to
disease surveillance activities;
(vi)     support to the Tick Control Programme (para 2.35);



- 20 -
(vii)     support to clinical services and extension on herd health;
and
(viii)     pilot trials for developing cheaper methods of control of
tsetse flies and ticks.
Status of Preoaration
3.06     The Project is at an adequate state of preparation.  With Project
support, the Department of Veterinary Services is in a position to quickly
improve animal health delivery and to develop sustainable systems for the
future. The Project and Management Support Unit was established especially
for the implementation of the proposed Project shortly after the
Government's negotiations with IFAD and the key positions of the Unit are
now filled with highly qualified staff. In addition, the Department has
transferred the Epidemiology and Economics Unit, which has developed
valuable know-how on management information systems, from the Veterinary
Research Division to the Project and Management Support Unit. Technical
assistance to support these reforms would be provided shortly with UNDP
resources. Terms of reference exist and are appended. The UNDP technical
assistance project is expected to be approved in a matter of days and
thereafter consultant firms will be immediately shortlisted and recruited.
It is expected that the consultants will be in Kenya not later than April
1987. Field services in the pastoral areas will operate basically
according to existing operating procedures for disease and pest control
while for dip management, the Uasin Gishu pilot project, which has operated
successfully for two years, offers a ready model for Government management
of dips in the most critical dairy areas. The reduction of Govetnment
intervention and the divestiture of certain functions in animal health, one
of the ultimate aims of the Project, would be achieved more gradually than
the rehabilitation of Goverment-run services, as the Project, acting
through a number of factors (more effective animal health delivery, cost
recovery and continuous monitoring of the cost effectiveness of services)
would make the choice of alternative health delivery systems increasingly
attractive to the farmer and to the Government.
B. Detailed Features
Management and Administrative Systems
3.07     Strategic Management Information System.  Quick and reliable
procedures for the collection, collation and analysis of management
information are required for the policy-making, planning, budgeting and
monitoring activities of the Department of Veterinary Services. The
development of these procedures, as well as of procedures for the review of
Department and district annual work plans, buAgets and reports would be
carried out with eight months of technical assistance for which terms of
deference are appended. Thereafter, the management information system
would enable a meaningful continuous review of the sc.ope of
responsibi'lities of the Department of Veterinary Services and the effective
monitoring of the efficiency and co3t-effectiveness of field activities.



- 21 -
3.08     Front line field activities.  The adequate specification of field
staff duties would sharpen the delivery to the livestock owner. For each
field position a description is required of: (i) its duties; (ii) the
program of detailed activities to be carried out; (iii) the method of
supervision; and (iv) the training requirements. Chapter IV describes
broadly how the front line animal health activities would be managed.
Detailed arrangements would be specified in a field services manual to be
developed with four man-months of consultancies for which terms of
reference are appended. Specific attention would be given to the staffing
of the tick control section to allow it to operate as an independent cost
center within the Department.
3.09     Veterinary Medicine Distribution and Stores Management Systems.
These systems would be designed to: (i) simplify drug stores management;
(ii) reduce excessive purchase and wastage of drugs; and (iii) implement
adequate accounting systems. Four man months of technical assistance are
included in the project for this task described in the appended terms of
reference.
3.10     Vehicle Management.  As a complementary exercise to the Ministry-
wide vehicle monitoiUng system which will be supported by the recently
approved Agricultural Sector Management Project (Cr. 1718-KE), the Project
would include a four man-week study to (i) review and modify vehicle
recording/monitoring procedures; (ii) propose the guidelines for vehicle
allocations and operations; (iii) help set up a systematic maintenance and
overhaul schedule; and (iv) propose streamlined procedures for the repair
of accident-damaged vehicles and for "boarding" (disposing of) vehicles.
Training
3.11     The introduction of new management systems will require training
of the staff from the Department responsible for implementing these
systems. The training program is defined in Table 11, appended. It would
be developed jointly by the technical assistance team (12 weeks of
corpultant time specifically allocated to training), an appointed Project
training coordinator and other training specialists in the Ministry of
Livestock Development. The technical assistance team would be provided
shortly with UNDP support (para 3.06). The training capacity available
under the Agricultural Sector Management Project, already approved, would
be used to implement the training program.
Support to Disease and Pest Control Activities, and to Clinical Services
3.12     The Project would strengthen the rinderpest, contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia and foot and mouth disease vaccination campaigns with the
objective of achieving a 75% vaccination coverage. Such a coverage would
produce adequate levels of protective immunity against rinderpest and
contagious bovine pleuropneumonia in the cattle population of the high-risk
areas after three campaigns. In the case of foot and mouth disease, the
target coverage will not completely protect the cattle population but it is
a reasonable target and should substantially reduce both the level of
incidence and the extent of production losses associated with the disease.
Disease and pest control activities would also be supported to cover other
endemic diseases such as trypanosomiasis, anthrax, black quarter and



- 22 -
rabies. These activities have been severely affected by lack of transport
and equipment and limited operating means (para 2.27). The Project would
include vaccines, vehicles, equipment, some staff housing and offices and
operating means to carry out the vaccination campaigns effectively.
Investments are listed and costed in Table 1.1. Vaccine requirements are
based on a 75% coverage. At a cost of K£2.2 million, they represent a
substantial in:rement over current levels of expenditure (K£1.3 million in
1985186). Vehicle requirements include 166 vehicles primarily for disease
and pest control, 39 vehicles for veterinarian supervisors and 16 trucks
for ferrying the vaccination and camping equipment in the pastoral areas.
(The basis for calculating vehicle requirements is discussed in para 3.21).
Thus, the total vehicle requirement for disease and pest control is 182
vehicles of which 137 would be procured under the Project mainly to replace
old, non-functioning vehicles. The main investments in equipment are the
camping equipment for the pastoral areas, the cold chain equipment for
every district and the diagnostic equipment for the new offices to be
built. A few staff houses and field offices have been included at the
request of the Government to complement the existing building
infrastructure.
3.13     Project support for clinical services would restore operational
capacity linked to realistic rates of charging for services. The Project
would aim to increase the contact between the trained veterinarians and the
livestock owners, particularly in those areas where the indigenous cattle
have been up-graded by crossbreeding. Expenditures under this component
include (i) drugs and sera for about 800,000 treatments annually over the
period of the Project (five years); (ii) the instruments required for
animal health assistants to perform simple clinical interventions (a
drenching gun for de-worming, a burdizzo for castrations, a de-horning
iron, a syringe, needles and a clinical thermometer); (i$i) bicycles for
the animal health assistants and for livestock officers; and (iv)
motorcycles for the veterinary supcrvisors. Operating expenditures would
include vehicle operating costs and motorcycle and bicycle allowances
(Table 1.4 appended).
3.14     Once rehabilitation is initiated, the cost of operating the
combined disease and pest control and clinical services will be the
following (in prices of December 1986):
Cost of Disease and Pest Control plus Clinical Services
Total Costs                Cost per head of Cattle
KE00    US$000            K£           KShs          US$
Staff Costs        4,735      5,919           0.43          8.6           0.54
Other Operating
Costs It       5,099      6,374           0.46          9.2           0.58
Total              9,834    12,293            0.89         17.8           1.12
_/ Includes vehicle replacements and building maintenance,
which in the Government budget cater for depreciation



- 23 -
Rehabilitation of Veterinary Laboratories and Support to Disease
Surveillance Activities
3.15     Disease surveillance activities are an essential part of any
disease control program. They should include the investigation of suspect
outbreaks, including identification of the causative agents, the monitoring
of vaccination campaigns to ensure that vaccination coverage and levels of
immunity are being satisfactorily maintained in the tai get population,
estimates of disease incidence to ascertain that control measures are
having the desired effect and the investigation of those aspects of the
epidemiology of the disease in question that may affect control activities.
The Project would include construction of cold rooms, laboratory equipment,
vehicles and other equipment, and operating costs. Detailed costs appear
in Table 1.3. Some minor costs, marked with an asterisk in Annex 2, Table
2.16, would be financed by the British Overseas Development Agency and have
therefore been excluded from the expenditures under this Project.
3.16     The costs of disease surveillance after rehabilitation would be
the following (in prices of October 1986):
Total Costs          Cost per head of Cattle
KEOOO   US$000    Kf            KShs           US$
Staf Costs           1,500     1,875     0.14          2.7           0.17
Other Operating
Costs           1,455      1,819     0.13          2.6          0.16
Total            2,955      3,694     0.27          5.3          0.33
Support to the Tick Control Programme
3.17     The Project would support the Government's Tick Control Programme
(para 2.35) with a view to strengthening the management of communal cattle
dips to restore functional efficiency. Thereafter the objective would be
to ascertain the farmers' wish to voluntarily participate and pay the full
cost of an effective dipping program. Where districts achieve full cost
recovery, the Project would assist in strengthening local management under
close technical supervision from the Department of Veterinary Services.
The possibility of contracting out the supervisory function would also be
explored. In districts with a high concentration of dairying, it is
expected that the Project can repeat the achievements of the pilot tick
control project in Uasin Gishu district which, after two years, has
achieved a dipping coverage of 85% and a cost recovery rate which is
expected to exceed 70% in the near future. In districts which are found to
have high dipping costs and only a limited farmer interest in
participation, the Department of Veterinary Services would be encouraged to
examine alternative strategies for dealing with East Coast fever.
Expenditures in this component include acaricides, bicycles and
motorcycles, seven tanker trucks, five-horse-power portable water pumps,
bicycles and motorcycle allowances and transport operating costs (Table 1.2
appended).



- 24 -
3.18     The cost of operating the Tick Control Programme can be estimated
as follows, in October 1986 prices. (The calculation assumes that 50% of
the grade cattle are dipped every week of the year and 252 of the zebu
cattle are dipped once a month - para 2.35).
Total Costs        Cost per head of Cattle 1/          Cost per
per annum                      dipping 2/
K£0OO   US$000      Ki        KShs     US$              KShs
Staff Costs   2,328    2,910        0.44      8.80     0.55              0.72
Operating
Costs      4,196    5,245        0.80    15.96      1.00              1.30
Total         6,524    8,155        1.24    24.76      1.55              2.02
1/ i.e. total number of cattle in Tick control area (5.27 million)
21 i.e. based on expected number of dippings as above (64.34 million p.a.)
Pilot Trials for the Control of Tsetse Fly and Tick-borne Diseases
3.19     New and promising methods of tsetse fly and tick-borne disease
control are being developed by the International Center of Insect
Physiology and Ecology (ICIPE).  The Project would support field testing of
a low cost strategy to control tsetse flies based on the use of traps
incorporating potent attractants. The Project would also include trials to
reduce the costs of tick control based on less frequent dippings (para
2.34) and on an inducement of humoral immunity in the cattle that can
damage the tick or interfere with the tick life cycle to the extent of
reducing tick populations. The tick related trials would (i) develop
criteria for recognizing trigger levels of tick infestation leading to
acaricide intervention and (ii) assess the effectiveness of the antigens
used to achieve reduced tick infestation through the induced immunity of
host cattle. Both trials would include an economic, social and animal
husbandry practices impact evaluation. They would be carried out by ICIPE
in collaboration with the national research programs in Kenya. The trials
would be held in Rift Valley and Coast Provinces and would incorporate
sraining of Government staff who would participate fully in their
execution. Expenditures under this component include research personnel,
vehicles, equipment, operating and training costs (Annex 4, Appendix 3).
C. Vehicles
3.20     The total vehicle recuirements (including existing and additional
vehicles) for the services under the Project have been estimated as
follows:



- 25 -
Tick   Vet Labs,
Disease   Control   Disease   Clin- HQ and
and Pest   Pro-     Surveil-  ical   Prov.   Pilot    Total
Control   gramme      lance  Services Admin.  Trials
Vehicles
4WD, LWB         166                  11                 4       1        182
2WD pickups                            2                 8                 10
7t, 2WD trucks    12                                                       12
Tanker trucks               7                                               7
5t, 4WD trucks    _4                                                        4
Sub-total        182        7         13      0         12       1        215
Tractors                               9                                    9
Motorcycles                                                               300
Bicycles                                                                1,200
3.21     Vehicles are needed first and foremost for disease and pest
control. In the pastoral areas, 52 vaccination teams would be established
requiring 52 vaccination vehicles on the basis of one vehicle for 70,000
head of cattle. In addition, 75 vehicles are needed in 30 high potential
districts plus 39 supervision vehicles, one per district, throughout the
country, thus a total of 166 vehicles (4-wheel drive, long wheel base).
Additionally, sixteen trucks are required to supply the vaccination teams.
For the Tick Control Programme, seven tanker trucks are needed to supply
the dips with water. Cattle dips and other tick control activities would
be supervised by the front line staff equipped with bicycles and
motorcycles. The vehicle requirements of the veterinary laboratories and
disease surveillance are detailed in the IFAD appraisal report (Annex 3).
Thirteen vehicles would be provided to motorize eight testing units for
contagious bovine pleuropneumonia and for other veterinary research
activities as detailed in the IYAD appraisal report. No additional
transport is required for clinical services which would rely on the mobile
front line staff and on the disease and pest control vehicles. Twelve
vehicles are required for the provincial and Nairobi headquarters (one for
each provincial director of veterinary services except for Rift Valley
Province which, because of its size, requires two vehicles; and four
vehicles for headquarters - for the Chief Veterinary Field Services
Officer; the Chief Tick Control Officer; for vaccine and drug distribution;
and for general purposes). The budget for pilot trials includes one
vehicle and two motorcycles. Because the above estimates are lower than
the estimates made during IFAD's appraisal, vehicle requirements would be
further reviewed by consultants in the context of the review of the
management systems for front line field services (see appended terms of
reference).



- 26 -
3.22     Because 90% of the existing vehicle fleet (about 300 vehicles)
needs some measure of repair work, the project will include a significant
amount of vehicle repairs. The total cost of vehicle repairs is estimated
in the IhAD Transport Study at K£440,000 (US$550,000). In most cases the
rehabilitation of a vehicle would include a new set of tires, a major
servicing, minor repairs and parts. The average cost of a vehicle repair
is estimated at 15% of the purchase price for an automobile and 20% of the
purchase price for a truck.
3.23     To improve vehicle maintenance and the execution of minor repairs
under the Project, the mechanics of the Department of Veterinary Services
will be re-deployed as shown in the IFAD Transport Study, Appendix 6, so
that each district has at least ore mechanic. Mechanics will be equipped
with tool boxes for each district and each provincial headquarters, and
building materials will be provided for each district to build a small
repair facility consisting of one vehicle bay with an inspection pit and a
concrete floor, an adjacent single vehicle bay with a concrete floor and a
third area of similar size for a store (details in the Transport Study,
page 21).
D. Environmental Impact
3.24     Project investments are not expected to have an adverse
environmental impact. Goods to be financed under the Project include
acaricides which are all organophosphorous compounds of a bio-degradable
nature. Organochlorine and carbamate-based chemicals are not used in the
Government-operated dips. Cattle populations have been severely depleted
by the 1984 drought, the second worst in Kenya's recorded history.
Threfore there is no immediate danger of overstocking. In any case, it
would not be appropriate to address the problem of overstocking by a
Malthusian policy. Even the long term risk of overgrazing should therefore
not prevent the Government from rehabilitating its animal health services.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
4.01     The Project would be implemented by the Director of Veterinary
Services who has overall responsibility for animal health activities in
Kenya. Annual Project work plans, prepared according to a pre-established
format and consistent with the budget ceilings, would guide the detailed
implementation of the Project. The annual departmental work plan would be
prepared by the Deputy Director of Veterinary Services, Administration,
assisted by the Project and Management Support Unit (PMSU). The Field
Services Division would contribute to the preparation of the annual
departmental work plan in the areas of its responsibility. The District
Seterinary Officers would plan district activities within their budget
allocations. Consultancies would be provided under the Project to assist
in (i) developing the planning and reporting systems; (ii) implementing
them in the first year of the Project; and (iii) training staff to use the
systems (paras 3.07-3.10).



- 17 -
B. Field Services
Veterinary and Livestock Officers
4.02     In order to upgrade the service given to farmers, veterinary and
livestock officers would be brought in closer contact with the livestock
owners. With 334 veterinary and livestock officers in the field, the ratio
of officers to grade stock is approaching the levels found in Europe,
although due to the small size of herds, there is a ratio of one officer
3,000 livestock-owning farmers (a significantly better ratio than for
doctors to patients in rural areas).
4.03     The level of expenditure and the  focus of the veterinary services
would vary depending on the type of livestock present in the area served.
In the ,ower potential areas, among the pastoral communities, veterinary
activities would continue to focus on disease prevention and surveillance.
Two routine vaccination campaigns are carried out during the dry seasons
every year. Vaccination campaigns must be carried out within time limits
imposed by the mobile nature of cattle populations in pastoral areas and by
the increased difficulty of transport in the rainy season. The main
vaccination campaign is performed between July and the end of September for
the two major contagious diseases (rinderpest and contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia). Vaccinations agairst other diseases and distribution of
prophylactic and therapeutic drugs are performed during the course of the
routine vaccination campaigns or as a separate campaign in the event of an
outbreak. Vaccination coverage targets (para. 3.12) and the time limits
for the execution of the vaccination campaigns determine the requirements
in terms of vaccination teams. Table 2.8 in Annex 2 shows the current
estimate of the number of vaccination teams required: 52 teams to cover
4,933,000 cattle. Each team would consist of:
(i)     a team leader (a senior animal health assistant or a
livestock officer);
(ii)     four vaccinators (animal health assistants or junior animal
health assistants);
(iii)     two brandersllaborers/assistant vaccinators (ju:ior animal
health assistants or subordinate staff); and
(iv)     one driver.
In each District the team would be supervised by a veterinary officer. No
more than five teams would be supervised by one veterinary officer.
4.04     In some areas of Kenya currently populated with indigenous stock,
the fodder potential, the market opportunities and the attitude of the
owners give good chances of success to an upgrading program. Such areas
require additional veterinary cover, dipping arrangements, enhanced
artificial insemination, market development and extension as a coordinated
package. It has to be accepted that such arrangements will not be able to
recover full scale user charges during the developmental phase and that the
level of Government involvement will be such that private services will not
arise spontaneously. Particular attention would be given to the



- 28 -
specification of operating guidelines for field services in these
transitional areas (terms of reference appended).   The programs should
involve the District Development Committees at all stages of formulation
and implementation, particularly in the awareness of the fee collection
responsibilities which will eventually befall them.
4.05     In the high potential areas, as user charges are increased to the
levels necessary to assure adequate cost recovery, the farmer will demand a
quality of service which assures him of increased income. Cow fertility
levels would become a focus of animal health services, including routine
pregnancy testing as part of the artificial insemination package. To
facilitate closer identification between the veterinary staff and farmers,
the District Veterinary Officer would encourage his staff to form discrete
teams within the district, for example one in each division. These teams
would operate at the dip site during dippings, along fixed routes and would
be available for consultation at the office or for farm visits on request.
Rather than traditional vaccination campaigns, a continuous program would
provide these areas with six-monthly vaccination visita. With fewer
animals vaccinated each day, the veterinary staff would devote more time to
treating other animals and to discussing improved animal husbandry
techniques for higher livestock productivity.
4.06     Control of tick-borne diseases is a prerequisite for the survival
of grade dairy stock. Veterinary officers would be responsible for
collecting dip samples and acting on the results to ensure that the dips
are working. However, the Tick Control officer and his staff would be
responsible for the administration of the community dips (para 4.09).
Animal Health Assistants
4.07     Animal health assistants are trained to perform minor clinical
interventions. Their activities would be programmed within an animal
health team, comprising three or four animal health assistants under the
supervision of the divisional veterinary officer, with a view to maximizing
contacts between the animal health assistants and the farmers.
4.08     In the high potential areas, the animal health assistant would
extend the veterinarian's cover. For example, in the case of pregnancy
diagnosis, the veterinarian would organise the visits that each animal
health assistant would make over the course of the ensuing week. The
important information which has to get back to the veterinarian concerns
the cows which are not pregnant (or cases where the animal health assistant
is uncertain) so that he can diagnose the problem. In this way the cost of
the service is minimized while the effectiveness of the highly trained
staff is enhanced. Most of the clinical interventions within the capacity
of the animal health assistants, for example anthelmintic treatments (de-
worming), castration-1 de-horning, treatment of some cases of mastitis,
hoof trimming and treatment of abscesses would be performed at the dip or
at the office of the animal health assistant. Other common clinical
interventions which call for farm visits e.g. recumbent cows, difficult
calvings and infections would be examined by the animal health assistant to
advise whether it is necessary to call the veterinarian. Those animal
health assistants who do not already have bicycles would receive them under



- 29 -
the Project. (The animal health assistants would buy their bicycles from
the Government). The budget allocations would be sufficient to pay the
animal health assistant their bicycle allowances. The animal health
assistant would leave a book at his office where farmers could always, in
his absence, report cases and where the animal health assistant would
indicate his whereabouts. In the low potential areas the animal health
assistants would continue to exercise their current role in vaccination
programs, disease surveillance and livestock movement control.
DiP Operation
4.09     For each district in the proclaimed areas the District Tick
Control Officer (who is either a livestock officer or a veterinary officer)
is responsible for the communal dipping program. He would be assisted by
dip supervisors equipped with motor-cycles appointed from the ranks of the
animal health assistants at a ratio of one dip supervisor to about sixty
dips. The dips themselves are managed by dip committees (elected by the
users) and operated by dip attendants. The motorized supervisors would be
responsible for checking the dipping records and ensuring that adequate
supplies of acaricide are available. Supervisors would also be responsible
for liaison with the dip c omittees that are deemed effective (about 502
according to the Department of Veterinary Services - Annex 4, Appendix 1)
and for reviving inactive committees. Given the enormous workload involved
in the administration of all community dips, the actual operation of the
dips would be gradually returned to the local administration once the
standard of operation is brought up to a satisfactory level and the
commitment of farmers to the management of the dip is considered adequate.
However, the supervisory function consisting in the inspection of dips for
operational suitability and testing of dip fluids would remain the
responsibility of the Department of Veterinary Services. Opportunities to
contract the supervisory function to able private operators would also be
explored.
Fee Collection
4.10     Fees would be collected for dippings and for clinical services.
Once the effectiveness of the dipping is restored, dipping fees would be
collected following the procedure developed in Uasin Gishu district, where
fee collection systems hive proved effective. in that district, a pilot
project has shown that farmers are willing to pay for dipping services,
prov ded the effectiveness of these services is guaranteed (Annex 4,
Appendix 2). By contrast, if the effectiveness of the service is not
guaranteed, it is illusory to expect that fees can be collected,
irrespective of the rate of the fee. Following the Uasin Gishu example,
the District Tick Control Officer would organize a program of fee
collections which would be publicized by the field animal health agents
(dip attendants and dip supervisors). District clerks would accompany the
dip supervisors on the day fixed in advance to collect the money. Farmers
would be given receipts for every payment as well as a dipping card on
which the dip attendant would record the farmers' livestock dippings and
their payments. With this card, the farmers would be informed of their
dues at all times. As the Government Printer is unable to supply the
required amount of receipt books, receipt books would be procured from
reliable local printers and issued to fee collectors.



- 30 -
4.11     Monitoring of dipping fee collections would receive close
attention. Fee collection would be calculated as the percentage of farmer
dues collected after the restoration of an effective dipping service. Fees
would be charged for dipping at rates which would be gradually increased to
cover costs. A primary objective of the Project is to achieve full cost
recovery over the life of the Project. The Government already has
satisfied one of the conditions of effectiveness of the Credit, which is
to increase the dipping fee from KSh 0.30 to KSh 0.50. In addition, it is
the intention of the Ministry of Livestock Development to increase dipping
charges to KSh 1.00 in fiscal year 1987/88 and to KShs 1.50 in fiscal year
1988189. A recent Government decision gives the Ministry of Livestock
Development the authority to regularly review cattle dipping charges.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would achieve
recovery of full operating costs for dipping services by completion of the
Project. Under the responsibility of the District Tick Control Officer,
fc2 collection performance would be calculated for the district as a whole
and for each dip supervisor. Finanicial management systems would be
designed to enable chese calculations to be rapidly available on a
comparative basis (terms of reference, para. 23). After an agreed period
of operation, the dips would be handed back to local management, at which
time a decision would be required upon the viability of each dip operation.
For those dips which consistently fail to recover operating costs,
committees would have to decide between the options of increasing the
percentage of users effectively paying their dues, increasing the charges
or closing the dip. Areas where dipping costs are high and there are few
grade cattle would be the target areas to introduce alternative tick
control strategies resulting from the pilot trials.
4.12     All compulsory vaccinations, including rabies vaccinations, would
be carried out free of charge. The present system of charging for
compulsory foot and mouth disease vaccinations in the "scheduled" areas
(para. 2.26) is counter-productive and would be abolished. The reason is
that such vaccinations are in the public interest. If there were charges
for these vaccinations and a number of livestock owners refused to
vaccinate, Kenya's entire herd would be put at risk. Vaccination for
highly contagious diseases must be compulsory and free.
4.13     Fees for clinical services would be charged through the sale of
the existing "clinical certificates" after each consultation. Charges for
clinical certificates adequately cover the cost of providing clinical
consultations (Annex 5) but would not include the price of drugs which
would be charged at the recommended non-subsidized Government retail price
for the private sector, including a 33 113% mark-up over the wholesale
procurement price. The drug charges combined with clinical certificate
charges represent full cost recovery. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would annually review user charges for
clinical services and would maintain the charges at such levels as to
achieve recovery of the full cost of operations.



- 31 -
Disease Surveillance
4.14     Disease surveillance is carried out by several institutions (para.
2.19). Rinderpest surveillance, which is the responsibility of the
veterinary research division of the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
at Muguga, includes (i) the serological monitoring of livestock
populations, particularly in the northern pastoral areas, to determine the
extent of protective antibody in these populations; and (ii) investigation
into the role played by wild game and the sheep and goat population in the
epidemiology of rinderpest. The organization and management of the
Veterinary Research Division of the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
at Muguga will be reviewed during the appraisal of the National
Agricultural Research Project, scheduled in the current fiscal year.
Surveillance of contagious bovine pleuropneumonia is undertaken by the
testing units of the Field Services Di,.ision. The Division at present
maintains four mobile units, two engaged in the routine testing of animals
in the holding grounds around Isiolo, one based in Coast Province and the
other engaged in the identification of infected animals in the recent
outbreak in Western Province (para. 2.27). Because of the lack of
transport, tlere is little or no surveillance of contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia in the other areas of Kenya at risk. Under the Project,
the existing number of testing units would be increased from four to eight
in order to cover such areas. The eight teams would spend about six months
in the field and would carry out their investigatory duties during thc
vaccination campaigns. The surveillance of foot and mouth disease would
continue to be conducted by the Foot and Mouth Research Institute at
Embakasi. Teams from the Institute would conduct epidemiological
investigations in the field and would undertake random sample serological
probing surveys to monitor the levels of protective immunity in the
vaccinated target populations. The central veterinary laboratory in Kabete
and the veterinary investigation laboratories of the Department located at
Eldoret, Kericho, Nakuru, Mariakani and Karatina, would conduct
investigations on samples submitted by Veterinary Officers in their area.
4.15     Every six months, meetings would be arranged between the
veterinary officers, the District Veterinary Officers and the staff of the
nearest Veterinary Investigation Laboratory (VIL) to discuss the pattern of
disease incidence in the area. The opportunity would also be taken to
clarify procedures for submitting samples and receiving reports, and
demonstrations relating to specific diseases would be arranged. Periodical
meetings would be arranged at which the directors of the VILs would compare
their experience and pool their results.
C. Project Monitoring
General
4.16     The monitoring of the Project would concentrate on ensuring that
disease control measures are properly applied and have the desired effect
on disease incidence. It would be too difficult, with the available means
of the Department of Veterinary Services, to evaluate the impact of the
Project on livestock productivity in Kenya, given the numerous external
factors intervening. Nevertheless, the livestock populations would be
monitored using district estimates based c-. occasional district livestock
censuses. Cattle mortalities would also be monitored by the field staff.



32 -
4.17     The Project and Management Suppcrt Unit would be responsible for
preparing annual and semi-annual reports containing technical information
on:
(i)   the number and types of vaccine issued;*
(ii)   the number and types of vaccinations carried out and
estimates of vaccination coverage achieved in target
populations;
(iII)   the number of outbreaks of Infectious diseases;
(iv)   the action taken in the investigation and control of these
outbreaks;
(v)   details of specific field studies carried out to investigate
the effectiveness of the control programs with particular
reference to rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia
and foot and mouth disease;*
(vi)   the estimated number of operational and non-operational
dips;*
(vii)   the estimated total number of cattle dipped and dipping
coverage achieved in the target population;*
(viii)   a breakdown of the total dipwash samples examined to
determine the percentage within the accepted acaricide
levols;*
(ix)   the number of doses of artificial insemination used;
(x)   the number of curative treatments carried out;
(xi)   the amount and tyte of drugs involved; and
(xii)   the number of cases of livestock disease recorded in the
district quarterly reports.
4.18     To monitor the control of rinderpest, contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia and foot and mouth disease, various data sources are
available. Issues of vaccine to the districts are recorded by the
Epidemiology and Economics Unit. The number of vaccinations performed in
the field is recorded at the district in the quarterly and annual reports.
Ther* are also estimates of livestock population in the district to provide
rough estimates of the vaccination coverage obtained. These estimates can
be cross-checked by the undertaking of brand mark surveys. (All animals
vaccinated against rinderpest are branded.) Reports on disease outbreaks
would be interpreted with caution because the number of outbreaks reported
may increase as a result not of an increased incidence of the disease, but
of more mobile field services and a more effective reporting system.
4.19     Monitoring of the Tick Control Programme requires close
supervision of the front line staff. The registers for collecting the
required data exist but need to be properly kept and collated at the field
level. With increased dip sampling capacity, the Department and the
districts would have data on dipping strength for all dips under their
management. Regular meetings would be instituted for Tick Control Officers
to compare costs of operation, problems encountered and successes achieved.
4.20     For artificial insemination, clinical services and herd health
extension, the annual and quarterly reports of the district veterinary
services provide information on inseminations and treatments carried out
and the number of cases of disease reported. Field supervision would
represent a critical monitoring instrument. The Monitoring and Evaluation
*        (Para. 4.23) ,



- 33 -
unit of the Ministry of Agriculture carries out periodic field surveys on
the performance of front line agricultural extension services. The
consultant reviewing the animal health field services (see terms of
reference) would review the methodology of the field surveys in order to
include data on the performance of the front line animal health services.
4.21     Given its experience, the Epidemiology and Economics Unit, now
under the Project and Management Support Unit (Chart), would provide data
on the items of para. 4.17 marked with an asterisk. On item (v), the Unit
has the capacity to design a study to measure the degree of immunity of
livestock populations, b-sed on random serological samplings, and to
collate and analyze the data produced.
4.22     In addition to the technical information listed above (para.
4.17), the annual and semi-annual reports should provide the necessary data
ons
(i)     the vehicle situation (para. 3.10);
(ii)     cost recovery;
(iii)     budget allocations and expenditures, including expenditures
on procured goods; and
(iv)     disbursements and outstanding claims.
Cost recovery rates would be collated at district level and analyzed so
that each officer or agent responsible would have an individual performance
review.
4.23     The annual an- semi-annual reports would provide the Project and
Management Support Unit with a data base on which to assess and compare the
impact and cost. effectiveness of veterinary activities in different
districts. It would be the responsibility of the Project Managener.t and
Support Unit to include in each report a discussior of its findings with a
view to facilitate the management decisions leading to a better utilization
of the Department"s resources. Annual and semi-annual reports would be
prepared according to the formats developed with the technical assistance
provided under the Project and would be issued not later than 60 days after
the end of the period reviewed. Districts would t. required to submit
their semi-annual and annual reports on the same items not later than 30
days after the end of the period reviewed.
Vehicle Monitoring
4.25     It is important for investment planning and management purposes to
have a proper vehicle monitoring system. Currently, monitoring of the
Department's vehicle operations is based on the worksheets produced by the
drivers under the supervision of the district executive officer.
Worksheets are summarized into a Monthly Vehicle Return, written on a
standard form and sent to the Ministry headquarters for processing. A copy
of the standard form appears in the IFAD Transport Study, Appendix 1.
Apart from the Ministry-wide vehicle recording system, there is also an



- 34 -
older established monthly recording system which applies to the Department
vehicles only. Districts or user stations complete forms giving similar
information to that recorded for the Ministry. The forms are sent to the
artificial insemination section of the Department (Chart) and are
summarized and if possible analyzed by that section. The reporting on
vehicles of the National Artificial Insemination Service (NAIS) is more
consistent than in the rest of the Department, enabling the artificial
insemination section to analyze the data on fuel consumption and repair
costs for the NAIS. The weakness of vehicle monitoring systems in the
Department consists of non-reporting, inaccurate reporting and lack of
follow-up.
4.26     With the support of the IDA-financed Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project (Cr 1277-KE) and the follow-on Agricultural Sector
Management Project (Cr.1718-KE), the Ministries of Agriculture and of
Livestock Development are reviewing their vehicle monitoring systems. The
proposed Project would ensure that the management of the vehicles of the
Department of Veterinary Services is consistent with the results of the
Ministry-wide review (appended terms of reference, paras 15-17). There are
two basic requirements to ensure the proper functioning of a vehicle
monitoring system. One is to develop an adequate reporting form. The form
used by the Ministry would be slightly adapted to produce the information
collected in the IFAD Transport Study, under a similar presentation. The
IFAD Transport Study contains the required information for operating a
vehicle monitoring system. The adaptations of the form would permit the
districts to directly t-1,ze the data they produce for headquarters.
4.27     The second requirement to ensure the proper functioning of a
vehicle monitoring system is to enforce reporting from the field. Since
the artificial insemination section has established a reliable vehicle
reporting system, under the Project, the technical officer in charge of the
artificial insemination vehicle recording system would be trained to ensure
the monitoring of all the Department vehicles. That officer would receive
the resources needed to follow-up and supervise vehicle reporting in the
field. Officers involved in vehicle monitozing would also be trained in
the field.
D. Pilot Trials
4.28     The pilot trials on the control of tsetse flies and ticks would be
contracted by the Ministry of Livestock Development to the International
Center for Insect Physiology and Ecology (ICIPE), through an exchange of
letters of undetstanding. The ICIPE research programs on tsetse and
livestock ticks have adequate scientific leadership and scientists to
undertake the required trials although one additional scientist would be
recruited for the trials to evaluate the technology in the field.



-35-
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01     Detailed cost estimates are given in the appended Tables 1.1
through 1.5. They represent the operating and capital costs of
implementing the animal health policy of the Government for the five year
period July 1, 1986 to June 30, 1991 excluding staff salary costs. In
addition, Project costs include the pilot trials to be contracted to che
International Center for Insect Physiology and Ecology (para 3.18 and Annex
4, Appendix 3). The following table presents a sumimary of Project costs:
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUNfARY
K& sillion         USS Gillion    I    Total
----------------------  ----------------------- oreign  Base
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Exch.  Costs
A. Disease and Pest Control  7.,  11.9  19.1   9.0  14.9  23.9   62    43
B. Tick Control Programme    5.9  11.6  17.4   7.3  14.5  21.8    66    39
C. let. Labs and Surveillance  0.8   1.3   2.2   1.1   1.6   2.7    61     5
0. Clinical Services         1.6   3.2   4.8   2.0   3.9   6.0    66    11
E. Studies, Training and Manage't    0.6   0.7   1.3   0.8   0.8   1.6    52  3
F. Pilot Trials             0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.3    50        0
TOTAL BASE COSTS            16.3  28.7  45.0  20.3  35.9  56.2    64   100
Physical Contingencies    0.8   1.4   2.2   1.0   1.8   2.8    64       5
Price Contingenctes       5.0   8.8  13.7   4.2   7.3  11.5    64    30
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         22.0  38.9  60.9  25.5  45.0  70.5    64   135
Project costs are estimated on the basis of prices prevailing in December
of  1986 and adjusted for inflation.  These costs include US$6.0 million in
duties and taxes and an estimated US$45.0 Million in foreign costs (taxes
and duties in the Project are relatively small as there are no taxes or
duties on drugs, sera and vaccine, a major item of expenditure under the
Project, and taxes and duties would be waived on vehicles procured for the
Project). Since Project expenditures are precisely definable and are
largely governed by the budget ceilings, physical contingencies have been
limited to 5% of base costs. Provision is made for price contingencies on
the basis of 10 per annum on Project costs to be incurred in Kenya pounds;
and 7.2% in 1986/87, 6.8% in 1987/88, 6.8% in 1988189, 7.0% in 1989/90 and
7.1% in 1990/91 on Project costs to be incurred in US dollars. The
differences in the rates of price escalation in Kenya pounds and in US
dollars are expected to be offset by a countervailing depreciation of the
Kenya pound.



-36-
B. Financing
5.02     The financing of the Project would be provided as follows:
--------Million--------
K£              US$      Percentage
IDA                                12.00             15.00       21
IFAD                                6.56              8.20       12
OPEC FUND                           4.00              5.00        7
UNDP                                0.67              0.84        1
Subtotal Donor financing     23.23             29.04       41
GOK                                37.73             41.52       59
Total                        60.96             70.56      100
Over the life of the Project, the donors would finance incremental
operating costs on a declining basis. To coincide with the co-financiers'
timing of the Project, which includes the three Kenyan budget years
1986/87, 1987/88 and 1988/89, the IDA Credit would include retroactive
financing for all expenditures incurred during the Government's budget year
1986/87 which began on July 1, 1986 (coinciding with the completion of
IDA's appraisal). It is not expected that retroactive financing will
exceed 10% of the amount of the loan.
5.03     The four donors would provide funds as follows:
Total
IDA      IFAD     OPEC     UNDP     Donors
Funding in $DR million          12.70       7.05     4.24     0.72    24.71
Conditions
Duration (years)             50          50       17       Grant     -
Grace period (years)           10        10        5        _        _
Interest Rate and/or
service charge (% p.a.)       0.75       1        3.25     -        -
Foreign Exchange
% of Funding                 64%       68%       82%     100%      69%
SDR million                  8.09      4.73      3.48     0.72    17.02
Local Costs
X of Funding                 36%       32%       28%       0%      31%
SDR Million                    4.62      2.32      0.75     0.00     7.69
The Government would pass on the proceeds of the IDA Credit, the IFAD Loan,
and the OPEC Fund loan, the UNDP grant and its own contribution to the
Ministry of Livestock Development. Assurances were obtained from the
Government that the Government would regularly review the Project budget
with IDA. As can be seen from Annex 1, the budget provision for the
Project for 1986/87 is overall adequate, resulting from an increase of 40%
over the budget provision of 1985/86. For 1987/88, it is expected that
budget allocations will also be adequate. As a condition of disbursement
of the second tranche of the Agricultural Sector Operation, IDA will review
the budget of the Ministry to ensure that adequate provisions are made for
priority projects. International Fund for Agricultural Development has



-37-
appointed IDA, which has accepted, as its cooperating institution to
administer the IFAD loan on terms and conditlons acceptable to IDA. The
OPEC Fund has also approached IDA to administir the OPEC Fund loan.
C. Procurement
5.04     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table.
All figures include contingencies. Amounts financed by IDA appear in
parentheses.
KRxA
Antmal Health Seryicos Project
Procurement Arrangements
(in US8 million)
Int'l    Local
Comp've   Coep've   Local     Direct       Not
Building  Building  Shopping   Contract   Applicable    Total
Acaricide, Vaccine and Sera        22.80     2.00       12.98                 37.78
(IDA)                             (5.82)   (0647)      (8.08)                 (8.82)
Vehicles and Equipment    6.42     0.71                                        7. 13
(IDA)                   (1.06)    (1.21)                                      (2.07)
Repair of Vehicles        0.5                6.80                              0.68
(IDA)                   (0.21)             (6.28)                             (0.44)
Operating Expenditure                                             11.84       11.34
(IDA)                                                             (8.67)      (3.67)
Other                    10.58     2.68                 0.82                  13.78
(IDA)                    t o.")                        k0-)
Total                    1.-28     26.e4     2.8a      18.06      11.84       70.66
(IDA)                    (2.07)    (65.8)   (t.70)     (8-08)     (8.67)     (15.00)
5.05     All bidding packages would be prepared on an annual basis to
conform with budgetary procedures.
5.06     Most new vehicles would be financed by the OPEC Fund although a
few would be co-financed under the UNDP technical assistance project (para.
5.18) by UNDP and IDA. In both cases, IDA procurement guidelines would
apply. (IDA would administer the OPEC Fund loan.) Most vehicles would be
procured in packages exceeding US$50,000 equivalent and would therefore be
procured by international competitive bidding. Lots under $50,000 would be
procured by local procedures (involving local competitive bidding and local
shopping) which are acceptable to IDA. The provision of Treasury Circular
No. 3 of 1986, according to which the Government will not procure vehicles
with an engine capacity greater than 2,000 cc, applies to staff cars only,
not to be the vehicles required under the Project which are considered
"utility" cars. The Government has indicated that, as an exception for
this Project, vehicles would be procured tax and duty free. Purchases of
vehicles would be limited to those requirements that cannot be satisfied by
the repair of existing vehicles.



-38-
5.07     New equipment, would to be financed by IFAD.  However, some
equipment to be co-financed by UNDP and IDA under the UNDP technical
assistance project (para. 5.18), would be procured through international
competitive bidding, while small amounts of replacement equipment (for
amounts not exceeding $50,000 per annum), and purchase of materials for
maintenance of dips and buildings (in dispersed locations) would be
procured through local shopping procedures.
5.08     A large number of the Department's vehicles are due for repairs
(para 3.22). Initially, the Ministry would focus on the easiest repairs.
Tires would be procured centrally from the Ministry headquarters through
international competitive bidding. The IFAD Transport Study indicates the
exact number of tires to be procured and the required distribution by
district. A specialist officer has been appointed in headquarters to
supervise procurement and repairs. On average, each district has six
vehicles to repair. For most repairs, the District Veterinary Officer
would not need to advertise but would only be required to obtain
comparative quotations for the District Tender Board to grant authority to
spend (IFAD appraisal report, Annex 3, para 19). Approved garages are
listed for every district in the IFAD Transport Study. Because that study
concluded that, for the first rehabilitation, it is preferable to have
vehicles repaired only by the nearest manufacturer's official agent
although they charge more than other garages, assurances have been received
that this practice is acceptable to the Government and is consistent with
the district focus procurement rules.
5.09     Accident-damaged vehicles require lengthy procedures for repair
(para 2.18). There are 22 accident-damaged vehicles, listed in the
Transport Study, Appendix 4, due for repair. A plan and a schedule to
achieve these repairs would be set up and monitored by the procurement
specialist (duties detailed in the Transport Study, page 14).
5.10     To encourage the Deprrtment managers to dispose of old vehicles,
new vehicles should only be supplied when old vehicles are disposed of.
However, such a practice would unduly delay the Project vehicle procurement
plans in the first year of the Project. A plan and a schedule to dispose
of all disposable vehicles would be drawn up by the procurement specialist
in coordination with the Treasury taking into account the various steps
involved in the "boarding" procedure (para 2.18). In the second and third
year of the Project, depending on the progress achieved in the first year,
it may be decided to supply new vehicles only to those districts that have
disposed of an equivalent number of disposable vehicles.
5.11     Construction, to be financed by IFAD, consists of prefabricated
offices in Kabete and prefabricated staff housing and office upcountry
(para 3.12). These would be awarded to local contractors following
Government or district tender procedures which are satisfactory.
5.12     The biggest single item to be procured is acaricide,  for a value
of $22.8 million. Procurement of acaricide must take into account the tick
resistance factor, as detailed in Annex 2, and ensure the continuous supply



-39-
of a similar type of acaricide until tick resistance appears. The
procurement practice of the Government, which relies on supplies from four
commercial companies (Wellcome, Bayer, Shell and Ciba-Geigy), is
satisfactory and would continue under the Project. Tender prices to the
Government include the delivery of acaricides to the dip site. Some
companies provide a dip testing service and/or undertake to empty and
refill dips. Most of the vaccines under the Project (representing a cost
of about $15 million) are produced and would be supplied from specific
sources. Thus, foot and mouth disease vaccines are produced by the
Wellcome Institute at Embakasi (para 2.19). Rinderpest and contagious
bovin, pleuropneumonia vaccines, which represent a relatively minor cost,
are produced at the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute. Drugs (financed
by the OPEC Fund) would be mostly procured by international competitive
bidding. A small amount representing relatively specialized lots (for
amounts not exceeding $50,000 per annum) (details in Annex 2, Table 2.35)
would be procured by local competitive bidding following procedures that
are satisfactory.
5.13     Consultant services involve UNDP financed consultants, to be
selected following UNDP procedures which are similar to those used by IDA.
D. Disbursements
5.14     Except for acaricides, sera and vaccine, parallel financing would
ensure that funding of different expenditures categories would be provided
by a single donor, as shown in the fnancing plan (Table 3, appended). IDA
would thus be the single donor for the repair of vehicles; purchase of
motorcycles and bicycles; transport operating costs; and maintenance of
plant and equipment. IDA funds would finance acaricides, sera and vaccine
upon exhaustion of funds available from IFAD. The percentage to be
financed for the different categories of expenditure are shown in Table 3.
The disbursement percentage for incremental operating costs (vehicle
operating costs and acaricides, sera and vaccines) would be reduced from
85% to 65% beyond specific thresholds (Table 3) to achieve disbursements on
a declining basis for incremental operating costs. Disbursements for
technical assistance would provide cost sharing for the UNDP technical
assistance project to develop the management and administrative systems and
to support the trials on tsetse flies and ticks (para 5.18). An amount of
SDR 1.27 million would remain unallocated.
5.15     The implementation period for this Project is estimated at five
years, based on past experience with similar projects reflected in the
relevant standard profile. It is, however, possible that if the Project is
implemented more efficiently and with fewer delays, the implementation
period could be reduced to four years. This would result in Project costs
being reduced by about 15% percent, or from $71 million to $60 million.
While costs would be incurred earlier, the flow of benefits would also
begin more quickly, so that the economic rate of return would remaj.n
infinite.
5.16     Disbursement categories have been designed so that each category
corresponds to an account or a group of accounts in the Government ledger,
in order that statements of expenditure may be supported by copies of the



-40-
relevant ledger accounts. Supporting documentation would be retained at
the spending station in line with regular Government practices and would be
available for inspection during supervision. All expenditures would be
accounted for in the Development Estimates of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock Development, budget head 611: 'Animal Health Services
Rehabilitation". 5 Disbursements would bu fully documented except that
disbursements for operating costs and local training costs would be made
against statements of expenditure, which would be prepared at least every
quarter. The Accounts Controller of the Ministry of Livestock Development
or the Director of Veterinary Services would certify that these statements
are in agreement with the relevant ledger accounts, copies of which would
accompany the claims. Statements of expenditure would not be audited
separately as verification of the relevant ledger accounts forms a part of
the regular audit conducted by the Auditor General. The ledger accounts
and supporting documentation would, however, be retained for inspection or
separate audit should IDA require it. Assurances on all these procedures
were obtained at negotiations.
5.17     The disbursement period (Table 4) is not expected to exceed five
and a half years, faster than the experience of other agricultural projects
in Kenya, ass
Mi)   the Project would be lmplemented by a single Department;
and
(ii)   procedures for claiming disbursements for the Project would
rely on the Government's established accounting system.
5.18     To comply with UNDP disbursement procedu,'es, a special
disbursement category has been created to finance the "cost-sharing"
element of the UNDP technical assistance project. Under this disbursement
category, IDA funds would be used to replenish the separate Project account
out of which expenditures for the UNDP cost-sharing would be financed.
Following UNDP procedures, disbursements into this account would be based
on UNDP standard Requests for Advance of Funds indicating the estimated
disbursements to the end of the expenditure period. An additional
requirement for IDA disbursements would be a statement of actual
expenditures. The form used to present every six months the Status of
Funds Advanced by UNDP would be acceptable provided it is duly certified or
fully documented.
5|The advantage of having all Project expenditures accounted for under a
single head reserved for the project are: that the Government accounting
system will automatically produce accounts each month for the Project and
with an adequate level of detail (para 5.17); that the Auditor General
will automatically audit and certify Project accounts as correct (para
5.17); and that the monthly ledger printouts can be used to support
Statements of Expenditure without further computation (para 5.15). This
system has been tested under the National Extension Project (Credit 1387-
KE) for two years and has had satisfactory results.



-41-
S. Accounts and Audits
5.19     Accounts:  Project accounts would be based directly on the
existing Government accounting system, which contains adequate controls and
produces timely reports. A special budget head (611) was created in 1986
under the Development Budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development to include expenditures eligible for financing under the
Project. The special budget head created for the Project has been
structured into subheads representing the different components of the
Project. This will allow detailed project accounts to be produced
automatically on a monthly basis. (Because of the recent separation of the
Ministry of Livestock Development from the Ministry of Agriculture, the
special budget head created for the Project would appear in future under
the Development Budget of the Ministry of Livestock Development.) The
Accounts Controller of the Ministry of Livestock Development would be
responsible for Project accounts and would retain the detailed ledger
statements for the Project budget head as the Project ledger. The Accounts
Controller would also maintain a continuous record of disbursement claims
submitted and prepare a semi-annual progress report on outstanding claims.
The Director of Veterinary Services would submit semi-annual accounts to
IDA, comprising a record of project costs (based on the Government ledger),
a reconciliation of costs with claims and the progress reports on
outstanding claims. The project accounts would also account for project-
related revenues (appropriations-in-aid) to oversee the monitoring of
revenue collection. These semi-annual accounts would be included in the
Project reports.
5.20     Audits  Project accounts would form part of Government accounts
and would be audited by the Auditor General in the normal course of his
audit.  Audit controls are systematic and thorough.  The Auditor General's
report to Parliament would contain a separate statement. of Project costs by
budget head and by line item. The usual delay from the fiscal year end
until the Auditor General has prepared his report, published as "The
Appropriation Accounts", is about ten to twelve months but final figures
rarely differ significantly from the unaudited monthly ledger figures, so
that the delay is acceptable to IDA. In addition, from 1984/85, the
Auditor General's office began submitting to the World Bank the audited
accounts for World Bank-supported projects in 'draft' (i.e. before
presentation to Parliament) about seven months after the year end. The
Accounts Controller and the Director of Veterinary Services would be
requested to explain any discrepancy between the unaudited ledger account
(from which disbursement calculations are made) and any of the audited
figures. Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations.



-42-
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Economic Analysis
6.01     Gross Project benefits represent the gross economic value of
incremental production, which is the difference between the value of
estimated productiorn achieved with the Project and the value of estimated
production assuming there is no Project. The technical parameters used in
the economic analysis reflect the possibility of a significant decline in
livestock production within the near future (Section II.C) if no action is
taken to improve the animal health services. On this basis, it is assumed
that the full incremental benefits would accrue over a five year period, as
shown in Table 6, appended.
6.02     The economic analysis has conservatively assumed that cow milk and
beef production are the only components o' livestock production. The
estimated impact of the Project on milk production would result from:
(i)   a reduction in cow mortality rates from 10% to 6% in the
smallholder farms and from 7% to 6% in the large farms;
(ii)  a reduction in cow morbidity rates;
(iii) a reduction in the calving interval by two weeks.
Incremental meat production would result from:
(i)   lower mortality rates;
(ii) higher fertility (reduced calving intervals); and
(iii) faster growth rates per head of cattle.
At full development, the incremental output of the Project would amount to
104,000 tons (or about 100 million liters) of milk and about 31,900 tons of
beef equivalent (including heifers for an equivalent amount of 12,800 tons
of beef). However, increased output over the present level of production
would be only 28,000 tons of milk and 12,400 tons of beef. This is because
a large part of the incremental output would merely offset the decline in
production that would occur in the absence of the Project. Annex 6
provides details.
6.03     Project benefits are based on economic prices as follows.  In the
case of milk, the economic farmgate price of KShs 3.00 (K£O.15 or US$0.19),
reflects the lower range of actual domestic market prices in Kenya (para
2.05) and thereby takes into account the risk of occasional gluts, as in
1986. World prices of dairy products (equivalent to US$0.13 per liter) are
not considered to validly reflect economic prices because of the large
subsidies prevailing on the world market. The economic price of beef is
the import parity price (Table 5b) because the incremental output of beef
is expected to be absorbed by the domestic market. Kenya has virtually
lost its net exporting position (para 2.06).
6.04     Project costs include incremental Government and farmer costs.
The incremental Government costs are the costs, adjusted for direct and
indirect taxes, over and above the costs that the Government would incur if
there were no Project. These latter costs are assumed equal to the costs



-43-
incurred by the Government in 1985/86 for animal health services. Aside
from the tax element, prices of goods included in the Project costs are
approximately at their economic level. The following table shows how the
Government costs, in economic terms, are calculated.
Im,pct of the Project on Government Costs
(K-F Milion)
1986/87  1987/88  1989/89  1989/90  190/91
thereafter
Government costs with
the Proj3ct (Table 1)
Base Costs                   9.2      11.8    10.7    9.B a     9.8 1/
Physical contingencies       0.5       0.6     0.5    0.5       0.5
Total (in December 1986 prioces)   77
Government costs without
the project  /               95.       9.6             9.9      9.6
Incromental Govornment Cost.   V7 E7 El                  E 
Adjustment for txes
Direct taxes 8/              0.0       0.2     0.1    0.0       0.0
Indirect taxo7 4/            0.1       0.1     0.1    0.0       0.0
Sub-total tax ayjustaint     9.1       E       El      El       0.0
Incrementel Government
Economic Cost.                El       il                        E
a1   Includes costs of private operators
2/ Government Expenditures in 1985/86 (Kf8.7 million + 10% price
adjustment
3/   From Cost Table Calculations
/    15% of incremental local costs.
6.05     Farmer costs include incremental purchases of drugs, sera and
vaccine, incremental labor costs and incremental cattle feed costs.
Incremental purchases of drugs, sera and vaccine exclude the incremei-tal
Government supplies already counted in the incremental Government costs.
Labor costs are based an opportunity cost of labor estimated at half of the
minimum wage rate, or KfO.45 (US$0.56) per day, for largely unpiid family
labor. Incremental farm labor would include (i) labor for milking the
incremental cows and for rearing the incremental heifers on the dairy farms
and (ii) labor for taking the cattle for increased vaccinations and
dipping. With the same total herd of beef cattle, incremental labor costs
for the production of beef are nil, as labor costs are essentially a
function of the number of cattle. Incremental cattle feed costs have been
calculated on the basis of parameters derivad from recent farm management
studies. Only dairy cattle feeds are considered while the costs and
benefits and intensive beef cattle feeding (an insignificant activity in
Kenya) are excluded. Details on farmer cost calculations appear in Annex
6, pages 6 and 7.



-44-
6.06     Project economic costs are summarized in Table 7, appended, which
also shows the flow of net Project benefits, derived as the difference
between the gross Project benefits and the Project costs.
6.07     Positive net Project benefits in all years (Table 7, appended)
underscore the economic soundness of the Project. Although the economic
rate of return is undetermined, the net present value and the cost benefit
ratio of the Project are high ($255 million and 5.7 respectively at 10%
discount), reflecting the fact that the investment to create animal health
services is a sunk cost. The services exist. There are immediate and
substantial benefits to the rehabilitation of these services, which make
use of the investments already sunk.
6.08     A series of sensitivity analyses for the Project ar^ shown in
Table 89 appended. A wide variation in benefits and incremental on-farm
costs are considered. Incremental animal health costs are quite accurately
estimated, as they are essentially pre-determined by the Government forward
budget allocations which are expected to reflect the 1986/87 budget
estimates (Annex 1). The greatest impact on the viability of the Project
would result from changes in benefits. However, incremental benefits are
numerically greater than incremental costs, even when estimated
conservatively, and the potential economic returns remain high and robust.
The economic impact of the Project remains firmly positive within the range
of all reasonable estimates.
B. Government Cash Flow
6.09     The following table summarizes the Government cash flow over the
Project period from the details in Table 9, appended.
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Governrant Cash Flow
(prices of Decmber 188)
1986/88  I08N/87  1987/80  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91
Gross Government Expenditures (Kf milion)
non-staff costs (Table 9)           (8.7)   9.2    11.8    10.7       7.6     6.3
staff costs (annex 1)                (3.1)   4.4     4.4     4.4      4.4     3.6
TOTAL                             (I=Y   1iJ      117   in.       ii       9.9
Cost Recovery (Kf million) (Tablo 9)   (9.2)   0.8      8.7     4.1     4.1     3.6
Government Cash Flow (Kf millon)      (11.6)   12.8    12.9    11.0    7.9     0.3
User Charges X Oross Oov't Expenditures   2X     as      24%    27%      34%     38%



-45-
The Government cash flow shows a reduction in the net Government
expenditure from Kf11.6 million in 1985/86 of Kf6.9 million in 1990/91 as a
result of an increase in the rate of cost recovery from 21 in 1985/86 to
362 in 1990/91. At the end of the Project, gross Government expenlitures
and cost recovery are expected to decline as a result of the Government's
withdrawal from certain dipping and clinical activities, most of which
would be handed over to the private sector.
C. Foreign Exchanae Flow
6.10     Because the Project is unlikely to generate exports in the face of
the rapidly expanding domestic market (fuelled by the combination of a
population growth of 4% p.a. and expected per capital income growth of 1-.2%
p.a.), the foreign exchange flow presented in Table 10, appended, shows a
long-run deficit in foreign exchange of K£2.8 million (US$3.5 million) per
year before taking account of the debt service. Allowing for debt service,
the estimated annual net foreign exchange deficit would be between K£3.3
million (US$4.1 million) and K£3.9 million (US$4.9 million) after 1990.
However, as the benefits of the Project are derived mainly from the
significant decline in production which would occur without the Project, it
is assumed that the Government in such a situation would be forced to
substitute the depleted production with imported meat and milk. Under that
assumption, the net foreign exchange saving resulting from the Project
would be about K£42 million per annum after 1990.
D. Financial Impact on Farmers
6.11     The farmers who would benefit most from the Project would be
pastoralists and the smallholder farmers who own most of the livestock
(para 2.01). Dairy cattle are predominantly in the hands of smallholders
rather than large farmers. Although the distribution of beef cattle is not
well known, it is approximately 35% owned by pastoralists, 451 by
smallholders and 20% by large-scale ranches.
6.12     Pastoralists:  In the pastoral areas, the Project would reduce the
probability of major epidemic diseases. This reduction represents the
major social benefit of the Project because cattle are the main asset of
pastoral people. If their herds are destroyed, they do not have
alternative means of existence. In addition, although the incremental
output of the pastoralists' herd would vary from pastoralist to
pastoralist, on average, the offtake with the Project would rise to 9.51 as
compared to 7.4! without the Project. Thus, for a typical pastoralist with
30 animals, the incremental production of the Project would represent about
2 animals every three years, or about 24% of his present output.
6.13     Smallholders:  The major benefit of the Project on smallholder
farmers with dairy cattle would be, as for the pastoralists, the greater
financial security resulting from the diminished risk of disease,
particularly East Coast fever, that can destroy their herd. The livestock
owned by a typical dairy farmer represents a substantial capital
investment. Two cows and two young stock are worth about Kf625, roughly
the equivalent of the family's annual income. The loss of cattle is thus a
major setback for smallholder farmers.



-46-
6.14     Raising dipping fees from KSh 0.30 to KShs 1.50 per head of cattle
would increase farmers' production costs by just over K£ 3 per head per
year or K£ 12 for a typical farmer with two adult cows and two young
cattle. Against this cost, the Project would reduce the probability of
contracting a major disease such as East Coast fever and would reduce
mortality from 10% to about 6%. With livestock at risk worth K£ 625, the
benefit of the Project to the smallholder represents K£ 625 x 4% = 'f 25,
more than two times the incremental cost of dipping (£12).
6.15     In addition, the Project would provide the smallholder with some
incremental income. The incremental benefit of the Project can be divided
by the number of cows to give the following incremental Project benefits
per cow.
Total Incremental                Incremental
Project Benefits            Project Benefits per cow
Quantity       Value   No of  Quantity           Value
(K£ M)   Dairy                     (K£ )
Cows
Milk            83 ml.l         16.8    850,000  98 litres          20
Meat            7,800 tons      5.7    8501,00   9.2 kg              7
22.5                                27
Thus, a typical smallholder with two cows (and two young cattle) could
expect an incremental income of 2 x £27 = £54 per annum (compared to the
situation without Project). Against these benefits he would sustain the
following incremental costs:
K£
Incremental dipping fees effectively collected
(KShs. 1.5 x 52 x 3.5)                     13.7
Feed costs for 2 cows  1/                               3.5
Incremental medicine   2!                               3.4
Fees for clinical services                              4.8
Total               25.4
1/   Annex 6, Tables 6.8 and 6.9
2/   Annex 6, Table 6.5
Thus, in addition to the benefit of greater health protection (para 6.16),
the smallholder would receive a financial benefit of £54 representing more
than double the annual costs incurred.
E. Prolect Risks
6.16     The risk of budget cuts preventing implementation would be limited
by the Government's efforts to rationalize its budget.  These efforts will
be closely monitored under the Agricultural Sector AdjusLment Operation
(Cr. 1717-KE), recently approved by the Board. Under this Operation, IDA
will ensure that animal health services are adequately funded in the
Government budget. Under the proposed Project, budget allocations for
animal health activities would also be closely reviewed every year. At a
later stage in the Project, the opposite risk may be incurred that the



-47-
Government would fail to cut its budget if alternative delivery systems
arise. This risk would be reduced by maintaining a constructive policy
dialogue between IDA and the Government on the basis of the annual budget
reviews.
6.17     Cost recovery constitutes another risk.  Past attempts to recover
veterinary costs have not generally been successful. However, the Uasin
Gishu Project (Annex 4, Appendix 2) has shown that farmers are willing to
pay the cost of an effective dipping service. Cost recovery systems
devised under the Uasin Gishu Projecc would be replicated and cost recovery
performance would be closely monitored under this Project (para 4.11). The
focus on district performance would allow a better assessment of farmer
benefits in districts where dairy farming is poorly developed (e.g. South
Nyanza). Where the pilot trials demonstrate that alternative tick control
strategies to maximal dipping are effective, cost reduction would be an
important component of cost recovery. The risk of the Government not
increasing the dipping fees can be considered minor once the decision is
taken to review the fees every year. As a reference, agricultural prices
have been regularly adjusted in recent years.
6.18     There is a risk that delays in procurement procedures and in
procedures to repair vehicles will plague this Project as they have plagued
the implementation of the National Extension Project (Cr. 1387-XE).
Implications would be more serious on this Project which involves
procurement of more vehicles and equipment. To minimize the risk of
procurement and of other procedural delays, the IDA procurement specialist
stationed in Nairobi would assist the Department of Veterinary Services and
the Chief Supplies Officer of the Ministry of Livestock Development to
jointly draw up a procurement plan eqch year as a part of the Project
annual work plan. A procurement plan ror 1986187 has been drawn up in this
manner (Annex 7). The execution of the plan, which includes a schedule of
deadlines, would be closely supervised by the IDA procurement specialist in
Nairobi. In addition, because of its involvement in procurement of
supplies, the Department of Veterinary Services can be expected to be more
efficient than other parts of the Ministry in handling procurement matters.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
7.01     The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(i)    the Government would regularly review the Project's annual
work plan and budget, with a view to ensuring that during
implementation of the Project, salary expenses within the
Department of Veterinary Services are maintained at levels
not exceeding 50% of the total operating costs of the
Department;
(ii)   the Government would annually review cattle dipping fees
and increase these fees in order to achieve the recovery of
full operating costs by the completion of the Project;
(iii)  the Government would annually review user charges to
clinical treatment services and maintain the charges at the
levels required to recover the full cost of operations;



-48-
(iv)   the Goverrment would annually review the prices of
veterinary clinical drugs and maintain these prices at the
levels required to recover their full costs;
(v)    taxes and duties would be waived for vehicles financed
under the Project;
(vi)   receipt books can be procured from suppliers other than the
Government; and
(vii)  vehicles would be repaired by the local representatives of
the manufacturer.
7.02     Conditions of effectivene.ss would include the following:
(M)    the Government would agree to an immediate increase of the
dipping fee to ISh 0.50 per animal and to charge drugs at
the recommended Government retail prices (this condition
has already been satisfied);
(ii)   the recruitmeut of consultants to carry out the management
studies described in the appended terms of reference.



-49-
Table 1
KNA
ANIMAL MEALTS SEVICES PROJECT
Table 1. Sumary of Project costa by year
-      -*   - -      _-- - ,                           -         - _-
1"06187  1997/SO  1998189  1989190  1990191   Total
I                                         l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kt 0001 
--------------------- ----- - ----                               -------- - --- -------------
IOPERAtING COSTS:
I                                                                                                      t
Disease and Post Control               3,138    3,14o    3,504    3,552    3,552   16,882
Tick control                           3,621    4,795    4,427    2,628    1,410   16,971
Clinical Services                        285    1,29      1,055      949      853    4,441
Veterinary Labs. and Survuillance         94       123      161      269      269      919
Studies, Training and   naumt            320       149      14       196      196    1,006
Pilot Trials                               77       77         0        0        0      154
sub-total OPERATING COSTS              7,537    9,57      9,293    7,594    6,29   40,272
CAPITAL COSTS
-------
Disease and Post Control                 602      859       790        0        0    2,259
t Tick control                             289      158       128        0        0      574
Clinical Services                         69       128      128        0        0      325
I Veterinary Labs. and Surveillance        524      417      304         0        0    1,244
I Studies, Training and Ibnaqent           123      ItS       20         0        0      265
Pilot Trials                              39        13        0        0        0       52
sub-total CAPITAL COStS                1,651    1,690    1,377         0        0    4,719
TOTA  USE COSTS in K&0O0               9,199   11,263   10,670    7,594   6,290   44,991
Physical contingencies                   459       563      534      30       314    2,250
, Price contingncies                       459    2,365    3,532    3,524    3,934   13,715
. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS in KOO          10,107   14,192   14,736   11,498   10,428   60,956
I Tazes                                     86      0         73       695      637    3,926
Foreign Exchange                       6,011    7,396    7,037    41646    3,740   28,826
*                                                                                                      a
TOTAL BASE COSTS in US$000             11,485   14,079   13,330    9,493    7,950   56,245
Physical contingencies in US$000         574       704      667      475      392    2,812
I Price contigencis in US$000              413    2,040    2,971    2,927    3,150   11,501
I TOTAL PROJECT COSTS in US$000         12,473   16,823   16976   12,994   11,392   70,559
a       .         .                                        1        12a 9.
-- - --- - - --            - - ---- ---   -      - - ----     -- - - -- - - - -- - - --- - -- --    a -



-50-
Table la
KENYA
ANIMAL UEKAL TH SERCIES PROJECT
Swuumary of Project Costs by Expenditure Category
(Kenya pounds 000)
                                                                            ,
Foreign    Taxes I
1996187  1997/88  1989189  1989/90  1990/91    Total                 Exch.
. . s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- - - -- - - - -- - - -
Transport Operatinq Costs                1,078    1,190    1,191    1,291    1,176    5,927         1        2,371    2,667
, Acco"adation and Allovances                132       132       159      159       159      740                   0        0
Bicycle and fotorcycle Allowances             0        0        79      103       156      339                   0        0
k aricide                                  3,300    4,25      3,960    2,231    1,122   14,53               a10,404         0
Drugs, Sera and Vaccines                 2,435    3,403    3,435    3,322    3,222   15,816                 11,071        O
Consultancies                              220        44         0        0         0      264      1          264        0
'Vehicle Purchases                         497       582       764        0         0    1,844               1,751        0
Vehicle Repairs                            216       210         0        0         0      426                 213       192
: Purchase of Bicycles and Motorcycles         0       256      256         0         0      512                486         0
Equipuent                                  763       451       302        3         2    1,521                 999      456
I aintenance of Plant and Equipsent         69       108       175      271       270      887                 571      266
1 Maintenance of Buildings                 223       362       289      215       173   1i22        1          379      189
Buildinqs                                   139      185        60        0         0      384                 115       58
a Pilot Trials                               116        90        0         0         0      206      I         206         0
a                                                4,,~~~~~~~~~~~~---  .....  ---- ---,82------              ---
ITotal Base Costs                       9,188   It.263   10,670    7,594    6,280   44,99l         '      2,826    3,828 a
F foreign Exchanqe                         6,011    7,396    7,037    4,646    3,740   28,826
a                                                                                                     a
a Taxes                                      886       980      731       695       637    3,828      1
----------------.---_-----------



1RNA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 1.1 Disease and Pest Control
Detalled Cost Table
hmnlwatity                               Unit                    ease tostsK(1000)                      Foreign    Gross  Siuay Foreign        Taxes
unit      (986/87  1987188  1998/69  198S7S0  (990191   Total         Cost  19J6SB  I 1987/l 1998189  19891S0  1990191   Total         Etch       Tax  Account   txch.
:  (II                                                            IU)     Rate            (I000  (lI;.OOO)
: P1878  cesr:
I irm rt BP. Costs
atuuilbalesUIl            000t         3,272    3,272    3,272    3,272    3,272   16,360        212       694      694      694       694      694    3,469        40     0.45 100          1,387    1,561
Tracks     (2)            00040 306                                  306      306    1,530       249        76       76       76        76       76      380        40     0.45 100            152      171:
s/total Transport Op. Costs                                                                                770      770       770      770      770    3,848
:                             caap*nq
AccoAllouanc  (3)          tea  days   7,445    7,445    7,445    7,445    7,445   37,225         13.0       97        97       97       97        97      484        0      0.00 tlO             6         0
:VYaccinsaesd Druplel
*   IKI Rindrpt               000 dosas   5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000   25,000          8.0       40       40        40       40       40       200       70     0.00 150            140        0
CB"                 OoOdosn s   1,86      1,9        ,860    1,960    1,860   ,300          it        20       20       20        20       20       102       70     0.00 15o             72 
Ebahtasi Fli Guad*tw.    000 doses   3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000   15,000           319      9S7      957       957      957      957    4,785        70     0.00 159          3,35'        0:
FRO Trivalent   000 doser,  2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000   10,000          245      490       490      49       490       490    2,450        70     0.0  150          1,7t5        0
FIe  Oxtalemt    000 doss       60       600       600      600      600    3,000       171       103      103      103       103      103      513        70     0.00 I50            359        0
EW lNonoilent  000 doss         900      900       900      90O      90    4,500         93        75       75       75        75       75      374        70     0.00 150            261        0
Coinrcial tmnder                                                                                           500      500       937       37      837    3,511        70      0.00 I5S         2,459        0
s/total Vaccios and Drugs                                                                                2,185    2,185    2,522    2,522    2,522   11,935
: Nlaatmance of Plant an  Eguipahnt
:  Vaccination eqwipt.51   nedules           31        32       64       127      127      381      638        20       20        41       81       91       24,       65     0.30 250            158       73:
S61assare(5I              units           1o        IS       25         0        0       50      11         1        2         3        0         0        6       65     0.3025                4        2
: ther(L6                                                                                                    5        6        tI       22        22       61       65     0.30 250             40        l1e
t~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~--                                                            ---      ---       --       ----
s/total Nuintmnancm of Plant and Equipamnt                                                                  26       28        55      103       103      310
Fi
: Iliatmacm aBildinags
: istfitts(6)                                                                                               55       55        55       55       55       275       30     0.15 260             83        411 I -
:  cruske(S)                                                                                                     6        6         6        6        6        30       30     0.15 260              9        S
:                                                                                                                                                                                                                :
s/total Nointance buildings                                                                                 61       61        61       61       61       305
:                                                                                                                                                                                                                :
:                                                                                                                                                                                                                :
:-tstal WMEATI16 CMSTS Table 1.1                                                                           3,138    3,140    3,504    3,552    3,552   16.882



:  ntstt                                Unit                    ha  costsIUOOl                       Forepig    6Brss  Suary Foreip         t"as
vit       19W7  1967108  199/   199I90  I"9t1  totld                Ct  19/7   t9win   11"38   Im190  399    total                  Etcb       Tax  kctat   Etc.h
:         Ut@}1(81    -)                                                           R ate          (K4000   WSW000)
CAPIT cmT
ildiap and lbrkstl,
mien                         medr           10       15        0         0        0       25    1,459       Is       22        0        0        0       36       30    0.15 409             11        5:
SZ   t. #Staff I s             _ er         10           IS     0        0        0       25   2,99         30       44        0        0        0       74       30     0.15 409            2a        IJ:
I   a ffbgS            _ehor         25       25       25        0        0       75    2,29        57       57       57        0        0       172      30     0.15 409            51       26:
Itrpwt cets                  prefebr.       45       55        25        0        0      125      t1o        5        4        3        o        0       14       30     0.15409              4        2
:    s/ttl hildiop ad Yorks                                                                                10"      130       60        0        0      2S6
:                                                                                                                                                                                                         :
I  towbem                                   48        0         0        0        0       48      220      1         0        0        0        0       It       45    0.30 220              7        3:
diSu; ticeqpip.tIB)  office              t0       IS        0        0        a       25   2,145        21       32        0        a        0        54      65      0.30 220            35       164
I  cold cin   uipmntlY9                                                                                     47       24       22        0        0       93       65     0.30 220            40       291
:  caminge PmttlO           nodule         24        13       13        0        0       52    2,717       71       35       35        0        0      141       65     0.30 220            92       42:
vaccine storallO)           module                                                      127      147        9        6        6        0        0       20       65     0.30 220             13       6:
Is*ttat  Elpipt                                                                                            150       97       63        o        o      319:
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I Vicle Purchae
I40  LO pick                 m               5        49       Sl        0        0      104   9,9S0        50      475      50        0.       0    1,030       95     0.00 200           978        0:
I  2n.oe  ti   pickup        unt             5         0       28        0        0       33  6,050         30        0      149        0        0      200       95     0.00e 00            I"        0o
:  4   Stan                  Unit            4         0        0        0        0        4   25,300      lOt        0        0        0        0      101       95     0.00 200            9         0O
s tstal Veicle Pchaes                                                                                      etl      475      674        0        0    1,330
ehicle rhbilitatius
CILIDS                  Unit           52        52        0        0        0      104    1,485       77       77        0        0        0      154       50     0.45 201             77       69:
20 2 & tt   pickup           wit            to        IS        0        0        0       3       908       16      1         0        0        0       33       50     0.45 201            1i        15:
I2l nt  trKc                 unit          1        17        0         0        0       34    3,740       44       64        0        0        0      127       50    0.45 201             64       57:
:                                                                                                                                                                                                         :
*5suit.a  i uci  .uuinnhraens                                                                            357      157        0        0        0      314
S t  Total ClITAL CUTS Table 1.1                                                                           602      an       79         0        0    2,259
I WtLM E COSTS TAKE 1.1                                                                                  3,740    4,000    4,302    3,52    3,552   19,140        62                      11,903    2,152:
Fetotuets
fit  lIfl 4praloti h    t, bee  3, tables 3.4 and 3.9
12) IFA  Apraiual  paI rt, Amox 3, tables 3.5 an  3.8
13) Ane  2, table 2.13
(41 Ammt 2, tables 2.9 ad 2.35
151 Ann 2, table 2.15
1W  ttilQ  ppraisl Rewort, AttacKht E, table I
(71 Amu 2, table 2.11
(S1 Ann 2, table 2.12
(9) Ann 2, table 2.13                                                                                                                                                                                    0
1101 Amu 2, table 2.14                                                                                                                                                                                    CS.
.-.



Table 1.2
lKMA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 1.2 Tick Control Program.
Detailed Cost Table
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$ b mfhiwt4.
:~ 'e.'ai t7m   aiae  sssio. 199019                                                                     Totaw tau   1 1wy 1                     tax"
do                                       4~~~~~~~~~~~()    3*.       alto) 833)
: - -  -    --                                                       --_                                                                       ---:-
- mu
8TrcaNou. IJ6es
I-                                                                                                                                                                             :
a                                                                                                                                                                              * "   0  m    I  S  so  is  n  n  n  0    .^  u  14 ,
IIaqd.dImm               Wqsof        0        0     8       1       213   2,402      U       3       0       4       4      1       2    7S    0.613 23 
| _sps dt_  6         0    o   "    b    n   ta   ^                          ^    ¢   u    "3 0             Z a    &    7 a      ." ItO                     S
I MwqduaIlsusus          uSWA ZV       0       0      20      14      i5    In5    Min                       12      a       65      78       8     .SU0             8       8Z 
:                                                                                                    I       I       I      I       S      *     Q45 lo             2
8wis3eI                  "6 lit.     73      m       US      849      is   1,     323    3,u    4,20   3           SO=    1,i2s  14,3        7     0.0            8,4        0;
: tiuw                   t          1,73   3,2   2,413    ,3    8,2         0,        2               7       5       3       2      :1      a    0.14 214          13       6.
:     bialp              dip        1,'M    3,l    2,6   1,51   ,low   lom,                 141t   32      t1      in       a      a        1     0.15 20         29      I25
. e.  umum clMlilil  as ts a 1.2                                                         3,16   4,765   4,427   2,U20   3,46  36,07t                           aa,4U       5.
a Ito taausl             m It          1       0       * 0             0       I2,360        I??      0       0       4       0      17      f 95    0.00           380      O:
: bcwcl                  mt            0      75      7g       0       0     t     1,37       0      1o     in        0       O     208      95    9.03212          1%       :
81345105               mot           a      300    3*        0       0     26       33       a      2S      25      G       0      Si      95    8.1212            J7      0:
:ewpo                    ou4  t        I       4               *       0       7      ss      4                       0       0       4      A5    0.34 220              s    :
:huburrt.rs              out           3       S       0       0       0      162,1          30       10      0       0 o        o    6      50    0.4 208          30      217
:    atr    IA      e utOMt 1e 0                             e 0     9            ,        20 7                     0       0      7 O 4    5    *.39211           #       2:
: 3* 1 tot tal WIl.131   *, 3.2                                                              255    I85      323      e       e     574                            494      51:         
: & UK 1M  145 1.2                                                                       3,0    4,9S   4,65    2,M    1,480  17,45                             1 la,32    asi:
(II glatit,ps IFEi #pa1u8 i.Wt, bu    3, table 3.                                                                                                                                            5
ouit Cofts I 313 herhissi hprt, buss 3, tamle 3.9.
12) kms 2, tabt 2.is
(33 UV0 txpaasa hmpm, am" 3, tibias 3.4, 3.5 aud 3.6
041 Fi4 tirtsa  bWt, bus 3, tile 3.12
(Si If 1   4udisl  _pt, bu  3 tales 3.i a2 3.30
183 bu  2, Wf 365



KENYA
ANIHAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 1.3 Veterinary Laboratories and Surveillance Activities
Detailed Cost Table
: hastliy                                                                                        bit                    kwt costsIUOO                         Fuep    bira S-~t feare             1is .
S olt     19W97  19I8          MIN9     I I9    99191 tO   Total    Ct  t9EU/87  £7/U   819/   1989/9            0/91   Totat      Each       Ta  kccot   Each.
899                                                              x1£    Sate           (At@e0  tUOOO
:WfITINB WIT
Truept 0. Cats                                                                                            b0e                60      10       120      420       40     0.45100            166      119.
Cm  outs .21                                                                                              4        4        4        4        4       20        0    0.00  01b                      9 0
Fe  IastA4ttul3)                                                                                          2                                   2 22    1         a     0.00 10              0        0:
W et. LAM. OANte4                                                                                            2        2        2         2        2       10        0     0.00 l110            0        t
s/tot   kal  sosbllaco                                                                                   8        a         6        6        a       40
:                                                                                                                                                                                                         :
£ lyugm   ad Ltivetock                                                                                                                                                                                                   IJI
M ISI nhowpt att5                                                                                            7        1        t         7        7       35       65     0.3 25e             23         1:l
CM  bits (2)                                                                                                 1        1        1         1        1       5        65     0.30 250             3        2:
:  FU lostitste)                                                                                            IS       15        0       45       45       150       65     *.30 25*            98       45.
:  Vt. taw. (*eto(                                                                                           S        6       ti       22       22       46         5     4.30 250            4        20:
: ittejl f pumt       LissitAc                                                                              28       29                 7        is     256
: :na
I  UlR r&W  pnt mtiS                                                                                         0        2        2        2         2        6       65     1.30250              5        2;
:       guts t2)                                                                                             0        2        2        2        2         a       635    .30 250              5        2:
Fe  lastitatt U                                                                                              0        9       t0       it       IV        57       65    0.30 3e              37       17:
vat. biner  ghasa(l8                                                                                     *        5        12      20       25        67       65     0.3  250            44       20
s/total 4Iquamt biDue         e                                                                              0       is       20       6        Y4       140                                              :
1 baetea te hald"es9i                                                                                      0        I        18       18       to       62       30     0.15200             89t       I
:i-totaL W *11C WITS t91. 1.3                                                                               9       123       161     269      269       918                                 444       17:
C OITA  CITS
- ---------_
:lIdsesp am  brs05
:  kit r      poswt uuatt0)                                                                                  5        0        0        O        O        S        5      0.3  2h              3        2:
Vet. Lsta K        411)    cold ra       2         1        1        0        0        4  68,200       13        61       68        0         0      273       65     0.3v220            177       a.
:et.IRV 1          (idt)     colt ri         0        2        2         0        0        4  66,200         0      13       13t6       0        0      273       65     0.302A M7   m                                         (6
/intat 4l baldiP aad  woks                                                                             241      20       205        0        0      551



KENYA
ANIAL HEAlLTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 1.3 Veterinary Laboratories ad Surwvilla-e Activities
Detailed Cost Table (cout'd)
;hIb4tato ut                                                 Om  ceststUm                        freap    6rkI   S    -I  hr Fuap       1
;  e       oeiai twsI IU    IWA s7      ,eII  , I ,9. IVioa   letal  tat  )9 )  1w9713  19        11        1990191   Total    Etcl      tax t kact   Etci.
12)    Sate     14tow)  "Ml00
:                                               tlU                                                           {U      | tQ           Z4}       } :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a t
---------- ____- -  - _ -  __    _ _*_-_ _ _-    * __*__-__-_--- ---
: URt *s t zt(l§                                                             t   #~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6                   63 e        .s6 224                 :
o f0 bats 121
;    Lab"p"                 at              4        a                0 o4 e            *    600        2&        0        0        e        1      2        65     0.3. 22            17        a
:    Ca iasoqea~mest       team t                   0        0        0        0        4    1,          7        e        0        0       0        7       65    0.3  220             4        ;:
F fS  lattatdoi2)                                                                                       191       0        0        0       0      191       65    0.36 220           124       5T
W et. Liat   obes (t1)
Lab m  m   t                                                                                       21       91       7        6        0      126      65    0.16 220             12        i:2
c aw" m        pgAtal3s  to"                2       e        e        0        0        2   3,300        7        0        O        0       0        7       A5    0.3 22e              4        2:
:  vet. In La  41t)
:    Labequlook                                                                                          7       47       22        0       0       76       65    e.3  220            4        2'
*    £04040 ipqsetU3II                                                                              7        6       0        e        4        7      65    0.36 220              5       2*
:  sitei Eqm t                                                                                         24       In        29        0              441;
I                                                                                                                                                    .                     Xn~
'ocA Xtsiwckm(1U                                                                                                6 5      ?e        O       e      229       95    4.e028K            21ii       e         
TT.        c                                                                                                                                                                                    . .
:Sob Total Witl MM   tabl  1.3                                                                        Su   541t?        36         0        a  t,244                 I        t        4      36is
.   A M e cm       tau 1.3                                                                           64       so0      4        260      269   2,162       61                      1,314      25i
Foetoete
CI)  M    rstsu      t,   ieem   3, tolmes 3.9
t2) ho    2, t6l 2.21
13) Asef 2, tLAb    224
£41 bast  2, tab)l  2. 
5     a 2, tablo 2.17
(o) Awoft 2, tabe ;;2e
471 IFD aWraoist oes o, to caer etra costs
Di IaaM ud tactim  PrOiwtaea
SB) Aee  2, table L39
ta 5 of bdutial& I oks costs itder capital costs)
(IO#mm 2, Utae 2.16
ill,t be 2, 0*lo 2.16
tt2i Aims 2, table 2.22
tl31 Ame  2, table 2.37
4141 I"F    Aur  l iAwrt, bwe3., table 2.lO



KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 1.4 Clinical Services
Detailed Cost Table
bhtintI                               hit                    hue sadtsItU$  )                    rwFe      krn  Sw, Foruo            tlSo
uvst    t1i6;7     t       t7U1iW/il  9gn9      t t0/     total  cut  I m   t1m          I_wo        /90  1990/91   1it        bb       Tm t     nt    Ei.            S
:PEFATIV2 CrTSts
:--.-----------
,trt op. Cst              W'(          to       300      30       250     2      Im         212       21      64       64   *           42      24     0        9.60 to                    tIe:
tc. Alto       0        0      300     230      4        1,ow      3        0        0       1?       59      22       3               Cie I.01o                      t
:etv vcln                  Moto. dal       O        0       7       too     120      2"       as        0        0 e                      n 3                o 0    0.001              0        0 a
:  JtotaW  Alusuces                                                                               0        0       62       3       95      236                                             s 
Drp east  ra 42'                                                                                     23    1,21l      93       Ioe      70   3,1          iS     0.0              2,1? 
: Eewpu                    tlInsC         £B       to  I    s        16      14                         4 23  *  4        4       4        3       lo       65    0.L30 NO                       1
*wlacet t o  Eeuiuwt';                                                                                 0       13      13 3         13           52        5    0 L303W             34       at
%suitevan.e 1ualt4aa        Clio. cane  t                    0                0              SP        0         0        0       0        0       1        3     0.530                I        tit
: b-total CptERAfl  COStS Table 1.4                                                                                 I 'm299    166  9   on    4,44t                              2ml3         2 1
. ....... ..St.
, *- * *- * * *                                                                                                                                     t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    -
: {"lti46             t            16 e" to                   o        o       to     4e        49        o        0       e        o       a        a      o.16 m             a        a
. wt. 04 biylettl *                                                                           Is    50         a O e          o           05e            x         sees n  4.40 2t 2  a        Ot
Pw  tUt w tottztl"         unt       e            7    n5            0    e      e3        Im    ,             to      m          0    e       e 6         95  o.0  M         t O
S:ub total CWM.;t COSTS Table 1.4                                                                     69      1x      23         O        0     33                                 31        21S
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    ---- 
TOTAL Fi3E tCStS TIlLE 1.4                                                                          3A    1,4V7    1,1         919      as   4,6?         (A11                              1
t ~ ~
.... ..._.....................  - ------------------------------------ __b_ __ __ 
Foaotw3t01                                                                                                                                                                                                         (I
:i nn ;. tables :.*I ad :..4 
'O xE ofsue nt saw capital costs
i4 .knn .. table ..4:
'  IN", 40r;odl Fa3st. A- e-' tabin :.*6 a   3.3
W  114T A'^auaS  1et*. AIbnel . table 3.l*



XENYA
ANITAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 1.5 Studies, Training and Management
Detailed Cost Table
hashlys                                 ht                     km COtclS£il&                         FMf Sp   arm  r              fdrigb   l1s;
:mit      19h187  III7IU3m/9 limp   1           I019*91   Total    ctt    ItJ    t9w7o   1908         1939/,  29*/9     Total      Each       Tu  sat         gam*.
*                                                                                                                  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)   Sate ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(am) 931
W4utalls  COBSTS:
tra; srt 4. Coste( t  aibatovua i    trs)UI                                                               5t       Sl       52      1t3       1a       3         4      0.f 100            144        ;
Taaseq, kctaaotis    d W11asom i2i                                                                        2J       27       54       54        54      2b.        0  O0.9110                 0 Io
PIutce Uarials  d  Stataoery                                                                               S        10       22       22       22       61      6U      0.362               53       24
Coalta ust    inmtbs                       20        4        0        0        0       24  11,0         220       44    O             0        0      264      to    0.00e t              204        0e
EIpipat flat$u0ac                                                                                          &        6        6         &        &       N        65     0.3 210             30        9t
Sh,uztaaae  4 hUid inp                                                                                    11       tit      It        It       I        5S       30    0.15 2e              17          :
NAb-total IETIIS CoStS Table 1.5                                                                        32       t 14      45        90      19     1,0                                   4"7      .04
htldaaqs(3)                                                                                                3       'iS       e         0        0       U        te     0.15 4"             26       1'
OffIce Equptbla
furaaubq                 eofficas        0        B        0         0        0        a      255        0        4        0        0        0         4       03     0.3622               3        l:
eicro-coapu s            wast            3        0         0        0        0        3   s5  e        17        0        0        0         0       t7       65     e.30 220            I         5
otietiloe                 Wifces        20        0         0        0        0       20      3n         7        0        0        0         0        7       A5     0.30220              4          .2
Tranasia  Eqmipmt                                                                                         14        0        e        0         0       14       65     0.3 23               9        4*
aitotal Espmat                                                                                           37        4        0         0        G       42
Purch sef Vahicleul4)                                                                                     45        42       2e        0        0      t0?       S5    0.00 2              102        o:
V; acle r"b11tatitol4)                                                                                     14       14        0        0        0       21       So    0.45 23 t4                    13
:                                                                           ---      ---      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~-  -  --  ---  --  --- : 
lb total CPITL COSTS table  .5                                                                           12£9     £t5       20        0         0      25        64     0.14               £49       is
1t. UKSE COSTS TuE l.5                                                                                   w        24        *65      90       19     1,271       52     0.19                6        M2 
Fuotnotes
13) IF4S  praWsul  _Wt,  Ann  3, table 3.9 Iairtabi a"  PrOVIaala  trts)
(21 _as  3  tabl. 8.1
(3l S p.afabniac   offics at  abel
14) IFS ipSWAtl ipWt, lao  3, tabln 36 as 3.310Uiirobi t ProwAial lwtrs



- 58 -                             Table 2
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Department of Veterinary Services - Existing Fleet of Vehicles 1/
Vehicles Available        Vehicles due
for the Project          for Disposal
Total             of which                 of which still
Fleet    Total    serviceable 4/   Total  functioning 5/
saloons              38      19         16             19           6
pickups 2/           90      27         23             63          17
4WD DPC 3/          344     202         137           142          30
4WD CSC 3/           31      13           7            18           6
mobile labs           4       1           1             3           -
trucks               79      50         25             29          2
tankers             13       13          9              -          -
4WD trucks 3/         7       3          2              4           -
motorcycles          38     nil          -             38           5
Range Rovers          6       -          -              6           -
trailers              8       8          8              -          -
boat                  1       1          -              -           -
Total           659      337        228            322         66
Notes:
1/ Vehicles for Administration, Disease and Pest Control and Clinical
Services only. (Not included are vehicles for Artificial
Insemination, Research, Hides and Skins, Improvement, Meat
Inspection, Tsetse Control, Livestock Marketing or Training).
2/ Pickup numbers include three VW kombis.
3/ 4WD - four wheel drive.
DPC - Disease and Pest Control.
CSC - Clinical Service Centres.
4/ Vehicles running at the time of the IFAD mission, but may still be in
need of major service/repairs.
5/ Sixty six vehicles or 20% of the 322 vehicles due for disposal are
still functioning, but should be disposed of immediately after the
supply of replacements.



- 59 -
Table 3
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table S: Financing Plan
(in USS amillon)
X Donor
Financed
IDA     IFAD     OPEC    UNDP      TOTAL    For.  Local
Exch. Costs
1. VEHICLES and E4JIPMENT
(i)    New Vehicles                                2.46               2.45    1ow    85%
i%)  Repair of Vehicles          0.40                                040.49
1i)  MotorcCycles A Bicycles      0.60                                1.60                U
(iv)   Equipment                          1.20                         1.20
2. CIVIL WORKS                                 0.20                        0.20
8. OPERATING COSTS
1)   Vehicle Operating Costs    3.38                                 8.80          (1)
;i)   Acaricido., Vacctne
and Sops                  7.94    5.80                       18.74         (2)
(111)  MaIntenance of Plant and
Equipment                 0.65                               0.56      199%    6S
(lv)   Drugs                                       2.06               2.06         9      s
4. TECHNICAL ASSIST'ANCE               0.76                      9.84      1.60     199%   100%
Subtotal                          13.59    7.20    4.59      9.84     26.04
S. UNALLOCATED                         1.56    1.00    0.56      0.99      8.00
TOTAL                             15.99    8.20     S.O   990.84      29.94
=:.    ma        am             
(1) 85X up to aggregate amount of SOR 2.9 million (US 82.4 million) and SSX thereafter.
(2) 85% up to aggregate of SDR 10.8 million (US 012.2 million) and 86X theroafter.



- 60 -
Table 4
ANIMAL HEALTh SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedgle of DiSbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                Cumulated Disbursee4nt at Quarter End
and Quarters                    ----------- SDR mdllion-----------
FY 87                           IDA    IhAD    OPEC PUND       UNDP
March 31, 1987                 0.00     0.00       0.00        0.00
June 30, 1987                  0.30     0.80       0.30        0.04
FY 88
Sept. 30, 1987                 0.60     1.60       0.60        0.10
Dec. 31, 1987                  0.91     2.40       0.90        0.13
March 31, 1988                 1.70     3.70       1.30        0.40
June 30, 1988                  2.20     4.60       1.60        0.50
Fe 89
Sept. 30, 1988                 2.60     5.50       2.00        0.60
Dec. 31, 1988                  3.04     6.42       2.30        0.71
March 31, 189                 5.40     6.60       3.10
June 30, 1989                  6.10     6.75       3.50
Fe 90
Sept. 30, 1989                 6.80     6.90       3.85
Dec. 31, 1989                  7.45     7.05       4.24
March 31, 1990                 8.60
June 30, 1990                  9.30
FT 91
Sept. 30, 1990                 10.00
Dec. 31, 1990                  10.73
March 31, 1991                 11.20
June 30, 1991                  11.70
FT 92
Sept. 30, 1991                 12.20
Dec. 31, 1991                  12.70



- 61 -
Table 5s.
ANI4AL HEALTH SERVICES PRJECT
Export Parity Price of Beef
1986          1989       1995
FOB Port of Entry, US$/ton JJ
(1984 constant prices)                   29120        2,420       2,520
(1986 constant prices) 21                2s300        2,626       2,734
Freight, US$/ton                              50            S0         S0
FOB Mombasa, US$/ton                       2,250         2,576      2,684
Handling and Transport
(Atbi River-Mombasa), USS1ton /I            35           35          35
Ex-factory, Athi River US$Iton             2,215        2,541       2,649
Conversion factor from boneless
meat to dressed carcssa weight
(d.c.w.)                                   652          652         652
Ex-factory, Athi River, US$Iton
(d.c.w.)                                 1,440        1,652       1,722
EZxchage Rate (ESha per US$)                  16            16         16
Ex-factory, Athi River,
KESh/ton d.c.w.                         23,040       26,432      27,552
Factory Margin, KSha/ton d.c.w. 41         6*500        6*500       6,500
Equivalent dressed carcass price,
delivered to factory, LShslton  *       16s540       19,932      21,052
Conversion factor d.c.w.Iliveweight          522          522         522
Livewight price, delivered to factory      8,600       10,365      10,947
Interal transport/feed/loss allowance      1,200        1,200       1,200
Livweight price on faru, IShalton          7,400        9,165       9,747
Equivalent carcass price on farm
IShs per kg                                 14.23      17.62      18.74
KE per kg                                    0.71       0.88        0.94
US$ per kg                                   0.89        1.10       1.56
11  Price of imported, frozen, boneless beef, FOB US Gulf port.
Projections from EPDCS Quarterly Review for January 23, 1985.
2/  Inflation indices: 1984a100, 1986-108.5
/ 1Rail Freight Rates, Kenya Railways.
41  Butcher margins are RSh2 5,000 per ton d.c.w., while KKC's is KSha
8,650. The figure retained is intermdiate.



- 62 -
Table Sb
RENYA
Animal Health Services Project
Table 5b:  Import Parity Price of Beef
1986         1989        1995
FOB Port of Entry US $/ton 1/             2,120        2,420        2,520
(1984 constant prices)
(1986 constant prices) 2/              2,300        2,626       2,734
Handling and Transport
(Mombasa-Nairobi), US $/ton 3/            35           35          35
CIF Nairobi US $/ton                      2,335        2,661        2,769
Coaversion factor from boneless meat
to dressed carcass weight (d.c.w.)       65X          652          65%
Ex-factory, Nairobi, US $/ton (d.c.w.)   1,518         1,730        1,800
Exchange Rate (KShs per US$)                 16            16          16
Ex-factory, Nairobi, KShalton (d.c.w.)  24,288        27,680       28,800
Factory Margin, KShs ton (d.c.w.) 4/      6,500        6,500        6,500
Equivalent dressed carcass price,
delivered to factory, KShs/ton        17,788       21,180       22,300
Conversion factor d.c.w./liveweight         52X          522          522
Liveweight price, delivered to factory   9,250        11,014       11,596
Internal transport/feed/loss allowance   1,200         1,200        1,200
Liveweight price on farm, KShs ton        8,050        9,814       10,394
Equivalent carcass price on farm
KShs per kg                                  15.48        18.87       19.99
K£ per kg                                  0.77         0.94         1.00
US$ per kg                                 0.97         1.18         1.25
1/ Price of imported, frozen, bonel-ss beef, FOB US Gulf port.
Projections from EPDCS Quarterly Review for January 23, 1985.
2/  Inflation indices: 1984'100, 1986=108.5
3/ Rail Freight Rates, Kenya Railways.
4/ Butcher margins are KShs 5,000 per ton d&c.w., while KMC's is KShs 8,650.
The figure retained is intermediate.



Table 6
KENYA
AmAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ECONROMIEC BENEFITS
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
Incremental Quantities
Milk (million liters)                    21      42        63        84      104       104     , 104       104      104
Beef ('000 tons carcass)                  6.4    13        19       25.5    31.9       31.9      31.9      31.9    31.9
Economic Prices (K@) (para 6.03)
Milk (per liter)                          0.15   0.15      0.15      0.15    0.15      0.15      0.15      O.15    0.15
Beef (per kg carcass)                     0.77   0.85      0.94      0.94    0.94      0.94      0.94      1.00    1.00
Gross Project Economic Benefit
Milk (KR million)                         3.2    6.3       9.5      12.6    15.6       15.6      15.6      15.6    15.6
Beef (KB million)                         4.9   11.1      17.9     24.0    30.0        30.0      30.0      30.0    30.0
Total (Kg million)                    8.1   17.4      27.4     36.6    45.6       45.6       45.6      45.6    47.5
a/ Annex 6, Table 6.4



BMW  lEgMC tirACr~~~~*l 
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tbe
18o/8   1987/8  118   18              18/819t   11t/2   1892/8   1O/84  1"I4/85   tertde
.-(Kf~~S mUll.o) (pimw dt m.e 1188)
areas Prolect Eeo.ole le"fits (TabIe 6)        6.1    17.4        27.4      8.6    45.6       45.0       45.0       45.0   47.5         47.5
Project Esnmle Co"
Iaermemnl t oIwt Cost  (prs(0.86)            0.1      2.1        Z.5      9.8 0     .8 *.8              0.8        B.8    0.8 '.8
Private drop S/                              O.0      0.4        0.7      0.9      0.0       0.*        0.O        ge    0.0 9                 1
Labor:                                       O.9      1.9        1.1       1.2     1.2       1.2        1.2        1.2    1.2          1.2    a
- alkimt  c ,  9t *l                                                       0.81     .8       0.8                          'l08 ./
- dip NW  vaccInatia  a/                                         e.: 3.@    re.:             0. re: $I  9e.                            .
Li vestoct fted                                9.8      1.4        2.1      2.1      2.1       2.1        2.1        2.1    2.1          2.1
_ milking cow a/                                                 1.4     (1.4)    (I.4)     (1.4)                          1.4        (1.4)
- hlter. a/                                          ___n                                   Inf&. ji hnln 
Total Projt economic cots                      i7        .                           4.5 4.               4.5        4.6    4.5          4.5
Prolct EcenmIt &mOuts                         6.4    12.5        22.9     82.1    41.1       41.1       41.1       41.1   48.6         45.0
a/ Annex ., page B and 7



- 65 -
Table 8
AlMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Sesitivity Analyses
Not Present      Cost Benefit
Value            Ratio          Economic
---- ----------------------     Rate of
USS million (at 102 discount)      Return
Base situation                        255               5.7
Case 1 Farm costs double,             220               3.5
Benefits - sm
Case 2 Benefits one quarter
of estimated level,
Costs eom                      23               1.4               40%
Case 3 Benefits halved
delayed 3 years,
Costs some                     53               2.0               301
Case 4 Benefits halved,
Fam costs double               45               1.7               401



- 66 -
Table 9
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 9: Governmnt Cost Recovery
(prices of Docember 1968)
1990/87  1987/68  1986/89  1989/90  1990/91
DTi  lng
000 Orad. Cattl, In Tick Control Aroa
(1) Districts more than  e0X grede               1103     1161      1219     1260     1344
No. of Govornment run dips 2/                 1890     180     1600      810      405
(11) Districts lees then 60X gaQ   /               740      762       786      809      833
Na. of Government run dips t/                  900     1640     1400      700      630
Total No. Government run dips             2700     8440      3000     1510     1034
Cattle dipped In (I) X                                  65       70       70       36       2J
Cattle dipped In (lT) X                                 26       40       35       20       17
000 hoad dipped weekly                                 798     1118     1128      810      410
Total dippings (million)                                41       68       69       32       21
Cost recovery rate (                                    10       sO       40       60       86
Fee (KShs/head)                                          0.40     0.76     1.26     2.00     2.00
Cost Recovery on dipping
KShn million                                          1.64    13.07    29.50    88.40   85.70
Kf million                                            0.08    0.65      1.48     1.92     1.79
CliniTcal Services
000 certifieates Issued                                SW 500  200      2000     1600     1300
Cost of certificate (1f) 6/                             0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7
Revenue on certifiate. (f mliTon)                        0.85     1.40     1.40     1.12     0.91
Sale of veterinary drug  (Kf million)                    0.88     1.62     1.22     1.07     0.98
Cost Recovory on ClinTcal Servico  (Kf million)        0.68      8.02     2.62     2.19     1.84
Total User Charm  (KU mflion)                         0.76      8.67     4.10     4 .11    8.83
/J  SX growth per annum including Kericho with 800,000 cattle
!2   Reductions as a result of higher fes and hand-over to users
1   3X irowth per ar.-um
VI   In  atter years, gradual withdrawal of DVS
§/   Asuming 290 farm vsttit  and 80% roadside consultanclos



- 67 -
Table 10
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Project Imiact on Foreign Exchapne
86187   87188   88189  89190  90/91  91/92 96197 0112
(KI million, December 1986 prices)
Incremental Exports
(hides) a/                 0.1     0.2    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4  0.4
Incremental Imports
Animal Health Services bi  1.6      3.0    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6  2.6
Private drugs c/           0.0     0.0    0.3    0.5    .5    0.5    0.5  0.5
Net Foreign Exchange Flow
befo:e financing          -1.5    -2.8   -2.6   -2.7      -2.8 -2.8   -2.8 -2.8
Credit Loan and Grants      4.4      8.2    8.1    3.8
Credit Loans Servicing               0.1    0.2    Q      0.4    0.j    1.1   0.-
Net Foreign Exchange Flow
after financing            +2.9   +5.3  +5.3  +0.8   +0.2  -3.6  -3.9  -3.3
Incremntal Production (from Table 6)
Milk
quantity (million lit.)  21      42      63     84     104    104    104   104
value (Kf millionQ 0.15
per liter)              3.2     6.3    9.5   12.6   15.6   15.6   15.6  15.6
Beef
value (at import parity
price, R£ million)       4.9    11.1   17.9    24.0   3.    30.0 3         30.0
Total Value of Incre-
mental Production       8.1    17.4   27.4  36.6  45.6   45.6   45.6  45.6
Potential Foreign Exchange
Flow                      11.0   22.7   32.7   37.4   42.4   42.0    41.7  42.3
a/  102 of present hide exports.
b/ From Table 1 minus Government foreign exchange expenditures in 1985/86
(K£ 4.4 million), representing incremental Government foreign exchange
expenditures. In 1989/90 provision is made for foreign exchange
expenditures of private veterinary practitionra.
c/ 702 of private drugs from Annex 6, Table 6.5.



Tabls 1i
AlNIMA  hEALnT  SERVICES PROJECT
Table It * Traininx Promrsa
Project Activity              Training Activity               Target Staff           Location Source             Duration
(a)  Tick Control         Introduction of new dipping        (i)  Dip Attendants  (i)  District FTCs by   (i) 3 davs/session
charges, improved operations    (ii) Dipping                  DVS trainers and          x 3 years
and maintenance, and recording          Committees       (ii) Barstas (for         (ii)l day
practices.                                                     Committees) by
Senior Vet
Officers
(b)  Clinical             Improved accounting systems        District clintcal    District FTCs by           See (e)
Services            for veterinary medicines           staff                  consultants and
Project Training
coordinator.
(c)  Vehicle              Introduction of improved           DVOs, Transport       District FTCa and HQ    See (e) and  Of1
Operations and      recording analysis and vehicle  Officers + drivers   by consultants and
Maintenance         operations systems.                and mechanics.         NAIS transport
officer.
(d)  Monitoring and       Introduction of improved           PMSU staff and key   District FTCa, PMSU         I dav/session
Information         information systems, analysis   officials at              and HQ staff by           combined  tith te)
Systems             and data flows.                    district and HQ        consultants and EEU       and .f)
staff.
(e) District              management team training in        DVOs, EOs and         District FTSc by          3 days/session
Veterinary           planning, development of work   Senior Vet Officers  consultants project            2 times per -ear
Services             plans, budgeting, monitoring                              training coordinator
Managemant           and reporting district                                    and MALD.
veterinary activities.
(f) EQ veterinary         Management team training in        DDVS. Deputy          HQ by consultants          3 days/session
Services             planning, development of work   Directors, POVs and                                 2 times per vear
Management           plans, budgeting, monitoring    other Senior HQ
and reporting the activities    staff.
of the overall Department.
(g) Training              Training of trainers to run        Dept. of Vet          HQ by consultants         To be specified
the ongoing training for (a)    Services
through (f).                      Trainers/Vets
Abbreviations are as follows:
DDVS    -  Director of VeLerinary Services
DVO     *  District Veterinary Officers
8I W        Epidemiology and Economic Unit in the Veterinary Research Division
EOs     -  District Executive Officers
FTCs    -  Farmer Training Centres
H4      -  Headquarters at Kabete
NAIS    -  Sational Artificial Insemination Service
PDVS    -  Provincial Dtrector of Veterinary Services
PMSU    -  Veterinary Services Management Support Unit



F~~~~
4                  I-4a-4#-4~~~~0-
z >0g-U-
J3----45-----------
S                          N    ---~~~~~~~~~-----------                                                                           -z-
Es m  __-0  -- ---
a-                           ¢I----$   '4O   9-42u           5 :-- -<-----E-'.-----
> _--_as                               42 0    *  - t   o Z    Z  >- 0-0.-40ZI             
. _          X    - -         -------------------------4Oz
. =
t                                                                                          -1
941-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                         4-
'-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0    -- -"1 -~- ---           --      ---        --___
9-4                                                                   -              0 O W 4 N         - 400
rue   -      -     -    -     -    -    ----4 h 4.   4rw0i 02------
E--
0~~~~~~0r
~~~~ 0  -                       ---hI         ----0.              ---             ----          ----        
E-4
.4



- 70 -
Terms of Reference
Page 1 of 6
KENYA
Animal Health Services Project
Development of Management Systems
and Related Training Program
Terms of Reference
2.       The Animal Health Services Project will be carried out in Kenya by
the Ministry of Livestock Development (MALD) over a three year period
beginning on July 1, 1986 and ending on June 30, 1989. The Project will be
managed by the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) in MAD. It will be
financed by several donors, including the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP), the OPEC Fund and the International Development Association (IDA).
The International Development Association will act as the coordinating
institution for IFAD.
3.       The Animal Health Services Project includes a comprehensive review
of the management systems and operational procedures of the Government
animal health services. The review should be undertaken as soon as the
UNDP funds are available. It will cover five areas:
(a)   font line animal health services;
(b)   veterinary medicine distribution systems and stores
management;
(c)   vehicle management in the Department of Veterinary
Services;
(d)   development of financial and management systems; and
(e)   development of a training schedule, training methods and
materials for the Department of Veterinary Services.
4.       The terms of reference for each of these areas are presented
below. Manpower requirements are estimated at the end of each section but
are subject to revision.
A. Front Line Field Activities
5.       The appraisal report contains a broad review of the management
systems including the operations of front line animal health field
activities. A detailed field review of these systems, which will ascertain
their mode of operation and proposed improvements as required, is needed to
be able to specify how the animal health services will be delivered to the
livestock owners in efficient and cost-effective ways.



- 71 -
Terms of Reference
Page 2 of 6
6.         It is proposed to review tick control and dip management
separately from disease cntrol, clinical services and AI. As a first step,
the District Tick Control Officers should review the existing systems and
propose improvements, incorporating experience from Uasin Gishu district
which is already practising some management improvements. (The results of
the Danish evaluation of the Uasin Gishu Tick Control Project, carried out
in June 1986, will be of use). The second step will be to refine these
suggestions in consultation with the senior staff ot the DVS to arrive at a
common system of dip management which will be suitable for all districts
and will provide for separate accounting.
7.         The other veterinary serv:ces will need to be treated according
to the likely demand for services, which will differ from district to
district according to representative livestock rearing systems. For
example, three districts will be selected for visits, one in a high
potential non-pastoral area with a large population of improved stock, one
in a medium potential area with a predominant zebu cattle population but
where grade dairy cattle can be introduced (e.g. Meru or South Nyanza) and
one in an area where pastoralism prevails.
8.         The field review will:
(a)     state the general objective of each field activity under
the Department's responsibility, including artificial
insemination;
(b)     review the specific objective, detailed responsibilities
and the schedule of activity of each field position,
including linkages with other animal health activities;
(c)     assess manpower requirements for each field activity;
(d)     assess manpower requirements and responsibilities for
tick control activities, and the status of the dips
(including ownership and control);
(e)     assess training and supervision requirements;
(f)     draw-up supervision arrangements, review the
responsibilities of the supervisors, and draw up a
training plan for supervisors;
(g)     review reporting systems;
(h)     review the methodology of the monitoring and evaluation
surveys of the National Extension Project to include
data on the field performance of the animal health
assistants with regard to clinical services and to herd
health extension;



- 72 -
Terms of Reference
Page 3 of 6
(i)   review cost recovery procedures and bottlenecks, with
particular reference to field officers' and dip
committee responsibilities (cost recovery ,rocedures
should be consistent with the overall systems being
developed in the Ministry of Agriculture with the
Technical Assistance Pool); and
(j)   review vehicle requirements for the Department, based on
the recommended management system for the field
services.
9.       The findings of the review will be presented in a report and will
include the preparation of a field services manual. The report will be
reviewed jointly by MAD, IFAD, UNDP, and the World Bank and other
interested donors.
10.      A pretess of introduction will include organization of induction
courses of eat s province of familiarize staff with the recommended field
management systems. Recommendations will be provided for training of both
the animal health assistants and their supqrvisors in their respective
roles under the new field management systems.
11.      The estimated requirement for the study will be about two man
months of expertise in management of front line aniwal health services. An
additional two man months will be required to introduce the consolidated
field services management arrangements to the Training Coordinator and to
the field staff.
B. Veterinarq Medicine Distribution Systems and Stores Manaaement
12.      The design of appropriate veterinary medicine distribution systems
and of arrangements for their proper implementation is an essential and
urgent part of the field management systems review. A review of the
veterinary medicine distribution and stores management systems appears in
the IFAD appraisal report, Annex 4, paras 33-43. The review identifies
weaknesses both in the concept and in the implementation of the
distribution system. Two important results of these weaknesses are: (a)
that the Government cannot account for thie utili2ation of the veterinary
medicine and (b) poor cost recovery.
13.      The improved management and accounting systems will be designed to
address the identified weaknesses. Special etphasis will be put on means
to improve cost recovery. A training program will be designed to train the
staff dealing in veterinary medicine distribution and stores management.
14.      The following existing areas of operations will be reviewed and
proposals provided for improvements:
(a)       procurement procedure (local or district based);
(b)       stores ordering procedure; central storage and stock
control;



- 73 -
Terms of Reference
Page 4 of 6
(c)      wholesale distribution to AIE holders and their
accounting; and
(d)       retail distribution, i.e. sales accounting and use of
drugs in treatment or prophylaxis.
15.      Reports will be reviewed by MAD, UNDP, the World Bank and other
interested donors, and agreed proposals will be implemented nationally by
the Department of Veterinary Services.
16.      This study will be carried out over a two-month period by a
management accountant with strong experience in the procedures for
government accounts, procurement, stores and finance. The consultant will
assist in the introduction of the agreed system. Two additional man months
of his time will be needed to design the training program and to assist the
Project training coordinator in training the staff to operate the new
systems.
C. Vehicle Manasement
17.      The proposals on vehicle management appearing in tho IFAD
appraisal report were developed in close coordination with the overall MAD
efforts in the same area. A limited study is still required to achieve an
effective implementation of the proposals appearing in the IhAD appraisal
report. This will be carried out, as the IFAD appraisal, in coordination
with the overall MAD efforts.
i8.      Under the Animal Health Services Project a study will be carried
out to review and modify vehicle recording/monitoring forms and procedures.
The study would in particular determine how the Ministry-wide vehicle
monitoring system can be implemented consistently with the vehicle
recording system which operates effectively in the National Artificial
Insemination Service. The study would include a review of staffing,
operating, supervision and equipment requirements for the vehicle
monitoring system to operate effectively in the Department. The study
would propose the guidelines for vehicle allocations and operations, help
set up a systematic maintenance and overhaul schedule and propose
streamlined procedures for accident-damaged vehicles and for boarding
vehicles. Such a study is operationally urgent and should be given
priority attention to reduce the cost of operation.
19.      About four weeks will be required for the limited DVS study as
basic information is available from the appraisal report. The services of
a mechanical engineer will experience in fleet management will be required.



- 74 -
Terms of Reference
Page 5 of 6
D. Development of Financial and Management SYstems
20.        In order to improve the planning, budgeting and control,
monitoring and evaluation of the activities of the Department of Veterinary
Services, a consultant will be appointed to work with the Project and
Management Support Unit (PMSU) in the Department of Veterinary Services for
about 8 man months.
21.        The consultant will assist the PMSU to review its staffing and
other resources to ensure they are adequate for the PMSU to fulfil its
responsibilities under the Program. The consultant will assist the PMSU to
improve the data collection, processing and storage systems in the
Department and to develop and test the required management information
systems.
22.        In the context of the Ministry's Project Management System,
currently being developed, the consultant will review the budgetary process
of the Department and will make appropriate proposals for improvement.  The
consultant will, with the Deputy Director of Veterinary Services,
Administration and the Head of PMSU, develop a method for estimating
expenditures and the revenue.
23.        The consultant will develop the guidelines and format of:  (i) a
concise Departmental Annual Work Plan for the Director and (ii) concise
district veterinary services annual work plans for the District Veterinary
Officers. The consultant will assist the Deputy Director, Administration
and the PMSU to prepare the Departmental Annual Work Plan for 1986/87 and
to test the district veterinary services annual work plan format by
preparing work plans for the 1986/87 fiscal year following the agreed
format in three or four representative districts. The format of the annual
work plan will include:
(a)     physical performance targets and key performance
indicators expressed in percentage of complete coverage
and relating to achievements in previous years and to
budget allocations;
(b)     cost recovery performance in relation to targets and the
previous year's achievements; and
(c)     the elements to assess the financial effectiveness of
government spending for the Department's activities.
Because the output of studies A, B and C will constitute useful inputs for
financial management and reporting but will not be available before
1986/87, the 1986/87 work plans will represent provisional formats to be
reviewed and confirmed with the output of studies A, B and C in the 1987/88
work plans.
24.        Under the Program, computer systems will be developed to
establish the required links between the overall Department Annual Work
Plan and district annual work plans and to monitor key indicators. Systems
will be developed to ensure the monitoring of cost recovery for each
responsible Government field officer.



- 75 -
Terms of Reference
Page 6 of 6
25.      In coordination with the Technical Assistance Pool of the Ministry
of Agriculture consultant will "asist the PMSU to determine the training
requirements of the district and headquarters veterinary staff in their re-
modelled planning, budgeting and reporting tasks and to develop training
curricula of the training Coordinator (see E).
E. Department Training Program
26.      A training expert working closely with the Training Coordinator
and the Training Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture, will review all
the training proposals contained iu A to D above and consolidate them into
a Departmental Training Program. He will prepare detailed programs and
schedules for training consistent with the budget allocation. He will also
develop training methods and materials. Training should begin as soon as
the system developed have been tested and proved effective and should
continue throughout the project period. An amount of 12 weeks of
consultants time will be required for this assignment.



- 76 -
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX 1
THE GOVERNMENT BUDGET FOR ANDMAL HEALTH SERVICES
Contents
Page
Total Animal Health, including Animal Rehabilitation
(by budget head)                                            1
(by budget item)                                            2
Government Budget Head 611: Animal Health
Services Rehabilitation                                     3
Total Animal Health, excluding Animal Health Services
Rehabilitation (budget heads RIO: 482, 483, 488,
489, 490, DlO: 489, 490,497,610)                            4



- 77 -
Annex 1
KE5NA
ANIMAL RZALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Soueent   dt: Total indt  Hdth, including  nial  elth Sevices RehAilitation
(by budet head) (     Pe n d p_01)
hea                                   Title                      1965R6     19166/     1967/    19/9    Total 889
GM05 EIPWITURE
412 PrwincIal   terin    Sices                                   650.97     258.43
413 lterinay Clinical Srces                                     15.68    1U.40
40 EaIon of Tick Control                                        17.25      33M2,68
409 Di_  and Pest Control                                       JG.UI    1309.99
IS0 Veteriny Laboratories                                       12610      196
subtotal Ikcurrent    edtres                              6329       7897.46
Of Alch staff cot                                        31.6       4367.61
409 DIea  and Pest Conol                                        10722    162.50
149 Veterinary Labdoratais                                      53125       229.26
497 Tutse  Control                                              11.01       1".00
610 Integratid Liedsock  ewlt                                  2972.37      650.57
611 initial Halth Sevices Idebilitati                             0l.O     5615.80
sutotd keopa t EedItre                                    5129.85    0662.12
Total GROSS EfIT E                                       1175t.79    16559.5?
Total 6SS    U E  wit             staff cst s               162.34    12191.16
fEt ECNPWIIE
8 PrnIal Veteary Services                                       649.1?      247.0
43 Veterinary Clinical Serc                                     935.76      63.40
488  paion of Tick Control                                      8".25      2W.68
469 Disme  d Pest Control                                      1218.63    10190
40 Veteiry Laratoies                                            129.40     1090.A6
sbtotal   crrent  wndtures                                197.53     660."
19 Dlseo  s     Pest Control                                   1075.22    1622.50
190 Veteriry Laboratories                                       536.25      229.25
49? Tstse Control                                               11.01       141.00
610 Iftt%*ed Lvso   oN wnt                                     27.37        6L.?
611  Ial Helth Servc    Relitation                                L0OD    5615.80
swbtotal  elwont Ependitures                              S429.6S    062.12
Totd NET CIIOITUIE                                       10417.30    1942.56



- 78                                                        Annex 1
Pag. 2
KENYA
ANnIML EATH SERVICES PROJECT
6     cwwat Budget: lotda    l Hk elWth Semric, includiq  nir.l Hkelth Servces Rehbilitation
(budget buds R10: 4n2, 49, 491, 49, 190: 010 419, 4n0, 4, 610, 611)
(bygbdt ltm)(en    p_o  000)
1995/66.  1s996/       1997/69    1998/819   total 86/69
000 Personal Molments                              2417.20     3439.83
04     tuity and Pnsion Contributions                130.42      175.69
0S0  ou  allwc                                      42.38        6s7.n9
D70 Special   cuwdetion aIlUm                         0.00         3.00
00 hPs    e nd Leaeps                                10.46       61.13
100 lrasort Operating E       s                     909.92     1470.64
110 treldling ead Accomwdutii Expenses              416.55      55L03
115 Sicycle   uAM                                     0.00        0.00
150 Pu e  of Suplie    r Pou                       539W."      6236.35
151 Pura   f  Everineatal  lArals                    23.00       25.00
19 fam IWpts                                         22.50       19.46
154 TraIning                                         26.69      113.7?
156 L otry Stores                                   114.60      129.90
160          Canp uips                               ?C9         75.08
'1   Pre-de ptent   1c                                S7.00        0.00
184 Cotcd    Professiwal Serices                      0.81      120.00
190 fliscelu   s Othr  hae                          327.4       399.4S
209   eaet of 1o  Vehicles                           70.98      179.00
201 Rebilictatbn of  ehicks                           0,        106.0
210 Prcl  e of Uitioml Vehicles                      18.02      405.15
212 Pw     et iof  ywles a       flftorcyles        102.75       45.I0
20    sc   eof Plnt and  WPnt                       162.26      7.40
2501mne of Plant, Nbc                 and Eq ent    00.00       171.6?
260 Ibintencoef Buildins   d Stations               179.34      37.19
295 Kiw  Altrantin  id Iba nt Urb                   128.92       76.39
296 C on      es                                      0.98      242.00
300 Comnb     ms ad  rants                           10.16      210.1S
49  Construction of 0uldins - uHsidential           360.75      255.00
01 Rehailitation of Dips                             o.so       110.02
il2   tructilon of Dips                              35.51       39.50
404  dsie  Cres                                       9.79        0.98
405 Cotruction of Veter Supply                       30.51       62.75
N19 P wu   of Prefabs                                39.70       26.00
1I  Cotruction of Voter Tas                           3.00        3.00
6rss Epedture                               11752.79    16559.57
600 Sdae of 6ods                                    324.00      355.00
650 Sales and  e  for Services  eldered            1001.01     1250.01
670 rdsedme          Reaipts                         10.50        2.00
770 Sdaes of Provtv                                   0.98       10.00
et Expenditure                              10417.39    14942.56



- 79-                                                        Annex 1
Page 3
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Bovernment Budget He  611:  nimal Helth Servic  Rehilitation
(tenya pounds 000)
198/86    1988    1987/8A    1908/89   Total 8689
BY BUDEt ITEM
100 Transport Operating Expenses                   0.00      773.00
110 trvlling and Bccgiodation Expes                0.00      241.00
150 Purchse of Supplies for Production             0.00    2312.40
154 Training                                       0.00       080.00
184 Contracted Professiod Services                 0.0D      120.00
190 ?llscellaneous Other Charge                    0.00      132.40
200 Replacent of Mlotor Uchlcles                   0.00      114.00
201 eilitatIon of Uehiclts                         0.00      100.00
210 Purche of fidditional Uehlcleu                 0.00      102.00
220 Proese of Plant and Equipeent                  0.00      503.00
250 llintenonct of Plant, ichinerv and Equpent     0.00      129.00
260 Ikintemnce of Buildings and Stations           0.00      221.00
295 linr Blterations and Maintenance Ylrks          al0       10.00
296 Contingecies                                   0.00      292.00
U0 Construction of Buildings - b-ResIdntial        0.00      140.W0
et Expenditure Budget Wead 611                0.00    S616.80
BY Bl06ET KWSEOlI
10 Uterinryv Clinical Centes                             0.00     717.00
11 Ihnaet Support of Training                            0.00      42.00
1U CWU   Testing Unit                                    0.00    102.0
30 Tick Control                                          0.00    2369.80
',0 Uetterinarvy Laboratories Surveillance               0.00    1009.00
Net Exnditure Budget lead 611 -              0.00    5616.80
,.... . _._.._.  ...........__ ................... .___............................_ ......_



|    ]     t  = t8 X ------ ----- - --            ---t               8   - 
H1~ ~~.                                                                 - ,  g    |  ]]lEi}1  g       j
43 ~      5         8sG                                               I "Z;;  3583 §BF§§



- 81
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX 2
TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT, APPROACH, MONITORING AND IMPACT
Contents
A.    INTRODUCTION                                                          1
B.    THE CONTROL OF RINDEIPEST, CONTAGIOUS BOVINE
PLEUROPNEUMONIA AND FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE                            2
The Distribution of Rinderpest, Contagious Bovine
Pleuropneumonia and Foot and Mouth Disease in Kenya                2
Constraints on Livestock Production Caused by Rinderpest,
Contagious Bovine Pleuropueuaonia and Foot and Mouth Disease       4
Methods for the Control of Rinderpest, Contagious Bovine
Pleuropneumonia and Foot and Mouth Disease                         8
Strategies for the Control of Rinderpest, Contagious Bovine
Pieuropneuuonia and Foot and Mouth Disease in Kenya                9
Effectiveness of Existing Programme                                  14
Constraints on the Existing Control Prograuie.                      1&
The Effect of Livestock Movement on Control Programmes              19
Proposals for the Support of the FMD, Rinderpest and
CBPP Vaccination Campaigns                                        22
Additional Considerations for the Successful
Implementation of the Compulsory Vaccination Programme            39
C.    TICKS AND TICK-BORNE DISEASE CONTROL IN KENYA                       45
The Distribution of Ticks and Tick-Borne Diseases in Kenya          45
The Constraint Imposed by Ticks and Tick-Borne
Diseases on Livestock Production                                  45
Strategies for the Control of Ticks and Tick-Borne Diseases         51
Effectiveness of the Tick Control Programme and
Constraints on Its Implementation                                 56
Proposals for Support for the Control of Ticks
and Tick-Borne Diseases                                           60
Future Constraints on the I.plemenbation of the Programme           61
D.    ADDITIONAL DISEASE CONTROL ACTIVITIES                               62
Constraints on Other Disease Control Activities                     64
Proposals for the Support of the Disease Control Activities         64
Cost Sharing                                                        66



Contents (continued)       - 82 -
Page
E.    CLINICAL SERVICES                                                     71
Constraints on the Operation of Clinical Services                     72
Proposals for the Support of Clinical Services                        72
Considerations in the Support of Clinical Services                    75
F.    MONITORING OF THE TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF THE PROGRAMME                  76
Introduction                                                         76
Monitoring of the Control of Rinderpest, CBPP and FMD                 77
Serological Monitoring                                                77
Effects of Control Measures on Disease Incidence                      77
Monitoring of the Tick Control Programme                              78
Additional Disease Control Activities and Clinical Services           78
Coordination of Monitoring Activities                                 79
Funding of Monitoring Activities                                     79
G.    RECOMMENDATIONS                                                       80
Tables
2.1   The Presence or Absence of Major Animal Diseases in Kenya
Compared with Neighbouring Countries                                3
2.2   The Percentage Distribution of Foot and Mouth Disease
Virus Types Amongst Positive Samples Recorded from
1960 to 1984 Inclusive                                              6
2.3   District Profiles, Estimated District Livestock Populations           15
2.4   A Comparison of the Number of Vaccinations Carried Out
by the Department of Veterinary Services, in 1973 and
1983 Together with Five of the Intervening Years                   16
2.5   Rinderpest Vaccinations by District for the Year 1984                 17
2.6   Animal Diseases Notifiable Under the Diseases of
Animals Ordinance                                                  20
2.7   Rinderpest, CBPP and FMD Vaccination Teams:
Capital Costs per Team                                             26
2.8   Estimates of Number of Vaccination Teams Required to
Conduct Routine Vaccinations Against Rinderpest,
CBPP and FMD                                                       29
2.9   Estimated Vaccine Requirements for Routine Vaccination
Against Rinderpest, CBPP and FMD                                   30
2.10  Cold Chain Equipment                                                 30
2.11  Capital Costs of Prefabricated SLaff Houses and Offices              31
2.12  Diagnostic Equipment for New Offices                                 31
2.13  Field Service Allowances Payable to Vaccination Teams
Camping in the Field                                               32
2.14  Routine Vaccination Against Rinderpest, CBPP and
FMD, Capital Costs                                                 33
2.15  Routine Vaccination Against Rinderpest, CBPP and FMD,
Recurrent Costs *                                                  34
2.16  Capital Costs - Rinderpest Diagnosis, Surveillance
and Vaccine Production, KARI                                       35



- 83 -
Contents (continued)
Page
2.17  Recurrent Costs - Rinderpest Diagnosis and Surveillance
Unit, Department of Veterinary Research, Kenya
Agricultural Research Institute                                    36
2.18  Camping Equipment - Mobile Testing Unit, CBPP                         37
2.19  Laboratory Equipment - Mobile Testing Unit, CBPP                      37
2.20  Field Allowances - Additional Mobile CBPP Testing Units               38
2.21  Capital and Recurrent Costs - Additional Mobile Testing
Units Against CBPP                                                 38
2.22  Laboratory Equipment, Foot and Mouth Disease Typing and
Evaluation Laboratory, Wellcome Institute for Research
into Foot and Mouth Disease                                        40
2.23  Camping Equipment - FMD Typing and Evaluation Laboratory,
Institute for Research into Foot and Mouth Disease                 41
2.24  Field and Accommodation Allowances, FMD Typing and Evaluation
Laboratory, Institute for Research into Foot and Mouth Disease  41
2.25  Capital Costs - FMD Typi.g and Evaluation Laboratory,
Institute for Research into Foot and Mouth Disease                 42
2.26  Recurrent Costs - FMD Typing and Evaluation Laboratory,
Institute for Research into Foot and Mouth Disease                 42
2.27  Estimates of Staffing Levels Employed Under Certain Vote
Heads of the Field Services and Research Divisions of the
Department of Veterinary Services (1985/86)                        44
2.28  Tick-Borne Diseases and Vector Species                               45
2.29  Kenya National Tick Control Project, Status of Dips,
September 1985                                                     52
2.30  Districts Where Resistance to Group I Acaricides has
been Reported                                                      55
2.31  Acaricides Approved and Registered Under the Pharmacy
and Poisons Ordinance (Cap. 244) for Use in Government
Operated and Private Dips                                          56
2.32  Summary of Dipping Statistics in the Government Managed
Dipping Areas of Kerya for the Years 1983 and 1984                 59
2.33  Estimated Annual Costs of Acaricides and Maintenance of
Dips Under the Tick Control Programme                              61
2.34  Major Disease Constraints of Different Livestock Production
Systems in Kenya                                                   63
2.35  Vaccine/Drug Requirements of the Field Services Division             65
2.36  Laboratory Equipment - Veterinary Research Division,
Department of Veterinary Services                                  67
2.37  Camping Equiment Module for Veterinary Research Division             68
2.38  Field and Accommodation Allowances for Veterinary Research
Division                                                           68
2.39  Addition&l Disease Control Activities - Recurrent Costs              69
2.40  Estimates of the Current Costs and Selling Prices of
Vaccines and Trypanocidal Drugs Used by the D?artment
of Veterinary Services                                             70
2.41  Minimum Drug Requirements for the Clinical Service Submitted
by the Field Services Division of the Department of
Veterinary Services                                                73
2.42  Estimated Recurrent and Capital Costs for the Support of
the Clinical Services                                              74



Contents (continued)            - 84 -
Page
Figure
2.1   The Percentage Distribution of Foot and Mouth Disease
Virus Types Amongst Positive Samples, 1960-1984                     7
1     Distribution of Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia                      5
2     Details of Rinderpest Vaccination Campaigns Mounted in Kenya          10
3     Details of Livestock Movements and Principal Holding
Grounds in Kenya                                                   12
4     Compulsory Foot and Mouth Vaccination Areas                           13
5     Proposed Organization of Vaccination Campaigns Against
Rinderpest, CBPF and FMD                                           23
6     Areas Where Vaccination Teams will be Required to Camp                25
7     Distribution of the Tick Rhipicephalus Appendiculatus                 46
8     Distribution of the Tick Hyalomma Marginatum Rufipes                 47
9     Distribution of the Tick Amblyomma Variegatum                         48
10    Distribution of the Ticks of the Genus Boophilus                     49
11    Distribution of Exotic Breeds of Dairy and Beef Cattle               50
12    Districts Included in the GOK Tick Control Project                    53



- 85 -
ANNEX 2
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX 2
TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT, APPROACH, MONITORING AND IMPACT
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The proposals  put  forward  in the FAO/Investment Centre Formation
Report for evaluation by this mission are for the provision of funds to
consolidate and strengthen the existing disease control activities of the
Department of Veterinary Services. The major components of the Programme
included;
(a)  The control of Rinderpest,  Contagious  Bovine Pleuropneumonia
(CBPP) and Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD). This included:
the  establishment  of mobile  vaccination  teams  in  the
pastoral areas and the support of ongoing control
activitie8 in other areas, through the provision of
incremental operational and maintenance costs and funds
to. purchase. vaccine, vehicles, vaccination production
equipment, cold chain facilities and camping equipment
where appropriate;
the construction of staff housing and offices at selected
divisional headquarters in the northern and eastern
pastoral areas designed to act as bases of operation for
the mobile field units; and
-     the  provision  of  vehicles,  equipment  and  reagents  to
various arms of the Veterinary Service for the diagnosis
and surveillance of the three diseases and for the
monitoring of the vaccination campaigns.
(b)  The Control of Ticks and Tick-borne Diseases.  This component
involved support for and  strengthening of control activities
in those areas where tick control is managed by the Veterinary
Services.    Principal   inputs   included   the   provision   of
transport, including water bowsers, acaricades and equipment to
improve the existing dip testing facilities.
(c)  Support for Other Disease Control Activities.   This  involved
primarily funds for the purchase of vaccines and provision of
equipment  to  improve  the  vaccine  production  and  storage
capabilities  at  the  veterinary  laboratories  at Kabete.   In
addition, it was proposed to provide additional transport and



- 86 -                      ANNEX 2
equipment to the veterinary investigation laboratories to
assist them in the investigation and diagnosis of disease
outbreaks; and
(d)  Clinical Services.   This  involved  strengthening  the clinical
services provided by the Veterinary Service through the
provision of transport and essential drugs.
She purpose of this annex is to examine these proposals in the light of
the existing situation in Kenya in order to determine whether they are
technically sound and meet the requirements of the Kanyan livestock sector
and can be implemented.
B.    THE CONTROL OF RINDERPEST, CONTAGIOUS  BOVINE PLEUROPNEUMONIA AND
FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE
The Distribution of Rinde.pest, -Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
and Foot eaw -.'#xth Disease in Kenya
2.    Table 2.1 shows the presence or absence of the major diseases of
livestock in Kenya and its neighbouring countries.
3.    Rinderpest.  The last recorded outbreak of rinderpest occurred in
Kenya in 1964.  Although the disease  is regarded as being officiaily
absent from Kenya, various considerations indicate cause for concern about
the possibility of a reintroduction of the disease.
4.    The known presence of rinderpest  in Ethiopia and the Sudan,  the
possibility of its presence in Somalia, the high probability of its
presence in northern Uganda, and the recent 1982 outbreak in Tanzania mean
that there is a significant risk of the Cisease being introduced into
Kenya through the movement of infected livestock, particularly in the
north  and  West  where  movemuets  of  livestock  across  internatioaal
boundaries are virtually impossible to control.
5.    In addition to this risk, there is an increasing body of evidence to
suggest the possibility that the disease may be endemic in wild game
populations, particularly the buffalo. In 1982 an outbreak of the disease
in the buffalo population of the Serengeti National Park was suspected on
the basis of serum samp es positive for rinderpest antibodies although no
virus could be isolated.
6.    There is also some serological evidence to suggest the possibility
of a circulating virulent "irus in sheep and goat populations although
again no virus isolations have been made.
7.    All these considerations, combined with the present low levels of
vaccination cover of cattle (para 34), particularly in the northern and
eastern pastoral areas emphasize the present vulnerability of Kenya to
potentially serious attacks of the disease.



- 87 -
ANNFEX 2
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Program 
Table 2.1 - The Presence or Absence of Maior Animal Diseases in
Kenya Compared with eiLghbouring Countries
Diaase                      Konya  Tanzania  Uganda  Sudan  Ethiopia  Somalia
?wot aud Mouth               +        +         +       +         +        +
virus O                   +         +         -       +        +         0
virus A                    +        4                 +        +         0
viru C                     +        _         _       _        _         0
virua SAT I                +        +         +       +                  0 °
virus SAT 2                4        +         +       +                  0
viruaSAT 3                 -        -         -       -        -         0
virus ASIAI                -        -         -       -        -         0
Rinderpest               (1964)       +         0       +         +        -
Bovine malignant
catarrh                    +        0         O0
Mucosal diseaae              +         G        O       +         +
Contagious bovine
pleuropaeuoonia            +    (1964)        +                4 +       +
Sheepp PCs                            0                 +        +         +
Lumpy aice disea-e           +        0         +       +        +         -
Rabies                       4        +         4       4        4         0
African borse sickness       +        +         -       +        +         -
B'ue tongue                  4        0         0       +-
Contagious pustular
dermatitis                 +        -         +       +        +
Contagious caprine
pleuropoeum u-ia           +        -         +       +        +         +
Heartwater                   +        +         +       -        +         -
Rift Valley fever            +        -         -       +        -         -
Nairobi sheep disease        +        +         +       -        +         +
Newcastle disease            +        *         +       +        +         0
Anthrax                      +        +         +       +        +         +
Blackleg                     +        +         +       +
tnterotoxaemia               +        t
Hsemorrbagic septicaemia   +          +         +       4        +         +
Vibriogis (venereal)         +                  +       0                  -
Trichowoniasis               +        -0                0 °      °
Bovine tuberculosis          +        +         +       +                  0 0
Jobnes disa"se               +        +         0       +        +         -
Irucellosis;
B. abortus                *         +         +      +         *         +
B. elitensis               +        0         +       +        0         -
Anaplasoais                  +        +         +       +        *         +
Babesiosis                   +        +         +       +        +         +
Theilarioasis
East Coast lever          +         +4-
Other Theilariosis         +        +         +       +        +         +
trypanosomiasis
Tsetse transmitted         +        +         +       +        +         +
Smrra                          +         +        +            +         +
Beef seaslea
(Cyateacus covis)         +         +         e      +         +         +
Hydatidosis                  +        +         +       +        +         +
Legend;    +      - present
-       not recorded
O     a no information
(19-) - year last diagnosed in dometicated animal SPp
Source;    FAD/WHO/0QI  Animal Health  Yearbooks, end records and  reports
from the individual countries.



ANNEX 2
-88-
8.    Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia  (CBPP).  Map 1 shows the present
distribution of CBPP in Kenya.  The country can be considered as being
divided into three main areas:
-    those areas where the disease is known or suspected to exist,
the most important of which are parts of the districts of
Bungoma, Siaya and Busia where the disease was relatively
recently introduced through the illegal movement of infected
cattle from Uganda;
-    those areas which are believed to be free of the disease but
where there is a possibility of the disease being introduced
from the infected areas - primarily pastoralist districts in
the north and northeast; and
-    those areas which are believed to be free of the disease and
where the possibility of an introduction of the disease is
regarded as being slight - primarily the central areas of the
country.
9.    As with rinderpest, the presence of CBPP in Uganda, Sudan, Ethiopia
and Somalia indicates a significant risk of the introduction of the
disease through livestock movements between these countries and Kenya.
10.   Foot and Mouth Disease.  Five foot and mouth virus types have been
identified in Kenya - 0, A,  C,  SAT 1 and SAT 2.  The occurrence and
distribution of these types and their various sub-types have been
monitored closely since 1960. Details of the percentage distribution of
the various types and sub-types are to be found in Tabie 2.2 and Figure
2.1.  The types of most importance have been 0 and A, and more recently
SAT 2, which has been a major problem  since  1975.   Estimates  of the
overall incidence of the disease are difficult to derive. Ellis and Putt
(1981) estimated the annual herd incidence of the disease as being 35% in
unimproved zebu, 15% in improved beef and 15% in improved dairy herds.
With the current decline in vaccination coverage, it is likely that these
incidence rates have substantially increased, with a consequent adverse
effect on the productivity of affected livestock.
Constraints on Livestock Production Caused by Rinderpest, Contagious
Bovine Pleuropneumonia and Foot and Mouth Disease
11.   The nature of the constraints caused .by these diseases on livestock
production  systems  varies.   In  the  case  of  rindervest,  the  highly
contagious nature of the disease means that when outbreaks occur in herds
of fully susceptible cattle., virtually all the animals are infected.  In
such instances, the virulent nature of many of the virus strains present
in Africa may result  in mortality  rates  as high as  90%.   In endemic
situations, however, the innate resistance and the immune status of the
cattle present, either because of previous exposure to the disease or as
the result of vaccination, may result in both the incidence and severity
of the infection being reduced, with herd mortality rates as low as 10%.
While mortalities are reduced, the productivity losses in affected animals
remain high.



89 -                             ANNEX 2
12.   In addition to the direct losses caused by the disease, additional
indirect losses may result. These include:
-    in  epidemics,  the  high  losses  ensuing  may  cause  severe
disruption of pastoral societies;
-    in situations where the disease is endemic, herd structures and
offtake may be adversely affected by the perceived necessity on
the part of owners to retain a substantial proportion of
elderly unproductive animals in their herds because of their
likely previous infection with, and thus resistance to, the
disease;
-    when outbreaks occur, the imposition of quarantines may disrupt
migration patterns, prohibit livestock sales and result in
serious overgrazing of the quarantine areas; and
-    the  trade  of  livestock  and  their  products  between  disease
affected and disease free countries is adversely affected.
13.   In the case of CBPP, the disease is generally of a more chronic
nature, resulting in the gradual deterioration of the condition of the
animal and eventually death. During this process the productivity of the
animal  is obviously  impaired.   In  fully  .usceptible  cattle  mortality
losses may be high, but in endemic areas a considerable number of animals
may recover, although suffering losses in productivity during the
process.  In addition, a significant percentage of these may have 'heir
productivity permanently affected.  As with rinderpest, control n  3ures
disrupt movement patterns, prohibit sales, compound overgrazing prublems
and effect the trade of cattle between countries.
14.   In the case of FMD, direct losses are minimal in indigenous cattle
in FMD endemic areas. The principal constraints in these areas arise out
of  the  disruption  caused  should  control  measures  be  introduced.   In
production systems where exotic breeds of cattle or their crosses are
involved, the enhanced susceptibility of these animals to the disease may
mean that severe disruption to the production system can occur.  Although
mortalities are generlly low in infected animals, calves being the worst
affected, the disease can cause abortion and temporary infertility, a
severe drop in milk production, and may predispose to sezondary mastitis
infections.  The marketing of milk and other livestock products is also
disrupted by the imposition of quarantines.
Methods   for   the   Control   of   Rinderpest,   Contagious   Bovine
Pleuropneumonia and Foot and Mouth Disease
15.   The methods of control of the three diseases are essentially similar
in that they all involve to a varying extent a combination of vaccination,
the control of livestock movements and the implementation of quarantines
on infected and in-contact herds in the event of an outbreak.



- 90 -                                 ANNEX 2
16.   Slaughter of infected and in-contact herds was employed as a method
of control prior to the advent of vaccination.  Nowadays it is generally
impractical and too costly to enforce, except in instances where outbreaks
occur in previously disease free areas, or where the diseases have been
reduced to a low incidence atid eradication is the desired objective.
17.   In spite of the similarity of the methods adopted for the control of
these diseases, they in fact represent varying degrees of difficulty in
the achievement of a successful control programme. These difficulties are
related to the infectivity of the respective agents and their ability to
persist in the environment, the creation of the carrier state in recovered
individuals, the presence or abtence of other species which can act as
reservoirs of the disease and the relative effectiveness of the vaccines
currently available.
18.   Rinderpest is potentially the easiest of the three to control.  The
availability of extremely effective attenuated vaccines which confer a
long lasting, if not lifelong, immunity from a single vaccination means
that, in most circumstances, provided that an adequate vaccination
coverage is maintained, the disease can be relatively easily controlled.
19.   In the case of CBPP, the attenuated TI/44 vaccine now in general use
provides  a  protective  immunity  for  about  a  year  so  that  annual
revaccination of the entire cattle ponulation is necessary.
20.   With regard to FMID, control is complicated  by the fact that  the
inactivated vaccines currently available produce a short lived immunity
which is only partially protective in the advent of a severe challenge.
In addition, the number of different types and sub-types of the virus
present in Kenya complicate vaccine production and control strategies.
Repeated vaccination does result in an increase in the level, duration and
range of immunity, but a further complication is the ability of the virus
to undergo antigenic variation when circulating in livestock populations
which may result in che development of new virus sub-types.
21.   In spite of these inherent difficulties,  experience in Kenya has
shown that FMD control can be highly beneficial. Even if the vaccine does
fail to completely protect, it does reduce the severity of the infection
and the amount of virus shed into the environment.  Thus both the extent
of outbreaks and the associated losses in production are substantially
reduced in vaccinated populations.
Strategies   for  the  Control  of  Rinderpest,   Contagious  Bovine
Pleuropneumonia and Foot and Mouth Disease in Kenva
22.   Rinderpest.   The  strategy  adopted  by  the  Veterinary  Service  to
prevent the introduction of rinderpest into Kenya has been the compulsory
annual free vaccination of all cattle in those districts with an
international  border.   In other districts  (see Map  2) only, calves  and
yearlings  are vaccinated  annually.   All vaccinated animals  are  branded
with ar. N.



ANNEX 2
- 91 -
23.   Contagious Bevine Pleuropneumonia.  In the infected areas of Kenya a
compulsory annual free vaccination is supposed to be carried out on all
cattle.   This  vaccination  is  carried  out  at  the  same  time  as  the
rinderpest vaccination.  Kenya uses two separate vaccines rather than the
combined rinderpest and CBPP vaccine used in most francophone countries.
In Bungoma, Busia and Siaya districts cattle are seriologically tested and
any  positive  reacto.s  are  compulsorily  slaughter:d.   Ihe  number  of
positive reactors is very small, there being only about 10 or 11 animals
per year.
24.   The  movement  of  cattle  from  the  infected  areas  for  immediate
slaughter is permitted under movement permit. The movement of young stock
from the infected areas for fattening elsewhere in Kenya is only permitted
after the animals have been confined, to holding grounds (Map 3) and have
been found negative on three consecutive seriological tests.  These tests
are perforried by mobile 3erological testing teams.
25.   Foot and Mouth Disease.  For the purposes of FMD control Kenya can
be divided into two main areas: the areas where vaccination is compulsory
and those areas where vaccination is non-compulsory (Mee 4).
26.   In the compulsory vaccination areas, all cattle over two weeks o.f
age are required to be vaccinated twice yearly.   The vaccine used  is
either of the quadrivalent or trivalent type, the constitution of the
vaccine depending on the current distribution of the  local types and
sub-types of virus in Kenya.
27.   Within the compulsory vaccination areas,  the vaccinations may be
free or a charge of Ksh 2.00 per vaccination may be levied.  The areas
where vaccination fees are charged correspond to the old scheduled large
scale farming areas.  In many of the areas the large farms have now been
broken up into small scale farming units. The free compulsory vaccination
areas include the original small scale farming and pastoral areas. It is
proposed that Sv.'nburu District, where FMD vaccination has been supported
by the Federal German Government, be incorporated into the compulsory free
vaccination zone.
28.   Outside   compulsory   vaccination   areas,   livestock   owners   are
encouraged to vaccinate their cattle but have to pay for the vaccine.  The
current  charges  is  Ksh 4.00  per  vaccination.   This  charge  is  not
sufficient to cover the current costs of vaccine (Ksh 4.45 and Ksh 5.80
for trivalent and quadrivalent vaccine respectively).
29.   In the central highlands a nucleus area around the Aberdare forests
has not been incorporated into the compulsory vaccination areas to date.
This area was originally designated a central, unvaccinated disease-free
zone in fulfillment of the EEC regulations permitting the export of beef
to Europe.  Although exports were possible to Switzerland and Greece in
the early seventies, since that time the area has been subjected to
frequent outbreaks of FMD, exports to Europe have ceased, and it is now
proposed to include it in the compulsory vaccination zone.
30.   In the event of an outbreak of EMD, quarantines are imposed and all
animals within a 10 km area are vaccinated against the virus type involved



-92-                        ANNEX 2
as soon as the type is known.  If the virus type is not contained in the
routine vaccine, the ring vaccination is repeated a month later, unless
the next routine campaign is due within one further month, when the
relevant type is incorporated into the routine vaccine.
31.   If an outbreak of FMD occurs in a non-compulsory vaccinated area at
a greater distance than 10 km from a compulsory vaccinated area, then the
decision whether or not to ring vaccinate is at the discretion of the
Veterinary Service. All.ring vaccinations are performed free of charge.
Effectiveness of Existing Programme
32.   Vaccination  Coverage.   Table  2.3  lists  the  estimated  livestock
populations of Kenya; Table 2.4 lists the number of vaccinations carried
out by the Veterinary Services for selected years from 1973 onwards to
1983. Figures for 1984 are in the process of compilation.
33.   The foot and mouth vaccination figures show a steady decline in the
number of animals vaccinated from 1978 onwards.   The figures  for 1983
woiuld indicate that out of an estimated 3.7 million cattle in the
compulvory vaccination areas a maximum of 2.6 million were vaccinated
during the two campaigns. On the assumption that approximately 50% of the
total were vaccinated in each of the two campaigns, this would indicate an
approximate vaccination coverage of 35%.  The impressions that the mission
gathered during field visits and conversations with veterinary staf
confirmed the findings of the FAO Investment Centre preparation mission,
namely that because of a shortage of transport and/or operational funds,
the second campaigns of the year were severely constrained and in certain
districts eould not be implemented.  This would imply that probably about
50% of the target population is being vaccinated once a year and a further
10%  twice a year.   A further  factor involved  in  the  low vaccination
coverage is the imposition of compulsory vaccination charges in the
scheduled areas.  This is strongly resented, with the result that many
animals are not presented for vaccination at the time of the campaigns.
34.   In 1984 only 1 689 000 vaccinations against rinderpest were carried
out. Table 2.5 lists the number of vaccinations per district carr.ed out
in 1984.  On the assumption that a 75% vaccination coverage would be
desirable in order to provide a satisfactory level of immunity in the
cattle populations of the h'gh risk border districts, it can be seen that
in none of these districts has this target been even remotely approached
and in some districts no cattle at all were vaccinated.  This, combined
with the uneven vaccination performance in other districts of Kenya, would
indicate the possible presence of a significant proportion of cattle which
would be susceptible to the disease, should it be introduced.
35.   Since CBPP vaccinations are combined with rinderpest vaccinations in
the infected areas, a similarly unsatisfactory state of affairs with
regard  to  the  vaccination  coverage  against  this  disease  can  be
postulated.   Ihis  is confirmed  by  the  data  in  Table  2.4,  where  the
existing levels of vaccination carried out are far below the estimated
requirement of approximately 1 850 000 vaccinations per year, assuming a
75% vaccination coverage.



93 
KIFlA                           ANNEX  2
Animl isaith Services Rebha.'itation Prograe
Table 2.3 - District Profiles
Estimated DiStriCt L6VeStOck roalatious
(to the areast '000)
Province/            leaU                       Cattle
District          No.        X        Grade Beef      Grade Milk    total        S    Sheep   Goats   Camels  Donkeys  Pigs
Weostern
Eingosd           201      (93)       -               1S       (7)    216                33      45        -        -        2
uasia             153      (93.3)    -                 I       (0.7)  154                33      45        1        -        2
Kakasega          340      (89)      -                40     (11)    380                 i8      32        -        -        3
SiaYa             400    (100)        -                1       -      401                87     100            -            -
Ktisum            123      (98)      -                 2       (2)    125                76     100        -        -       -
South
Nyansa           600      (99.8)    -                 2      (2)    125                76      100        -       -        -
Xisii             405      (87)      -                60      (13)    465                83      98        -        -       -
Rift Valley
Turksn"           190    (100)        -                -              190               700     900       20      100       -
West Pokot         70      (95)      -                 4       (5)     74               160     160        6        2       -
Trans Oaoia        14       (8)      i5     (30)    115       (62)    184                21      12        -        -        3
1sxeyo-
Hayakwat           94      (68)       -               44     (32)    138                146     125        2        -
Rringo             60      (23)      -               200     (77)    260               207      400        3      27
elakipi.          107      (32)    146      (44)      82     (24)    335               235      144       21        1       -
Uauin Gisau        40      (15)     48      (18)    180      (67)    268                57       63        1       -        -
Wendi             250      (69)       7      (2)    103      (29)    360                50       25        1       -        -
Kericho           369      (55)      -               300     (45)    669               266      261       19       -        -
Nakuru            170      (60)     20       (7)      92     (33)    282               280       85        3       -        -
Marok             660      (88)      -                90     (12)    750               940      880      120       -        -
-Kajisdo          682      (86)     48       (6)      60      (8)    790               720      480       17       _        _
Sauburu           160    (100)       -                 -              160              240      290        8      10        -
Central
Nyanarus          185      (49)     18       (5)    177      (46)    380               181       20        -
Myori              15       (8)      -               168     (92)    183               118       45        2               12
Kirinyaga          39      (42)       2      (2)      51      (56)     92               30       30        -       -        4
Muranga            24      (11)     27      (13)    159      *(76)    210               61       70       -        -        9
gia bu             17      (15)      2       (2)      97     (83)    116                32       24        6       -       23
Eastern
arstabit          420    (100)        -                -              420              400      500       20     120        -
Isiolo            178    (100)       -                -               178              200      140        7      26        -
Nrea              190      (70)      -                80     (30)    270               176       32       11       -        5
ELbu               70      (81)      -                16     (19)      86               2S       80        1       -        S
Kicii             208    (100)       -                 -              208               79      285       17       3        -
machakas          415      (85)                       58     (12)    473               300      470        5       -        -
Northeastern
mandera            97    (100)        -                -               97              153      263        1     170        -
Wajit             170    (100)       -                 -              170              125      180        2     220        -
Odrissa           570    (100)       -                 -              570              190      195        1      65        -
Coast
Tana iiver        253    (100)       -                 -              253              124      181        S      45        -
Law                42      (98)      -                 1      (2)      43               10       12.               -        -
TaiCa-
Taveta            110      (95)      -                 6      (5)    116                27      112        5       ^        -
Kilifi            180      (92.5)    1       (0.5)   14       (7)    195                32      184       -        -        -
valse             122      (98)      -                 2      (2)    124                50      170       5
Kombasa             3      (60)      -                 2     (40)       5                2        5       -        -        -
Nairobi             1                -                 2     (67)       3
TOTALS          8 397      (76)    374       (4)  2 223      (20) 10 994    (100)  6 794   7 486        319      789       6
Sources Ministry of Livestock Development 1983.



KENYA
Animal Nealth Services Rehabilitatidn Programe
Table 2.4 - A Comparison of the 4umber of Vaccinations Carried Out
by the Departmenc of Veterinary Services, in 1973 and
1983 Together vith Fivc of the rntervening 7ears
ito the nearest '000) al
Years
Vaccine bl                      1973        1976        1977        1978       1979        1981          1983
Foot and mouth disease (cotal all
valencies)                                4 335       5 474       4 148      4 457        3 823      3365          2 634
Rinderpest                                  _107        1 915         237       2 195      2 345       2813          2  11
Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia             293         304          83         410        474         372           250
Lumpy skin disease                              0.5         0.1          .1         0.1       30                       113
Ritt Valley fever                              o6          38          26         103         41         N/A            64
Elue tongue                                    61          30          49          47        259         N/A            64                 1
Sheep pox                                      20            1          -          14           -        N/A            47                %0
African horse sickness                           ' 2         10 0.4                 L           0.1      N/A              0.1              4-
Mewcastle dis .ase                            *99         604         440       1 012        475         N/A         4 147                 1
Anthrax          ) combined vaccine         1 096         805         S25         758        814         N/A           455
31ack cuarcer   )
Rabies                                        528           'I         2S          17          25        N/A            66
3rucellosis                                     2           1           7           2           7        N/A             0.5
Contagious caprine pleuropneumonia              7                 -                 -          24        N/A              3.9
Fowl pox                                       u7          80          78         108         60         VIA           254
Fowl typhoid                                  110         !52         181         268        212         N/A           312
Tocal poultry vaccinations                    b76         336         t99       1 388         747        N/A         4 713
rocal all other vaccinations                8 577.5    c3 590.1    7 600.5    S 004.1   i8 042.1          /A         5 908.5
Grand total                            9 253.5    9 426.1    a 299.3    9 392.1    a 789.1          N/A        10 621.5
a/  The tigures include sales to farmers, principally comercisl poultry farmers.
b/  *)ther vaccines  sporadically  used  Ln  the  same  period  were:   naemorrhagic  septxcaemia;  contagious  pustular
dermatitis;  enterotoxaemia;  leptospirosis;   ulcerative   lymnhonaigi.s;  calf  paratyphoid;   stheep  pa.umoeia.
Inclusion in the table would not influence che tendencies demonstrated.
Source: Annual Reports, Department of Veterinary Services.



ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.5 - Rinderpest Vaccinations by District for the Year 1984
Districts Where All Cattle Are             .  Districts Wheve Calves and
Supposed to be Vaccinated                 Yearlings Only Are Vaccinated
No. of     Estimated X                                   No. of
District.    Vaccinations    Coverage            District             Vaccinations
Garissa           50 150          8.8            Kakamega                  55 200
Wajir             79 163         46.5            Siaya                     20 306
Mandera                0          0              Kisumu                    65 059
Marsabit               0          0              Kisii                     92 400
Turkana           32 093         16.9            Samburu                        0
West Pokot        30 000         42.8            Elgeyo Marakwet           45 000
Trans Nzois        7 800          4.3            Baringo                        0
Bungoma           50 122         23.2            Laikipia                  98 765
Busia             41 587         10.7            Uasin Gishu                    0
South Nyanza      64 682         10.7            Rand.                          0
Narok            257 271         34.3            Kencho                    85 039
Kajiado                0          0              'akuru                         0
Taita             50 138         43.2            Kyeri                     12 261
Kwale             23 957         19.3            Kirinyaga                      0
Muranga                   23 230
Kiambu                         0
Isiolo                         0
Meru                           0
Embu                      10 169
Kitui                     11 641
Machakos                103 525
Tana River              281 582
Lamu                     64 049
Kilifi                   32 631
Mombasa                    1 659
Source; Quarterly Reports of the Department of Veterinary Services.
36.   Disease Surveillance.  Surveillance activities are an essential part
of any disease control programme. They should include the investigation
of.suspect outbreaks - including identification of the causative agents -
-the monitoring of vaccination campaigns to ensure that vaccination
coverage and levels of immunity are being satisfactorily maintained in the
target population, estimates of disease incidence to ascertain that
control measures are having the desired effect, and the investigation of
those aspects of the epidemiology of the disease in question that may
effect control activities.
37.   Responsibility for rinderpest surveillance lies with the Veterinary
Research Division of the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute at Maguga.



-96-                          ANNEX 2
The principal activities have concentrated on the investigation of the
potential of wild game to act as sources of infectlon and reservoirs ofthe
disease.   These activities  have been  severely constrained  by  lack of
equipment and transport. A particular cause fer concern is the present
lack of knowledge concerning levels of immunity in the highly vulnerable
cattle populations of the northern pastoral areas.
38.   CBPP surveillance' activities are undertaken by field teams from the
Field Services Division. The Division at present maintains four mobile
units, two engaged in the routine testing of animals in the holding
grounds around Isiolo, one based' ir Coast Province and .the other engaged
in the identification of CDP? infected animals involved in the recent
outbreak in Western Province. Because of the lack of units, little or no
investigatory work is now being undertaken in the other areas of Kenya
where the disease is suspected to exist.
39. Surveillance of FMD is the responsibility of the Foot and Mouth
Research Institute at Embakasi. The unit has concentrated primarily ono
the identification  and  typing  of virus  Isoiates  from FMD  outbreaks.
Although the Institute has been able to maintain this service, it is now
ieopardised because the laboratory equipment used is obsolete and can no
longer  be  satisfactorily  repaired.   Lack  of  transport  has  also  not
permitted the Institute to conduct, field investigations into outbreaks or
to monitor levels of immunity in the cattle populations of the compulsory
vaccinated areas.
40.   It is hoped  that  the  expansion  of  the  surveillance  activities
proposed (see paras 81 to 84, and paras 192 to 199) will provide much
needed information about the epidemiology of the diseases in question.
-his should in turn remove much of the uncertainty felt at present about
the p,tential for epidemics of rinderpest and CBPP in the northern
pastoral areas, and the risks that such epidemics would present to cattle
populations in other areas of Kenya. An accurate assessment of the risks
might permit the implementation of less costly strategies for the
prevention and/or control of these diseases.
Constraints on the Existing Control Progratme
41.   The major constraints on the existing programme can, therefore, be
summarised as follows;
-    a lack of adequate transport facilities to convey vaccination
teams to the field, particularly in the pastoral areas. In the
northern districts a lack of adequate housing facilities at the
divisional level compounds the problem;
-    a lack of adequate  cold chain equipment  to  facilitate  the
storage and distribution of vaccine to the field.  Most of the
refrigeration equipment at district and divisional offices and
the portable refrigeration used by vaccination teams in
pastoral areas is in need of replacement. The cold rooms used
for vaccine storage at Kabete are also in need of an extensive
overhaul ind much of the refrigeration equipment needs
replacing;



-97 -
ANNEX 2
-    a  lack  of  camping  equipment  necessary  for  the  mobile
vaccination and surveillance teams to operate in the pastoral
areas; and
-    deficient monitoring of the vaccination campaigns and lack of
adcquate surveillance of the disease in question.
A further constraint would have been a lack of funda for purchasing the
quantity of vaccine required to achieve a satisfactory level of
vaccination coverage, should these other constraints have been removed.
The Effect of Livestock Movement on Control Programmes
42.   The three diseases under discussion are all spread primarily as. the
result of contact between infective and susceptible animals. As such the
main factors governing their extent and rate of spread are the density and
the extent of movement occurring in the affected host populations.
43.   That  livestock  movements  are  a major  factor  in the  spread  of
infectious diseases in Kenya has long been appreciated by the Veterinary
Service. The control of such movements, where possible, has been regarded
as a prerequisite for the control of most of the country's notifiable
diseases.
44.   The movement of livestock in Kenya is regulated under the Animal
Diseases Act of 1965, amended by the Animal Diseases Rules of 1968. Under
these, the Director of Veterinary Services has comprehensive powers to
impose quarantines and restrict the movement of livestock products in the
event of an outbreak of a notifiable disease (see Table 2.6), as well as
to take any additional measures which he sees fit to bring the outbreak
under control.
45.   In addition, he has the power to control the movements of livestock
within districts in the so-called restricted areas (which to all intents
and purposes coirz,ide with the former scheduled large scale farming areas
of Kenya) and between districts in the other areas through the issuing of
movement permits. A movement permit states:
-    the number and description of the animals to be woved;
-    the route by which the animals are to travel;
-    the period for which the permit holds good;
-    the place to which the animals may be moved; and
-    the method by which the animals may be maved.
46.   Permits are granted on there being no objection to the movement of
animals on the part of the veterinary officer issuing the permit nor on
the part of the veterinary officers of those districts through which and
to which the animals are to be moved.



-98 -                        ANNEX 2
UNYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Program'me
Table 2.6 - Animal Diseases Notifiable Under the Diseases
of Animals Ordinance
Anthrax                                      Paratuberculosis
Atropic rhinitis                             Psittacosis
BWD (pullorum disease)                       Pzabies
Contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia           Rinderpest
ECF (East Coast fever)                       Scrapie
Epizootic lymphangitis                       Sheep pox
Foot aud mouth                               Sheep scab
Fowl pest                                    Swine fever
Glanders and farcy                           Swine erysipelas
Hsart water                                  Surra
Lumpy skin disease                           Trypanosomiasis
Mange in horses and mules                    Tuberculosis
Mucosal/Viral diarrhaea                      Ulcerative lymphangitis
Newcastle disease
47.   In addition to these general restrictions on movement, there is also
a series of subsidiary regulations which govern the movement of animals
with reference to particular diseases. These regulations relating to CBPP
have been mentioned earlier (see para 24). Regulations relating to FMD
refer to the control of movement of livestock within and into compulsory
vaccinated areas.
48.   Livestock may move freely, subject to permit, within a compulsory
vaccinated area provided that they have received more than three routine
FZD vaccinations and that there are no quarantine restrictions in force.
49.   The movement of stock into compulsory vaccinated areas can only take
place from districts free of FMD. The animals must be quarantined for 28
days at a government holding ground. Animals are required to be inspected
(mouthed) on the first day.  On the tenth day they are examined again,
vaccinated with the appropriate quadrivalent or trivalent vaccine and
examined again on the day of departure.
50.   In the case of slaughter stock moving into compulsory vaccinated
areas, the an-imals must be quarantined for not. less than 10 days, examined
qn day 1 and again on the day of their departure.   If stock are to be
moved between nQn-compulsory vaccinated districts, the movement permit is
conditional on the animals concerned being examined before their departure,
51.   In the case of international movements of livestock, no animals are
permitted to be imported into Kenya except under license,  and only if
accompanied by appropriate veterinary certificates certifying them free
from contagious and/or notifiable disease.  All imported animals are also
required to undergo a period of quarantine.



S                          - 99-
ANNEX 2
52.   It can be seen that these regulations are comprehensive, but over
the past decade the Veterinary Service has had increasing difficulty in
their enforcement.   The movements of livestock into and within Kenya can
be divided into various ^ategories.
53.   Movements in Pastoral Areaa.  Most of the border peoples of Kenya
are pastoralists and are often closely related to peoples on the other
side of  Kenya's borders.   Livestock movements  to  and  fro across  the
borders for the purposes of trade, grazing and even in ordet to receive
free vaccinations are commonplace,   Such movements obviously provide an
important means for the introduction of disease into the country.
54.   Strict movement controls in pastoral areas in the face of the need
to obtain forage and water supplies en the part of the pastoralists are
obviously difficu?t to implement, nor in fact are they desirable from the
point of view of the production systems concerned.   The sheer practical
difficulties of trying to control such movements can be readily
appreciated when the extev't of the border areas and the relative absence
of natural barriers against such movements are considered.
55.   In ',iea of these difficulties, the present policy for the control of
rinderpest and CBPP which aims at creating immune cattle populations in
the border areas deemed to be at risk from these diseases seems eminently
sensible. With regard to FMD, the creation of buffer zones in all border
areas would be extremely expensive and beyond the present capacity of the
Veterinary Service. Here egain the present programme of concentrating on
those border areas - Kajiado And Narok - where the risk of the
introduction of the disease into the grade cattle population of the
central areas is at its highest, would seem reasonable.
56.   An  improvement  in  the 'existing  situation  could  be  achieved  by
increased cooperation with the Veterinary Services of neighbouring
countries, with a frank exchange of data on the current distributions of
the diseases in question in the respective countries.  To be effective,
however, this would depend on the quality of disease surveillance of the
countries in question which in nearly all instances is extremely
rudimentary.
57.   If trans-border movements  were  localised  to  the border  pastoral
areas, then the risks of the introduction of disease into the high
potential area would be limited since, with good surveillance, outbreaks
could be detected ard appropriate measures taken to limit their spread.
58.   In recent years, the relatively favourable value of Kenyan currer.cy
and the ready availability of consumer goods within Kenya, combined with
an increased demand for meat as a result of the rapidly expanding human
population,  have  resulted  in  the  development  of  increasing  illegal
importations of slaughter cattle.  These are trekked to the major beef
consumption centres of Western and Nyanza Provinces and Nairobi.  It is
likely that the movements of such cattle were responsible for the recent
outbreaks of CBPP and lumpy skin disease in the western districts. Since
the animals are not easily distinguished from local Kenyan breeds, they
are often difficult to detect and may pass unno,.iced.  An improvement in



-100-                     ANNEX 2
the existing situation could be brought about by the implementation of a
policy requiring the branding of cattle with a local district brand, which
would permit an easier identification of animals.
59.   Although the trade in illegally moved cattle is important, it should
not be overemphasized. Ihe principal holding grounds and stock routes in
the northeast and east of the country are shown in Map 3.  In general,
these are well maintained and the bulk of cattle purchased in these
regions do pass through them and comply with the existing control
regulations.
60.   In the south, however,  the situation has not been so satisfactory
and substantial illegal movements of trade cattle have taken place. Since
the bulk of the cattle illegally moved through these areas is from
Tanzania where the recent outbreak of rinderpest is under control and from
which CBPP is absent, the principal implications are for the spread of
FMD, which is why the districts concerned were introduced into the
compulsory vaccination scheme.
61.   Movements  to the Non-Pastoral  Areas.   In  the non-pastoral  areas
problems of illegal movement have arisen primarily as a result of the
increase in the extent of the areas placed under cultivation.   Th is has
resulted in a shortage of dry-season grazing, exacerbated by recent
droughts and has caused livestock owners to move animals off farms in
order to graze roadside verges.  In addition, animals may be transferred
from farm to farm within or between districts for trade purposes or as a
result of management practices, or for social reasons such as the
gathering  of  cattle  at  funerals.   Such  movements  are  of  principal
importance in the spread of FMD, the only one of the diseases present in
these areas.
62.   While control over livestock movements is desirable, it is to be
remembered that the enforcement of the existing regulations is not the
prime responsibility of the Veterinary Service but rather of the police.
and the judiciary.   There  is a need  for these bodies  to  take  their
responsibilities in this direction more seriously.  A greater degree of
liaison between these bodies and the Veterinary Services and increased
efforts to educate the public on the importance of controlling livestock
movement would improve the existing situation.
Proposals  for  the  Support  of  the  FMD,  Rinderpest  and  CBPP
Vaccination Campaigns
63.   Map 5 shows the extent of the various areas in which the different
combinations of routine vaccinations against the three diseases are
performed.   Routine vaccinations against  rinderpest  involve fhe annual
vaccination of all cattle in those districts with international borders
(Map 2) and the annual vaccination of all calves and yearlings in the
remainder.   Routine  vaccinations  against   CBPP  involve  the  annual
vaccination  of  all  cattle  in  the  infected  areas  (Map  1).   Routine
vaccinations  against FMD  involve  the  twice yearly  vaccination of all
cattle over two weeks of age in the compulsorily vaccinated areas (Map 4).



-101-                          ANNEX 2
64.   mhe various combinations of vaccine regime possible are therefore;
-    rinderpest alone in one annual vaccination campaign;
-    rinderpest and CBPP vaccination combined in one annual campaign;
-    rinderpest  and  FKD  combined  in  one  vaccination  campaign
followed by a second campaign involving FMD vaccination alone;
and
-    rinderpest, CBPP and FMD combined in one vaccination followed
by a second campaign involving FMD vaccination alone.
65.   A basic vaccination team module is proposed consisting of:
-    one team leader (Senior Animal Health Assistant or Livestock
^ Officer);
-    four ';accinators  (Animal  Health  Assistant  or  Junior Animal
Health Assistant);
two  branders/iabourers/assistant  vaccinators  (Junior  Animal
Health Assistant o: subordinate staff); and
-    one driver.
66.   Under the Rehabilitation Programme,  it is assumed that each team
will be supplied with vaccination equipment, equipment for the storage of
vaccine and camping equipment if required. It will also be supported by
one four-wheel drive vehicle.   The team can function as one unit or be
split into two depending on local conditions.  In each district the team
will be supervised by a veterinary officer on the basis of up to five
teams per veterinary officer.
67.   In essence two types of vaccination campaigns are operated.   In
pastoral areas (1ap 6) communication difficulties necessitate vaccination
teams camping in the field during the course of the campaign, while in the
other areas teams are sent out on a daily basis from local divisional or
district  offices.    Table 2.7  lists  the  equipment  needs  for  teams
operating in the two different types of area. Of this equipment, camping
and vaccine storage items can be expected to have about a three-year life,
whilst vaccination equipment has to be replaced annually.   The vehicle
requirements and their .unning costs necessary to support the teams in the
field are considered in Annex 3, Fleet Operations and Management.
68.   Vaccination Coverage and Numbers  of Teams  Required.   A  goal  of
achieving a 75% vaccination coverage in the target population has been
set.   Such  a  coverage  should  produce  adequate  levels  of  protective
immunity against  rinderpest and  CBPP in the cattle population of the
high-risk areas after three campaigns.  In the case of FMD, this level of
coverage will not completely protect the target population, but it is
probably tbe level that is practically achievable and-should substantially
reduce botb the level of incidence and the extent of- production losses
associated with the disease.



- 102 -
ANSNEX 2
69.   The number of cattle that a team module can reasonably be expected
to vaccinate in a given period is governed by a number of considerations,
among the most important of which are;
-    the number of different vaccinations required;
-    whether or not the vaccinated animals are to be branded;
-    the absence or presence of a cattle crush and its state of
repair; and
-    the  extent  of  cooperation  offered  by  the  cattle  owners
concernede
70.   The principal constraint is often not the actual vaccination proceRs
itself, but how quickly animals can be gathered and presented for
vaccination. Although attempts are made to notify owners in advance as to
the dates when vaccination teams will be present in an area, it is often
difficult for teams to adhere to a strict timetable.  It is not easy to
notify all the livestock owners concerned, particularly in isolated areas,
so that delays are inevitab..e when teams arrive at a vaccination site.
Crushes may have to'be repaired or rebuilt and in pastoral areas time is
taken up when teams have to move camp to a different. site.
71.   In commercial ranching situations, individual teams have been able
to successfully vaccinate up to 6 000 head in a day, but in most
situations the number is very much less.  In this instance, the assumption
has been made that one vaccination team can reaonably be expected to
vaccinate 70 000 head of cattle in a 75-working day period.
72.   In the non-pastoral areas, it is probable that this target could be
achieved  in a shorter  time period,  but  it  is  to be  remembered  that
veterinary staff have a range of other duties to perform while vaccination
campaigns are in progress.  The target therefore remains a realistic one.
73.   In those areas where  the only vaccination performed  is that  of
rinderpest  in calves and yearlings,  the actual number of vaccinations
performed is substantially reduced. However, the animals concerned still
have to be sorted out from the main herd and this means in effect that the
same number of animals has to be handled so that the time and effort
involved is roughly the same as if the whole herd were vaccinated.
74.   It can  be  argued  that  extending  the  period  of  the vaccination
campaigns could reduce the number of vaccination teams involved and thus
result in a saving in equipment. In pastoral areas, because of the highly
mobile nature of the cattle populations, a reduction in the number of
teams operating would have a detrimental effect on vaccination coverage.
In the non-pastoral areas an extension in the length of the campaigns
would  result  in  them  extending  into  the  rainy  season when  increased
difficulties of communication would also result in a detrimental effect on
vaccination coverage.



- 103 -                       ANNEX 2
75.   With  these  assumptions  in mind,  Table. 2.8  details  the  estimated
number of vaccination teams required in the various districts of Kenya.
Staffing is discussed in detail in paras 92 to 99.
76.   Vaccine Requirements.  Based on the assumptions outlined above,  the
total annual vaccine requirements for the campaigns are outlined in
Table 2.9. This excludes the monovalent and bivalent FMD vaccines which are
used  in the ring vaccination of outbreaks.   These have been considered
later in the Annex.  It is assumed that the total cattle population remains
constant during the three-year programme period.  During 1984, the total
number of doses of vaccine issued from the central vaccine store was
3 470 000 doses of rinderpest;  628 800 doses of CBPP;  4 449 300 doses of
FMD  (trivalent  and quadrivalent).   The  estimates presented in Table 2.9
represent an increase of 46%, 195%, and 12%, respectively, from these
levels.
77.   Additional  Cold  Chain Equi2ment.   Facilities  are  needed  to store
vaccine at District Headquarters for distribution to the Field Teams.  In
nearly all District Headquarters, the existing refrigeration equipment has
either broken down or is unreliable and needs  replacing.   In addition,
'refrigerators need to be provided in each divisional office.  Table 2.10
details  the  quantity  and  type  of  equipment  required.   A  number  of
veterinary offices are already equipped with freezers and refrigeration but
most are old and in need of replacement.  It has been assumed that all the
existing equipment will have to be replaced by the end of the Programme.
78.   Staff Housing and Offices.   It is proposed that prefabricated staff
housing and offices would be built at 25 Divi-ional Headquarters selected
by the Director of Veterinary Services to act as bases of operation for the
mobile  vaccination  teams.    Each Divisional  Headquarters  selected would
have one house for the Veterinary Officer plus three houses for Animal
Health Assistan.ts.  Offices wouid be supplied with a set of diagnostic
equipment and a chest freezer.  A domestic refrigerator has already been
taken into consideration in the previous section. Details are included in
Tables 2.11 and 2.12.
79.   Staff Costs.   Staff  salaries  Ere not  supported  in  the programme.
However, field allowances will need to be paid to those teams working in
the field.  Since non-camping teams return to their homes every night, only
camping teams qualify for field allowances.  Table 2.13 details the total
amount of field service allowances payable for the campaigns. About 75% of
this is considered to be incremental, i.e., over and above the amount
budgeted for in 1985/86.
80.   Table 2.14 details the capital costs of the campaigns.  Although the
Department of Veterinary Services has camping equipment available, it is
likely that all camping teams will need re-equipping before the end of the
programme.   The  same  assumption  has  been  made  with  regard  to  the
vaccination  teams'  vaccine  storage  equipment.   Table  2.15  details  the
recurrent costs of the campaigns.



-104                                              ANNEX  2
IKYA
Animal RealLh Servioes Rebabilitation Proar_as
Table 2.8 - Estimates of Number of Vaccintion Tean Required to
Conduct_Routene Vscainss             i       _
Bo*vine Pleuroeneumovaia and-Foot and miouth DOeaM
Estimated    No. of         No. of vaccination       latim. Total No. of Team Days
Province     District    Cattle         Vaccination   teams required ,/         spent on Vaccination Campaigns
Population   CampRigns                    non-                               no-
('000.)      per year       campiag    camping            camping          camping
Western       Bungoa          216           2 kI                      3                 -               255
Busia           154            2            -           2                 -               300
Kakaega        380            2b/           -           4                 -               340
Nyanza        Siaya          401            2 bl          -           S                 -               425
Kisumu          125            1            -           2                 -               150
South Nyausa   601             1            -           7                 -               525
Kiaii          465            2 b/          -           5                 -               425
Rift Valley  Turkana          190           2             2           -               300                 -
Saeburu         160           2             2           -               300
West Pokoc       74           2              1          _               lSO
Trans Nsoia    184             2            -           2 I                               300
E.darakwet      138            2            -           2                 -               300
Baringo         260            2            3           -               450
Laikipia        335            2            2           2               300               300
Uasin Gisbu    268             2            -           3                 -               450
Nandi           360           2             -           4                 -               600
Karicho         669            2            -           7                 -             1 050
Nakuru-         282            2            -           3                 -               450
atrok           750           2             8           -             1 200                 -
Kajiado         790           2             9           -             1 350                 -
Central      Nyadarua        380            2                         4                 -               600
=ycri           183            2            -           2                 -               300
Kirinyaga        92            2            -           1                 -               IS0
iaranga         210            2            -           3                 -               450
Kiambw          116           2             -           2                 -               300
3astern      tarsabit        420            2             S           -               750
Isiolo         178            2             2           -               300
Meru            270            2b/          -           3                 -               255
Eabu             66            1            -           1                 -               185
Kitui           208            1            1           2                75               150
Hachakos       473            2b/           -           S                 -               425
N. Eastern   Handers           97           2             1           -               IS0
Wajir           170           2             2           -               300
Carissa         570           2             6           -               900
Coast         Tana River     253            2             3           -               450
LaW              43           2             1           -               150                 -
Taita Taveta   116             1            1           -                75
Kilifi          195           2 bk          2           -               170                 -
Kwale           124            1            1           -                75
Mombasa           5            1            -           1                 -                75
Nairobi      Nairobi            3           2             -           1                 -               150
TOTAL                       10 994                         52          75             7 445             8 900
al Assuming 75S vaccination coversge ad one team vaccinates 70 000 animals in a campaign.  For fuller
explanations see text.
b/ Part of District only for second campaign.



- 105 -                       ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.9 -   Estimated Vaccine Requirements for Routine Vaccination
Against Rinderpest, Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia and
Foot and Mouth Disease
Source          Vaccine            Price/Dose   Quantity           Total Cost
(Kah)      of Doses             (Ksh)
KARI            Rinderpest TC          0.15      5 000 000             750 000
Contagious Bovine
Pleuropneunonia      0.20      1 860 000            372 000
Embakasi        FMD Qpadrivalent       5.80      3 000 000         17 400 000
FMD Trivalent          4.45      2 000 000          8 900 000
Ksh     27 422 000
'E       1 371 100
Table 2.10 - Cold Chain Equipment
Unit                                             Total Cost
Items              Cost  Quantity   Year 1    Year 2       Year 3       KE
Chest freezer
- 20 degree C    600       41      12 000      6 600       6 000     24 600
Large capacity
refrigerator      500      41      10 000      5 500       5 000     20 500
Domestic
refrigerator      250     191      25 000    11 500      11 250      47 750
47 000    23 600      22 250      92 850



- 106 -
ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.11 - Capital Costs of Prefabricated Staff Houses and Offices
Unit                                        Total
Cost                                        Cost
Item                Unit        KE    No.    Year 1    Year 2   Year 3   K£
Offices,
prefabricated        no.    1 325       25    13 250    19 875         -  33 125
Staff houses,
prefabricated,
for vets             no.    2 690       25    26 900    40 350         -  67 250
Staff houses,
prefabricated,
for kiAs             no.    2 080      75    52 000    52 000  52 000 156 000
Transport of
buildings to
site (average
400 miles)           K£/mile 0.05    125       4 500      5 500   2 500  12 500
TOTAL                                         96 650   117 725  54 500 268 875
Table 2.12 - Diagnostic Equipment for New Offices
Unit Cost                Total Cost
Item                      Unit           K£          Number        K£
Post mortem equipment            set           200             2           400
Diagnostic microscope            no.           800             1           800
Miscellaneous minor
equipment                      various       500             -           500
Miscellaneous
glassware and stains           various       250             -           250
1 950



-107 -                     ANNEX 2
RENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.13 - Field Service Allowances PaZable to Vaccination
Teams Camping in rha Field
Avg. No. of Days  Field Service      Total
Spent in Field   Allowance/Day        Cost
Staff Grade            No.              a/               K 
Veterinary officer       21            143                60-           9 009
Team leaders             52            143                30-          11 154
Vaccinators            208             143                30-          44 616
Drivers/branders        156            143               201-          22 308
TOTAL                                                                  87 087
a/    Derived on the basis of the total number of team days spent camping
in the field - 7 445 (Table 2.8) divided by the total number of
camping teams - 52 (Table 2.8).
81.   Surveillance and Monitoring. Rinderpest surveillance is carried out
by the Veterinary Research Division of the Kenya Agricultural Research
Institute. Surveillance activities will include:
-    the   serological   monitoring   of   livestock   populations
particularly in the northern pastoral areas, to determine the
extent of protective antibody in these populations; and
-    investigation into the role played by wild game and goat and
sheep population in the epidemi,logy of rinderpest.
82.   The Rinderpest Surveillance Unit at KARI is in part supported by the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA), which has provided funds for
equipment and the renovation of the laboratory building.    Table  2.16
lists the costs of equipment and building improvements not covered by ODA,
but which are required to make the unit fully operational. An additional
component has been included to cover some renovation of the rinderpest
vaccine production laboratory and for the provision of a supply of cattle
for vaccine quality control testing. The recurrent costs likely to be
incurred by the unit in undertaking surveillance operations are listed in
Table 2.17. It is assumed that field allowances would be paid by KART.



.
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.14 - Routine Vaccination Against Rinderpest. CIPP and FMD.
Capital Costs
Unit Cost                                                           Total Cost
Item                               Unit           XE           Number      Year I        Year 2        Tear 3          RI
'~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 
Camping Equipment (Table 2.7)    Nodule          2 470            52        64 220       32 110        32 110        l2. 440               0D
Vaccine Storage Equipmnt
Camping Teama (Table 2.7)       Nodule           200             52        5 200        2 600         2 600         10 400
Vaccine Storage Equipmet
Wlon-Camping Team (Table 2.7)  Nodule             90            75         2 250        2 250         2 250          6 750
Cold Chain Equipment
(Table 2.10)                                       -             -       47 000        23 600        22 250         92 a50
Staff Housing and Offices
(Table 2.11)                                       -             -       96 650       117 725        54 500        26 875
Diagnostic Equipment for
Nev Offices (Table 2.12)                                                   9 -  -  19 500  29 250         -          U 750
TOTAL                                                                      234 820      207 535       113 710        555 065



WNYl
Animal Hesith Services Rehabilitation Prosram.
TabIe 2.15   Routine Vaccination Against Rinderpest. CJPP and FHD.
Recurrent Costs
Unit Coat                                                              Total Cost
Item                                 Unit            K£            Number       Year I        Year 2         Year 3           KE
Vaccination Equipment c/
(see Table 2.6)                   Module            580.           127        73 660        73 660         73 660         220 980
Staff Houain8 and Offices
taintenonc* (5S) k/               -                   -              -             -         4 608         10 219          14 Q27
&epair o. vaccine crusherc 5/       -                                  -         5000          5 000          5 000          1S 000
hiscellaneous Glassware
and Reagents for                                                                                                                                    0
Nev Officesb/                     no.               100             25         1 000         1 S00          2 500           5 000
field Allowances for
Camping Vaccination
Campaigns (See Table 2.12) a      -         -                        -        67 087        87 087         87 087         261 261
Purchase of Vaccine
(See Table 2.8)cJ                 -                   -              -    1       37100    1 371 100   1 371 100        4 113 300
IOTAL                                                                        1 537 847    1 542 955       1 549 66        4 630 368
*I These are the total coats required, part of which is alread- covered by the existing budget. It is estimated that as a
result of the programs, the disease control activities will be carried out at about twice tbe 1985/86 budgeted level.
Thus 50S of these figures are conaidered *s incremental and included under the Programs.
1/ All incremental.
c/ These are the estimated total requirements, only part of which are incremental.  The 1985J86 budget for drugs and
vaccine. under the diseae and peat control heads was eR 1 870 000 to cover this figure plus items fo-r field services,
which are estimated to have a requiremaent of It 761 039 and U£ 160 500 (ace Table 2.35).  Total requirements are thus
U£ 2 292 639 and incremental UE 422 639 or 14.42 of the total estimated requiremont±
.e



- 110 -
ANUEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.16 - Capital Costs - Rinderpest Diagnosis,
Surveillance and Vaccine Production, KARI
Total Cost
Unit Cost                  (All Year 1)
R£             No.           X£
Renovations to Vaccine
Production Unit
Rewiring of 37 C
Incubator Room                                                      500
ConstructiDn of Washing
facilities for glassware                                         5 000
Renovations to Virology
Isolation Unit
Repairing and refurnishing
glassware washing room                                             .500
Laboratory Equipment
Freezer cabinet - 70C             6 000               1  s          6 000 *
Domestic refrigerator               250               1               250
Bench-top refrigerated
centrifuge                       3 000               1             3 000'
Laminar Flow Hood                 2 000               1            2 000 *
Dark ground light box               175               1               175
CO2 Incubator                     2 500               1            2 500 *
Cryostat                          2 500               1            2 000*
21 925
* To be financed by the British Overseas Development Agency



- 111 -                     ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.17 - Recurrent Costs - Rinderpest Diagnosis and Surveillance
Unit, Department of Veterirmry Research,
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
Item                   Unit    Unit    Year    Year    Year         Total
Cost      1        2       3          KE
K£
Equipment replacement
(10%)                      -       -      -       1 593   1 593      3 186
Miscellaneous minor
equipment                  -       -     1 000   1 000   1 000       3 000
Miscellaneous regents         -      -     1 000   1 000   1 000       3 000
Miscellaneous glassware       -      -     1 000   1 000   1 000       3 000
Sub-total                                  3 000   4 593   4 593    12 186
Cattle purchase -
vaccine quality control    60   150       3 000   3 000   3 000       9 000
Sub-total                     -      -     3 000   3 000   3 000       9 000
TOTAL                             %        6 000   7 593   7 593    21 186
83.   CBPP surveillance would basically consist of an expansion of the
existing survey and testing programme into the northern infected areas.
This would  involve  increasing  the  existing  mobile  testing  units  from
4 to 8.   The  equipment  needed  for  these  units,   including  camping
equipment,  are  listed  in Tables  2.18 and  2.19.   Ihe additional  field
allowances for the four survey teams are estimated in Table 2.20 on the
assumption that each team would spend six months (180 days) in the field.
The estimated recurrent costs are listed in Table 2.21.  These include
provision of a supply of sheep to act as red-blood cell donors for the
Complement Fixation Test used in the screening of cattle.



- 112 -
AZMEX 2
KENYA
Animal Hsalth Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.18 - Camping Equipment - Mobile Testing Unit,
Contagious Bovine Pleuropueumonia
Item                           Unit Cost              No.        Total Cost
Tent, officers                         450                   1             450
Tent, bush                             400                   2             800
Chairs, camping                         20                   5             100
Tables, camping                         20                   3              60
Beds, camping                           40                   5             200
Mattresses, camping                     20                   5             100
Cookers, gas                            20                   3             60
Lamps, gas                              1S                   3              45
TOTAL                                                                   1 815
Table 2.19 -  Laboratory Equipent   Mobile Testing Unit,
Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
Item                                   Unit Cost      No.      Total Cost
Ceantrifuge with accessories              3 000           1            3 000
Thermos flasks -  5 litre                    20           1               20
- 2.5  "                     15           1               15
-   2"                       10           1               10
Timers                                       20           1               20
Water baths                                 350           1              j50
.Refrigerator 4 cu.ft.                       150           1              150
Balances, top loading                       300           1              300
Spirit level                                 25           1               25
Post mortem instruments (flaying
knives, post mortem knives,
bone saw, scalpels, forceps)              200           2 sets         400
Miscellaneous glassware                     250           -              250
Miscellaneous reagents                      250           -              250
Stools, laboratory                           10           2               20
Generator, diesel                         1 500           1            1 500
TOTAL                                                                  6 310



-113 -                        ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.20 - Field Allowances - Additional Mobile Contagious Bovine
Pleuropuoemonia Testing Units
Field Service   No. of Days        Total
Allowance       Spent in          Cost
No.    Ksh/day          Field            K£
Laboratory technician a/         4        30/-           180           1 080
Animal health assistants a/   12          20/-           180           2 160
Drivers a/                       4        20/-           180             720
TOTAL                                                                  3 960
a/ Total of staff requirements for the four additional units.
Table 2.21 - Capital and Recurrent Costs - AddiLional Mobile
Testing Units Against Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
Unit Cost         Total Cost
CAPITAL COSTS                           Unit          KE~     No.       KE
Compontents of one unit
Laboratory Equipment (Table 2.19)    module         6 310      4       25 240
Camping Equipment (Table 2.18)         module       1 815      4            60
TOTAL                                                                  32 500
Total
Unit Cost          Year    Year      Year    Cost
RECQURENT COSTS                KU       No.     1        2        3       KE
Item
Laboratory Equipment
Maintenance (10%)--                             -   2 320    2 320   4 640
Glassware + regents                           1 000' 1 000    I 000   3 O'10
Sheep (red blood
cell donors)                20        24      160      160      160      480
Field Allowances
(see Table 2.20)-                           3 960   3 960    3 960  U1 880
TOTAL                                         5 120   7 440    7 440  20 000



- 114 -
ANNEX 2
84.   Ihe surveillance for FMD is conducted by the Foot and Mouth Research
Institute at Embakasi.  Funds are urgently- needed to replace laboratory
equipment which is worn out and obsolete and for the purchase of new
equipment to enable rapid bioebemical comparisons of FMD virus subtypes to
be made. Ihe provision of this equipment would improve the virus typing
service, and the provision of camping equipment would enable the institute
to conduct epidemiological investigations in the field and to undertake
some serological monitoring of the levels of protective immunity in the
vaccinated target populations. A field service allowance based on a team
from the Institute spending 120 nights per annum outside Nairobi has thus
been included. The equipment needed and the capital and recurrent costs
involved are listed in Tables 2.22 to 2.26.
Additional Considerations for the Svccessful Implementation of the
Oompulsory Vaccination Programme
85.   Vaccine Production.  Rinderpest and CBPP vaccines are produced at
the Veterinary Research Division at the Kenya Agricultural Research
Institute. The equipment for the production of rinderpest vaccine has
just beer improved with assistance for FAO and that for CBPP production is
regarded as being satisfactory. The potential capacity for the production
of these two vaccines ip well in excess of likely local demand. For
example, the total number of doses of rinderpest vaccine produced in 1984
was 13.7 million, less than five million were required domestically.
86. FMD vaccine is produced at the Wellcome Institute at Embakazi.
There is no problem with equipment and again capacity is in excess of
local demand.
97.   The present arrangements for the quality testing of these vaccines
are satisfactory.
88.   Vaccination Fees.  At present, rinderpest and CBPP vaccinations are
provided free of charge.  Fees are levied for FMD vaccinations  in the
voluntary vaccination and are Ksh 4 per vaccination and in the compulsory
scheduled areas at Ksh 2 per vaccination.
89.   The original justification for a fee for vaccination being levied in
the scheduled compulsory vaccination areas was that the principal
recipients and beneficiaries of the programmes were large scale farmers
who could easily afford the costs involved.  In many of these areas the
large scale farms have now been broken up into small holdings.   These
smallholders deeply resent having to pay for vaccination, which they
rightly  regard  as  unfair,  since  similar  farmers  elsewhere  in  the
compulsory vaccination areas receive this  service  free.   As a result,
there  is a tendency to not present cattle  for vaccination.   This  is
detrimental not only to the FMD campaigns but also  to the rinderpest
campaign since this is run conjointly.



- 115 -                    ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.22 - Laboratory Equtpment, Foot and Mouth Disease ?iping
and Evaluation Laboratory, Wellcome Institute for
Research into Foot and Mouth Disease
Unit    Unit     No.   Year  Year Year   Total
Cost             1      2    3    Cost
K£                                 KE
Condenser units for
cold rooms (Prestcold
+10°C to -20"C)               no.   10 000      5   50 000   -          50 000
Spare parts for
condenser units               set    1 000      1    1 000   -    -   10 000
LAminar flow ca,inet          no*    5 000      3   15 000   -    -   15 000
Spare parts for
laminar flow cabinet          set       500     1      500   -    -        500
Revco Freezer
(-56 C to -70'C)              no.    6 000      2   13 000   -    -   12 000
Spare parts and
accessories
for Revco freezers            set       600     1      600   -    -       600
Ultra-centrifuge,
refrigerated MSE              no.   25 000      1   25 000   -    -   25 000
Accessories for
ultra-centrifuge              set   16 000      1   16 000   -    -   16 000
Cool-spin centrifuge
(including accessories)       no.   16 000      1   16 000   -    -   16 000
ELISA muitiscan
apparatus Dynatech
(17 components)               set   30 000      1   30 000   -    -   30 000
Polyacrylamide gel
apparatus (PACE,
inclusive of accessories)    set    8 000       1    8 000   -    -    8 000
TOTAL                                              174 000   -    -  174 000



- 116 -
ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.23 - Camping Equipment - FMD Typing and Evaluation
Laboratory, Institute for Research Into Foot and Mouth Disease
Item                              Unit    Unit Cost         No.    Total Cost
Tent, officers                     No        450             1           450
Tent, bush                         No         400            1           400
Chairs, camping                    No          20            4            80
Tables, camping                    No          20            2            40
Beds, camping                      No          40            4           160
Mattresses, camping                No          20            4            80
Cookers, gas                       No         20             2            40
Lamps, gas                         No          20            2            40
TOTAL                                                                  1 290
Table 2.24 - Field and Accommodation Allowancts, Foot and Mouth
Typing and Evaluation Laborator, Institute for
Research Into Foot and Mouth Disease a/
Field Service            Accommodation
Allowance                Allowance          Total
Per day      No. of       Per night   No. of    Cost
Staff Grade     No.       Ksh         days           Kah      nights       KE
Vet
Research
Officer           1        60           60           175          60      705
Lab
Technician       2         30           60            75          60      630
Driver           1         20           60            50         60       210
TOTAL                                                                   1 545
a/    Total of  120 days spent outside  Nairobi,  60 camping  and  60  in
hotels, etc.



-117-                               ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.25 - Capital Cwsts - Foot and Mouth Typing and
Evaluation Laboratory, Institute for Research Into
Foot and Mouth Disease
Total
Year        Year      Year      Cost
Item                                        1           2         3        KE
Laboratory Equipment
(Table 2.22)                          174 000         -         -    174 000
Camping Equipment
(Table 2.23)                            1 290         -         -       1 290
TOTAL                                    175 290        -         -    175 290
Table 2.26 -Recurrent "osts - Foot and Mouth Disease Typing
and Evaluation Laboratory, Institute for Research
Into Foot and Mouth Disease
Unit                                            Total
Item                Cost    No.      Year       Year      Year      Cost
U£                1          2         3        K£
Equipment maintenance
(1O) (Table 2.22)        -          -         -    17 400    17 400    34 800
Miscellaneous minor
equipment                 -          -    1 000      1 000      1 000      3 000
Micro-litre plates
U-bottom (Linbrow)        2.7   3 000    8 lon       8 100      8 100    24 300
Polyvinyl micro-litre
plates                    4.0   3 000   12 000    12 000    12 000    36 000
Micro-litre plates
flat bottomed             2.7   3 000    8 100       8 100      8 100    24 300
Micro-diluter             .1.0   4 000    4 000      4 000      4 000    12 000
Regents for ELISA         -          -    8 000      8 000      8 000    24 000
Field allowances
(Table 2.24)              -          -    1 545      1 545      1 545     4 635
TOTAL                                    42 745    60 145    60 145   163 035



- 118 -
ANNEX 2
90.  tn consequence, cost recovery has been difficult and the actual cost
of attempting to recover vaccination fees has far exceeded the value of
the fee.s collected.
91.   It would seem advisable therefore, to remove the charges for FMD
vaccination in the compuslory scheduled areas.   An exception should be
made in all compulsory areas in the instance of those farmers who
deliberately avoid having their animals vaccinated.  In such cases, where
avoidance is detected, the full cost of the vaccines should be charged -
Ksh 5.80 for quadrivalent and Ksh 4.45  for trivalent.   A  similar  fee
should be imposed for FMD vaccinations performed in the voluntary areas.
92.   Staffing.  Ihe personnel records of all MALD staff are at present
undergoing a major reorganization with the result that up-to-date data on
the numbers of staff employed by the Department of Veterinary Services is
not currently available.
93.   Estimates of the numbers of staff present in the Field Services
Division employed under the vote heads proposed to be supported by the
Rehabilitation  Programme  are  shown  in  Table  2.27.   The  vaccination
campaigns would be conducted by staff of the district veterinary services,
paid under head 631.
94.   In Table 2.8 an estimate is made of the total tumber of vaccination
teams necessary to conduct routine vac~cination campaigns against the three
diseases.  The total number of teams required is 127.
95.   Each vaccination team consists of a team leader (Livestock Officer
or Senior Animal Health Assistant), four vaccinators (Animal -Health
Assistants), two branders/labourers/assistant vaccinators, and a driver.
96.   This would imply a total staff requirement of 128 team leaders, 512
vaccinators, 256 branders/labourers/assistant vaccinators and 128 drivers.
97.   Under head 631 - District Veterinary Services - of Table 2.27, it
can be seen that there are 334 veterinarians, 962 livestock assistants,
623 subordinate staff and 193 drivers currently employed.  This is more
than enough staff to mount the vaccination campaign.  Team leaders would
be selected on the basis of experience and proven performance from the
ranks of animal health assistants.
98.   If the assumption is made that one veterinarian should be able to
supervise up to five vaccination teams, then the required number of
veterinarians for this task is 46.  Here again, the present staff levels
are more than sufficient to provide the number of veterinarians required.



KENYA
Mnimsl Health Service.a Rehbbilitcation Progragme
Table 2.27 - Latimaces of Staff    Levels EmploYed Under Certain
Vote Heads of the Field Services and Resea cn Divisions
of the Department of Veterinary Service-i (1985/86)
Dead 482  Head o31  Head 488  Head 483  Read 490
Prov.   Oisctrlct    aetioaL      Vet.       Vet.
7et.       Vet.   Tick Ctl. Clinical  Lab, and
3ervices Services  Programme Services  aesearcn    Total    Total
Staff Category                             1         2          3          4          5       1+2+3+4 1+2+3+4+5
Director of Livestock Development a/                        I         _          _          _          _          I          I
Deputy Director of Livestock Development a/                          -           -          -          -         2           2                      __
Assistant Director of Livestock Developeent *1              7        -           -          1          3         a          11
Livestock Development Officers a/                          39      151         14         24         84        228         312
Assistant Livesteock Development Officers aJ               -       183          -           -          -       183         183
Teetse Officers                                             -        -           -          -          3         -           3
Senior Livestock Officer.                                  -         -          -          -         15          -          13
Livestock Officers                                          -        -          15          -          5        15          20
Assistaut Livestock Officers                               10        -          -           -         39        10          49
Assistant Agricultural Officers                             -       34                                 -         34         34
Assistant Animel Rusbaodry Officers                         -        -          -           -         L2         -          12
Laboratory Techaologists                                   4         -          -           -       132          4         136
Animal Health Assistants                                    -      962          30          9         13     1 001       1 014
Executive Officers                                          j        -           -          -          -         5           5
Clerical and Office Staff                                  37       40          15          3        47         95         142
Storesen                                                    5         -          -          -          7         5          12
Arctisans                                                  10       24           -          -          6         34         40
'fechanics                                                 10       24           -          -          5         34         39
Drivers                                                    j5      193          13          3         49       264         313
Subordinate Staff                                         323      o23      1 268 b/        7       416      2 221       2 637
1   Veterioarians.
b/  Dip Attendants.
Source;  1985/86 Estimates of Recurreat Expendicures of the Government  oi Kenya.



-120--
ANNEX 2
C.    TICKS AND TICK-BORNE DISEASE CONTROL IN KENYA
The Distribution of Ticks and Tick-Borne Diseases in Kenya
99.   In Kenya,  the  prevention  of  ticks  and  tick-borne  diseases  are
regarded as being of the greatest economic importance in cattle.  Table
2.28 lists the major tick-borna diseases of cattle in Kenya and those tick
species which are of major isportance as vectors. The distributions of
these, and thus of the diseases they transmit, are shown in Maps 7 to 10.
It can be seen from the maps that the areas coincide closely with the
areas having the highest concentration of grade cattle (Map 11).
The Constraints Imposed by Ticks and Tick-Borne Diseases on
Li~vestock Production
100. Ticks  constrain  livestock  production  in  two  main  wisys.   By
themselves they can cause damage to the hides and skins of host animals
and cause lower productive performnace through exsanguination, toxicosis,
irritation  and  as  the  result  of  secondary  infection  of  the  wounds
(Amblyomma species being the worst offenders in the latter categories
because of their large biting mouthparts).
101.  In addition to these direct effects that the presence of ticks has
on livestock productivity, they can also cause further and potentially
much more severe losses by acting as vectors of various diseases.
102.  The tick-borne diseases listed in Table 2.28 have certain common
factors in their epidemiology. Firstly, these diseases are generally more
severe in the so-called "improved" breeds of cattle exotic to Africa than
they are in those breeds o' cattle indigenous  to t2ck-infected areas.
Secondly, an innate age immunity, usually reinforced with a passive
immunity bestowed by a previously infected dam, means that these diseases
are less severe in calves than in susceptible adult cattle.
Table 2.28 - Tick-Borne Diseases and Vector Species
East Coast fever (ECF)       Rhipicephalus appendiculatus
Babesiosis                   Boophilus, Ixodes, Haemophysalis,
Rhipicephalus and Hyalomma spp.
Anaplamosis                  Boophilus spp.
Heartwater                   Amblyomma spp.
103. In situations where there are sufficient numbers of vector ticks
present to guarantee frequent transmission of the diseases in question, a
stable "endemic"  situation may be created.   Cattle become  infected as
calves, suffer a generally mild or inapparent infection, and then become
immune to further disease on recovery. This immunity is continually being
reinforced as the result of repeated challenges from infected ticks.



- 121-
K E N Y A                 ANNEX2
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROGRAMME
DISTRIBUTION OF THE TICK RHIPICEPHALUS APPENDICULATUS
-_                                                       =
I /~~11    0                     i                 :               |
I   "'"':   '  R    A R    I    .I,,,"1
S  *                                             *  'S   
r!       *                                                        a            
*                                 i                               ..   ',*.
0%~~~@
C~~~~ o0  e IP.                                ;V t
| % e*e;o %Y
0  00,~~~~~~~so10  S
f   Km
Sowee: FAO techncal report AG: DPIKEN/70/522



- 122 -
ANNEX 2
104. In the case of anaplasmosis and babesiosis, because of the
efficiency with which vector ticks transmit these diseases, an endemically
stable situation with little or no loss in affected cattle populations can
be created relatively easily, even in instances where the population
densities of the vector ticks are relatively low.
105. In the case of heartwater, the short infective period in the
infected host usually results in low infection rates in the amblyomma
vector tick. This means that an endemically stable situation is probably
only created in instances where the density of the tick population is high.
106. In the case of ECF and the closely related corridor disease, an
endemically stable situation can be created relatively easily in cattle
populations indigenous to an affected area. Some mortalities may be
experienced in calves, although the actual extent of these losses is the
subject  of much controversy.   The  greater  susceptibility of breeds of
non-indigenous cattle to this disease, however, means severe losses in the
calves of these breeds.  These losses, combined with case mortality rates
of up.to 1002 in suscepcible adult cattle and the absence, until recently,
of an effective therapeutic or method of artificial immunization, has
meant that the introduction of improved breeds of cattle or the upgrading
of indigenous breeds could not be contemplated in ECF affected areas in
the absence of stringent control of the vector tick, Rhipicephalus
appendiculatus,  through the regular application of acaricides.  Although
recent  scientific  advances  give  hope  for  more  economic  means  of
co.ntrolling ECF, it is likely that regular applications of acaricide will
still remain the main method of control in the foreseeable future.
Strategies for the Control of Ticks and Tick-Borne Diseases
107. Outside ECF or corridor disease affected areas, the generally
recommended approach to the control of ticks and tick-borne diseases has
been to attempt to reduce tick populations by the applications of
acaricides so as to reduce the direct losses caused by tick infestations,
while at the same time permitting sufficient ticks to survive to create an
endemically stable situation.
108. In such situations which exist outside the ECF affected areas of
Kenya, the frequency with which acaricides are applied should be governed
by economic considerations as to the gains in productivity achieved when
compared to the costs of applying acaricides.
109. At present detailed studies are being conducted into the economics
of  dipping  cattle  in Keeya.   The  results  of  these  studies  were  not
available to the mission, but the indications are that che regular dipping
of indigenous cattle breeds cucside ECF affected areas is probably noc
economically justified, although strategic applications of acaricide when
tick  infestations  reach high  levels  probably  are.   This  is,  however,
largely an irrelevant issue with regard to the proposed Programme which is
concerned solely with tick control in the ECF affected areas of Kenya
(Table 2.29 and Map 12).



-123-              ~~~ANNEX 2
-- - ~123-
KENYA
Animal Realth Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.29 - Kenya National Tick Control Project
Status of Dips, September 1985
Number of           Number of Dips        Total Number
District'           Dips Operational    to be Constructed   of Dips Required
Muranga                     277                   23                    300
Nyeri                       234                   36                    270
Nyandarua                   229                    5                    234
Kirinyaga                   102                   27                    129
Kiambu                      241                   57                    298
Kericho                     340                   80                    420
Nandi                       219                    15                   234
Baringo                     126                  124                    250
Kakamega                    169                  139                    308
Bungoma                     165                   61                    226
Embu                         80                   26                    iO6
M-eru                       191                   29                    220
Machakos                    220                  300                    420
Kwale                        34                   36                     70
Taita-Taveta                 58                    9                     67
Kilifi                       37                   33                     70
LaiU a/                       8                    9                     17
Tana River a/                 9                    8                     17
Kisii                       120                  137                    257
Uasin Gishu                 581                   39                    620
Total                    3 440                 1 093                  4 533
a/ Small part of district only (see Map 12).
110.  In  ECF  affected  areas  the  problem  of  controlling  ticks  is
complicated by the necessity of reducing Rhipicephalus appendiculatus
populations  to  a  level  at  which  the  ECF  transmission  cycle  is
interrupted. It was at one time postulated that stringent regular dipping
would in fact, eradicate the vector tick and thus the disease.   Such a
proposition appears unlikely to succeed in Kenya owing to the difficulty
of achieving the uecessarv level of tick control required and because of
the presence of many alternative host species for the tick.
111. The frequency of acaricide treatments necessary for the satisfactory
control of ECF means that the populations of other tick species are also
severely reduced.  The result is that endemic stability is not attained
and populations of cattle fully susceptible to a range of tick-borne
diseases are created.  The potential thus exists for serious epidemics of
tick-borne diseases, should control measures break down. These epidemics
would cause severe losses in susceptible adult cattle.



- 124 -                         ANN  2
112.  In recenc years, research has concentrated on means of reducing the
coste  of, acaricide  creatments.   Recent developmuencs  have  included  the
developmenc of an ECF vaccine using an infection and treacment approach
and the development of cherapeutic drugs for the treatmeftt of the disease.
113. Such developments combined with advances in the knowledge on tick
ecology may permit a lengthenivl of acaricide treacmenc intervals and thus
a  reduction  in  the  costs  involved.   However,  such  methods  mustc  be
introd(uced with caucion, bearing in mind the susceptibility of the
livestock populations involved to other :.ick-horne diseases and the
pocential for epidemics should their tick vector populations increase as
the result of reducing acaricide treatment intervals.  Although vaccines
do exist for the other tick-borne diseases, they have generally not been
found appropria,e for widesaread use in the field.  Further research and
development is needed, therefore, before a suitable integrated control
approach which takes into consideracion the epidemiology of the encire
tick and tick-borne disease complex can be implemented.
114. In Kenya, the strategy for the concrol of cicks and tick-borne
diseases  has  been  based  mainly  on  the  perceived  need  to  concrol
Rhipicephalus   appendiculatus   populations   in  order   to  permit   the
introduction of improved exotic breeds of cactle and the upgrading of
indigenous cattle populations in ECF affected areas, the main objective
being to develop the dairy sector.
115.  In FCF affected areas, tick control measures are enforced through
the Cattle Cleansing Ordinance  (Cap.  358).   Under this ordinance,  the
Minister of Agriculture and Livestock Development is empowered co declare
proclaimed areas and enforce the regular, usually weekly,  cleansing of
cattle in these areas through the use of Government approved acaricides.
As shown in Table 2.29, the whole or parc of 20 districcs of Kenya are
scheduled in this way.
116.  As ECF is also a notifiable disease under the Animal Disease Acc
(see Table 2.6). Movement controls and quarantines apply.
117. In the proclaimed areas, various methods of tick concrol are
permitted. Livestock owners may spray their cattle with acaricides either
by hand spray, in a spray race, or they may dip their cactle in their. own
private  cattle  dip.   If  a  livestock  owner  has  no  such  facilicies
available, as is usuall- the case, then he uses the local communal dip.
118. Prior to 1978, che Veterinary Service was responsible only for the
supervision of the Catcle Cleansing Ordinance and had no responsibility
for the accual management  of cattle dips  or spray  races.   Increasing
concern over the escalacing losses due to tick-borne diseases, in
particular ECF, the spread of Rhipicephalus appendiculatus populations and
thus of ECF, and an escalacing problem of acaricide resiscance arising as
a result of inefficient dip managemenc, resulted in the Vecerinary Service
assuming responsibility for the management of communally operated dips
within the proclaimed areas.
119. Under this arrangemenc, the Deparrtment of Veterinary Services is
responsible for the management of the dips chrouglh che provision of a Dip
Actendant, che provision of acaricide, and for the maintenance of clte
dips. A fee of Ksh 0.30 per animal dipped is levied for these services.



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
120. Each communal dip has a dip committee composed of elected
representatives from local livestock producers which is responsible for
liaising with the Veterinary Services over the running of the dip and for
providing labour when required.
121. Outside the areas listed in Table 2.29 and shown on Map 12, dipping
is voluntary and at the discretion of the livestock owner. The management
of  communal  dips  in  these  areas  is  the  responsibility  of  dipping
committees and the fees charged generally take into consideration the full
cost of dipping.  Under IADPII the Government built or refurbished a total
of 426 dips in the districts of Siaya, Kisumu, South Nyanza, Busia and
Elgeyo Marakwet and a further 72 are under construction. The Department
does not supply staff or acaricides to these dips.
122.  Government  policy  for  the building  of new  dips  is  through  the
utilisation of rural development funds, under harambee arrangements or by
accepting  dip  construction   and  refurbishment   as   a  component   of
international  aid.   As  of  September  1985  the  Veterinary  Service  was
operating a total of 2 839 dips in the proclaimed areas.  A further 581
dips in Uasin Gishu district are at present being run under a DANIDA
project. The Veterinary Service estimates that a further 1 093 dips are
required in the proclaimed areas in order to ensure a complete dipping
coverage (Table 2.29).
123. The choice of acaricides is subject to government policy. Arsenical
and organochloride compounds are banned in government controlled dips
because of widespread tick resistance.   Ovners of private dips may use
these compounds if they so wish and the Masai are permitted the use of
organochlorides   in  Kajiado   and   Narok   districts.    Resistance   to
organophosphorus compounds is also becoming apparent in certain areas
(Table 2.30).  Accordingly,  acaricides are designated as Group I or II
Compounds (Table 2.31).  Group I Compounds are used until resistance is
detected, when a change is made to Group II Compounds of a different
formulation.
Table 2.30 - Districts Where Resistance to Group I Acaricides
has been 'Reported
Kiambu                             iyandarua
Nyeri                             Meru
Baringo                           Nandi
Kericho                           Kakamega
Bungoma                           Trans Nzoia



-126-                   ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.31 - Acaricides Approved and Registered Under the Pharmacy
and Poisons Ordinance (Cap. 244) for Use in Government
Operated and Private Dips
Sector         &caricide Group                Acaricide           Manufacturer
Government    Arsenicals               Discontinued since 1977
Organochlorine          Discontinued since 1977
Organophosphorous       Group I
Dlenav                   Wellcome
Bacdip                    Bayer
Group II
Asuntol                   Bayer
Supona                    Shell
Steladone                 Ciba-Geigy
Super Dip                 Wellcome
Private        Organochlorine          Coopertox                  Wellcome
Carbamate               Sevin
Source% Field Service Division, Department of Veterinary Services.
124. There are four commercial companies supplying acaricides in Kenya.
Tender prices to the Government include the delivery of acaricides to the
dip site.   The companies also provide a range of additional  services.
Some companies provide a dip testing service for the analysis of dip wash
samples by gas or thin layer chromatography and assume responsibility for
the delivery of the results obtained to the local District Veterinary
Officer.   Companies  that  do  not have  suitable  testing  facilities  are
responsible for the delivery of samples for testing by gas chromatography
to the veterinary laboratory at Kabete.  Certain companies also undertake
to empty and refill dips, otherwise  this  service  is  provided  by  the
Veterinarv Department when funds and facilities are available.
Effectiveness of the Tick Control Programme and Constraints on its
Implementation
125. In general, it would appear that the present policy pursued by the
Veterinary Department in assuming management of communal dips in the
proclaimed areas has created conditions suitable for the upgrading of
indigenous cattle and the development of a dairy industry.  Nevertheless
the programme is facing various constraints.
126.  The two major constraints appear to be financial and managerial.  In
recent years the budgetary allocation for the purchase of acaricides has
not been sufficient to ensure a regular supply of acaricide throughout the
year. The problem has been particularly acute during the last quarter of
the financial year so that there have been shortages of acaricides at that



- 127 -
ANNEX 2
time. As a result dips have not been replenished so that they become
under-strength.  In addition, the emptying and refilling of any dip which
requires it has to be postponed.   Both these factors have a detrimental
effect on the efficiency of the dipping procedure and consequently on the
degree of protection afforded to cattle dipped at this time.
127. Other constraints occasioned by a lack of finance have been in the
provision of water supplies and pumping facilities for the replenishment
and the emptying and refilling of dips.  Attempts are made to site dips
close to water supplies, usually a stream or river. In addition dips may
be supplied with tanks to catch the water run-off from the dip tank roof,
although the amount of water supplied by this means is usually inadequate
for the proper functioning of the dip.  Certain acaricide companies offer
an emptying and refilling service for dips through provision of bowsers
and pumps.  In areas not supplied by these companies, these services are
provided by the Veterinary Department.  In many instances, these services
have broken down so that dips must be emptied and refilled by hand, a
lengthy and laborious process.  As a result many dips are not emptied and
refilled at the proper time, and the dip wash level is often below that
recommended.
128.  A  further problem  is maintenance.   Because  of  a lack of  funds,
adequate maintenance is often not carried out and dips may have to be
closed for considerable periods while awaiting necessary repairs.
129. The problems resulting from a lack of funds are cften accentuated
and complicated by poor management.  There appears to be a considerable
degree of confusion as to the exact responsibilities of the Veterinary
Department and of the Dipping Committee, particularly over maintenance and
water  supplies.   In general,  major maintenance  is carried out  by  the
Veterinary Department with the labour being provided by the Dip Tank
Committees or the Dip Attendant.
130. The extent to which the present constraints faced by the Veterinary
Department affect the individual performance of a particular dip largely
depends  on  the  initiative  of  the  local  dipping  committee.   Certain
committees, realizing the problems facing the Veterinary Department, show
considerable initiative in ensuring that the dip is properly repaired and
functioning, by providing the necessary materials and labour themselves.
Others regard the whole dip operational procedure as the responsibility of
"he Veterinary Department and refuse, or are extremely reluctant, to take
any action at all Co ensure that the dip functions correctly.
131. Problems have also been experienced by the Veterinary Department in
obtaining a proper degree of supervision over the Dip Attendants.  It is
the responsibility of the Dip Attendant to ensure that the dip wash is
maintained at the correct concentration and that all cattle in the area
are regularly and properly dipped. Dip Attendants are required by law to
submit regular samples of dip wash for analysis and to keep a register
which records the number of cattle in the area carried by the dip, the
number dipped, the amount of acaricide used and the dates when the dip is
emptied and refilled.



- 128 -
ANNEX 2
132. It is the responsibility of che companies supplying acaricide to
ensure that the dip wash samples are either tested by them and the results
posted to the District Veterinary Officer;  or that the dip wash samples
are conveyed  to che testing facility at Kabece.   However,  samples are
often not submitted on a regular basis by Dip Attendants and in addition
they may not take the action recommended in the analysis report. Postal
delays, delays in the actual analytical procedure and the completion of
the analysis reports, all result in recommendations often being received
by the Dip Attendants after a considerable period of time has elapsed. In
such cases the results may no longer be directly applicable, since many
more cattle have been dipped in the interim.
133. The Veterinary Service through the Epidemiology and Economics Unit
operates  a  computerized  dip  Recording  and  Monitoring  Service.   This
Service requires the dip attendant to submit details from che dipping
register concerning estimates of the numbers of animals dipped, along with
the dip wash sample.   The Service has been effective in improving the
standard of dip operation in certain districts where it has been
implemented,  but  depends  for  its *effectiveness  on  the  Dip Attendant
supplying the relevant information along with the dip sample, which in
many cases they have been reluctant to do.  In this instance much depends
on the efficiency and initiative of the local supervising officers in
ensuring,  that  the  relevant  information  is  provided  and  that  the
recommendations contained in the reports are acced upon.
134. Great difficulty has also been experienced by the. Department in
collecting, collating and analyzing all the data contained in dip
registers.  Much of the data submitted is inaccurate and/or incomplete.
This is a serious constraint for this data is essential for the proper
planning and operation of the dipping programmes.
135. Table 2.32 presents a summary of the data currently available for
che calendar years  1983 and 1984.  Using the 1983 estimates of cactle
populations for those areas where estimates of the number of animals
dipped are available (footnotes of Table 2.32), an overall average weekly
dipping coverage of 27% can be estimated for 1984 and 28% for 1983.
136. The percentages are an obvious underestimate of the true situation,
since they include in the denominator those animals which are dipped or
sprayed privately.
137. It is extremely likely that nearly all grade cattle within the
proclaimed areas are dipped or sprayed on a regular basis.   Livestock
owners are well aware of the consequences of inadequate tick control in
this type of animal with regard to ECF. Although an effective therapeutic
(Clexon) is now available, the cost of a course of treatment is high
(Ksh 400) and more than outweighs any savings that could be made in
acaricide usage.



- 129 -
ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.32 - Summary of Dipping Statistics in the Government
Managed Dipping Areas of Kenya for the Years 1983 and 1984
Year
1984 a/                 1983 b/
Estimated total number
of cattle dipped/year                  54 210 319             64 684 178
Estimated total number
of cattle dipped/week                   1 042 506              1 243 926
Estimated number of
cattle present in areas:
- grade                                 1 503 000              1 557 000
- indigenous Zebu                       2 347 000              3 047 280
Estimated weekly dipping
coverage of cattle population (%)              26.7                    28.1
Estimated amount of acaricide
used (litres):
- Delnav                                   72 647                107 503
- Supona 20                                48 164                 41 560
Supona 50                                 8030                        -
8acdip                                   21 066                 42 656
- Asuntol                                   8 233                     710
- Steladon                                 56 440                 51 835
Estimated total cost of
acaricide used (Ksh)                   43 829 164             56 251 567
Estimated acaricide cost/cow/
dipping (Ksh)                                   0.81                    0.87
a/    Excluding Tana River, Lamu, Uasin Gishu, Kilifi and Machakos.
b/    Excluding Tana River, Lamu, Uasin Gishu and Embu.
138.  There are a number of reasons why owners of grade cattle may prefer
to dip or spray their animals privately, and incur the extra costs
involved,  rather than rely on the subsidized communal dips.   The most
obvious is the necessity of ensuring that their animals are adequately
protected rather than risk them by dipping in an under-strength and/or
improperly managed communal dip. The adverse effect on milk production of
walking animals to and from the dip and the trauma of the dipping
procedure, the risk of contracting contagious or infectious disease as the
result of animals from different herds mixing at dips, and the actual
labour costs involved, are all further factors that encourage owners to
treat their animals privately.



- 130 -                        ANNEX 2
139. With regard to indigenous cattle breeds, the greater resistance of
these animals to ECF particularly if they have been exposed to the
infection as calves, combined with their lower productivity, are fartors
which could influence the decision of livestock owners not to dip these
animals on a regular weekly basis in communal dips.  It is unlikely that
many owners of indigenous cattle in the proclaimed areas would undertake
the extra expense involved in dipping or spraying such animals privately.
140. If the essumption is made that at least -50% of grade cattle in the
proclaimed areas are dipped privately (an assumption borne out by the
extent of acaricide sales to the private sector) and that 50% of
indigenous cattle are dipped regularly but that the average dipping
interval in these animals is approximately three weeks, then the estimated
dipping coverage becomes 91% and 97% for 1984 and 1983 respectively. The
balance could be accounted for by the necessity of closing dips at various
times for maintenance and repair.
Proposals for SupPort for the Control of Ticks and Tick-Borne
Diseases
141. The proposals for the support of the control of ticks and tick-borne
diseases are for the provision of funds to purchase the additional
acaricide necessary, for dip tank maintenance and for additional vehicle
and equipment support. The latter are considered in Annex 3.
142.  Acaricide  Costs.   The  budg^tary  provision  for  the  purchase  of
acaricide in 1984/5 w s K£2 390 000 (K£ 2 625 000 in 1985/86 prices if 10%
is added for inflation). This provision is estimated to be 33%, too low
to supply the total amount of acaricide necessary since no funds were
available to purchase acaricide in the last quarter of the financial
year. Therefore, requirements for 1985/86 would be about K£ 3 500 000,
143.  During the Programme period more dips will be built.  In 1980, the
total number of dips in the government managed dipping areas was 2 931.
The current total number of dips in these areas is 3 440 (Table 2.29).
This implies dip construction has proceeded at the rate of approximately
100 per annum or 3%.
144   An increased number of dips would iincrease the dipping coverage.  In
addition, if the acaricide budget is increased, dipping services will
improve and it would be exected that a certain number of livestock owners
(say approximately 2%) would recommence using government dips.   Taking
these factors into account, together with the annual increase in grade
cattle numbers (estimated at 8%, although it would be expected that 50% of
these would be dipped privately), the estimated increase in demand for
acaricide would be approximately 3-5%.
145. This would imply that the sums necessary for the purchase of
acaricide would be approximately K£ 3 500 000 in 1985/86,  K 3 675 000 in
1986/87,  K£ 3 860 000  in  1987/88,  and  K£ 4 050 000  for  1988/89.   To
estimate incremental needs, these figures should be compared with the
1985/86 budget provision of K£ 2 800 000.



- 131 -
ANNEX 2
146.  Dip Tank Maintenance.   Estimates of the annual costs of dip tank
maintenance vary from KE 100 to KE 200, depending on the age of the dip.
For the purpose of this Programme, an average cost of KE 150 per dip has
been used.  It is assumed that half of this (KE 75) would be for purchase
of macerials and the remainder would consist of labour charges either
provided by the Dip Attendant or the dipping committee.
147.  The estimated costs of these two components are shown in Table 2.33.
Table 2.33 - Escimated Annual Costs of Acaricides & Maintenance of Dips
under the Tick Control Programme
Total Cost
Item                      Year 1        Year 2        Year 3             KE
Acaricide               3 675 000    3 860 000    4 050 000          11 585 000
Dip maincenance            258 000       265 500       273 000          796 500
TOTAL                   3 933 000    4 125 500    4 323 000          12 381 500
Future Constraicrs on the Implementation of the Programme
148.  Staffing.  The main programme-specific  scaff requirements  for the
control  of  ticks  and  tick-borne  disease  is  the  provisisn  of  Dip
Attendants. At present the Veterinary Services are managing a total of
2 859 dips excluding those managed by DANIDA in Uasin Gishu.
149. From Table 2.27 it can be seen that the number of Dip Attendants
currently employed by the Department of Veterinary Services is 1 268. On
che basis that one Dip Attendant should be ab1e to adequately manage two
dips, there is at present a shortfall of 162 Dip Attendants.  To this can
be added an additional requirement of 50 Dip Attendants per annum,
occasioned by the dip construction programme.
150. There are at present 14 Veterinarians and 15 Livestock Officers
assigned to tick control duties (Table 2.27), a sufficiently adequate
number to ensure che overall supervision of dipping programmes in the tick
control areas managed by the Department of Veterinary Services.
151.  Cost Sharing.   If the government supported dipping programme is to
be maintained, then additional services of funding need to be found. The
present fee level of Ksh 0.30 per dipping does not cover the acaricide
cost (Table 2.31), let alone the costs of maintenance or staff. While the
financial support proposed under the Rehabilitation Programme could be
expected to alleviace the problem in the short term, it would not in



- 132 -                        ANNEX 2
itself represent a long term solution.  The alternatives available to che
Government of Kenya are either to increase the budgetary allocation for
tick control or to allow a more substantial recovery of costs. The later
would imply a raising of charges to cover the costs involved.  This issue
is discussed further in Annex 6 of the report.
152. One objection to the lacter approach is the possible effect that
this  would  have  on  the  health  of  the  national  herd.   It  could  be
postulated that a substantial increase in dipping costs would result in a
large number of livestock owners ceasing to dip their catcle,  that the
cattle would become susceptible to tick-borne diseases and thus widespread
epidemics would occur resulting in very substantial losses.
153. Aside from the fact that a substancial proportion of cattle are not
being brought to communal dips in the proclaimed areas (Table 2.32), it is
by no means certain thac the utilizacion of communal dips would be
adversely affected.   The impression gained by the mission is that most
livestock owners would prefer to have a reliable dipping service priced to
cover costs, and would be prepared to pay for it, rather than have the
present unreliable subsidized service. As was pointed out earlier, cactle
owners in the proclaimed areas have accumulated a substantial amount of
experience in preserving the health of their animals against ECF and are
well aware of the possible consequences of inadequate tick control. It is
unlikely therefore that they would cease to dip their cactle, particularly
in the case of grade animals which represent such a major investment.
154.  If dipping fees ate co be increased, then the service must also be
improved. A number of the conscraincs discussed above would be eliminated
in  che  short  term  by  the  incremental  funding  provided  under  the
Programme.   However,  the  problem  of  correct  management  of dips  would
remain.   The  mechanisms  for  the  adequace  monitoring  of  the  dipping
programme are already in place.  It is necessary now to ensure chat these
mechanisms, particularly the existing reporting system, are properly
implemented, that staff follow the recommended procedures, and that
process for the collection, collation and analysis of the data necessary
to ensure the effective implementarion of the Programme, is strengthened
and  supported.    In  addition,   the  various  responsibilities  of  the
Veterinary Department and of the dipping committees need to be clearly
defined and agreed to by the parties concerned.
D.    ADDITIONAL DISEASE CONTROL ACTIVITIES
155.  Apart from rinderpest, CBPP, FMD, ticks and tick-borne diseases, the
Department of Veterinary Services is faced uith a large range of ocher
diseases which individually and collectively act as extremely important
constraints on livestock produccion in Kenya.  Table 2.34 lists the more
important of these by the production systems involved.
156. The Veterinary Department attempts to control many of these diseases
by  the  use  of  vaccines  and  prophylactic  and  therapeutic  drugs.
Vaccinations are performed by the Veterinary Field Services Division
either during the course of routine vaccination campaigns or as separace
campaigns  in  the  event  of  an  outbreak.   Poultry  vaccines  (Newcastle
lisease, fowl pox and fowl typhoid vaccines) are often supplied direct to
>2 'producer.



- 133; -
ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.34 - Major Disease Consttaints of Different Livestock
Production Systems in Kenya
Pastoral Camel Production Systems:
Trypanosomiasis, mange and helminthiasis.
Unimproved Traditional Cattle Production Systems:
Rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia,. ticks and tick-borne
diseases, clostridial diseases, pasteurellosis, anthrax, helminthiasis,
fascioliasis, trypanosomiasis, streptothricosis, lumpy skin disease, Rift
Valley   fever,   malignant   catarrhal   fever,   mineral  and  nutritional
imbalances, tuberculosis, colibacillposis and pneumonias.
Improved Beef and Dairy Prv4uction Systems:
Foot and mouth disease, Rift Valley fever, clostridial disease3,
anthrax, ticks and tick-borne diseases, trypanosomiasis, heliinthiasis,
fascioliasis,   streptothricosis,    lumpy   skin   disease,   brucellosis,
infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, infectious pustular vulvovaginicis,
vibriosis,   trtichomoniasis,   infertility   relating   to  management   and
nutrition, mineral and nutritional imbalances, mastitis, pneumonias, foot
rot, tuberculosis, Johne's disease, leptospirosis, salmonellosis and
colibaccilosis.
Sheep and Goat Production Systems:
Blue tongue, Rift Valley fever, contagious caprine pleuropneumonia,
helminthiasis,   fascioliasis,   trypanosomiasis,   ticks   and   tick-borne
diseases including Nairobi sheep disease, mange, orf, sheep pox, goat pox,
clostridial diseases, mineral and nutritional imbalances, foot rot,
mastitis, pneumonias, brucellosis and salmonellosis.
Poultry Production Systems:
Newcastle  disease,   fowl  plague,  fowl  pox,   Marek's  disease,
mycoplasmosis,   coccidiosis,   helminthiasis,   nutritional   and   mineral
deficiencies, and salmonellosis.
Pig Production Syste-m:
African swine fever, colibaccilosis, salmonellosis, helminthiasis,
vibriosis, erysipelas, transmissable gastroenteritis and pneumor-ias.



-134 -                     ANNEX 2
157. The range of vaccines used by the Field Services Division are listed
in Table 2.35.  This table also includes the trypanocidal drugs used by
the Division in the prevention and control of trypanosomiasis.
158.  Vaccines  are  obtained  by  the  Field  Services  Division   from
pharmaceutical companies on tender or are produced in the Department's own
vaccine production unit at Kabete (Table 2.34). FMD vaccines are supplied
from the Wellcome FMD Vaccine Production Instieute at Embakazi.
Constraints on Other Disease Control Activities
159. The principal constraints experienced in the application of these
vaccines and drugs in the field are similar co those experienced during
the routine vaccination campaigns, namely a lack of transport and storage
facilities.
160. A further major constraint in disease control is the lack of
adequate   transport   facilities   for   the   Veterinary   Investigation
Laboratories,   which   severely   limics   their   ability   to   conduct
investigations  into  the  possible  causes  of  disease  outbreaks.   The
inability to obtain a definitive diagnosis in the event of such an
outbreak constrains che prompt and decisive implementation of control
measures.
161. In addition, much of the equipment for the production of vaccines at
the Veterinary Laboratories at Kabete is old and obsolete and no longer
capable  of  repair.   In  1984  a  failure  in  water  supplies  completely
disrupted vaccine production for a period of about three months.
Proposals for the Support of the Disease Control Activities
162. The proposals outlined for the routine vaccinacion campaigns against
rinderpest, CBPP and FMi  will also be used to support  the additional
disease control activities.
163.  Additional support is required for the purchase of vaccines.  The
estimated annual vaccine/trypanocidal drug requirements of the Department
of Veterinary Services are outlined in Table 2.35 together with the costs
involved where purchases have to be made. The cost of vaccine produced by
the veterinary laboratory at Kabete are catered for in the proposals to
strengthen the vaccine production unit.
164.  These vaccines are administered by the Field Services Division.  An
additional field allowance has been provided for field vaccination teams
camping in pastoral areas (20% of the field allowance for vaccination
teams engaged in CBPP, FMD and rinderpest vaccinations).



- 135 -                            ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.35 - Vaccine/Drug Requirements of the Field Services Division
Source       Vaccine/Drug             Price/dose  Quantity      Total Cost
Ksh      (doses)           KE
Embakasi   FMD bivalent vaccine a/         3.10    600 000   93 000
FMD monovalent vaccine a/       1.50    900 000   67 500
160 500
Commercial
Teiner     Rabies vaccine (human)        250            200    2 500
Rabies vaccine (HEP)         230            200    2 300
Brucella 5.19 vaccine          3.15      12 000    1 890
Enterotoxaemia vaccine         0.73       3 000       109
Blanthrax vaccine              0.75  1 500 000   56 250
Leptospirosis vaccine           9        10 000    4 800
Haemorrhagic septicaemia
vaccine                      1.10      12 000       660
Horse sickness vaccine        65.20       3 000    9 780
Samorin b/                    29        200 000  290 000
Berenil b/                     6.40    500 000  160 000
Novidium bromide b/            2.90    800 000  116 000
Ethidium bromide F/            2.75    500 000   68 750
Quinapyramine
sulphate b/                  8         30 000   12 000
Quinapyramine
pro-sale b/                  9         80 000   36 000
761 039
Veterinary Orf vaccine                               25 000
Laboratory Fowl pox vaccine                        480 000
Kabete     Newcastle disease
vaccine                             5 100 000
Lumpy skin vaccine                      100 000
Rift Valley fever
vaccine                               241 000
Rabies (LEP)
vaccine                               108 000
Bluetongue vaccine                      125 000
Sheep and goat pox                      150 000
Fowl typhoid                          1 500 000
Contagious caprine
pleuropneumonia                       500 000
a/ Used in the containment of FMD outbreaks.
b/ Used in the treatment and control of trypanosomiasis.



- 136 -
ANNEX 2
165. Table 2.36, Part A outlines the equipment necessary to support the
vaccine production unit at Kabete.  Most of the equipment provided is to
replace old and obsolete equipment at the unit.   Funds have  also been
provided for an ultraviolet spectrophotometer which would be used primarily
for the testing of synthetic pyrethroid based acaricides irn the dip testing
unit, and for the repair and refurbishment of four cold rooms, three of
which are used for vaccine storage and one for the storage of pathological
speciments. A small amount of camping equipment (Table 2.37) together with
field and accommodation allowances have been provided to enable research
staff to conduct field investigations into disease outbreaks.
166. Table 2.36, Part B outlines the equipment provided for the Veterinary
Investigation  Laboratories  to  improve  their  diagnostic  and  disease
investigation services. The principal components are for the replacement
of incinerators which have broken down and are uneconomical to repair and
for reconditioning and repairing cold rooms used for storing pathological
specimens.
167. As with the other support proposals, vehicle requirements have been
considered separately in Annex 3.
168. The recurrent costs of these support proposals are outlined in
Table 2.39.
Cost Sharing
169. The current estimated costs of the vaccines and trypanocidal drugs
needed by *the Field Services Division, together with the costs at which
they are supplied to the livestock producers, are listed in Table 2.40.
170. In general, the drugs and vaccines are supplied at or near cost. The
principal discrepancies which have significant implications for the budget
of the Department are the present policies of providing Newcastle disease
vaccine free and undercharging by 35 cents for Blanthrax vaccine (a
combined  Blackquarter  and  Anthrax  vaccine).   Because  the  estimated
requirements for these two vaccines are so high - 1.5 million doses for
Blanthrax and 5.1 million for Newcastle disease - the subsidy on the sale
of these vaccines would amount to KE 26 250 and K£ 51 000 respectively. It
would seem advisable, therefore, to raise the selling price of these
vaccines to the cost of government purchase or production.
171. The only other large subsidy is in the fee charged for rabies LEP
vaccine during campaigns.  Because of the important implications of this
disease with regard to human health, this subsidy should be maintained to
encourage dog vaccination.



- 137 -                              ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.36 - Laboratorl Equipment - Veterinary Research Division
Department of Veterinary Services
Unit Cost  No.  Year      Year    Year Total Cost
K£   1   2        3      KE
A.  VtrnarLaboraor
Kabete
U/v spectrophotometer          70 000   1     -       70 000      -     70 VJOd
Freeze dryer (EF-10-10)
1 000 ml ampoule
capacity                    20 000   1   20 000       -        -      20 000
Freeze dryer bench
model                        7 000   3   14 000    7 000       -      21 000
Ultra centrifuge               15 000   1   15 000      -         -     15 000
Autoclave                     20 000   1   20 000       -         -     20 000
Coulcer councer               17 500   1   17 500       -        -      17 500
Koch steamer                   6 000   2      -        6 000   6 000   12 000
Revco freezer                  6 000   1    6 000       -        -       6 000
Rot air oven                   2 000   1    2 000       -        -       2 000
Reconditioning cold
rooms (refrigerator
unit, motor, electric
panel and installacion)    62 000   4  124 000   62 000  62 000  248 000
Camping equipment
(module)                      -       2    2 920     -        -        2 920
Sub-cotal                                  221 460  145 000  68 000  434 4?.0
B. Veterinary
Investigation
Laboratories
Centrifuge                      1 500   4    6 000      -        -       6 000
Cencrifuge haemacocrit          1 000   3     -        3 000     -       3 000
Incineracors                  20 000   3      -       40 000  20 000   60 000
Reconditioning cold
rooms                       62 000   4      -      124 000 124 000  248 000
Sub-total                                    6 000  167 000 144 000  317 000
TOTAL                                      227 460  312 000 212 000  751 420



-138-                       ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.37 - Camping Equipment Module for Veterinary Research Division
Unit Cost                          Total Cost
KE                 No.            K£
Tents, officers                      450                  1                450
Tents, bush                          400                  1                400
Tables, camping                       70                  2                140
Chairs, camping                       20                  5                100
Beds, camping                        40                   5                200
Mattresses                            20                  5                100
Cookers, gas                          20                  2                 40
Lamps, gas                          .15                   2                 30
1 460
Table 2.38 - Field and Accommodation Allowances
for Veterinary Research Division
Field Service            Accommodation
Allowance                Allowance          Total
Per day      No. of       Per night   No. of    Cost
Staff Grade               Ksh          days          Ksh       nights       KE
Veterinary Research
Officer                    60            90          175          90    1 058
Laboracory Technician      30           180           75          90       608
Driver                     20            90           50          90       315
1 981



- 139 -
ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.39 - Additional Disease Control Activities - Recurrent Costs
Total Cost
Item                      Year 1        Year 2        Year 3           KE
Vaccines/drugs a/
(see Table 2.35)        761 039       761 039       761 039     2 283 117
Chemicals and
Reagents b/               10 000       10 000        10 000         30 000
Laboratory
maintenance b/
Replacement  I0M)              -       10 050        22 650         32 700
Field Allowances b/          1 981        1 981         1 981          5 943
TOTAL                      773 020      783 070       795 670     2 351 760
a/    Assuming that the total vaccine/drug reqeirement will remain stable
over the three year programme period.
b/    Costs attributable to Veterinary Research Division.  For assessment
of the incremental effects on the overall vaccine budget see
footnotes to Table 2.15.



-140-                            ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal gealth Services Rehabilitation Programme
Table 2.40 - Estimates of the Current Costs and Selling Prices
of Vaccines and Trypacidal Druss used by the
Department of Veterinary Services
Vaccine/            Cost per    Current Gov't       Coments
Drug             Dose      Selling Price
Ksh       per Dose Ksh
Rinderpest T/C            0.15           free
Contagious bovine
peuropneumonia         0.20           free          )
FMD Quadrivalent          5.80             *           )   see
"  Trivalent             4.45             *           )   footnote
"  Bivalent              3.10             *           )
"  Monovalent            1.50             *           )
Rabies T/C (human)      250              free          Prepared for veterinary
personnel. only.
Rabies HEP (cats)       230                10          Only about 200 doses
used per annuxm.
Rabies LEP (dogs)         7.05**      see commencs    Ksh 2/dose during
campaigns, other times
Ksh 10/dose.
Brucella S 19             3.51              3.50
Enterotoxaemia            0.73              0.60
Blanthrax                 0.75              0.40       Estimated requirement
1.5 million
doses/annum.
Leptospirosis             9                 8
Haemorrhagic
septicaemia             1.10              1.40
Horse sickness           65.20             20          Estimated requirement
3 000 doses/annum.
Samonn                   29                29
Berenil                   6.40              6.75
Echidium                  2.75              3
Novidium                  2.90              3
Quinapyramine
sulphate                8                 8
Quinapyramine pro-salt   9                  9
Orf                       0.45**            0.40
Newcastle disease         0.20**         free          Estimated requiremenc
5.1 million
doses/annum.
Continued



-141-
-                                ANNEX 2
Table 2.40 Continued
Vaccine/            Cost per    Current Gov't       Comments
Drug             Dose      Selling Price
Ksh       per Dose Ksh
Lupy skin                 0.20**            0.45
Rift Valley fever         0.30**            0.30
Sluetongue                 0.30**          0.40
Sheep and Goat Pox        0.20**            0.15
Fowl Typhoid              0.16**            0.15
Contagious caprine
pleuropneumonia        0.69**         free          Still an experimental
vaccine not yet
released for widespread
distribution.
*     Routine vaccinations  - free  in small  scale  farming and pastoral
compulsory  vaccination  areas;   Ksh 2.00  per  dose  in  scheduled
(family  large  scale  farming)  comPUlsory  vaccination  areas.   In
non-compulsory vaccination areas Ksh 4.00 per dose on demand.  Ring
vaccination in the event of an oucbreak, free xn all instances.
**    These  are  tentacive  estimates  of  the  cost  of  producing  these
vaccines from the vaccine production unit. A detailed costing is at
present being undertaken;  it is possible that the actual eosts may
in fact be higher.
E.    CLINICAL SERVICES
172. 'The need for the Veterinary Services to supply clinical services to
producers has arisen basically out of the demand for such services from
the  smallholding  dairy  sector.   In  1974  the  Veterinary  Services
established its first clinical centre and over the years the number of
such centres has increased to 18. These centres proved inadequte to meet
demandt, and government veterinarians in the regular field services began
to provide a clinical service outside of their government duties on a
private  basis,  for which  they charged  fees.   In  1979  the Government
designated all provincial,  district  and divisional offices as clinical
centres, provided drugs and equipment and forbade all government employees
from engaging in private clinical work.



-142 -                       ANNEX 2
173. There is a standard fee for clinical services with three main
charges.  A charge of Ksh 3 is made for the examination of a calf, sheep,
goat or any other small animal at a communal or roadside crush. Ksh 10 is
charged for the examination of a cow at a similar, site.  If an on-farm
visit is made, then the charge is Ksh 30 irrespective of the animal
involved.   The charges cover the cost of the initial treatment.   If a
course of treatment is indicated then the veterinarian may either give the
farmer a prescription or sell him the drugs.  The costs of drugs range
from Ksh 3, 6, 10, 20, or 30 per dose depending on the drug used.  An
exception is made in the case of Clexon, the treatment for ECF, when the
full cost (Ksh 400) of u course of treatment  is charged.   The prices
charged have remained fixed for a number of years and are in many
instances now subscantially lower than the currene tender prices which are
themselves substantially lower than the current retail prices.
Constraints on the Operation of Clinical Services
174. Two of the main constraints are a lack of transport and budget for
operating the transport.  In many instances farmers who need treatment for
an animal will either provide the cost of petrol where a vehicle is
available or the cost of private transport when a vehicle is unavailable.
The current budget for drug purchase is also inadequate to meet demand.
Although prescriptions are issued by veterinary officers, the shortage of
commercial pharmacies in rural areas means that in many instances farmers
cannot obtain the drugs prescribed.  There have been no funds allocated
for the purchase of clinical equipment since 1980/81; consequently most
veterinary officers - are, ill-equipped to perform routine operations and
examinations.
Proposals for the Support of Clinical Services
175. Support proposals for the clinical services include the provision of
drugs,   transport  and  clinical  equipment.    Transport  is  considered
separately in Annex 3.
176. Table 2.41 lists the estimated minimum annual drug requirements of
the Field Services Division.   This is over double che 1985/86 budgeced
level of KE 650 000.  The incremental drugs required are the figure of
KE 1 476 million  less KE 650 000  for  1986/1987.   As  it is proposed to
raise the prices of drugs sold by the Veterinary Services to commercial
levels, discussed in the following paragraphs, demand for them is likely
to drop, as more people switch to purchasing drugs from chemist shops.
The magnitude of this reduction is estimated ac 25% per annum for the
programme period.   Clinical equipment consists  basically of instruments
needed for clinical examination, minor surgery and obstecrics cases. The
estimated cost of a set of these instruments is KE 3 500.  Eighteen sets
are required.
177. The capital and recurrent costs of the support proposals for the
clinical services are outlined in Table 2.42.



- 143 -
ANNEX 2
KENYA
Animal Health Services REhabilication Programme
Table 2.41 - Kinitum Drug Reauirements for the Clinical Service
Submitted by the Field Services Div'sion of the Department
of Veterinary Services
Unit                  Total
Cost d/               Cost
Item                       Unit         Ksh          No.       Ksh
1. Broad spectrum anchelmincic   5 litres        450        15 000  6 750 000
2. Clexon (East Coast fever
treatment)                      100 ml        400        10 000  4 000 000
3. Oxycecracycline injectable    50 ml            16       200 000  3 200 000
4. Oxyeecracycline injectable    500 ml          276        10 000  2 760 000
5. Oxytecracycline soluble
powder                          100 s          20       100 000  2 000 000
6. Incra-mammary injectors
(dihydro-screptouycin and
penicillin)                     number         10       150 000  1 500 000
7. Broad spectrum anchelmintic   500 tabs.    500            2 000  1 000 000
S. Dihydrosstreptomycin and-
penicillin solution'            100 ml         40       25 000  1 000 .000
9. Intro-uterine pessaries
(stilboestrol and
streptomycin)                   100 peas.    300         3 000    900 000
10. Coccidiostat'and broad
spectrum antibiotic
(poultry)                       100 £          15       50 000    750 000
11. Kultivitamins injectable        100 ml         75        10 000    750 000
12. Trimethoprim and
sulphadiazine injectable        50 ml          68       10 000    680 000
13. Phosphorus and B 12
injectable                      50 ml          65       10 000    650 000
14. Trimethoprim and
sulphadiazine bolus             10 bolus       50       10 000    500 000
15. Antibiotic eye and
ear drops                       tubes           5      100 000    500 000
16. Intra-uterine pessaries
-(nitrofurazone and
neomycin)                       100 pess.    450         1 000    450 000
17. Chorionic gonadocrophin
1 5V  L.U.                     ampoules       120        3 000    360 000
18. Serum gonadocrophin             ampoules       20        3 000      60 000
19. Intra-ueerine pessaries
(sulphanilamide,
sulphapyridine)                 10 peas.      40         5 000    200 000
20; General anaesthetic
(barbiturate)                   25 ml        200         1 000    200 000
21. Sulphonamides injectable        500 ml         65         3 000    195 000
22. 40X calcium borogluconate       400 ml         35         5 000    175 000
23. Antiseptic wound cream          25 g           10       15 000    150 000
Continued



- P.4 -hANNEX 2
Table 2.41 Concinued
Unic                  Tocal
Cost a/               Cosc
Icem                       Unit         Ksh          No.       Koh
24. Cortisone injectable            50 m1          27         5 000    l?  000
25. Aerosol spray containing
cetracyclines                   200 ml         40         3 000    120 000
26. 202 glucose                     400 ml         38         3 000    144 000
27. Obseetric lubricant             I litre        80         1 000      80 000
28. Local anaesche;ic               100 ml         15         5 000      75 000
29. In3ectable diurecic             50 ml          60         1 000      60 000
30. Hydrogen peroxide               SOO ml         60         1 000      60 000
31. Atropine sulphate               25 ml          25         1 500      37 500
32. Kaolin powder                   1 kg           15         2 500      37 500
33. Magnesium sulphace              500 g          15         2 000      30 000
34. Barbicurate for
euchanasia                      100 ml         25         1 000      25 000
35. Diuretic bolus                  bolus           4         5 000      20 000
TOTAL Kah                                                            29 524 000
TOTAL K£                                                              1 476 200
a/ Tender price.
Table 2.42 - EscimAced Recurrent and Capital Costs for
the Support of the Clinical Services
Unit                                              Tocal
Coat           Year       Year        Year        Coat
Item                   Kg    No.       1           2           3          K£
A. Capical costs
Clinical service
instruments         3 500  18      63 000       -          -          63 000
B.  Recurrent costs
Drugs (see
Table 2.41) 8/        -         1 476 200  1 107 150    830 360  3 413 710
Clinical service
instruments
replacement (202)    -      -                  12 600      12 600     25 200
TOTAL                                                                3 501 910
a/ For explanations as co how these costs are derived, see para 176.



- 145-
ANNEX 2
Considerations in the Support of Clinical Services
178. Clinical services are popular with producers who readily appreciate
the need to treat sick animals and are prepared to pay for it.  When the
service is functioning, such treatments are currently heavily subsidized
in terms of the provision of professional expertise on the part of.
governmene subsidized veterinarians, transport, and the cost of the drugs
provided.  Such subsidies place a hiavy strain on the recurrent budget of
the Department.
179. As with tick control, if the Government wishes to maintain an
effective clinical service in its present form, then either it must review
the operating budget of the Department or it must permit the Department to
recover a greater proportion of the costs incurred.
180. If the producer is to assume a greater share of the costs of
providing a clinical service, then the most simple solution would be to
separate drug fees from visit fees and charge the drug manufacturers'
recommended retail prices for all veterinary medicines used.
181. As far as the producer is concerned, this would not involve a
substantial increase in the cost of treatment; with current drug shortages
in the clinical services, most drugs already have to be purchased from
chemists at retail prices. A substantial subsidy would still be involved
through the provision of professional services by government veterinarians.
182. Since transport is one of the major constraints of the Department,
it is also recommended that the present charges for veterinary CosCS' be
scudied with a view to increasing thi  fees, to take into account a more
realistic estimate of the cost of transport.
183. The prime justification for the provision of a clinical service is
to effect an improvement in the health and productivity of the livestock
population for whom the service is provided. The effective provision of
such services at the farm level depends on the close interaction between
the farmer and che veterinarian.   Such an interaction ensures that the
procedures proposed and the inputs provided are efficiently integrated
into the production system involved in order that a proper return is seen,
in the form of improved livestock productivity, from the investment made.
184. It is debatable whether in fact government veterinary services with
their hierarchical structures, where financial reward is largely dependent
on promotion, are the most effective method of providing the interactions
necessary. They may be better provided by the private practitioner whose
financial reward is eventually dependent on the prosperity of the
livestock producers for whom he provides a service.
185. The principal argumenc against the privatisation of the clinical
service  is the cost that  it would entail to the producer.   It is not
impossible, however, to. provide subsidies to producers through private
practice.  Two mechods have been proposed in the FAO/Investment Cencre
formulation  report.   One  is  to  encourage  the  early  retirement  of
government veterinarians who would be encouraged to establish private



- 146-                          ANNEX 2
practices in areas of their choice for which they would be provided with a
subsidy for a period of time and this subsidy could be reflected in the
scale of fees charged.  The second is to ask veterinarians to bid on the
extent of the subsidy they would need to run a private practice at a given
level of charges. A third choice would be to provide a subsidy in a more
indirect form chrough the licensing of private practitioners to carry our
the various tasks at present performed by the Field Services Division, for
which fees could be charged to the Government.  This could include che
administration of vaccinations, the supervision of dips, and the provision
of  artificial  inseminacion  centres.   It  is  recommended  that  these
proposals be studied further with a view to their implementation in
selected districts on a trial basis.
F.    MONITORING OF THE TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF THE PROGRAMME
Introduction
186  'While  it  is expected  that  the Programme will  have  a beneficial
effect on livestock productivity in Kenya (see Annex 9), the accual
monitoring of this effect would be extremely difficult.
187. Livestock productivity is dependent on a large number of extremely
complex and interrelated factors, all of which continue to complicate the
quantification and assessment of disease effects. For example, changes in
the system and standards of livestock management, alterations in marketing
and pricing policies, and climatic factors such as droughts, all obscure
the effects on productivity caused by disease, except in the case of major
disease epidemics when the effects are inherently obvious.
188. The problem is further complicated by the fact that the situation is
not one of 'control versus no cactrol' but of support for existing control
measures already in force, although in danger of collapsing because of a
lack of funds. The emphasis is thus primarily on maintaining the existing
levels of livestock productivity.   Consequently the expected changes in
production coefficients are likely to be small (l  - 2%) and would be
difficult to detect at the micro-level since the standard errors involved
in any but the most complex field study would obscure the effects.
189. At the macro-level, estimates of the effects of the Programme on the
total offtake of livestock and their products would be complicated  by
existing marketing arrangements, particularly in the traditional sector,
which result in a significant proportion of livestock and their products
not passing through any recording system.
190. Because of these difficulties, it is recommended that monitoring
activities concentrate on ensuring that disease control measures are
properly applied and are having the desired effect on disease incidence.



- 147 -
ANNEX 2
Monitoring of the Control of Rinderpest, CBPP, and FMD
191. Various data sources are at present available co allow the rates of
vaccination coverage  in target populations  to be monitored.   Issues of
vaccine to the districts from the central vaccine store at Kabete are
recorded  on computer  by the Epidemiology  and Economics  Unit.   At  the
district level, the number of vaccinations performed in the field is
recorded in the quarterly and annual reports. The latter can be combined
with estimates of livestock populatiJns present in the district to provide
rough estimates of the vaccination coverage obtained.
192. These estimates can be cross-checked by the undertaking of brand
mark  surveys.   This  would  involve  the  identification  of  vaccinated
animals, usually with a hair brand, followed by an appropriately designed
survey after the campaign is completed in which the numbers of branded and
non-branded animals are* counted and the percentage of branded animals
estimated  for the  particular  district.   This  procedure  has  the added
advantage that when the results are combined with the vaccination returns,
an estimate can also be made of the livestock populations present. Such
surveys would be implemented by the Field Services Divisions with
assistance in their design from the Epidemiology and Economics Unit.
Serological Monitoring
193. In order to check that vaccinations have been performed properly and
are in fact generating the desired immunity levels in the livestock
populations concerned, random serum sampling would be undertaken by the
respective surveillance units to estimate vaccine antibody levels in the
target  populations  following  completion  of  the  particular  vaccination
campaigns   concerned.    Coordination   of   the   serological   monitoring
activities would be che responsibility of the Epidemiology and Economics
Unit.  This Unit has the capability to assist  in the design of these
activities and also to collate and analyse the data produced.
Effects of Control Measures on Disease Incidence
194. The proposals in the Programme for the support of the Field Services
Division, should result in a much greater mobility of the Division and a
greater  degree  of  contact  with  the  livestock  population  of  Kenya.
Consequently, the identification and reporting of suspected outbreaks of
rinderpest, CBPP and FMD should become more efficient and comprehensive.
195. The support provided for the various units concerned with the
surveillance   of   the   disease   should   also   permic  more   effective
investigation of suspected outbreaks.
196. Outbreak reports, however, should be interpreted with caution. The
size of an individual outbreak may vary from involving a few to many
thousands of animals, and the number of outbreaks reported is more often a
function of the effectiveness of the reporting system rather than a
reflection of the true incidence of the disease in question.



-148-                       ANNEX 2
197. In the cases of rindepest and CBPP outside the infected areas,
reports of outbreaks will give an indication of the effectiveness of
control measures.  Within the CBPP infected areas, the activities of the
mobile testing units will provide estimates of the prevalence of the
disease and che consequent effect of control measures on this prevalence.
198.  In  the  case  of  FMD,  since  the  disease  is  common  in  Kenya,
improvements in the existing reporting system will probably be reflected
in an increase in the number of outbreaks reported and virus typings. A
more reliable estimate of the effects of control measures on the incidence
of the disease could be obtained through the implementation of random
sample probang surveys by the Institute for Research into FMD, aimed at
detecting the prevalence of the carrier state in the cattle population; a
decline in prevalence in carriers reflecting a decline in the incidence of
the disease.
Konitoring of the Tick Control Programme
199. The main requirements for the monitoring of the tick control
programme are to ensure chat dips remain operational, that the dipping
coverage is adequate and that dip washes are maintained at the proper
strength.
200. Details on the number and operational status of the dips within a
district are contained in the quarterly and annual reports of that
district.
201. With regard to the other monitoring requirements, the present system
of dipping registers and monthly testing of dip wash samples has the
potential to provide the necessary information.
202.  The  computerised  dip  monitoring   programme   developed   by   che
Epidemiology and Economics Unit adequately collates and analyses this
information. The main constraint at present is in getting Dip Attendants
to record the necessary dac' on the number of animals dipped when they
submit dip wash samples. This is, however, a disciplinary matter for the
Department.
203. Some estimates of the effect of the dipping programme on the
incidence of tick-borne diseases can be obtained from the quarterly and
annual reports of the district vecerinary services and the regional
veterinary laboratories.  Here again the data from these sources must be
interpreted with a great deal of caution since it is difficult to relate
to- source populations and thus appropriate rates cannot be calculaced,
Nevertheless, it should reveal any substantial breakdowns in dipping
procedure.
Additional Disease Control Activities and Clinical Services
204. No specific technical monitoring activities are proposed for these
activities beyond the use of present information contained in the annual
and quarterly reports of the district veterinary services on vaccinations
performed, treatments carried out, and number of cases of disease reported.



-149-
ANNEX 2
Coordination of Monitoring Activicies
205. Although the Epidemiology and Economics Unit would be heavily
involved in the monitoring and surveillance activities, responsibility for
the overall coordination of these activities should rest wich the
Veterinary Services Management Support Unit (VSMSU).
206. It is proposed that the VSMSU should prepare and submit to IFAD
quarterly reports on the technical monitoring carried out.  This report
should contain information on:
-    the number and types of vaccines issued;
-    the number and types of vaccinations carried out and estimates
of vaccination coverage achieved in target populations;
-    the number of outbreaks of notifiable diseases;
-    the action taken  in the  investigation and' control of these
outbreaks;
-    details of specific  field studies carried out to investigate
the effectiveness of the control programmes with particular
reference to FMD, CBPP, and rinderpest;
-    the estimated number of operational and non-operational dips;
-    the  estimated  total  number  of  cattle  dipped  and  dipping
coverage achieved in target population;
-    a breakdown of the cotal dip wash samples examined to determine
the percentage within the accepted acaricide levels;
-    the number of curative treatments carried out;
-    thte amount and type of drugs involved; and
-    the number  of  cases  of  livestock  disease  recorded  in  the
district quarterly reports.
Funding of Monitoring Activities
207. Adequate provision has been made within the Programme for the
funding of the monitoring  activities.   Funds  for specific surveys and
disease investigations have been included in the overall support of che
respective surveillance units.



- 150 -
ANNEX 2
G.    RECOMMENDATIONS
208.  The principal recommendations contained in this Annex are:
The Control of Rinderpest, Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia? and
Foot and Mouth Disease
-    The present policies for the control and/or prevention of the
three diseases are sound and worthy of support along the lines
detailed in the Annex.
-    An expansion of the present compulsory FMD vaccination areas
would  undoubtedly  have  beneficial   effects   on   livestock
productivity but in the short term it would be more advisable
to concentrate the efforts of the Department on improving
control meabures in the existing control areas.
-    The present system of charging for compusory FMD vaccinations
in   the   scheduled   areas   is   counterproductive   to   the
effectiveness  of both  the FMD and  rinderpest  campaigns  and
should be abolished.
-    Surveillance activities for all three diseases are essential
for their successful control and should receive high priority.
Particular  emphasis  should  be  placed  on  ascertaining  the
present levels 'of immunity against rinderpest in the cattle
populations  of  the  northern   pastoral   districts   and   to
determining estimates of the incidence of. contagious bovine
pleuro-pneumonia in these areas.
The Control of Ticks and Tick-borne Diseases
-    Support  should  be  provided  for  the  control  of  ticks  and
tick-borne diseases in the government-managed tick control
areas, along the lines detailed in the Annex.
-    DDipping charges in the communal dips in these areas should be
increased  to  cover  the  full  costs  of  dipping.   A  phased
increase would be preferable with the full costs charged in the
third year of the programme.
Additional Disease Control Measures
-    Support  should  be  provided  for  additional  disease  control
measures.
-    Where applicable, and with the exception of charges for rabies
vaccinations during control campaigns and FMD vaccination
during outbreaks, charges for vaccination should be increased
to cover the costs to the Government of the purchase or
manufacture of the vaccines provided.



- 151 -
ANNEX 2
Clinical Services
-    The proposals for the support of clinical services should be
implemented on condition that charges for the sale of drugs
should be raised to the manufacturers' recommended recail
prices and not included in the visit fee.
-    Charges on veterinary visits should be studied with a view to
their increase to a level more representative of their true
cost.
-    The proposals for a greater involvement of the private sector
in the provision of clinical services should be studied and
developed with a view to their implemencation in selected areas
on a trial basis.



Annex 3
-152 -Page 1of 2
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Non Personnel Related Expenditures in the Budget
of the Department of Veterinary Services
1.       As an effective veterinary service cannot be based upon the
employment of trained personnel alone, it is essential that there be
adequate means of transportation to get the staff where they are needed and
that they have the necessary vaccines and drugs to work with. Table 3.1
analyses the 1986187 budget estimates as they relate to the Department of
Veterinary Services.
2.       The budget items have been grouped to show the relative importance
of personnel related expenditures (items 000, 040, 050, 070 and 080 to
which has been added the travel allowances 110) to inputs (150, 151 and
156) and transport (100, 200, 210 and 212). In the Government recurrent
expenditure budget (R10), personnel related expenditures amount to 66% of
the total departmental budget.
3.       The development estimates (D10) rely to a significant extent on
aid contributions, and apart from an addition to travelling expenses,
expenditures are targeted almost entirely upon inputs, transport, and
miscellaneous (including buildings). The overall result, including the
proposed Project, would reduce the percentage of personnel expenditures to
44% of the total budget including development estimates as well as
recurrent expenditure.
4.       A summary of the attached table, and the reflection of total costs
on a per head basis is as follows: --
Total Cost                Cost per Head
KiOOO       US$000        K£          KShs    US$
Staff Costs              10,633       13,291        0.97     19.43      1.21
Non Staff Costs          13,686       17,108        1.24     24.89       1.56
Total                 24,319        30,399       2.21      44.32      2.77
The Budget head (number 611) for Animal Health Services Rehabilitation by
providing K£ 5.62 million of non staff expenditure, has effectively reduced
the percentage of staff costs to total costs from 55% to 442. In
subsequent years the expenditure on veterinary services is likely change,
reflecting increases in the grade cattle herd and the farmers' need for
services in relation to perceived benefits. As a benchmark for the annual
budget review, it is proposed that, in an analysis of this nature,
personnel expenditures should not be allowed to exceed 502 of the total.



Table 3.1     Itemisation of Veterinary Department Budgets in the Government Estimates 1986/87
Personal  Pension   Traveling   Drugs,   Trans-  Purchase   Remainder
RECURRENT ESTIMATES (R10)                     Emoluments  & Allow.  & Accomod.  sera,vac- port   & replace-
cines &  Opera-  ment of                       TOTAL
acaricides  tion  vehicles
vote
head                                   Item:    000     040/050/070    110    150/161/166  100   200/210/212
080
482  Provincial Veterinary Services                128     41           12         ---        1S      S0          14              268
483  Clinical Services                             141     32           13         756       100     ---          39             1080
488  Tick Control                                 1689    522           17        1000       80        6          30             3303
489  Disease and Post Control                      314     70           82         630       12S     ---          89             1310
490  Veterinary Laboratories & Research           1189    262           25          31       81      ---         358             1948
491  Artificial Insemination                       448    108           88           8      852       17         628             2021
518  Hides and Skins                               893     87           22         ---       42       33          32              809
619  Meat Inspection                               826    132           13           1       8S      80           32              948
831  District Veterinary Services                 3083    716           8S         ---      136      ---          S8             4028
7938.  1987.       33S/        2423      1495.    le5/       1178             15501
10240                                  18
(688)                  (18S%)         (11%)
DEVELOPMENT ESTIMATES (D1O)
489  Disease and Pest Control (1)                                      136        1100.(S)  220       1S         153              1823
491  Artificial Insemnination (2)                                                   13       20      37S         177              S85
497  Tsetse control                                                                115                            29               144
610  Integrated Livestock Development (3)                               17         398       97                  339              851
Sub Total                                                        152        1628      337      390         698             3203
Cumulative Orand Total                         7938.  1987.        487,        4040     1832.  655/          1876            18704
10392                                  2387
(55X)                    21%           (13%)
611  Animal Health Services Rehabilitation (4)                         241        2313       773     624        1885              5815
GRAND TOTAL                                  7938.  1987.       728          8381     288.  11798          3541            24819
10,833                              3784
(44%)                (26%)         (18%)
(1) Some components finaced by GTZ
(2) Some components proposed for finacn- by SIDA
(3)  Various sub components financed by EEC; IFAD/IDA; USAID; DANIDA; Netherlands and UNDP                                                 O e
(4)  Present project proposals
(5)  Entirely financed by COK.



Annex 4
Page l'of 4
- 154-
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
The ManaRement of Veterinary Services to achieve
Sustainability Combined with Effective Service
1.       The Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) in Kenya faces a
substantial challenge if it is to evol-ve so as to offer the farmer the
services that he wants. That the dairy farmer owning grade cattle is aware
of the problem of animal disease is well documented,   as is the fact that
effective veterinary services are appreciated.  But in animal health, as in
human health, a delivery service which gives total cover is extremely
expensive. As long as the Government is held to be responsible for the sum
total of veterinary services, pressure will build up for extension of the
service without account for its cost. Annex 6 of the IFAD appraisal report
of the Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Programme has addressed the
need to ensure fiscal responsibility in the expansion of DVS through the
mechanism of cost sharing. This annex is intended to open the discussion
further towards the strategic management of the DVS to allow it to respond
in a cost-effective manner to the farmers' needs.
2.       To the extent that the rehabilitation project will improve
management information systems, data will become available which will allow
the DVS to modify its programs. Furthermore, the implementation of cost
sharing charges, which will prtgressively be increased towards efficiency
pricing, will allow the farmer's iaterest in particular services to be
gauged by his willingness to pay for them. It is impossible to predict
either the magnitude of the changes required, or the most appropriate way
of organizing the service; these will become evident as the Project
progresses. However, the key issues which will require continuous review in
the light of the evolving situation are:
-- the role of the DVS;
-- the employment issue;
-- the tick control policy;
-- the integration of artificial insemination and infertility
investigation; and
-- alternative delivery systems.
3.       The role of the DVS.  The record of the DVS in defining the animal
health problems in Kenya is impeccable. It has also played an important
role in pioneering the spread of ownership of exotic cattle amongst
smallholders.  Commanal dips, artificial insemination and clinical services
are all examples of activities which occurred as a result of DVS
initiatives which have assisted smallholders to own productive dairy
cattle. In accepting to continue the operation of these services beyond
the pilot stage it can be argued that the DVS is being diverted from its
fundamental twin roles of safeguarding the health of the national herd from
serious epidemic diseases and maintaining strict control of zoonoses
(diseases which infect both man and animals e.g. rabies). There is,
therefore, a need to continuously review the responsibilities of the DVS.
The paper prepared on the tanagement of field services (attached as
appendix I) shows in some detail how the existing system could be
1/e.g. Leonard, Launonen e' al.



Annex 4
- 155 -                      Page 2 of 4
strengtlhened to work more effectively, it does not pursue the alternative
strategy of reducing the responsibility of the DVS to allow strengthening
of its remaining functions by redeployment of its existing resources.
4.       The employment issue.  It is widely recognized that one cause of
the original budgetary crisis was the policy of employing all new graduates
(both veterinarians and animal health assistants). Given the age profile
of the current DVS staff, and the capacity of the training institutions, it
is readily apparent that unless this policy changes, the eventual size of
the service will be greatly in excess of the present number. A number of
questions present themselves which need annual review, e.g.:
-- should there be a freeze on hiring?
-- should new graduates be hired on a short-term contract only?
- - are changes required to modify the output of trained staff?
-- what is the desired ratio between qualified veterinarians and
animal health assistants?
5.       Tick Control Policy.  Experience already exists in Kenya on the
rehabilitation of tick control in Uasin Gishu as described in Appendix 2.
However, it should be noted that 85% of the cattle in that area are grade
stock 2 whereas, on average, only 40% of the cattle in the areas covered by
the Government Tick Control Project are grade cattle. In some districts
this figure drops to less than 10%. (Bungoma, Kakamega, Taveta, Kilifi and
Kwale). The proposal to support a field trial to examine an alternative
tick control regimen (Appendix 3) could offer a different approach to the
control of East Coast Fever in such districts. Experimental results which
the trial is designed to quantify and confirm, indicate the need for
intermittent dipping to minimize tick burdens so as to promote weight
gains. Because the producer can only expect minimum returns, the approach
will be to determine the level of expenditure which he is justified in
making in order to achieve them. Since intermittent dipping will decrease
throughput, the necessary dipping charges to achieve full cost recovery
will differ between districts, and will be highly dependent on farmer
interest and cooperation.
6.       Support for the Government's tick control policy towards communal
dips needs to pass through three stages:
1.   A drive to improve dip management in order to guarantee tick
control;
2.   an accurate assessment of operating costs and utilization
rates on a district basis to establish the charges that would
be required to recover the variable costs and administration
of dips3 , and
2/Ministry of Livestock Development, 1983.
3/Amortization has been excluded since many dips belong to the communities,
the IFAD report estimated an annual charge of K£ 475 per dip.



- 156-                          Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
3.   a drive towards full cost recovery with active involvement of
the dipping committee to establish the willingness of farmers
to participate.
Once effective dip operation is restored in a district and cost recovery is
adequate to keep the dips functional, the DVS can return the management to
the district level. Management committees could be encouraged to contract
out the management of dips to animal health assistants and dip attendants
who would leave DVS employment to work independently.
7.       Implicit in this focus on district level development is the
recognition that dipping charges should not be set on a national basis and
that they will differ by district.
8.       The Integration of Artificial Insemination (AI) and infertility
investigation: An explicit objective of the rehabilitation project is to
promote increased contact between the veterinary officers and the farmers.
In the dairying areas, where grade cattle are maintained, the key to
increased productivity will be with increased fertility. In proposing
management changes, DVS should be encouraged to focus on measures which
will improve the effectiveness of AI, the most obvious of which is to
include routine pregnancy diagnosis as part of the package.
9.       By ensuring that the veterinary officer has a full set of records
on the inseminations carried out for farmers in his area, he can be made
responsible to ensure that an animal health assistant (AHA) examines the
cow to confirm pregnancy some 6 weeks after insemination. Where the AHA is
uncertain of the diagnosis (or if it is negative) he would arrange for the
cow to be examined by the veterinary officer (VO) at a roadside call on one
of his periodic visits. In this way the VO will rapidly build up
information on the effectiveness of inseminators and the relative balance
between defective AI technique, disease, malnutrition or mineral deficiency
as causes for infertility in his area.
10.      The close association of the farmer, the AI technician, the AHA
and the VO which is implicit in this approach should have a strong
extension impact and create a vigorous feedback to the DVS. At the same
time the type of arrangement described above would minimize the costs of
professional time and transport.
11.      When the review of front line field activities is carried out and
this type of proposal is examined it will be necessary to include the
requirements for the rehabilitation of the artificial insemination program.
A proposal for Al rehabilitation has been submitted to the Government by
SIDA but as yet no decision is available. In principle the Swedish
International Development Authority (SIDA) is proposing to institute cost
recovery to achieve a self sustaining program, and obviously any measures
such as those proposed above would need to be bundled with the AI charge to
ensure cost recovery for the clinical infertility program.



- 157 -                          Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
12.      Alternative Delivery Systems.  At present no other delivery
systems exist which can offer an alternative to full operation by DVS.  It
is therefore essential to rebuild the effectiveness of the DVS until it is
restored to its previous level of efficiency. Even so, it must be
recognized that the normal method of Government operation does not lend
itself to an efficient clinical service. To start with, the VO and his
associated AHAs need to operate as a close knit team and they should stay
together and remain in a district so that they can acquire not only a
complete knowledge of the farmers who are their customers, but also their
trust. In a private delivery system the veterinarian becomes part of the
community in which he has settled and he employs a team with whom he feels
comfortable. This is difficult to mimic within the state system where
promotion prospects imply transfer and movement.
13.      However, as the drive to implement efficiency pricing and full
cost recovery gathers momentum, the opportunities for district councils,
cooperative groupings or private individuals to take over responsibility
for DVS functions will increase markedly. As proposed in the pilot
privatization project, support to the emergent systems can be given by
means of contracts to undertake certain activities such as a vaccination
program, Al delivery or dip operation. For such a system to work
effectively, the District Veterinary Officer (DVO) would have to be
responsible for ensuring that the services delivered would be in accordance
with the standard required by Government. Thus, for example, if dip
management was contracted out, the method of operating a dip and the
records and accounts to be maintained could be partly within the discretion
of the operator. But the DVO would be responsible to ensure that the
acaricide strength was effective by supervising the sampling and ensuring
that the results are heeded. Equally with contract vaccinations, the DVO
would need to satisfy himself that the contractor met his obligations in
full with regard to keeping records, maintaining the cold chain and keeping
to schedule.
14.      Given the potential profitability of milk production from grade
cattle, and their high capital values, efficient veterinary services which
add to the farmers' income are likely to be in demand. There is every
likelihood therefore that a move towards self employment by VOs and AHAs
would tend to an increase in their employment prospects.
15.      During the course of the Animal Health Services Rehabilitation
Project, information collated by the Project Management and Support Unit
and present for review eaeh year should indicate the progress which is
being made towards resolving these issues by modification of the strategic
management plans of the DVS. Success in meeting the expressed needs of the
farmers is likely to justify follow up actions in support of their
developmental efforts.



- 158 -                            ANNEX 4
*                           -~~~~~~~~~158- 
Appendix 1
Nairobi, April 3, 1986
IMNYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
WORKING PAPER FOR 'IM WORLD BANK APPRAISAL REPORT
Management of Field Services
le         Introduction
1.01       Project experience in the World Bank, particularly in
sub-Saharan Africa, has shown that the success or failure of a project
depends largely on the effectiveness of the front-line management
systems. Thus, in the context of the appraisal of the Animal Health
Services Rehabilitation Project, it has been found necessary to review
the front-line field managenutwasystems to assess their efficiency, their
capacity to absorb the inputs that would be provided.under the Project,
and their weaknesses. This paper reviews front-line field management
systems in sequence as they exist for vaccination campaigns, tick control
and clinical services. Conclusions knd recommendacions appear in Chapter
5 (page 8.
2.         Control of Epizootic Diseases
2.01       Vaccination against epizootic diseases is the most important
field activity of the Department of Veterinary Services# Vaccination
campaigns are organized at district level and include vaccinations
aga%nst rinderpest and CBPP. Vaccination campaigns last about one month
each and are carried out twice a year in the Foot and Mouth campaign
areas ("high potential" and surrounding areas) because the Foot-and-Mouth
Disease vaccination immunity lasts only about six months. In addition,
vaccinations are performed around the areas of outbreaks.
2.02       Teams of about four Animai Health Assistants and one livestock
or veterinary officer carry out the vaccination campaigns. The
Provincial administration authorities are mobilized to ensure that all
the livestock is assembled at the agreed vaccination center the day
vaccinations are to be carried out. Travel and overnight allowances make
the campaigns an attractive opportunity for the veterinary staff.
Campaigns were carried out effectively until supportive funds dried up.
The difficulties currently experienced in vaccination campaigns are not
due to deficient management systems but to the lack of operating means,
especially transport.



159 _
3.         Tick Control
3.01       Tick borne diseases are imong the most important causes of
disease-linked cattle losses in Kenya. The incidence oi the diseases can
be considerably reduced by effective preventive measures, particularly by
the control of ticks.
3.02  ^    Tick control in Kenya is ensured through veekly dipping of
cattle under the Cattle Cleansing Act (Cap. 358) and is mandatory in
areas so designated (cattle. cleansing areas). There are about 6;250
dips operating in the country, of which 3,147 are operated by the
Government under the Tick Control Program (Annex 1). Most
Government-operated dips are in areas where dipping is mandatory (but
this is not the case in coastal districts). Dips not operated by the
Government are either private or communally run outside the areas
benefitting from the Tick Control Program.
3.03       The estimated weekly dipping coverage of the cattle population
under the Tick Control Program is about 27%. However, this percentage is
somewhat deceiving because it includes in the denominator animals that
are dipped or sprayed privately and indigenous animals that are not
dipped weekly   Ut the assumption is mad. 'that at least 50% of grade
cattle in zine cattle cleansing areas are dipped privately (an assumption
born6 out by the extent of acaricide sales to the private sector) and
that 50% of indigenous cattle are dipped regularly but that the average
interval in dipping these animals is approximately three weeks, then the
estimated dipping coverage becomes higher than 90%.
3.04       The basic problems in the Government Tick Control Program are
the occasional lack of acaricide, lax dip management supervision and poor
cost recovery, estimated at 502 in spite of highly subsidized fees. The
problems of cost recovery and fee collection are probably linked to the
efficiency of the service rendered. The tick control projects supported
by DANIDA in Kericho and Uasin Gishu showed that farmers responded
eagerly to an efficient dipping system, both in physical terms, by
bringing their cattle to the dip, and financially (farmers in Uasin Gishu
District pay Sh. 1.00 per dipping instead of Sh. 0.30 in the rest of the
country). It is thus essential to increase the efficiency of the system.
Organization of Tick Control Services
3.05       Every dip is managed by a dip committee elected by farmers.
Dip committees are established under the supervision of the Department of
Vcterinary Services and the provincial administrative authorities on an
ad hoc basis as there is no legislation governing their activities. The
main functions of thc dip committees as indicated by the Department of
Veterinary Services, is to ensure minor repairs, water supply, dip
cleaning during the e-:tviug of the tip and to collect the required funds
for these activit4.us.  in addition, dip committees ensure pubLicity for
the fee 4ollection process and inforui the Animal Health Assistant of any
c-rtplaint on the functioning of the dip.  The Department of Veterinary
Services considers that about half the dip committees are performing



-160-
satiafactorily. In large part, the poor performance of the other half is
reportedly the result of confusion On the scope of the Goverument's
responsibilitiei in the operation of the dip.
3.06       There are 1,869 persons responsible for attending Government
dips in the country. Of these 1,709 are dip attendants. The rest are
casuals. and subordinate staff required to supplement the limited number
of dip attendant positions. The average dip attendant holds.a
Certificstp of Primary Educationp The ratio of dip- per dip attendant in
the Tick Control Program is 1.68:1.
3.07       Directly supervising the dip attendants are the Animal Health
Assistants (ARA), certificate holders. There u"ed to be a dipping
supervisicn dystem in which some Animal Realth Assistants were solely
.ssponsible for dips, but that system did not prove manageable. Today,
Animal Health Assistants are responsible for all animal health
activities. There is at least one Animal Health Assistant per location
and there are usually about ten dips per location, although the figure
can vary from one to twenty. The average ratio of dips per AHA is, for
the country, 4:1 (6,250 dips for 1,450 Animal Health Assistants) but this
includes all dips. For the Tick Control Program the ratio is 2.2: 1-
(3,l17 dips for 1,450 AHAs). With the increasing number of Animal Health
Assistants (310 trained every year) these ratios will rapidly decline.
3.07       Animal Health Assistants are supervised by the division
veterinary officer, a university graduate. Sometimes the position is
filled by a livestock officer (diploma holder). This is the case
throughout Central Province and in Kericho, Nandi, Baringo, Kakamega,
Iungoma, Kisii; Meru, Machakos, Embu, Taita.
3.08       At district headquarters the District Veterinary Officer is
assisted by a livestock officer, tick control. In Uasin Gishu the
poition is filled by a veterinary officer, tick control.  Three
Provinces (Central, Eastern, Coast) have got provincial livestock
officers, tick control, reporting to the Provincial Director of
Veterinary Services.
Operatiorn of Dips
3.09       A well managed dip should be regularly replenished with water
and with acaricides, it should be cleaned and maintained. Water should
be added after dipping 300 cattle, as each animal dipped takes about 2
liters out of the dip. The dip attendant knows the required level of
water in the dip. There are two replenishment methods. One is the
volumetric method which consists in measuring the amount of water
extracted and adding water to the level required. Additional acaricide
is addea according to the recomended replenishment rate.  The second
method is the head count method by which acaricide is added according to
the number of cattle dipped and then.water is added to the required
level. Dip management requires keeping records of the number of animals
dipped, of acaricides used and of other costs. Registers provided by the
acaricide manufacturers are designed to keep records of animals and of
acaricides. Dip attendants are required by law to submit regular samples



- 161 -
of dip wash for analysis (para 3.14) and to keep records on the
e3jiiter. ltepaires on a well built dip are minor. A well built dip can
last very long (30 years or more) without repairs on the main tank
structure. In Kenya it is estimated that about 68X of the dips have well
built tank structures that do not require repairs. Frequent and minor
repairs are however needed on the timber of the fencing of the catt.e
access and outlet areas. Roofing also needs repair every ten years or so
as the splashed acaricide is corrosive. Some dips are built with slatted
wood ceilings to protect the roof.
3.10       Cattle are dipped once a week although in dried areas research
is showing that it is not economic to dip so often. Some dips with
numerous cattle have to dip more than once a week. The maximum
recoaended number of cattle dipped in one dipping is 500, because of
tank replenishment needs.  Currently, 1,255,000 cattle are dipped weekly
under the Tick Control Program in 3,14? dips. Thus the average dip
operates with 400 cattle. In fact some dips have much fewer cattle while
others have more. Kcricho is a district where many dips operate more
than once a week because of the large cattle population in relation to
the number of dips.
3.11       Dip attendants are trained Government employees responsible
for the operation of the dip in the Tick Control Program.
Dip attendants are, in
addition, responsible for fee collection. It is estimated by the
supervisors in headquarters that a dipping keeps a dip.attendant busy a
full day (bj the time the dip is cleaned, replenished, minor repairs
made, etc.). If one assumes that the average dip is used 1.2 times a
week, then it can be estimated that the average dip attendant attends to
1.68xl2-2.0 dippings per week. Assuming one full day per dipping, this
shows that dip attendants are occupied two days a week. The cost of the
underemploymnt of the dip attendants to the Tick Control Psogram can be
estimated, on the basis of the salary of the dip attendants (Kt500 per
ann), to be
1,828 x £500 x (5-2):5 a Kl548,400 per annum.
3.12.      With the increasing number of.trained Animal Health Assistants
available, it wo!l1d be worth exploring whether the Animal Health
Assistants could gradually replace the dip attendants. Animal Health
Assistants would not be underemployed because they are trained to perform
other veterinary activities outside the time devoted to managing the
dip. The dip attendants might be redeployed in other parts of the
Governments Civil service.
3.13       Animal Health Assistants (AHAs) handle dipping as well as
other animal health activities. Currently Animal Health Assistants are
not required to operate according to a fixed scheduleo However, as most
inimal health activities are conveniently carried out at the dip site, it
is reasonable to require that the AlAs be present at every dipping to
sasist the dip attendant in calculating the acaricide replenishment, in
supervising the dip attendant's registers, in hearing the dip committee's
and farmers views and complaints and in sampling the dip every month. At
the dip the AHA is also available for clinical servicen. AHAs are



- 162 -
generally within walking or bicycling distance of their dips; tTan:port
is therefore not a problem provided they receive their bicycle-
allowances. As no more than one dip can be normally supervised Ln one
day, AHAs should not, ideally, supervise more than five dips. However,
in a few areas where there is a high density of dips,  AXAs may have to
take responsibility for more than five dips. Their schedule of visits
should be organized to visit dips as often as possible. As a general
rulet it is retoumended that AaAs foLlow fixed weekly schedules to ensure
that all dippings are properly supervised. There should be no exception
to this rule except during the period of vaccination campaigns which
lasts a few weeks every year (para. 2.01).
3.14       Sampling is a key activity in the operation of a dip.  Dips
are supposed to be sampled once a month by the dip attendant normally
under the supervision of the Animal Health Assistant. Usually the
sampling is done at the last dipping of the month. However, samples are
often not submitted by the dip attendants on a regular basis. This is
partly due to the insufficient testing capacity of the Department.
Samples are in bottlei and are collected by the acaricide manufacturer
from the divisional office, a back-up service which is part of the
Government contract for the supply of scaricides. The samples are taken
to analysis points. There are currently three analysis points in the
country: Kabete, WellCOme and Bayer East Africa but more analysis points
will be established under the Project in Kericho, Karatina, Eldoret,
Vakuru and Mariakani. In addition the Veterinary Investigation
Laboratories in the provinces are equipped with dip analysis kiis for ad
hoc sampling needs (the results provided by the kits, however, are
approx3mate).
3.15       Sampling results are required as soon as possible for
corrective action during the following dipping, one week latvo. However,
the sampling system has experienced delays due to overloading of the
aging analysis facilities, insufficient supervision of dip attendants and
field offieers and, in some cases, inefficiencies in the companies'
delivery of samples (the performance of the companies is supervised by
the Head of Tick Control in Kabete). In some areas where dips are far.
away from the divisional headquarters, there are inherent delays in
collecting samples.,
3.16       The Epidemiology and Economics Unit in the Veterinary Research
Division in Kabete operates a computerized Dip Recording and Monitoring
Service. This Service requires the dip attendant to submit details from
the dipping register concerning estimates of the numbers of animals
dipped along with the dip wash sample. The Service has been effective in
improvi.,g the standard of dip operation in eertain districts where it has
been implemeunted but depends for its effectiveness on the dip attendant
supplying the relevant information along with the dip sample, which in
many cases they have not done. Much depends on the efficiency and
initiative of the local supervising officers in ensuring that the
relev.ant information is provided and that the recommendations contained
in the reports are acted upon.



- 163 -
3.17       Acaricides are procured by the Department headquarters and
delivered by the manufacturing companies to the districts in consignments
to cover 1 1/2 to 2 months' needs. Acaricides are stored.in district and
divisional stores. Little is stored at Kabete. Divisional scores supply
directly to the dip attendants. Districts send orders back to Kabete
headquarters.shortly after receiving the consignment.  A store keeper in
the district keeps a ledger (same ledger for all Government stores
produceZ by the Government printer, no problem experienced) showing
supplies and issues in liters of acaricide. Veterinary officers in the
divisions manage their own stores and record the acaricide issued to dip
attendants. Dip attendants record the amounts of acaricide received in
the dipping registers. Monthly acaricide stock and utilization reports
are prepared by the 15th of the following month, by the District for the
Province copied to Kabete headquarters.
Cost Recovery
5.18       Dipping fees are set by the Government.  Except in Uasin Gishu
(tara 3.04), the fee for one dipping is currently Shs 0.30. Under the
project, it has been proposed to increase the dipping charges to ,over
the Cost of acaricides, wtich amounts to about Sh. 1.00 per dipping.
3.19       The efficiency of cost recovery on dipping is poor.  The rate
of recovery is estimated to be 50%. It is suspected that the major
reason for poor cost recovery is the imperfect service provided by the
Government and the unclear allocation of responsibilities between
Government staff for collection of fees. Lack of supervision has alqo
contributed to poor cost recovery. In addition, zebu cattle owners are
more reluctant to pay for dipping because the economic benefit of dipping
is lower and may even be questionable given the lover value and the
higher resistance of the animals to tick-borne diseases.
3.20       The past system of collecting fees at every dipping proved
unmaikageable. Therefore, in some areas, fees are being collected
qarterly. Current arrangements can be summarized as follows. A
collection program is established indicating the day when a clerk from
the district will visit an area to collect the dipping fees. On that
day, the clerk collects the fees according to the number of cattle of the
livestock owners, which the dip attendants keep recorded on their
registers. Experience has shown that if the dip attendant does not hand
over the money quickly, there is a chance that the money will not be
turned in. Therefore the visiting clerk should preferably collect the
money directly from the farmer. He delivers numbered receipts from a
receipt book. Receipts are issued in quadruplicate: one for the farmer,
one for the DVO, one for Kabete through the DVO, one to remain in the
receipt book, later surrendered to the DVO. It is the responsibility of
the division veterinary officers to follow-up on defaulters.
3.21       The Department is considering additional and more intensive
systems of fee collection. In Uasin Gishu Distriet, chiefs are
encouraged to oupport fee collection campaigns.  Consideration is being
given to allowing farmers to purchase receipts from the district or
division administration offices, outside the dipping.



- 164 _
4.         Clinical Services
4.01       The Government of Kenya expanded its support to clinical
services in 1979, Previously, 18 clinical centres had been established
in the country. In 1979, the number was increased to 98. These clinical
centres are manned by veterinary officers. FoT simple cases, animals are
.also treated by location-based Animal Health Assistants (a location is
the administration entity below the division). The Animal Health
Assistants are supervised by the division headquarters. Veterinary
officers have now been posted to most divisions in the country.
4.02       The clinical centres are staffed, in addition to the
veterinary officer, with an Animal Health Assistant or two (one then
eacompanies the veterinary officer on his run), a clerk/typist and two
subordinate staff. When operational, clinical centers operate through
'daily runs", i.e. pre-determined circuics along which road side crushes
are set up to treat animals. The routes are fixed by the veterinary
officer in charge and can be 'oerated daily, 365 days a year given the
number of veterinary officcrs available.  To operate these runs, the
clinical service requi:es two vehicles for each center. Currently,
vehicles are not tvailable and veterinary officers can only treat at the
f4t *w1at transport is available. Clinical centers are supplied with
drugs although shortages are frequent.
4.03       At the location level, the Animal Health Assistants' role is
primarily to ensure preventive veterinary ctreatment. This includes
(i) participation in vaccination campaigns; (ii) dipping; (iii)
deworuing; and (iv) farm visits to diagnose dilseases at their early
stages (mastitis, calf diarrhoea) and recomend simple hygienic and
nutrition measures. The Animal Health Assistant refers clinical cases
that he cannot handle to the veterinary officer in the clinical center
or in the division headquarters. Animal Realth Assistants are supervised
by'the division veterinary officer and report to him in writing once a
month on: the state of pasture growth and feed supply, various diseases
to be repotted, dipping, number of cattle dipped, amount of acaricide and
drugs used (the drugs accounts are thus included in that report).
4.04       Animal Health Assistants submit written reports every month to
the division veterinary offices. (The format of these reports should be
reviowed). In Uasin Gishu district the animal health ausistants doing
tick control work meet every two weeks to submit their report and
exchange views. Consideration should be given to emulating this example
(although the content and organization of the meetings needs to be
specified).
4.05       In the marginal areas where cattle are not dipped, Animal
Health Assistants are mainly occupied by vaccinations and disease
surveillance. However, there is no set management system to guide their
operations.
.4.06       There are two basic reasons why cost recovery is poor for
clinical services. One is the lack of clarity in the definition of the
fees.' For example the fees (clinical certificates) are Shs 3.00 for
treatment of sheep and calves, Shs. 10.00 for treatment at a road side



- 165 -
crush and Shs. 30.00 for treatment at the farm.  What is the fee for
tTeatmant of sheep at the farm? Secondly, drugs-are not invoiced. Any
amount- of drugs can be distributed under the blanket fee of a 'clinical
certificate'. Under the Animal Health Services Rehabilitation Project,
drugs will be billed separately from the 'clinical certificate'.
Extension
4.07  *    Senior officers in Kabete are concerned that the clinical
services ark giving too much attention to sick animals when this is not
economically justified. More attention should be given to increasing the
production from healthy animals through an appropriate extension system.
This is indeed an important iss'ie. However, the extension system to be
developed should be carefully reviewed. A link may have to be
established with the extension system of the Agriculture Department or a
separate system devised which can have the required mass impact on
livestock production.
5.         Conclusions and Recommendations
5.01       The key frontline worker in the Department of Veterinary
Services is the Animal Realth Assistant (AHA), a certificate holder.
tare is at least one Animal Health Assistant in each location.  The
activities of the Animal Health Assistant should be organized
consistently with etonomic priorities in animal health. Thus, by order
of priority, the Animal Health Assistant should ensure:
(i)     vaccinations
(ii)     dippings
(iii)     clinical treatments
5.02       Animal Realth Assistants will continue participating in
vaccination campaigns. As a matter of routine, vaccination campaigns
will take about two months a year of the time of Animal Health Assistants
in the Foot and Mouth campaign areas. In other areas, vaccination
campaigns take one month a year. However, in addition, the AHA can be
called upon for vaccinations against occasional epidemic outbreaks
(para. 2.01).
5.03       Because of the high incidence of tick-borne diseases, tick
control is the second priority after vaccination campaigns. Effective
tick control  will reduce cattle losses and alleviate the animal  health
staff nowadays heavily burdened by clinical activities. Operation,
maintenance and supervision of dips was deficient in the past although
there are enough Animal Health Assistants to supervise all dips in the
country. To improve on the supervision of dippings under the Project, it
has been agreed with the Chief Veterinary Field Officer th)at Animal
Health Assistants will be required to attend and supervise all dippings
in their arcas oucside the period of vaccination campaigns. Animal
Health Assistants will be deployed in a way that they will not have more
than five dippings in their areas. Dippings will be organized on
different days under one Animal Health Assistant so that the latter can
supervise all dippings in his area.



- 166 -
5.04       An effecetive system for collecting dipping fees is essential
to overcome the Government's budget constraints. The results of
experimental fee collection systems being tried in Uasin Cishu district
will be discussed in detail with the responsible field staff on April 17
and 18. Pending this discussion, it is expected that the following
proposed system will be confirmed.
5*05       The District Veterinary Officer will, by the beginning of each
fiscal year, prepare a program of fee collections.   The program will be
prepared with the district administration authorities and with the Animal
Health Assistants. It will indicate when and where fee collection
campaigns wilLtake place so that' he whole district is covered every
quarter. Collection campaigns will be timed to take place during periods
nf solvency (after harvest or crop payments). Detailed arrangements will
be made by the Animal Health Assistants with the provincial administation
authorities (along the guidelines appearing in annex 3). The dip
attendant will be present during the campaigns to indicate the amount due
by the farmers (the problem of the availability of "fee sets", or
receipts needs to be discussed). The Animal Health Assistant will
monitor the rate of fee collection. He will report defaulters to the
local authorities and will assist the division veterinary officer in
following-up their cases, with the help of the dip attendant.
5.06       Clinical treatments should only be carried out when
vaccinations and dipping duties, including fee collection campaigns, have
been fulfilled. The Animal Health Assistant will establish a fixed base
where farmers can always report cases by writing in the AHA's book. The
ANA will indicate in the book where he can be found. The location of the
ARA's book will be known to the Division Veterinary (or Livestock)
Officer. On dipping days the ARA may elect to use the dip as his base.
After the dipping is over (usually about 10.00 a.m.), and even during the
dipping, the ARA will be available to treat clinical cases. The AHA will
viaskt the farerst who have put a&request in his book.
5.07       The main reponsibility of the Division Veterinary Officer (or
Livestock Officers) is to be with the Animal Health Assistants, to
provide them with on-the-job training, support and guidance in all their
tasks. The Division Veterinary Officer Should devote most of his time to
this supervision task. (There are about 4 AHAs to each division for the
time being, but the number will double over the project period). The
Division Veterinary Officer will always indicate his whereabouts to his
staff. Farmers referred to him by the AlAs will call on him at his
base. Rowever, the task of treating complicated clinical cases beyond
the capacities of the AHAs will be gradually handed over to the
specialized division clinical veterinary officer. District Veterinary.
Officers should, like Division Veterinary Officers, devote a significant
share of their time to field supervision. Every two weeks the Division
Veterinary Officers and the Animal Health Assistants will meet with the
District Veterinary Officer to report on their activities, to leave dip
samples (if not collected from the division) or collect sample results
and to review the results of fee collections. Such meetings are
operating in Uasin Gishu and will be discussed with the field staff of
that district.



- 167 -
5.08       A Manual of Animal Health Field Services will be prepared as
soon as possible to be a distributed to all Veterinary Department field
-staff.  t1 will indicate the duties and mode of operation of each field
position. A systeatic training program will be developed along with the
manual and carried out by the authors of the manual to familiarize the
staff with the specific procedures laid out in the manual.



-168                                ANNME 4
Appendix 2
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
THE VASIN GISEU TICK CONTROL PROJECT
Reoort on a Visit to the Uasin
Gishu Tick Control Project
tApril 17 and 18, 1986)
General
01.        The purpose of the visit to the Uasin Gishu Tick Control
Project was to observe front line management systems of the veterinary
services in this Project with a view to drawing the lessons which could
be retained for the management of the nation wide Animal Health Services
Rehabilitation Project. The visit was arranged by Dr. A. Maina, Chief
Veterinary Field Officer for Messrs. A. de Largentaye and J.G. Ndegwa of
the World Bank.
02.        The Uasin Gishu Tick Control Project is a six - year project
supported by the Danish Government. The Project began in 1984 and will
last through 1990. The contribution of the Danish.Government is 19.5
million Danish Kroner (about US$ 2 millioa). The main objectives of the
project are (i) to rehabilitate 240 cattle dips and (ii) to improve the
management of the dips. The Project also includes an extension
component, to assist the Department of of Agriculture in promoting
improved animal producsion farming techniques in Uasin Gishu District.
There are two Danish technical assistants in the Project, one for Tick
Control and one for Animal Production Extension activities.
Finances
03.        The Ulasin Gishu Tick Control Project is budgeted under the
Development vote of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development, subvote 101 (Livestock Development), Head 610 (Integrated
Livestock Development), subhead 770. The budget includes direct payments
from DANIDA, which appear as Appropriations-in-Aid. Surprisingly, fee
collections are not indicated as Appropriations-in-Aid.
04.        The Project is funded through two channels.  The first
provides direct payments from DANIDA. The second is a Project account
which operates as a revolving fund for the #roject in the district. The
Psoject account has not received Treasury approval and is therefore
operating outside normal Government procedures. Normally, district
revenue is deposited in the District Commissioner's Suspense Account.
This Account is not used for the Tick Control Project because of the risk
of overdrawing the Account for expenditures unrelated to tick control.
Instead, the steering committee of the Project (District Commissioner,
representatives of the Ministry and of DANNDA) decided to open a separate
account for the Project. The Project account has three signatories: the



- 169 -
District Commissioner, the District Accountant and the District
Veterinary Officer. The Project atcount is managed by the District
Veterinary Officer, assisted by the district tick control officer.   The
sole source of income of the account is the deposit of all dipping fees
collected.
Fee Collection
05.        Fee collection performance increased markedly under the
Project, from 72 at the end of 1984 to 532 by the end of February 1986
and was further increasing at the time of th visit. This performance is
measured as the percentage of farmer dues that have been collected since
the beginning of the project (1984). Fees are collected every two months
at collection points by district clerks assisted by the dip supervisors
and the dip attendants. The days of collection are fixed according to a
pre-established program and are publicized by the field veterinary agents
(dip attendants and animal health assistants). A "crash program" of fee
collection was introduced in 1986 in which dip attendants were encouraged
to collect fees on behalf of the dip supervisors (specialized animal
health assiteants, para 13). Farmers receive receipts for every
payment. Th*y also hold a dipping card on which the dip attendants
record their dippings and their payment so they are aware of their dues
at any moment. Receipt books are produced by a local printer (because of
the limitations of the Government Printer) and issued to fee collectors.
The Department of Veterinary Services is considering to issue receipt
books to chiefs but the main limitation to increasing the number of fee
collectors is the safeguard of the money. Safes are only available at
division headquarters.
06.        Monitoring of fee collection is an important activity of the
Project and, from the visitors' view, is not receiving the required
attention. Fee collection performance rates are currently compiled by
the Danish Project coordinator. Collection performance is calculated
only for the district as a whole whereas it would be advisable that a
periodic review of fee collection performance be carried out for every
officer. The sustainability of the Project is crucially dependent on
good fee collection performance. With a collection performance of 53%,
the Project is not yet sustainable.
Costs*
07.        The cost of the project was found to be reasonable and in line
with (although slightly higher than) the fee collected. An estimate of
the cost of the operation of a dip appears in the appendix to this
annex. Given the number of dippings, the cost of one dipping is KShs
1.20, including 102 contingencies. Three quarters of the cost are
absorbed by acaricides. At the current level, KSh 1.00, the dipping fee
is close to cover the actual cost of dipping (although calves pay only
KSh 0.50). However, the level of the fee should take into account a
reasonable estimate of collection performance. For example, if
collections are unlikely to exceed 80%, the fee should be set at KShs
1.50 to cover an actual cost of KShs 1.20. Farmers appear to be ready to
pay for the full cost of the system if they are guaranteed an effective



- 170 -
service. Farmers from Nandi district, where the dipping fee is KSh 0.30,
are known to cross to Uasin Gishu district to dip their animals at the
higher fee of KSh 1.00.
Proiect Impact
08.        Judging by the attitude of the farmers, the Project has an
excellent impact. Dipping coverage has increased significantly under the
Project. At the time of the visit it was estimated to be about 852 of
all cattle. However, all the objective data to be generated by the
Project is not yet available. A monitoring and evaluation system,
provided for in the design of the Project, remains to be developed.
Ownership and Responsibility for Dip Maintenance
09.        The responsibility for dip maintenance is not clearly
understood in all parts of the country. In theory, dips should be
maintained by the farmers. In practice this does not always occur. The
performance of a dip depends to a large extent on the farmers' interest
in dipping. When the farmers' interest is not ascertained at the time of
the rehabi. tation or construction of the dip, difficulties can be
expected during the operation of the dip. One way of ascertaining the
farmers' interest is to require their contribution to the cost of
rehabilitating or constructing the dip.
Recosuedations for Front Line Services
10.        The visit to Uasin Gishu district confirmed most of the
conclusions of discussions held at Kabete (see Annex 7). By approximate
order of declining importance, the tasks to be covered in animal health
are:
(i)    disease surveillance and control of livestock movements;
(ii)   control of notifiable diseases;
(iii) tick control;
(iv)   clinical services;
(v)    herd health extension: and
(vi)   participation in meetings.
11.        Disease surveillance is performed as a routine by the
frontline agents and does not require a special allocation of time,
except for markets and auctions where the veterinary staff is required to
be present. However, even the supervision of markets and auctions absorb
but a minor part of the human resources of the front line staff (20
market days per month in Uasin Gishu District for a total of 22 animal
health assistants). Cattle movement permits are delivered by the
veterinary officers upon inspection of the cattle and a recommendation by
the animal health assistant.



- 171 -
12.        Vaccination campaigns in areas of compulsory foot and mouth
vaccinations represent a major activity of the animal health assistants
(AHAs). It can be estimated that in these areas, six months of the AHAs'
time is devoted to vaccination campaigns, including tvo months for each
campaign and two months in vaccination against disease outbreaks.
13.        Ia the Uasin Gishu Tick Control Project, tick control is
ensured by the dip attendants and by four supervisors who are specialized
AMAs equipped with motorcycles. An alternative system-considered for
other districts is to entrust the responsibility for dip supervision to
all the AHAs. The dip is an appropriate place for the AHA to be located
during dipping. 'It is therefore easy for him to supervise the dip
attendant at the same time. Although the number of AHAs is still
insufficient ifi Uasin Gishu for the AHAs to be present at all dippings
(outside the vaecination campaign periods), with the iapidly growing
number of trained AHAs, the Government should be able to achieve this
target shortly. Alternatively, the Government could redeploy some of its
excess staff in other areas.
14.        Most of the clinical activities can be performed at the dip.
Such activities include devorming, castrations, dehorning, extraction of
retained placentas, treatment of some case of mastitis, hoof trimming,
treatment of abscesses. Clinical treatments that usually require farm
visics should Be limited to difficult calvings, pneumonias, some cases of
mastitis, "three day sickness", milk fever, eye infections, some
diaorrheas and some non-specific infections.
15.        District and Provincial staff found that the system of
operation recoe_nded in the paper prepared in Kabete (Annex 7) was
appropriate. Thus, the animal health assistant (AHA) should, when not on
duty in vaccination campaigns, attend the dip and supervise the dipping.
Dippings should be scheduled so that the AHA is present as frequently as
possible. The dip attendant should also be responsible for fee
collection and follow-up of defaulters. When the dipping is over, the
AHA can visit farmers that have made a request. The AHA should always
leave a request book at the office, where farmers would be able to call
at any time. The dip attendants should be equipped vith the basic simple
material (drenching gun and medicine, burdizzos for castrations,
dehorning equipment, a syringe, needles, a clinical thermometer) and a
bicycle. A training program should be developed to reorient the animal
health assistants towards herd health extension so that, at each visit on
a farm, the animal health assistant would review the general state of the
herd or of the other animals on the farm and would provide advice on
means of increasing the herd productivity. Finally, the AHA should set
aside time for the meetings he would be called into (location development
comuittoes, etc.). It can be estimated that meetings absorb about five
days in a month, or about one day in a week.
16.        Divisional veterinary officers should program their activity
with the AHAs in the division to visit the areas of each ARA on a set
date every month. The program of the division veterinary officer would
be known to the district staff and to the farmers. Divisional meetings
would be organized quarterly to exchange experience and records of



-172-
perforuance. The divisional veterinary officer would also keep a book at
his base.
17.        With proper equipment, artificial insemination could easily be
provided by the Animal Health Assistant. The container for deep-frozen
semen, however, is expensive and cannot be transported on a bicycle.
Provision of artificial insemination with room-temperature semn could
possibly be organized on a small scale. This would have to be explored
further, possibly on a pilot basis.



-173-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
Attacbment
cost of Dipping in tasin Gishu   I/
KShs per
Unit Price       dip per
Catelo.of Cost                      uantit      (ho 2*r eni)    annum
Acericide
dip filling                           25 liters
replanishment (per annum)          1,931 liters
Total                            2,181               126.20        27,512
Tranpgort (unit prices for 249 dips in the Project)
vehicle depreciation                               244,000
fuel                                                90,000
repairs                                            108,000
driver costs                                        72.000
1/249          514,000             2,064
Dip Attendant (one dip attendant on average for 1.7 dips)
salary                                 0.6 man       7,411            4,447
equipment                              0.6 set         833              500
Dip Supervisors (fotr dip supervisors in the whole Project)
salary                                              26,000
house allowance                                      8,580
fuel                                                4,160
motorcycle depreciation                             10,000
subsistence                                         4,800
clothing                                               800
4/249            54,340              872
District Tick Control Officer
salary                                             60,000
house allowance                                     18,800
subsistence                                        12,000
clothing                                             1S00
1/249           91,800               369
Su1'- "otal                                                         35,764
Cot -ngencies                                                         3,576
Total                                                             39.340
Cost Der dippig (Assuming 632 animals dipped
52 times  a year, based oan average Project data)                   KShs 1.20
1i Excluding cost of technical supervision of project



-174 -
Appendix 3
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
PROflC? PROPOSAL TO IFAD IN CONJUNCTION WITh
TIE ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICE REEASLITATION PROGR(
APPISA  REPORT 1/
PROPOSED FtI    TRIAL IN TUE RIF  VALLEY PROVINCE
O %ZTA TO EVALUATE THE USE OF TRAPS IN THE CONTROL
Of TSETSE AT VILLAGE LVEL AND ALTERNATIVE TICK
CONTROL RECIMEN TO SATURATION DIPPING
tatroduction
1.     Tseese,  the  vector  of trypanosoitasis and livestock ticks, vectors
of several animal diseases, sueh as  East  Coast  Fever,  have  presented  a
major   constraint   to   livestock   production  in  Africa.   The  use  of
insecticides does not seem to have provided a long-term sustainable
solution.
2.     For example,  tseeso  infest  more  than  one-third  of  the  African
continent  south  of  the  Sahara.  Unfortunately, the infested belt happens
also to cover some of the most fertile, good rainfall areas. capable of
sustainin& excelleat arable and pastoral farming. The csetse is otherwise'
harmless were it not for the disease trypanosomiasis vhich it transmits to
man eand  his  livestock.   Tsetse  infescation  is therefore a constraiiiing
factor to agriculcural and livestock development as well as rural health
in much of sub-SAharan Africa (other than the highlands).
3.     tn  1974,  the  World Food Converence in Rome considered, among ocher
things, how large tracts of tsetse-infeseed but productive land could be
rid of the pest and made to sustain protein food sources. The FAO in
response decided in 1975 to tackle the problem and drew up a programe of
tsecs.   eradication  and  training  (of  middle  level  technologists)  for
Africa.   The  FAO  plan  was  based  on  a  40-year  plan  at  a .cost   of
US. 2 billion. 'Their strategy was to use pesticides of various kinds and
formulations (mostly organochlorine and organophosphorus).   The  plan  gave
no due consideracion to the irreversible environamental pollution which
would result from these pesticides on  the  various  ecosystems  across  the
African continent.
4.     The  traditional  methods  which  have  been  used for a considerable
tim in the management of trypanosomiasis have included Same destruction
Qf   fencing,   bush  clearing,  spraying  of  persistent  insecticides  and
chemotheraphy. These measures have not achieved the desired results.
Furthermore,   there   is   concern   about   the   cost-effectiveness   and
environmental iapact of these control technologies. Consequently, there
is ne-dto consider retatively lob cost, but effective and environmentally
acceptable methods and strategies of tsetse control.
5.     Similarly,   the   control   of  ticks  and  tick-borne  diseases  by
saturation acartcde application has long been a successful routine in
1/ Proposal quoted is from'the International Centre of Insect Physiology and
Ecology,.P.0. Box 30772, tlairobi, Kenya.



- 175 -
those countries with endemic vectors, albeit being expensive, and beset
with techn.ical problems of sustaining the practice over. time.  Of the
tick-bourne diseases, East Coast Fever (ECF) has presented the most
intractable problem, ca no vaccine or therapeutic drug was available to
treat or control infections and resort to acaricides was.the only solution.
6.    In  the  last  decade,  there  has  been  several  advances  in  the
vaccination or treatment of tick-borne diseases.  These have opened the
door to acaricide or tick control procedures that no longer need to be
1002 lethal to ensure success of tick-borne disease control measures.  The
"infection and treatment" method of vaccination against £CF is now
developed, and relies upon Terramycin or the newly developed drug Clexon
for its success.  Both Anaplatuosis and Babasiosis can be controlled by
"Imizol" prophylauis or treatmnt.   Only Cowdriosis remains  a potential
problem  in  some  areas.   The  present  research  effort  towards  defined
antigens for vaccination against all four tick-borne diseases will
probably ensure that today's adequate technology will oe superceded in the
next decade by much superior methods .of controlling tick-borne disease
based upon host response rather than vector elimination.
7.    The tick vector has not been neglected in these advances.  The host
immunity induced by the developing tick has been reinforced (i) by host
gene-pool improvement, and (ii) by enhancement of the immunity engendered
through the tick feeding process (Type I immunity).   Recent studies  in
Australia, Canada and East Africa (at the ICIPE) on the inducement of host
iiunaity to the tick by proteins not normally presented to the host during
feeding, have shown that host response can be used to control or reduce
the tick population.
ICIPE's R&D Technology
8.    In  the  case  of  tsetse  the  ICIPS's  research  is  predicated  on
developing an integrated tsetse control approach based on the use of
tsetse traps, new potent attractants, and tsetse pathology, within known
tsetse population patterns.  The ICIPt has chosen to work on Glossina
pallidipes, the main tsetse vector of human and animal trypanosomiasis in
Eastern  and  Central  Africa.   This  species  occurs  in  isolated  or
semi-isolated foci, which makes its management possible under defined
ecological   condicions.    The   ICIPE's   tsetse   population   monitoring
methodology before, during 4nd after spraying of Lambwe Valley, in Western
Kenya, has shown the ineffectiveness of the control solely through
spraying  with  insecticides.   Its  research  in  Nguruman  Escarpment  in
Xasailand has compiled a ddata bank on tsetse behaviour, biting cycles,
and insect parasite relations, which can be used to build a tsetse
population model.  Furthermore,  it has improved efficiency of traps and
discovered potent, long-range attractants which can be incorporated in the
traps for use by rural communities to control tsetse populatons.  It is
proposed to test this control strategy in a pilot trial scheme in Mguruman
*         in Rift Valley Province of Kenya.



- 176 -
9.     In  the  case  of  livestock  ticks, two new possibilities can now be
considered as alternatives  to  saturation  acaricide  concrol.   The  first
alternative is modified acaricide regimens based on "inc-ased incerval
dipping" or "strategic dipping".   The  second  is  ,based  on  induced  host
resistance by vaccination using vector derived antigens, resulting in the
reduction  of   vector   populations   to   an   acceptable   level.    Such
possibilities  present  attractive,  technically  feasible,  alternatives to
saturation  dipping  that  bypass  the. current   problems   of   acaricide
resistance,   environmental  inacceptability  and  the  increasing  cost  of
development and manufacture of effective acaricides.   WCIPE's  research  s.
concentrated on the second alternative, based on the humoral response of
bovines to antigens df Rhiphiceohalus appendiculatus, the vector of ECF.
10.    The tCflZ's Livestock Ticks Research Programe  is  directed  towards
modified dipping regimens and Laduced host resistance as an alternative to
saturation dipping to control ticks and tick-borne diseases.
11.    ICIPE experiments nearing  completion  in  field  experimentation  in
Trans-Mara, in Vestern Kenya, have shown that it is.extremely difficult to
reinforce Type I immunity (that imunity associated with natural tick
feeding) to a level that prevents productivity losses in non-acaricide
treated animals.  However, wight gain  sees8  co  be  directly  related  to
tick .burden; and current results suggest that the use of "scrategic
dipping" when tick burdens reach 200-300 per animal could be a cheap
viable alternative to saturation dipping in ECF-protected animals. The
actual host tick population levels that would be used to trigger acaricide
applications require definition over a range of climatic and geographical
conditions. However, dipping intervals of once every three to four weeks
(or even longer at times of low tick activity), rather than twice weekly,
appear feasible at this poinc.
12.    Scudies with the one host tick  Eoophilus in Australia  inuicate  that
it is possible to induce humoral immunitc in the bovine host that can
significantly damage the tick or interfere with the tick life cycle, to
such an extent that an increasing diminution of the pasture and host tick
population is a real probability.
13.    This type II resistance is the subject of concentrated study  in  the
ICIPE,   using   the   three   host   tick  vectors  of  EC?  (RhipicephaLui
apgendiculacus). Extracts of the midgut, salivary glands and other org-sns
of partially fed adult tick and other inscars have been used to immunise
rabbits. Ticks fed on these rabbits show a greater than 50% reduction in
-reproductive efficiency and other adverse biologiual effects. Separation
of the protoln/antigen components of these extracts and correlation with
biological effect is in progress, using immuno blotting and monoclonal
antibody techniques.
14.    Similar  experimencs  are  underway  in  sheep,  goats  and   cattle.
Techniques to ev&luate artifically induced immunity in the laboratory and
the field are prosencly operational in the ICIPE.



- 177 -
Research lackstopligg Tield Trial0
1S.    Research  backsaopping  the  pilot  field  trials  on   tsetse   will
continue in che following areas:
(a)   Continued  field  research  on  tsetse  population sampling will
attempt to  relate  biconical  trap  catches. to  the  actually
prevailing   tsetsa  density  and  composition  in  the  field.
Studles  will  be  completed  oan  the  use   of   natural   and
Artificial odours to increase catch size'in ultra-low areas.
tuensification of the work to optimise, by chemical means,
the Active ingredient in the buffalo urine which makes it
such a potent odour attractant to G. pallidipes will be
accomplished;    so   will   small-scale   trials   of   target
effectiveness   in   small,   isolated   pockets   of    tsetse
infestation.
(b)   Studies  on  the  use  of  insecticide-iapregnated  screens  to
supprass C. gallidipes populations were originally aimed at
determtning the optimum combination of colour and shape of
the target used to attract tsetse. This work will continue
alongside the more advanced methodology for village-level
tsetse control tactic.
(c)   Field data will continue to be collected in  order  to  perfect
the ICIPE tsetse population model so as to increase its
predictive value.  The  first  approach  has  been  to  get  a
better understanding of the tsetse and disease situation, and
to obtain sufficient data to develop a tsetse population
model.   A  predictive  population  model will enable the ICIPE
to stiulate the  efficacy  of  various  control  measures, and
thus   be   able  to  devise  optimal  control  strategies  for
particular   ecological   situations   (using    any    control
methodology whatsoever).
16.    It  is  envisaged  that in order to provide adequate technology input
into the proposed pilot trial scheme on tieks, current research will
continue to:
(a)   Expand   the   present   programs   of  laboratory  isolation,
characterisaton aud correlation of antigens with inhibitive
biological effects on the tick.
(b)   Whe   available,  the  proven  antigens  will  be tested in the
field in comparison with traditional dipping and strategic
dipping techniques.
Prolosed Pilot Trial Schepe
Objctive
17.    The  objective  of the project is to undertake a detailed field trial



- 178 -
of  a  low-cost  esetse  control  strategy  based  on  the  use   of   traps
incorporating attraccants; and to test modified dipping regimen based on
alternative  tick  control;  and   assess   their   economic,   social   and
animal-husbandry impact for the resource-poor pastoraliscs.
Protect Activities
18.    A  pilot  control  project  is proposed to be carried out in che Rift
Valley Province of Kenya. The area is normally heavily utili2ed by the
Maasai  for  grazing of their cattle.  The trial which will be undertaken in
colLaboration  with  the  national  programme  in   the   context   of   the
IFAD-sponsored  Kenya  Animal  Health  Services Rehabilitaion Programme will
concentrate on the activities outlines below.
Tsetse
19.    Biconical traps  baited  with  buffalo  urine  and  cow  urine  odour
attractants will be the main approach to be adopted in suppressing the
population.  The traps will be placed at a trap  denisty  of  4-8  per  km2.
The actual trial will include the immediate suppression of the tsetse
population by the use of traps, insecticide-impregnated screens, followed
by mopping up operations using other technologies, and then undertake
monitoring for any remaining ultra-low csetse population.
20.    Other activites will includes
(a)   Completion  of  tsetse  surveys   to   delimit   exact   tsetse
distribution, which may constitute refuges for remnant tsetse
population in this area.
(b)   Collection  of  base-line  data  on  population  densities   in
characteristic habitat (vegitation) types, using biconical
traps,   just   before  control  operacions  coence  (and  to
provide comparative data to the expected population pizture).
(c) Surveillance, diagnosis and treatment of cases of human and
animal    trypanosomiasis   by   the   collaborating   national
institutions in Kenya.
(d)   The implementation of agreed  land  use  and  land  development
strategies by the national instutitions in Kenya.
(e)   Training  of  personnel  from  national  programmes  is of high
priority.   This  will  prepare  field  staff   for   extension
service among the rural counities.
Livestock ticks
21.    The pilot trial will undertake the folloving field activities:
(a)    Using  locally  bred  and  managed  animals  in  comparison  with the
tFAD-supported Livescock Rehabilitation Programme, initi4te field
studies to develop criteria for the recognition of "trigger" levels
of tick irfestation teading to acaricide intervention;



- 179 -
(b)   Provide facilities for the assessment of the  effectiveness .of
antigens and threshold levels in productivity terms in the
field;
(c)   Provide  sociological  and  anthropological   inputs   to   the
scheme,   in  order  to  enable  traditional  practices  to  be
evaluated and reconciled with 'tho new approaches suggested in
this project;
(d)   Provide  a  veterinary  service  specificalty  in  the- concrol
areas in collaboration with national authorities. Experience
with similar schemes has shown this too be necessary to
minimise disruption of the Pilot Trial Scheme due to endemic
diseases  (Riuderpest,  Foot  and  Mouth  Disease,  sec.),  and
provide  motivation  for  the population to accept experimental
interventions;
(e)   Training of personnel  from  national  progrs*es  is  of  high
priority.    This   will  prepare  field  staff  for  extension
service among the rural commnities.
22.    Climatic and other  variables  (such  as  tick  species  differences,
tick  borne  disease challenge, etc.) are such that a period of at leasc two
years is necessary to complete initial scudies in the field.
Project Out;ut
23.    The major benefits of che propsed control strategy for tsetse are:
(a)   It is Cost saving and has minimum recurrent cost;
(b)   It is non-polluting; it  has  no  environmental  contamination,
and no effect on non-target organisms;
(c)   It  exerts  a  continuous  suppressing  effect  of  the  tsetse
population  (unlike  seasonal  ground  or  aerial  spraying  of
insecticides).
(d)   It can be managed by small farmers groups.
24.    It  is  expected  that  the  Project  output  for  tick  control will
comprises
(a)   Definition  of  the  optimum  level  of  tick  investation   to
trigSer acaricide intervention;
(b)   Assessment  of  the effects of different levels of intervention
on animal productivity;
(c)   Influence of climate on the reduced dipping intervals concept;
(d)   In the long-term, isolation of the tick  antigens,  in  a  form
in which they can be correlated with biological effect;



- 180 -
(a) The selection of antigens of useful biological effect and the
demonstration of that effect in cattle in an actual farming
situation;
(f) If productive results are obtained, the principles evolved
should be capable of translation to African countries after
evaluation of the significant local-specific variables;
(g)  tt is cost saving and has minimum rec:urrent costs.
Resource Requirements
25.   The ICIP?  Research Programmes on tse cse and livestock ticks have
adequate scientific leadership and scientists to undertake the required
ecological and socio-econouic studies.  However,  the Pilot Trial Scheme
requires one adaitional scientLst to evaluate the technology in the
field. The cash estimates in end 1985 financial terms are summarizod in
the attached table.  For the purposes of programme costing, it is assumed
that year one of the two-year trial coincides.with year one of the tFAD
programue.
Project_Imp lementat ion
26.   An  exchange  of  Letters  of  Understanding  between  the  Kenya
institution and the tCIPE, will outline tht modalities for implementing
the Project and will specify the work plan.



- 181 -
WZNYA
Animal Health Services Project
Tick and Tsetse Control Pilot Trials -Detailed Costs (000)
Year 1           Year 2           Total
items of Expendijure              £K                                          S
Personnel /Consultancies
Research Scientist (1)           17.6    i0.7    18.0    21.2    35.6    41.9
Research Assistant (1)            6.3      7.4      6.5     7.6    12.8    15.0
Field Assistants (2)              6.8      8.0    *6.8      8.0    13.6    16.0
Consultancies                     4.3      5.0     4.3      5.0      8.6    10.0
Sub-Total                     17.    1TT    Tr.6    Zi:    7TOM          82.9
Vehicles & Equipment
Vehicles 4WD (1)                 12.8    15.0      -        -       12.8    15.0
Research Equipment (traps,
electric screen, etc.)         21.3    25.0    12.8    13.0    34.1    40.0
Motorcycles (2)                   5.1      6.0     -        -        5.1      6.0
Sub-Total                      MI7    46.0   -12       T5o   352.0    61.0
ODeratint Excenses
Traveling Allowances             17.0    20.0    17.0    20.0    34.0    60.0
Vehicle Maintenance/
Running Cost                    4.3      5.0     4.3      5.0     8.6    10.0
Staff Training
(GOK Officers)                 12.8    15.0    12.8    15.0    25.6    30.0
Publications/Seminars             3.4     4.0      3.4      4.0     6.8      8.0
Drugs and Vaccines                4.3      5.0     4.3      5.0      8.6    10.0
Sub-Total                     tI:     49.0    717    49.0        3.6    98.0
TOTAL COST                      116.0   136.1    90.2   105.8   206.2   2&1.9



- 182 -
RENYA
Animal Health Services Pro.ject
Tick and Tsetse Control Pilot Trials - Cost Summary (00t)
Central     Tsetse      Tick
Items of Expenditure                   Services    Control   Control    Total
Personnel/Consultancies
Research Scientist (1)                     41e9        -          -          41.9
Research Assistant (1)                     15.0        -          -          15.0
Field Assistants (2)                        -          8.0        8.0        16.0
Consultancies                              10.0        -          -          10.0
Sub-Total                              66.9        8.         :          82.
Vehicles & Ecuioment
Vehicles 4WD (1)                           15.0        -                     1- 5.0
Research Equipment (traps,
electric screen, etc.)                   10.0       30.0       -          40.0
Motorcycles (2)                             -          3.0        3.0         6.0
Sub-Total                    1           = 0       =3. 06
Overating Exoenses
Traveling Allowances                        -         20.0      20.0        40.0
Vehicle Maintenance/
Runntng Cost                             10.0       -          -          10.0
Staff Training
(GOK Officers)                          10.0       10.0       10.0        30.0
Pubtications/Seminars                       -         4.0        4.0         8.0
Drugs and Vaccines                                    -         10.0        10.0
Sub-Total                              20.0      337,        44.0        98.0
TOTAL COST                                111.9       75.0      55.0       241.9



Annex 5
- 183 -                  Page 1 of 2
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
The Price of Clinical Certificates
1.       When the clinical centers were introduced in 1974, the Department
of Veterinary Services saw the clinical service as a forerunner to the
development of private services in smallholder areas and thus as a logical
extension of the private services which existed for large scale farmers.
It therefore instituted charges for clinical services through the sale of
clinical certificates. The standard fee depended upon the type of animal
and where the examination was carried out:
Adult cow                 Small
Examination site               or steer .... Kshs .#to  animals
Roadside crush                   10.00                     3.00
on farm                          30.00                    30.00
In addition to the standard fee, a variable charge was added to cover
whatever drugs were supplied, with the drugs allocated to specific price
bands [Ksh 3, 6, 10, 20, 30, per dose].
2.       The Government decided in November, 1986 to increase the price of
clinical drugs to the level of the recommended retail prices for the
private sector. These prices include a 33 1J3 percent mark up over the
wholesale price to cover the cost of drug distribution.
3        The Government did not increase the charge for clinical
certificates as they were sufficiently high to cover the cost of clinical
consultation. This annex presents a calculation of the cost of clinical
consultation supporting the Government's policy. The calculation
distinguishes between consultations provided by a veterinary officer and
those provided by an animal health assistant, as follows:
Cost of Clinical Consultations
(KSh per day)
Veterinary Officer    Animal Health Assistant
Roadside visit                      11                       3
Farm visit                          31                      10
The above costs are based on the assumption that veterinary clinicians can
provide forty consultations per day at the roadside but only 14 on the
farm. The daily cost of running a clinical service is summarized in the
following table with supporting data in the footnotes.



Annex 5
- 184 -                Page 2 of 2
Cost of Clinical Services
(KSh per day)
Veterinary Officer      Animal Health Assistant
Salary  1/                        217                      87
Overheads  2/                      109                      44
Transport  31                     104                        3
430                      134
1/   Salaries calculated on the basis of the Government payroll are as
follows:
Veterinary Officer    Animal Health
Assistant
Salary (K£)                            2500               1000
Working days                             230                230
Salary cost per day (K£)                  10.87              4.35
(KSh)              217                 87
2/   Overhead cQ3t  are assume, to be 50% of salary costs
3/   Transport costs represent the cost of a motorcycle for veterinary
officers and the cost of a bicycle for animal health assistant, calculated
as follows:
Motorcycle         Bicycle
Base cost (KU)                         1375              83
tarif duty                             618 (45X)         66 (80%)
s/total (KU)                          2093              149
sales tax (172)                        356               25
satotal (KU)                          2449              174
repairs (50%)                         1225               87
interest (10% on half value)           123                9
s/total (K£)                          3797              270
life span (days)                       900             1800
maintenance and replacement
cost per day (K£)                       4.22             0.15
fuel and lubricant (KU per day)          -.00
total transport cost per day
K£                              5.22             0.15
KSh                           104                3



- 185 -
Annex 6
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Annex 6
Supporting Tables for the Economic Analysis
Contents
pages
Table 6.1:   Project Impact on Milk Production                        1
Table 6.2:   Project Impact on Meat Production in Beef Herd           2
Table 6.3:   Project Impact on Meat Production in the Dairy Herd   3
Table 6.4:   Sunmary of Project Impact                                5
Table 6.5    Project Impact on the Purchase of Private Drugs          6
Incremental Farm Labor Requirements with the Project
Table 6.6:     Milking Cows                                     6
Table 6.7:     Dippings and Vaccinations                        6
Incremental Feed Costs with the Project
Table 6.8:     Milking Cows                                     7
Table 6.9:     Heifers Reared                                   7



- 186 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Table 6.1 s PROJECT IMPACT ON MILK PRODUCTION
Present      Without      With
Situation     Project    Project
Smallholders
Average calving interval (months)              17.0         17.4      16.9
Average yield/cow/lactation (liters a/)    1300           1250      1320
Mortality/year (X)                              7           10         6
Production per year per cow starting
to lactate b/                               872         800        898
No. of cows - (static-national herd '000)   850            850       850
Estimated national production
(million liters)                           741         680        763
Large Farms
Average calving interval (months)              14.0         14.1      13.9
Average yield/cow/lactation (liters) a/    3600           3530      3620
Mortality/year (%)                              6            7         6
Production /year/cow starting to lactate
(million liters)                          2977         2880       3017
Number of cows (000)                          150          150       150
Estimated national production
(million liters)                          447          432        453
Total national milk production
(from dairy herd)                          1188        1112       1216
a/ Excludes milk for calves and assumes cows complete lactation without
dying.
b/ Death assumed to occur after half the milk in a lactation is produced.
(source: IFAD Apnraisal Report)



- 187 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
KENYA
Animal Health Services Project
Table 6.2: Prolect Impact on Meat Production in Beef Herds
Incre-
mental
Present       Without         With         Prgrm.
Situation     Programme      Programme      Impact
Calving interval (months)       21.0          21.3         20.9         -0.4
2 live calves born              86.0          85.0         87.0          2.0
Effective calving rate          49.1          48.0         50.0          2.0
% bulls                          4.0           4.0          4.0          0.0
Age at slaughter or
1st calving - years            3.9           4.0          3.8         -0.3
Repl. X - cows and bulls        15.0          15.0          15.0         0.0
Annual mort. Z adults            9.0          10.0           8.5        -1.5
Annual mort. 2 young stock      10.0          11.0           9.5        -1.5
HERD STRUCTURE PER 100 COWS
No. of cows                    100.0         100.0         100.0         0.0
No. of bulls                     4.0           4.0           4.0         0.0
Young Stock 0-1 years           49.1          48.0         50.0          2.0
"I     "   1-2  "              44.2          42.7         45.2          2.5
2" -3  "                39.8         58.0          40.9          2.9
Over 3                          32.2          33.8         27.8         -6.1
TOTAL HERD                     269.4         266.6        267.8          1.3
SALES PER 100 COWS (No.)
Cull cows                        6.0           5.0          6.5          1.5
Cull bulls                       0.2           0.2          0.3          0.1
Steers                          15.7          14.5         16.6          2.1
Surplus heifers                  1.3           0.1          2.2          2.1
TOTAL SALES                     23.2          19.7         25.5          5.8
POTENTIAL OFFTAKE (I OF HERD)   8.6            7.4          9.5          2.1
AGGREGATE OFFTAKE ('000)    ----- Based on National Herd of 8 million-
Cull cows                      178.2         148.5        193.0         44.5
Cull bulls                       7.1           5.9          7.7          1.8
Steers                         466.0         429.3        492.2         62.9
Surplus heifers                 38.4           1.7         64.7         62.9
689.7        585.4         757.6       172.1
CARCASS WEIGHT (Kit/head)
Cull cows                      110           110          110            0.0
Cull bulls                     180.0         180.0        180.0          0.0
Steers                         145.0         145.0        145.0          0.0
Surplus heifers                140.0         140.0        140.0          0.0
MEAT PRODUCED ('000 mt)
Cull cows                       19.6          16.3         21.2          4.9
Cull bulls                       1.3           1.1          1.4          0.3
Steers                         676.6          62.3         71.4          9.1
Surplus heifers                  5.4           0.2          9.1          8.8
TOTAL MEAT                      93.8          79.9        103.0         23.3



- 188 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
KENYA
Animal Health Services Project
Table 6.3s Project Impact on Meat Production in the Dairy Herd
Without           With
Present         Project          Project
SMALLHOLDER HERD
Male Calves
Born % year a/                         71              69               71
Mortality (2 of calves) k/             20               ?2              19
M-'.e calves sold per cow/year          0.28             0.27            0.29
No. cows in present herd ('000)       850             850             850
No. calves sold ('000)                241             229             244
Average carcass weight (kg, cdw)       25              25               25
Beef production ('000 tons)             6.0             5.7             6.1
Cull Cows
Cows - Replacement Rate (2)            18              18              18
Mortality (%)                           7               10               6
Cull sales (2)                         11               8              12
No. cows in present herd ('000)       850             850             850
Culls sold ('000)                      93              68             102
Average carcass weight (kg, cdw)    120               120              120
Total beef ('000 tons)                 11.2             8.2             12.2
Total beef (excluding heifers)         17.2            13.9            18.2
Dairy Heifers
Calving (2)                            71              69              71
Li-e heifers born (Z)                  32.0            31.0            32.2
Mortality (2 per annum)                10              12               9
Calving or sold (%)                    23.3            21.1            24.3
Surplus (2) c/                          5.3             3.1             6.3
No. cows in presQnt herd ('000)       850             850             850
Potential annual sales ('000)          45              26              54
Average sales weight d/               120             120              120
Total weight - heifers ('000 tons)    5.4               3.1             6.5
TOTAL BEEF AND VEAT, FROM
SHALLEOLDER DAIRY HERD ('000 tons)       22.6             17.0            24.8



- 189 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
Table 6.3 (continued)
Without          With
Present        Project          Project
LARGE DAIRY FARMS
Male Calves (t) - born e/              38.6           38.3            39.3
Mortality of calves (X)                 9             10               9
Calves sold/cow year                   0.35            0.34            0.36
Beef production ('000 tons) f/          1.6            1.5             1.6
Cull Cows
Covs - Replacement Rate (%)           20              20              20
Mortality (%)                           6              7               6
Cull sales (%)                         14             13             124
Beef Production ('000 tons) zI          3.4            3.1             3.4
Heifers
Females born alive (X) h/             38.6            38.3            39.3
Annual mortality (2)                    9             10               9
Surplus available (2) i/               9.1             7.9             9.6
Potential extra beef
('000 tons) Al                       2.3             2.0             2.5
Total calves and culls ('000 tons)       5.0             4.6             5.0
TOTAL FROM LARGE DAIRY FARMS
INC. SURPLUS HEIFERS ('000 TONS)         7.3             6.6             7.5
a/  One year as a percentage of calving interval.  Therefore, figure
includes all calvings including calves born dead.
b/ Takes account of calves born dead.
c/ After allowing 182 for replacements.
dl  Some woald be sold as culls at an earlier age than three, therefore
depressing the average sale weight.
e/ Calving rate, less 102 for calves born dead etc. - assumes 50X are male
and 50% female.
f/ 150,000 cows, carcass weight 30 kg.
gl 150,000 cows, carcass weight 160 kg.
h/ Calving rate less 10%.
il At three years old, after allowing for 202 replacements.
jl Carcass weight 170 kg.



- 190 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
KENYA
Animal Health Services Project
Table 6.4: Summary of Prolect Impact
Without        With           Incre
Present     Project        Project        mental
A           B              C            (C-B)
MILK                                      - '000 tons per annum -----------
Smallholder grade dairy       521          489           527            38
Large dairy farms             447          432           452            20
Total milk                  968          921           979            58
BEEF                             --------- '000 tons per annum ----------
Cull Cows.
Smallholder dairy            11.2          8.2           12.2          4.0
Large dairy                   3.4          3.1           3.4           0.3
Beef                         19.6         16.3          21.2           4.9
Total                        34.2         27.6          36.8           9.2
Steers/bulls:
Beef                         68.9         63.4          72.6           9.1
Cull male calves:
Smallhclder dairy             6.0          5.7           6.1           0.4
Large dairy                   1.6          1.5           1.6           C.1
Total                         7.6          7.2           7.7           0.5
Surplus heifers:
Small dairy                   5.4          3.1           6.5           3.4
Large dairy                   2.3          2.0           2.5           0.5
Beef herd                     5.4          0.2           9.1           8.9
Total Surplus Heifers        13.1          5.3          18.1          12.8
Total Beef Potential          123.8        103.5         135.4          31.9



- 191 -
Annex 6
Page 0 oi 7
Table 8.S: Pro! ct Impact on the
Purchase of Private Drugs
(Kg 000)
199/91
198L/87   1987/88    1988/89       1989/90 and thereafter
Supplies from the Oovernment
Clintcal Services (Table 1.4)       250     1,218         918        a00        700
Decline In Government Supplies        -         -         80t         418       518
Estimated Incremental Purchase
of Privato Drugs I/                 -         -        400          700       900
Incremental Farm Labor Reouirements with the Project
Tablo 8.8: Milking Cows
Decline
In cow      No.  Incrm.   Mandays Opportunity
mortality    of   No. of       per    cost of     Economic
rate      Cows  Cows      Inorem.   Labor      Labos Cost
(Table 8.1)  (000)  (000)      Cow   (tK/day)       (Kg  090)
Column
Number           (1)       (2)     (8)      (4)        (5)      (6)=(8)x(4)x(S)
Smallholders     4%      80        34
Large forms      1%       150       2
Total                1-000        6       20 1/      0.46           824
Table 6.7:  Dippingg and Vaccinations
Ineremental    Farm
Number of     Labor      Labor    Opportunity Economic
Treatments     per      Require-   Cost of       Labor
per      Treatment    mont        Labor       Cost
annum       (day)   (US days)  (K£/day)    (K  00U)
(million)
(1)        (2)     (8)u(2)x(1)    (4)   (S)a(4)x(3)
Dippings               18             0.1       1.8
Vaccinations            6             0.1       0.8
Total                              19         0.1        1.9          0.45    866
a/ ppraisal mission assumption.



- 192 -
Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
KENYA
Animal Health Services Proiect
Incremental Feed Costs with the Prolect
On the basis of recent farm management studies in Kenya, it is
estimated that feeding costs amount to about 30% of the value of output for
dtairy cows and 40% of the meat value of a heifer for heifers. Overall
about 30% of incremental milk comes from a reduction in mortality and
therefore involves extra costs (while improved yields due to lower disease
incidence or a shorter calving interval do not). With dairy heifers, it is
estimated that 60% of incremental production would be from lower mortality
also involving incremental costs, while 490% comes from faster growth, due
to lower disease, which does not.
Table 6.8: Milking Cows
Incremental Milk Production
Million liters, Table 6.4                        104
Economic Price (KX/liter)                          0.15
Economic Value of Milk Proudction (K£ million) 15.6
of which from redluced mortality (30%)          4.7
Feed costs (Ki million) (30% of above)             1.4
Table 6.9: Heifers Reared
Surplus heliers                        Economic   Incremental Inermental
In SO t of carca#s     lower   Faster  Unit Price   Value    Fed Costs
weight (from Table 6.4) Mortality  growth  (K()   (Ks ml 1.)  (Kg ml lIon'
(1)          (2)n(I)ONl (9)-(S)x4SX  (4)    (6)-(2)x(4)  (S)x(4)
Sma lholder                 8.4               2.0     1.4
Large Farm                 6.5                8.8     0.2                  -
8.9                M       . 0        A/      1.8        6.7 



- 193 -
ANNEX 7
K E N Y A
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Procurement Plan
Contents                                                 Page
(1)  Critical Path Analysis                                1
(2)  Summary of Bids Form                                  2
(3)  Evaluation Summury of Bids                            3
(4) Schedule of Goods (1986/87)
(A) Vehicles-                                        4
(B)  Plant and Equipment                             5
(5)  Constru-ction of buildings                            6
(6)  Reconditioning of cold rooms                          7
(7)  Drugs and accaricides                                 8
(8) Appendices (1-9)                                       9-21



-194-
Annex7
*                    ~~~~~~Page 1
Procurement:  Critical Path AMalysis (1986/87)
ACTIVITY/PRODUCT           TIME            DEADLINE    RESPONSIBILITY        REMARKS
REQUIREMENT
(CUMULATIVE)
(IN WEEKS)
1.  Schedule of Goods       2              14.07.86    Project Manager
2.  Procurement Notice      -              20.07.86    Chief Supplies
Officer
3.  Bidding Documents                                                    /
3.1 Preparation             4              21.08.86    Project Manager -
3.2 Printing & Binding      6              04.08.86    Project Manager
4.  Invitations to Bid                                 Chief Supplies
Officer
5.  Bid Opening            13              22.09.85    Chiet Supplies
Officer
6.  Preparation of Bid                                 Project Manager
Summaries
7.  Request for                                        Chief Supplies
Technical Evaluation       15.             06.10.86    Officer
8. Technical Evaluation
of Bids                                                Technical Officer 2/
9.  Compiiance with        19              03.11.86    Chief Supplies
Evaluation of Bids                                     Officer
10. Evaluation Summary                                 Chief Supplies
and Recommendations                                    Officer/Technical
Officer
11. Clearance with                                     Chief Supplies
technical bid evaluation                               Officer
committee 2/               20              10.11.86
12. Central Tender         21              17.11.86    Chief Supplies
Board Paper                                            Officer/Tqchnical
Officer _l
13. Approval of            25              15.12.86    Central Tender
Recommended Awards                                     Board
14. Donor Clearance        26             29.12.86    Chief Supplies
Officer
15. Notification of        28             13.01.87    Chief Supplies
Supplier                                               Officer
16. Preparation &          31             02.02.87    Chief Supplies
Signature of Contract                                  Officer
Documents
17. Firm Order             32             09.02.87    Chief Supplies
Officer
18. Delivery & Payment    44-56           04.05.87    Chief Supplies
to .        Officer
05.08.87
1/ Ministry of Transport & Communications in case of vehicles
2/ Ministry of Transport & Communications in case of vehicles and tyres;
Ministry of Information or Chief Veterinary Field Officer in case of plant
and equipment
3/ Tender Xvaluation Committee of Veterinary Department on all goods except
vehicles



Kenya:  Animal Health Services Project                                     Anisex q
Form for' Smury of Bids Opened on                                          Page 2
Contract so               Lot go
| SERIAL    M NAKE OF   U NIIT PRICE 1 CURRENCY   TOTAL PRICE    DELIVEKY | COUNTRY I SOURCE | BRAbD  | BID BOND |
|No.       |DIDDER    OF BI           OF BID   |OF BID ITEMS |PERIOD          OF         OF BID |AHKE        PROVIDED3t
I          | ITEN                                      IN  INWHE   BIDD3R  |ITES  |OF DID   YES/NO 0
' I  1            I           I               I           I                    | ITEM
I          I    .I                  I  ..  .    I           .   I        .               -I        -       I. 1        I
1i 1         1                        1           1           1             1          1         1          1          I
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1   2                 e             1                            a           a         a                   a
tI . _ _ _ _ 3  _ _ _ _ _ ; -  _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   I  __ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ .  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  ._ _ _ _   I  _ . _ _ __   j   _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _
L                                                                                                    sb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
13      , I           .          I           I.               I           I          I . .                          I  
1          1 l       -      - 1  '  1           1III                                                        
I  5       I          I                   I             I                    I         I         I         I           I 
16         I          I            1            1                1          1---   -             I         I           t
17         I    .                   I     .              -                   I         I    _ I    1 .I I. .1
I~Smmr ________ by________ 1   ...~.......J _____    ...        1      L.....I____1....... S6aus..........ats
I~ ~ hce ______y ............. eJ  ................... ______  _____________ 1.1._ _ _ __....    at   .. .___  ______ 
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                 
Summary donme by (Name) ..... . ......Signature.............Date ........
Checked by (Namne)        ...........ISignature.............Date ........



Ww ~~~~~~~~~~t                   r
:---
z1  ., t  -                             c   ,a    
________________ _____W N !;?
961~~~~02
0                              |- aN.4           gg 
:~~~~~~ i*C, l--
/~~~~ S--st>t a2                                                          b
W(.       .                  L      0nI-'
621*.~~ ~        96               ~



-197_
Annex 7
Page 4
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
SCREDULE OF GOODS (1986/87)
(A) VEHICLES
I       I       -'I          '  '   I'           
I f.OT   I DESCRIPTIbN    I QUANTITY  I ESTIMATED    I TOTAL     I PROCUREMENT
I NO    I OF BLD ITEM    I REQUIRED  I COST PER    I COST        I METHOD
I  I            |           I UNIT (KSHS)  I (KSHS)
I       I       ._ _ _ ._   I  __ _ I             - 1   _ _ _ _                1 _ _
1    I 2 wheel drive  I  15             150,000    1 2,250,000  I   ICB        I
I      Ilone ton        I           I              i
I       I pick-ups      I           I                            I             I
I       I     .                     I              I             I             I
I 2    I 4 wheel drive  I  26       I  264,000    I 6,864,000  I   ICB
I      Ilone ton
I       I pick-urz
I      I        .       I           I              I             I             I
i -    i 10 seater      I   3       I  240,000    I   720,000  I  LCB
!      I minibuses      I           I                     .
_ -    I Station wagon  I   4     I  160,000         4 480,000  I  LCB
I    ~Icars
ll   I     I           1            - ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  1 
TOTAL COST   I 10,314,000  1            1
I                              BUDGET ALLOCATION   I 10,320,000  I             1
1,                                                 I*  ._ _   _   I            I



- 198 -
rAnnex 7
Page 5
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF GOODS (1986/87)
(B) PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
i    ~~~I ,I                            ,,I                               I.
I LOT   I DESCRIPTION OF ITEh I QUANTITY OF    I ESTIMTED     I METHOD OF   I
I NO    I                   I ITEMS            I TOTAL COST    I PROCUREMENT I
I REQUIRED        I OF ITEM (KSHS)I
1 1      Surgical and       I see appendix 1   | 2,410,000    I  ICB
I clinical equipment
I      I     .                                 I              I            I 
I 2    I Camping equipment   | see appendix 2   | 1,610,000    |  ICB      I
1 3    I Laboratory         I see appendix 3   1 4,256,000    I  ICB
I      I equipment
1 4    I Cold chain (deep    I see appendix 4    1 1,065,000  I  ICB
I      I freezers and                                                      i
I      I refrigerators)     I                  I        .
I                        I                          . I          .       I
I 5    I Tyres and tubes    I see appendix 5   I 1,685,250    I  ICB
I      I                 ..l         ,                        I .
1 6    I Cold chain (cool    I see appendix 6   I  196,500    I  LCB       I
I      Ilboxes)
1 7    I Water containers    I 250.            |   50,000     I  LCB
I   . I                     I                  I              I            I 
1 8    I Pumps and           I see appendix 7   I  230,000    I  LCB
1      I generators         J
1 9    I Coulter counter     I 1               I  350,000     I  LCB       I
1 10     R Heating and      I see appendix 8   I  160,000     I  LCBI
I      I lighting equipment
I 11    I Microlitre plates   I see appendix 9   I  690,000   I  LCB
|      I diluter and other
I      I general items
.1-- I                        I                 F       I '                  f
I      I   Total                              112,702,500                  I
I   Total of all lots                  111,017,500    I
I  I   excluding lot5 S
,      I            .__ _ _ _ _ _   _  _   _ .  ._    _   _     I           I
I l   Budget Allocation
I.     I   (i) All lots excluding lot 5        111,660,000
I      I   (ii) Lot 5: from allocations o£f
transport operating expenses
and rehabilitation of    *
. I    vehicles totalling            117,620,000    1             I
I      I                                                      I            _ I



- 199 _
Annex 7
Page 6
Kenya:   Animal Health Services Project:
Procurement: Construction.of Buildings (prefabricated
houses and offices) (1986/87)
(i)   Funds for contruction of houses and offices have been
disaggregated to the District Veterinary Officers (DVOs).
DVOs will put this work in hand in the FY 86/87 using local
contracting procedures.
(ii) Program is as follows:
I District          | Number of Stations       g Estimazed Cost of the
I                   I                         | Work (KShs)               |
1- ''__             I -______ . ______ I
i Marsabit          I         2                |     388,000
I Manders a                   2                I     388,000
j Wajir             I         3                I     582,000              i
I Garissa           I         3                      582,000
ITOTAL              1        10                I   1,940,000              1
' I       --- I                               1   _ _ _ _ _ _IL
|...                  ALLOCATION IN ~UDGET         1,940,000       
*1      ___                                                                1  



- 200 -
Annex 7
Page 7
Kenya: Animal Health Services Project
Reconditioning of Cold Rooms and
Loose and Fixed Equipments (1986/87)
(i)    To be done by local contracts for supply and fix spare parts,
repair and test cold rooms and equipments.
(ii)   Schedule of work
(a)     VIL Karatina - one cold room
(b)     WIRFND E&bakasi - four cold rooms
(c)     VET Laboratories Kabete - S cold rooms and one incinerator
(d)     Revco Deep freezers - 6 number
(e)     Freeze driers - 6 number
(f)     Autoclave - 1 number
Total estimated cost KShs 1,400,000/-
Allocation in budget            800,000/-
Balance of 600,000/- from contingencies.



- 201 -
Annex 7
Page 8
Xenya: Animal Health Services Project
Procurement of Druss and Accaricides 1986/87
Method of Procurement: LCB
(A)    ITEM OF ACCARICIDES         QUANTITY REQUIRED
1.     Dehau DP?                   34,380 litres
2.     Stelladone 300 cc           42,315 litres
3.     Supona 50                   20,100 litres
4.     Asmlol                      4,230 x 1.40 kg packets
5.     Supadip                     2,640 litres
6.     Back dip                    14,545 litres
TOTAL COST:                 KShs 31,568,0001-
ALLOCATION IN BUDGET:       KShs 31,568,000/-
(B)    DRUGS, VACCINES AND REAGENTS
(items not drawn)
TOTAL COST:                 KShs 17,060,000/-
ALLOCATION IN BUDGET:       KSha 17,060,000/-



- 202 -
Annex 7
Page 9
Kenya: Animal Health Services Project
Appendices:   Schedules of Plant and Equiment k1986/87)
4
Appendix 1: Surgical and Clinical Equipment
1          I1                                .    I     , ..     I          I            1i
I 1TEM    | ITEM DESCRIPTION                      I QUANTITY   I UNIT    I TOTAL         i
INO        I                        .REQUIRED   |PRICE   |COST                           I
I          I                                      I             IRKSHS    I              I
1          1                                      1             F          f            I
1 1        I Emasculator, 30 cm, stainless  I   100             I  198    | 198,000   |
I          | steel, straight (Haussmann)    |                   I          I             I
I   _  _ _     I                             -__ _ _ _ _ _ _   I   I          1-_  I  _ _   
1 2        I Trocar and canula 22 cm with             100 l          85    i   8,500
I         | wooden handle                         I             I          I
I___          I_.____ _ __ _ __                      1-__ _  1 __ _1  ._ _   I
-rI                                               I             F          I            I
1 3        I Eye hooks, blunt, stainless    I   200             I  120    |  24,000   |
I          I steel                                I             I          I            .
I  _ _ _    1  _   _    _    _    _   __          I  _ _  __      1  _ _  __-_           
I-=---1        -I----      ~        ~       ~    I              I  .       l            l
1 4       | Buhner insertion needle for    1    50              11,000    1  50,000   |
I  vaginal tape, 30 cm                 I             I          I            I
1= 1                                             -1---I I
1 5       | Drenching gun 180 cc                 |   100        I   80    I   8,000   I
I          I capacity                             I             I          I            I
I 6       I Stomach tube large                    I    50       I   90    I   4,500   1
*      1-         1                                      I I          I             If 
1 7       I Stomach tube small                   I    50        I   80    I   4,000   |
I     .    I                                      I          -             Is           I 
8        1 Teat canula, plastic 4 cm            I 100 pkts   |   90    I   9,000   |
I  _ _   _ I  .__       _    _ _    _    _        I           .__ _   I    i          ----_ I
9       I Veterinary clinical                  I 1,000        1   20    1  20,000
I  thermometers with
I          I cylindrical barrels
I       ._ _   I    ._ _ _   _ _    _    _   _ -  ._ _  _ _ __.  I   ,I      _ _    _    
1 10       I Butchers knife 10,1                  I   100         i 100    1  10,000   |
I         1                                 -                   F          f            I 
1 11      I Calving ropes (twisted)              1   300        1   16    I   4,800   |
Inylon8m                               I               m
I,         I                                      1             !__ _ _   1    -         I



- 203 -
Annox 7
Kenya:  Animal "ealth Services Project       Page 10
AEpendices:  Schedules of Plant and Equipment (1986/37)
Appendix 1: Surgical and Clinical Equipment
I ITEM   | ITEM DESCRIPTION             I QUANTITY  I UNIT   I TOTAL
|NO      |                              I REQUIRED  I PRICE  I COST
* I  -              I           IKSIS   i          I
1 12     I Vaginal/umbilical tape       I 500 rolls I   10  I  5,000
1       1 5 m roll
1 13    I Instrument tray               I   50      |  140  I  7,000  i
I       I 8" x 6" x l 1/2"I
I        I                            -I            I        I          r
1 14    I Sharpening steel              I  100        i 100  | 10,000  I,
i 15 s    Surgical scissors, curved     I  500      I   60  I 30,000
120 cm, sharp, blunt
I  _ _ _ I _  _  _ _   _  _   _  _   _    I  _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ I  _ _ _   I
1 16    I Surgical scissors, straight   |  500      1   35  I  1,750
I 15 cm sharp/sharp mayo
L   1   _   _                J            I        I          II  r 
i 17     I Scissors blunt/blunt curved   I  500     I   95  I 47,500
15 cm
1        I                              l           I        I    
1 18     I Halstead-mosquito            | 3,000     I  105  I 315,000
|       I haemostatic forceps x t2.5 cm I
1 19    I Dressing thumb forceps 20 cm  |  750      |   40  I 30,000  I
I 20     I Scalpel handle No. 4         I  500      I   20  I 10,000
1 21     I Allis Tissue Forceps 16 cm    1  500     1  250  I 125,000  |
1  ---I                                     r              r          v
1 22     I Needle, surgical 3/8 circle   I 250 packs l   16  I  4,000
|       I cutting edge, medium in 6's   I           I
I        I                              I           1~         1  
1 23     I Needle, surgical 3/8 circle   I 250 packs I   16  I  4,000
I       I smooth in 6's
A    I                              I        *I          I          I~~~~~~~~~. 



- 204
Annex 7
Page 11
Kenya: Animal Health Services Project
Appendices:  Schedules of Plant and Equipment (1986/87)
Appendix 1: Surgical and Clinical Equipment
| ITEM   | ITEM DESCRIPTION               | QUANTIT   I UNIT   I TOTAL    i
INO      |                                | REQUIRED  I PRICE  | COST
I          I KSHS
*  T    T                                   1-          1        1         .1
1 24     I Needle holder mathiew,         I  500      I 147   | 73,500  I
1        I large, 20 cm                   I           I        I           I
I  _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _   _   _   _   __  -   1-_   _    1       1_ _       1 _ _
1 25     I Stethoscope, veterinary with  1  100       I 105       10,500SO
I.      |I1 metre spare tube
126      | Probe 2 mm x 15 cm with        1  100      i   50  I  5,000
I handle
I1  ,__ I _ _   _   _   _   _   _   _    I       .- I  _ _ _ I          I
1 27     | Teat slitter with two          t  100      |    76  I  7,600
I  retracting blades 18 cm
1 28     I Chromic cat gut 1 m size 0    I 100 packs I   25  |  2,500
I        I in 36's                         
I.       I                                I           I        i          I
1 29     I Chromic catgut 1 m size 2      I 100 packs |   40  I  4,000
1in 36's
1 30     I%Chromic catgut 1 m size 3      I 100 packs |   80  1  8,000  |
I in 36's
I    _ _ _   I    _ _ _ _ _  _   _   _   _I   i _ _     I    _ _     _  _   
1 40     I Chromic catgut 1 m size 4      I 100 packs I   40  I  4,000  I
I        |  in   36's                                 I        I          I
1 41     I Vetafil synthetic in           I  100      I   76  I  7,600
I        I containers 0.4 mm x 50 m roll |
1 42      V Vetafil synthetic in          I  100      I   72  I  7,200
I containers 0.6 mm x 50 m roll |
43         Nyo_ut r                                   I  _ __i  I.'s_ __4I0
143     1 Nylon suture 00 in 12's9       1  100      I    4  i    400  l.
I                      ~~~I   .               I.I



- 205 -
Annex 7
Kenya:  Animal Health Services Project               Pag: 12
Appendices: Schedules of Plant and Equipment (1986/87)
Appendix 1:  Surgical and Clinical Equfpment
1                                                         I                 I
I ITEM    | ITEM DESCRIPTION                  I QUANTITY  | UNIT   | TOTAL
INO       I                                   I REQUIRED  1 PRICE  | COST
I         I                                   I            I KSHS
I  _ _ _   I _  _   _   _   __        _   _ _   I.  _ _ _ _   I  _     I  . _ _    I
I 44      I Nylon suture 2 in 12's            i   100      I    4   |       400  I
1        -r                                            
145       I Nylon suture 4 in 12's            I   100      I    4   I       400
| 46      I Uterine pump with tubing          I    50      I 250   I  12,500
|.47      1 Automatic syringes 50 cc,         I 1,000      I  40   I 40,000  I
I         I caliberated at 1 cc, lohr         I            I         I
|         I  lock                             I            I         l            I
I  _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _   I                    .1  1__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1 __ __ __ __ _I_
1            1 I   I   I     , 7
I 48      I Spare glass barrels for           I 2,000      I     5     10,000
50 cc syringes                     I             I         I
I  _ _  _ i _ _   _   _   _   __        _   _   I  _ _ _  _ I  __   _ I           I
1 49      I Needle size 3/4" large 14,        I 3,000      I   50   I 150,000
I -       I fitting lohr lock automatic
I syringes
__ _I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             __        I __ _I __ _
1 50      I Haemostatic room                  I   500      I  183   I  91,500
I 51      | Trocan and Canuls 22 cm with  I   100          |  198   I  19,800
I         | wooden hanale
i     ~I    _ _  _   _   _   _     ___    ,   _ _  _ _    I   _    I  _ _ _ _
| 52      | Burdizzo 45 cm                    I    50      I  589    I 29,450  I
*     53  I Buhner insertion needle for   112,500          |    4   1  50,000  I
i  vaginal tape 30 cm              I             i
1 54      I Drenching gun                     I    50      I  160   I   8,000  |
5         Hot_ iron_ dehorner_I                          ,     _  i   4-2          I
I 55      I Hot iron dehorner                 I    50      I   85    I   4,250  I
.1        I                                   I             I         __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I



- 206 -
Annex 7
Kenya: Animal Health Services Project Page 13
Appendices: Schedules of Plant and Equipment (1986/87)
Appendix 1: Surgical and Clinical Equipment
I ITEM   I ITEM DESCRIPTION             I QUANTITY  I UNIT    I TOTAL
|NO      I                              | REQUIRED  I PRICE   I COST
I        I                              I           tIKSHS    I          I
I  _ _ _ I  .__     _  _ _   _   _   _    i  _ __     I  __ _ I  __    _ I
1 56     I Teat canulae plastic 4 cm    | 1,000    1   8 a        8,000 |
I    I                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I   -I       I
.5 57    1 Teat siphon/infusion tube     1   100    1  18/50 |   1,850 |
I        I with open side
1        1                              1           1         7       --T
1 58     I Hoof knife                   I   200    1  24/25 |   4,850
I  _ _ _   I  _ _   _   _  _   _   _   _ I _ _   _    I .    .   _   _   
1-- -   I                               1-          1       -I           I
1 59    I Empryotome                    I    50    17,500    1 375,000 |
1 60    I Key Schottlers                I   100    I  30    |   3,000 I
F                                        I    _     I           V     1 }
1 61     I Obstetrical Chain            I   200    I  50    |  10,000
1 62     I Ruxmen magnets               I   200    I  50    I  10,000
| 63     I Dehorning gauge              |   100    | 210    I  21,000
-_ _           - _ _ _ _ _   _  _     I  _ _ _ _ I  i_ _   I  _  _    I
1 64      N 'ot identified by July 18,
I       1 1986, but will be listed by   |           I         I
I August 4, 1986 for Bidding    I          I         I 581,850 |
I       I  _                            I           I   _ _ _ _ _   I   __T2 0
I                                                   TOTAL     2,410,000I
I                                                                       .



- 207 -
Annex 7
Kenya:  Animal Health Services Project      Page 14
Appendices:  Schedules of Plant and Equipment (1986/87)
Appendix 2: Camping Equipment
11                                   1          1    1I 
I ITEM   I ITEM DESCRIPTION            | QUANTITY  | UNIT   I TOTAL
INO     I                              I REQUIRED  I PRICE  I COST
IKSHS
I  _   _I_   _   _   _  _   _   _  _    _____  ___          I____ 
1       I Otficers tents.                  50    I 9,000  I 450,000 I
i    _ _   I   *_ _ _ _ _   _   _  _ .  ii_    _ ''  _ _ __1  1      1_ _
1 2     I Bush tents                  .|  100    | 8,000  I 800,000 i
i       1.                             1             I     I         i'
3      Camping tables               I  100     I  400  |  40,000 |
. 4     I Camping chairs              I  200      |  400  I  80,000
T --                                   1 -       -          I  I     I
I 5    I Camping beds                  I  200     I  800  | 160,000 |
i 6   'I Camping mattresses           I  200      I  400  I  80,000
j.                                                 TOTAL  1,610,000
.1                                                                   I  ^



- 208
Annex 7
Kenya:  Animal Health Services Pro;ect        Page 15
Appendices:  Schedules of Plant and Equipment (198-6-/87)
Appendix 3: Laboratory Equipment
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'              '
ITEM   I ITEM DESCRIPTION             | QUANTITY  | UNIT   | TOTAL
INO     |                               I REQUIRED  I PRICE  I COST
I  I      IRKSHS
I    _ _   I    _ _ _ _ _  _   _   _   _I  I_  _. I _ _    _  _ _   _
I 1     I Lamina flow cabinets          1   3      1100,000 1 300,000 I
I   __ _  _ I  _ _ _   _   _   __ _ _    I  _ _ _ _I  _ _  _I_ _   _    
I - I   I                               I                   1
I 2     I Utra centrifuge                 1 1      1500,000 1 500,000 1
1                          1         ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~1  1   1'
I 3     I Cool spin                     1   2       1320,000 1 640,000 1
ii - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-
1 4     I Elisa multiscan & reagent     I   1      1800,000 1 800,000.1
I       I        ._ _ _ _ _  _  _   _   I..  -_ _  I  _ _ _   I   -_ _   I
I 5     1 Polyacril amide gell apparatusl    1     1160,000 |  160,000 |
6     I Freeze drier (1,000 ml)        1 1       1400,000 1 400,000 I
I .     I             .__ _ _ _ _ _ _    I  _ _ _ _ I  I_ _   I_
I              .I                          I       1          V 
1 7     I Freeze drier bench            1   2      1140,000 I 280,000 I
|    I                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~I  I    1-I
I 8     | Autoclave                     I   1      1400,000 1 400,000 1
1       1                            .1             1       1          1
I 9     I Hot air oven                  |   1      1 40,000 1  40,000 1
I     -    I           '                I          I        I          I
I 10    | Bench centrifuge              i   9      I 60,000 I 540,000 i
1       I                               I          I        I          1.
I ll    1 Microscopes                   I   9      I 16,000 1 144,000
I~ ~~~~                       ~    ~~~~~~~~ *1          I i
I 12    i Water bath                    I   4      1 7,000 1  28,000 I
+  _ _  _I_   _   _ _  _  _   _  _   _   I    '_ _ _   I    _ _ _   I
1 13    I Top loading balance           I   4      I 6,000 I  24,000 I
TOTAL    4,256,000 I



* 209 -
Annex 7
Page 16
Kenya:  Animal Health Services Project
Aneudices:  Schedules of Plant anl Eguipment (186787)
Appendix 4: Cold Chain
I ITEM   I ITEM DESCRIPTION             | QUANTITY  I UNIT   I TOTAL
INO     I                               | REQUIRED  I PRICE  I COST
i KSHS
I1       I     ..                       I           I        I    
1 1        Refrigerators (5CF)          I   50      I 3,000 I 150,000 |
I       I      .                                    I        [          f 
I 2     I Refrigerators (8CF)           I   45      I 5,000 | 225,000
I       r                                                    I
| 3     | Refrigerators (10CF)          I   15      | 10,000 i 150,000
I       I                               r           -I                  I 
I 4     I Deep freezers (-20,300L)      I   15      I 12,000 I 180,000 |
I     __ _   I  _ _ _   _  _   __      _    _ _  _    I t
I 5     I Deep freezer (-80,450L)       I    3      1120,000 1 360,000 |
I                                                   TOTAL     1,065,000 I
1



-210-
Annex 7
Kenya: Animal Health Services Project Page 17
A&peadices: - Schedules of Plant and EMuipment (1986/87)
Appendix 5:  1Tyes & Tubes
!_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          s
IITEM   ISIZE OF TYRE                     jQMI&NTITY  |UNIT   ITOTAL
Nwo      I                                I REQUIRED  I PRICE  I COST      I
I        I                                I           I  KSHS  I           I
1I-i 1                 .                              I         I          I
1 1      I 900 x 20 (8 PL)                I  140      I 3,500  I 490,000 I
1   I.  I        .   - .  .  ,,.,    I                I         I          I 
1 2        700 x 14 (8 PL)                    300     I 1,100  I 330,000
1       'I        _                                              
. 3        750 x 16 (8PL)                     500     11,500  I 750,000
i,I ,,,1,.., I                                        f        I           I
.14      1185 x 15 (SR)                   I   50     1    7501   37,500|
I5 3       165 x 13 (SR)                  I  100      I  650  I  65,000
'I       I                         .                  I' 1     1 
6     I 175 x 14 (SR)                     i 15     I  850  I  12,7501
Ir____ I                  ._________ _.T I       .    I         1I65 _ 5
I                                      ~~~~~~~~~~TOTAL  1,685,250 I
*  .                                                                       I



-211-
Aninex 7
Kenya:  Animal Health Service's Project            Page 18
Appendices: Schedules of Plant and Equipment (1986/8;')
Appendix 6: Cold Chain: Cool Boxes
ITEM      DESCRIPTION                       IQUANTITY  IUNIT   ITOTAL
NO                                           R  EQUIRED)    P RICE  ICOST
I                     I            I~~~~~~~~~KSHS 
j         Cool box (small)                 1 255        I200   I 51,000 1
2      ICool box (medium)                     255      I300   I 76,500 
3      1Cool box.(large)                  I 150        I400   1 60,000 1.
I4        Flasks (5 L)                           10        400         4,000.!
I5        Flasks (2.5 L)                      1  0         300         3,000
6Flasks (2.0 L)I    10                                200         2,000
I                                         ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~TOTAL  196,500 



- 212 -
Annex Z
Kenya:  Animal Health Services Project               Page 19
Appendices: Schedules of Plant and Equipment (1986/87)
Appendix 7: Pumps and Generators
l  .I                              I                                .  l           l
I ITEM    I DESCRIPTION                       | QUANTITY  I UNIT   I TOTAL         l
I         I |                                   REQUIRED    PRICE  I COST
l   l                                      I      IKSHS   I             I
l l _ _    .  l _ _    _   _ _    _   _   _     l  _ _ _ _   I _ , _    l  _   _   
1           W Water pumps                     I    5        1 10,000 I  50,000  I
1         I                                .   I            I         I            I
I  2      I Generators                        I    6        I 30,000 I 180,000
I  - _  _   I                    .__ _ _ _ _ _ _._T            A I  I   2I  30 00
I                                                           TOTAL       230,000  |



-213-
Annex 7
Kenya:  Animal health Services Project          g  20
Appendices: Schedules of Plant and Equipment (1986/87)
Appendix 8: Heating and Lighting Equipment
I~ ~~~ I                                  I              I         I
I ITEM   I DESCRIPTION                  | QUANTITY  I UNIT   | TOTAL    j
I NO    |                               I REQUIRED  | PRICE  | COST    i
I       I                               I           I KSHS
r       I        .         ,        .                                  V     
I 1      I Gas cookers                  i   80      I 400   I 32,000  |
*      I~~                                 ~ I    (       1          I
1 2      1 Gas cylinders                I  240      | 400   I 96,000  |
i       I                               I           I ___I _       __I
| 3     |Gas lamps                      I   80     | 400   | 32,000  |
1                                                  TOTAL      160,000  I



- 214 -
Annex 7
Kenya;  Animal Health Services Project                    g  21
Apgendices:   Schiedules of Plant and Equipment (1986/87)
Appendix 9: General Items
I ITEM    1 DESCRIPTION                          I QUANTITY   i UNIT    I TOTAL
INO                                                R tEQUIRED   I PRICE   I COST
I                                     I |           I KSHS                   I
T          I                              '           ' *       '         I   '       I
1           Timers                                       6     ?  400    i   2,,oo00
1 2          Spirit levels                       1       4     1  500          2,000
I  _ _  _   _    _   _   _    _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _  I  _ _   _    _ _   _ _
1 3         Laboratory stools                            4     1  200    j       800
I                                                I - 
1 4         Microlitre plates U-bottomed            3,000           60      180,000
I _    _ _ _  _   _ _    _   _    _ _    _   _    _   _ _.   _   _ _ _ _   ,    _ _-
1 5         Poly,;inyl microlitre plates            3,000           80      240,000
'                                                            t!
'I        I                      -           _   I           _   j        '            I
1 6       I Microlitre plate flat bottoms I  3,000             I   60    I 160,000   1
I  _  _     I  _ _   _   __         _   ___      I    ._ _ _ _ _ I  ,_ __        I_ _ _
I 7       I Micro d:luter                        I  4,000      I   20    I  80,000
I  _ _  _ I  _   _   _   _    __        _    _ _ I  _ _  _   _ I  _ _   _ I  !_
.  .   I                                      1 r                      1 .1'll  
1 8       I Miscellaneous glassware              I             I          |  10,000   I
IReagents                             I             I          I   5,000   I
w;  ,   . I  ,__     _   _    _   _   _    _    I           -__ _ I  _ _ _       . _ _   I
1 10        m Minor equipments                   I             I          |  10,000   I
I         I                                      I             I      '   i            I
--- -OTA                      690 0- --
|                                             ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~TOTAL  690,200 1



L.36'                            -         _
S    U   D  A    N    ,>,                         :.........................  
\' , - ~~~~~~~E    T    H    I                                                        O P  I  A 
4-.
U__ G; A N D JA>
F= _r } ;=, _
=   l¢,  1l:   1glPl l1' tlW" v     _-i'::: ,?t          i        i  ==-
D    _       :,D   i'.t,  4"  l^r g4 i'u. .,-.'& zi.:,, l, i,:  ;S . ,ig ... :  _/
'\ I .** j, . . t t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'-0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



8RVINGO                                                                                                    i,
-\ 1'1AMG                      oK.br#t                -<                                                                                      I --- Ii'{
. ,q-   z2          A ' ¼si;ts                                                                                        -- g-S          _______________
e~~~~~~ Sot    or? -'ua                                                               0                                   ______________|
.0r
NYERI              iNY
.\    ?                                      A- KURU    .AN*,  Y*f E                                                                                         __ _-,_ ,;__I
Kericho          ,                           10.OI                                              ______
i- ,4~   >                                                                     ar~4G K ,  OE   's_
-                  '--^   t              t          NtR- ,#ekoi    X     N 
TA~ ~~~N N                          ,0       Mochekos                                                                              ______
~TANZANI                  N    A. L                                       'Y;.                                                           _____ t                                ___ 
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~U.
,                          \.>s             \, s ,piX~~~~~4godi                                                                    ________'__ '   z--- 
, K E~~~~~~~~~ N                                                          YA_____.%  
ANIMA L HEALTH SERVICES
REHAB,IUTATION PROJECT  7 . 
Cotgru Bovtne Pieu onunoi i-h,cte.d A'¢o  H,yh R,SlF Noc(c-n,ed)                i:                                          ,t9F              o
Rlr'derpesf Cor"pulAory V/ 'li'oton  e-s1
!                ;^~~~~~~ll CattMs-o                                                                                                S- .
Colves on'd Y.orI gs <}nl y                                                  >                     ,             h+. ~i ~ t   -   < 
mt  Area whetre ceitle cteansing ordinance is enforced                                  k;>^> \. ->  
ti    Nw~tionol Capfl                         Boive dnc                  ,,                                               I~afl'~ \
> t~ri    ClilxknirV'S .t si oridel- s    ^,, ., f B.iv,idor,.                                                                                                                        't  ffe'  . _
-~~~~~~~. -  ,l..c,ri"  Boido  r ..,,. .,*.,  ,.               -            - /          -'f 4MOMBAS.A
-we~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Rwderp<-st~~, Comp .ory W... -,t o . Aff ,, 
D                          *                                                                                             V o. 
CE t }*                    4                            r;  >z'^ A  -r  A  .................. tA
UC- 1 nd T2 -II D4,t,,t B  R. .    I     ,,  ,-*S
_   43   j  j  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
g~~                                                                                                                      ~  ~   ~  ~     ~   ~~~~~~~~~ .   .   .   ,  _



