Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4406-KE
REPORT AND RECOMlMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMIENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 12. 7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
December 29, 1986
This dic_uen bh  a mrled digubutiom ad may be ied by ripients tly in the performnce of
their ofkica dudes Ifs cotnti may ot otherwise be diselosed without World Bnk xathoriagon.



CURRFNCY ErIlI VALENTS
Curreincy lnilt - Kenya Shilling
US$I.I1O       - KShi 16.0 1/
KSIi 1.00      - USSO.1h
USSI.OI)       - SoIR l.1N661o 21
WEIGIITS AND ME.ASURES
I hectrre (hn)   - 2.47 uiere'i
I kilometer (km) - 0.614 miIs
I kilngram (kg)  - 2.2 pouinds Oh)
I wetrie ton (t) - 2.20(1  pound'.
&IIIREVIATlONS AN_ ACRONYMS
AIIA       - Animal HeoI th An4'.1INtnnt
BRI       - 15udget RntionalIzation Programii
CIR        - Country Implementation Review
CLISM6     - Cotton  I.nt and Se-d Marketing Board
CIII'P     - Contagiouis bovine p1leournpnetumoL)nIa
?dw        - CoId dressed weIght
Cr         - Credit
DVS        - Department of Veterinary Services
EEC        - European Economic Commtunity
FAO        - Fond nnd Agriculture Organitzatton
FAM/CP    - Food and Agricul Lure Org0:nizatLinn/Cooper.attve Program
FMD        - Font and moutil disease
GlP        - Gross Domestic i'rodmirt
*;t-K      - Government of Kenya
lit        - lleadquarters
ICR        - Internattoial competitive bidding
ICIIE     - International Centre for Inseet Physiology and Ecology
lIlA       - International Development Association
IFAI)     - International Fund for Agricu1lttiral Development
IFC       - InLernational Finanee Corporation
[HF       - Internationa] Monetary Fdnd
KAIll      - Kenya Agricultiral Research Inctitutt
KCC        - Kenya Cooperative Creameries
KMC        -  enya ?-leat Commission
LCB          Local cnmpetitive bidding
lit.       - liters
Ln         - Loan
LWB        - Loig wheel hbase
L4.        - Ministry of Livestock Development
MOA        - MinIl.try of Agriciultuire
NCPK       - Xattonal Cereals and Produce hnnrd
NCPD       - National Council on Poptilation and Development
OPEC       - Organization of Petroleum ExportIng Countries
PmSU       - Project Management and Suppnrt lunit
OJR        - Quaotitative Restrictinns
SDR        - Special dIrawinig right
t          - ton (metrf.)
UNI)P      - United Nationks Develnpment Program
U/V        - Ultra-violet
W/O        - without
2W         - Two-wheel drive
4Wu        - Four-wheel drive.
FISCAl. YEAR
July I - June 30
1/ (As of July 1, 1986). Sinee August 1985, the Kenya Shilling has heen
pegged to the SDR at a rate of SDR I - KShs 17.74. The rate vis-a-vis
the US Dollar fluctuates.  A rate of 1lSS1.00 = KShs 16 has heen used in
evaluating this Project.
2/ As of October 31, 1986.



FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Kenya
Beneficlary:             Ministry of Livestock Development
Amount:                  SDR 12.7 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project Objectives
and Description:        The objective of the project is the rehabilitation
of Kenya's animal health services, and the provision
of a viable and sustainable institutional framework
for animal health services which can be maintained
over the long-term. The project would also aim to
introduce gradually full cost recovery for animal
health services over the life of the project. The
project would provide support to: (i) develop
specific management systems for the Department of
Veterinary Services, including detailed operating
and supervision guidelines f or front line field
staff and planning, hudgeting and monitoring
3ystems; (ii) train the staff of the Department of
Veterinary Services to apply the newly designed
management systems; (iii) support disease and pest
control activities; (iv) rehabilitate veterinary
laboratories and support livestock disease
surveillance activities; (v) support the National
Tick Control Program; (vi) support clinical
services; and (vii) support pilot trials for
developing cheaper methods of control of tsetse
flies and ticks.
Benefits and Risks:    The proposed project would benefit pastoralists and
smallholders who own 90% of the livestock of Kenya.
The project would reduce the probability of major
livestock diseases and thereby provide greater, and
in the case of pastoralists, critical financial
security to the beneficiaries. Production of milk,
meat, hides, skins and dairy heifers would be
increased. The project would sharpen the skills of
the Ministry staff and improve the design,
management and cost-effectiveness of livestock
services. Possible risks include inadequate budget
allocations, poor cost recovery, delays in
procurement and inadequate Government supervision.
To minimize these risks, the Bank will review and
approve the budget allocated to livestock services.
Cost recovery procedures have been carefully
This document bus a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



designed and tested in the field and would be
closely monitored. A procurement speciallst has
been recruited in the World Bank's office In Nairobi
to assist the Government. World Bank fiold
supervision from the Nairobi office would be
intensive.
Estimated Project Costs:                      Local   Foreign   Total
----USS Million-
Disease and Pest Control                     9.0      14.9     23.9
Tick Control                                 7.3      14.5     21.8
Clinical Services                            2.0      3.9       6.0
Veterinary Labs and Surveillance             1.1       1.6      2.7
Studies, Training and Management             0.8      0.8       1.6
Pilot Trials                                 0.1      0.2       0.3
TOTAL BASE COSTS                         20.3     35.9      56.3
Physical Contingencies                       1.0       1.8      2.8
Price Contingencies                          4.2       7.3     11.5
TOTAL a/                                 25.5     45.0      70.5
Financing Plan                                Local   Foreign   Total
--US$ Million--
Government                                  16.9      24.6     41.5
IDA                                          4.8     10.2      15.0
IFAD                                         2.5      5.7       8.2
OPEC Fund                                    0.8      4.2       5.0
UNDP                                         0.5      0.3       0.8
TOTAL a,                                 25.5     45.0      70.5
Estimated Disbursements (US$ Millions):
Fiscal Year          1987    1988    1989    1990   1991   1992
Annual                0.35    2.25    4.6      3.8    2.8    1.2
Cumulative            0.35    2.6      7.2    11.0   13.8   15.0
Rate of Return: Over 45%
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 6367-KE, dated October 28, 1986
Nbp: IBRD No. 19789
a/  Includes taxes and duties of US$6.0 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN ANIMAL HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 12.7 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent), on standard terms, to assist In the financing of an animal
health services rehabilitation project. The Ministry of Livestock
Development (MLD) would implement the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 6021-KE) dated March
24, 1986, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary of
social and economic data is in Annex I.
Trends in the 1960s and 1970s
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  Kenya's first decade
as an independent nation was one of remarkable growth and structural
transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6% during
1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly, at 4.7% and B.4%
per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was stimulated by the
conversion of considerable high-potential land from extensive use to small-
holder cultivation, the introduction of high-value production activities,
and the adoption of high-yielding maize varieties. Growth of manufacturing
was made possible largely by the expansion of domestic demand due to rising
agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was being
encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign
investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
4.        Following the first oil crisis of 1973, growth decelerated to 4%
p.a., or virtual stagnation in per capita terms, reflecting not only the
oil shock, but also the emergence or intensification of structural cons-
traints largely unrelated to the post-1973 terms of trade deterioration.
These problems are briefly described below.
(a)   First, agricultural growth decelerated, due partly to the
tapering off of the specific positive factors which had
sustained agricultural growth in the first decade after
independence and partly to Government policies, including
trade and exchange rate policies which turned the internal
terms of trade against the agricultural sector, and
inefficient, monopolistic Government involvement in
agricultural marketing which discouraged production and
placed undue burdens on the budget.



-2-
(b)   Second, industrial growth also decelerated, and was being
accomplished at an increasingly higher cost in terms of the
capital-intensity of investment, low labor absorption, and
the burden on the balance of payments of a sector which
imported a substantial volume of intermediate goods for
"final touch" processing and assembly, but exported very
little. These undesirable features resulted from Government
policies which included high and increasing levels of
protection, and inadequately selective Government financial
participation in industrial firms.
(c)   Third, energy supplies became relatively more expensive, due
to increases in world oil prices, and imbalances between
consumption and replenishment of domestic woodfuel.
(d)   Fourth, the public sector over expanded and was inadequately
managed.
(e)   Fifth, export volume grew by less than 1% annually, and
exports became more concentrated on coffee, tea, and
petroleum products.
(f)   Sixth, population growth accelerated to one of the highest
rates in the world, reflecting a decline in mortality, and
health improvements enabling fertility to move closer to its
biological limit.
Developments During 1980-85
5.        The Fourth and Fifth Plans.  The above structural issues were
generally well recognized in the Fourth Development Plan (1979-83) and the
Fifth Development Plan (1984-88), which have provided broad guidance to the
Government's economic policies during the first half of the 1980s. The
Fourth Plan stated that quantitative import restrictions (QRs) for purposes
of industrial protection would be discontinued, and that restrictions on
private sector agricultural marketing activity would be relaxed. It
projected GDP growth of 6.3% annually. The Fifth Plan declares that
'Growth in the private sector is the core of the development process in
Kenya;" and proposes to provide a more favorable environment for private
sector activity by lowering tne claim of Government expenditure on
available resources; curtailing or in some cases eliminating Government
investment in non-essential activities; and reviewing Government procedures
for obtaining various approvals and licenses to determine whether any can
be eliminated or simplified. GDP growth is projected to be 4.9% annually.
6.        Macroeconomic Developments.  Actual developments in the Kenyan
economy during the first half of the 1980s have been less favorable than
projected in the Fourth and Fifth Plans. Because of the second oil crisis,
the deterioration in the external terms of trade was sharper than had been
projected in the Fourth Plan; additionally, in the wake of the "coffee
boom" of the late 1970s there had been an erosion of fiscal discipline. As
a result, at the beginning of the decade, the Kenyan economy was
characterized by large domestic and external financial imbalances.



7.        In the period since 1980, the Government's Intention has been to
reduce the excess of domestic demand over domestic supply through demand
management measures, while simultaneously accelerating the growth of
domestic supply through the program of structural reform inaugurated in the
Fourth Plan. The Government has restrained domestic demand by lowering its
budget deficit, primarily by reducing the level of expenditure;
decelerating monetary growth; raLslng interest rates so that they become
positive in real terms; and permitting real wages to fall, beginning in
1982. In 1981, the Government began to use exchange rate policy to bring
about adjustment and, in addition, in 1982 import restrictions were
intensified. As discussed in paras. 10-20 below, progress in addressing
long-term structural issues has been slower and less complete than in the
area of demand management, but has included significant steps in the right
direction.
8.        Reflecting the successful implementation of demand management,
the current account deficit decreased from its peak of 12% of GDP to 4% of
GDP during 1984-85, and inflation decreased from a peak of 22% to 10% in
1985. The two best indicators of successful supply-side adjustment would
have been an improvement in the efficiency of investment and an
acceleration of export growth. Neither of these has happened yet (with
export volume actually declining), reflecting lags in the impact of
measures taken to date, and the need for further measures. Real GDP grew
by 3% annually during the period 1980-85, which included one year of
unusually severe drought (1984). During this period of time, Kenya's
external terms of trade deteriorated, and therefore its real income grew
more slowly than its real product. From 1980 to 1985, real product per
capita fell by 5%, but real income per capita fell by 10%. Because of the
combination of rising debt sarvice payments and generally lower export
receipts, the debt service ratio rose sharply from 13% in L980 to 30% in
1985.
9.        Agricultural Sector.  Agricultural growth in the eighties was
affected by poor rainfall in 1979-80 and a serious drought in 1984, but
recovered in 1985. Value added grew at about 3% p.a.; somewhat lower than
in the late seventies.  Growth in the last ten years-about 3.5% p.a.,-has
been higher than in most developing countries, but somewhat below the rate
of growth of population. While production of traditional export crops has
performed impressively, production of domestic crops has stagnated or
declined, requiring growing imports of wheat, edible oils and milk. Except
for horticultural exports, minor agricultural exports (i.e., those other
than coffee and tea) have stagnated.
10.       Two areas in which recent policies and programs have been
importantly supportive of increased agricultural production are producer
prices and agricultural extension. Within the present framework of
substantial parastatal involvement in marketing, producer prices for the
major import-competing crops have been substantially increased, and for the
grain crops--maize and wheat--brought closer to import parity. Second, the
Training and Visit extension system has been implemented since 1982 to
increase yields on small holdings which produce 90% of output. However, in
other areas, government policies need to be improved in order to reinforce



- 4 -
the effectlveness of producer price policles and extension prograus in
encouraging agricultural production. These areas are: (a) excessive
government involvement in marketing (and, in some cases, production)
contributing to parastatal deficits and price controls and marketing
restrictions that reduce incentives to smallholders; (b) availability of
farm Inputs, particularly fertilizer; (a) the adequacy and focus of the
research effort; and td) poorly performing public credit institutions which
have drained public resources and contribute little to private capital
formation. Further, because of the large budgetary claims made by
marketing (and other) parastatals and staff, Government development
spending In agriculture (including agricultural services and research) has
fallen in real terms. The Government has recently begun to implement a
medium-term sector adjustment program to address these issues.
11.       The Industrial Sector.  Value added in the manufacturing sector
grew by 3.7% p.s. during the period 1980-84. Since the volume of
manufactured exports declined, the growth was entirely attributable to
production for the domestic market.
12.       Implementation of the Government's program for reforming the
protective system has lagged behind the schedule originally envisaged. Due
to inadequate coordination of exchange rate, demand management, and trade
policies, a foreign exchange shortage developed in 1982, following which
the Government re-restricted some of the import Items which has been
liberalized. Progress has recently resumed. The June 1985 budget
contained the first increase in several years in the number of items on the
free list, and there has been an increase in foreign exchange
authorizations for imports. The June 1984 and June 1985 budgets also
included lowering of many tariffs. Because the protective system remained
largely in place during 1980-84, its consequences of inward-looking bias
and encouragement of inefficient use of capital in the manufacturing sector
persisted.
13.       Aside from exchange rate depreciation, relatively little was done
to promote exports until the June 1985 budget, when an increase in the rate
of export compensation (a fiscal incentive for selected nontraditional
exports) to 20% (of export value) was announced. During 1980-84, the
volume of Kenya's manufactured exports declined by 38%, to a level of only
4.5% of gross output. The low level of manufactured exports is
attributable to the incentive structure which has remained biased against
exports, while the decline seem to be attributable to foreign exchange
problems in neighboring African countries.
14.       Energy Sector.  Energy consumption in the Kenyan economy
increased by 3Z annually during 1980-84. Fuelvood consumption is estimated
to have increased by 4% annually and charcoal consumption by 6% annually
uhile 'modern sector" energy consumption (i.e., petroleum products,
electricity, and coal) decreased during 1980-83, reflecting adjustment to
higher energy prices, before beginning to recover in 1984. Energy pricing
policies have provided an appropriate incentive for conservation.
Dependence on Imported petroleum has been reduced somewhat by development
of domestic geothermal and hydroelectric resources, and by a very limited
amount of conversion of coal.



- 5 -
15.       The Public Sector.  The Central Government budget deflcit went
down from 92 of GDP in FY81 to 4X of GDP in recent years, despite a
significant decline in the ratio of revenue to GDP, because of sharp
reductlons in expenditure and an Increase In grants from abroad. The ratio
of government revenue to GDP decreased from 25Z in FYB to 222 In FY85.
The decline In revenue Is due to decreased collection of Import duties,
arising primarlly from contraction of import volume and secondarily from
lowering of tariff rates.
16.       The ratio of government expenditure to GDP has decreased sharply
from 351 ln FY81 to 291 In FY85. Among expenditure categories, laterest
payments increased and personnel expenditure was relatively protected,
while non-wage operating and maintenance expenditure, fixed capital
formation expenditure, and transfers to parastatals are the three
categories which were reduced. The problem of Inadequate non-wage
operating and maintenance expenditure, which has existed since the late
1970c, has thus been exacerbated. At the same time, because lower levels
of capital expenditure have been spread out over a large number of ongoing
projects, not all of which have been of equally high priority, completion
dates for many projects have been postponed.
17.       The Government has begun to address these expenditure issues
through its Budget Rationalization Program (BRP), initiated in 1985. The
objective of the program is to increase the productivity of Government
investment, by concentrating capital expenditures on a smaller number of
priority projects and by providing adequate resources for operation and
maintenance of the existing Government capital stock. In order to
implement the budget rationalization concept, ministries are now required
to prepare policy statements on recurrent and development expenditure
priorities, and to rank projects in their portfolio according to priority
criteria. Additionally, the Government intends to develop norms and
standards for capacity utilization, and to achieve greater collections of
user charges, as part of the program.
18.       The Government's intention has been to implement a two-pronged
strategy to address parastatal issues, consisting of divestiture of some
investments to the private sector, and strengthening the performance of
those parastatals which remain in the public sector. A Task Force on
Divestiture was established in 1983. So far, divestitures have been few
and of a small scale. In a significant move, the Government recently
decided to divest the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) of its
processing and marketing activlties. The Government has checked the
further expansion, through utilization of budgetary funds, of the
parastatal sector. However, during FY83 and FY84, the parastatals
responded to the decrease in budgetary transfers by increasing their
utilization of banking system credit. It is difficult to assess, due to
lack of readily available and consistent data, what progress there has been
In improving the economic efficiency and financial performance of the
sector.
19.       Population.  Kenya's population growth rate, currently 3.9% per
annum, Is the highest in the world. Fertility has begun to decline in
Kenya, but at a slow rate, from an extremely high level. The total
fertility rate has declined from a peak of 8.1 in 1977 to 7.7 in 1984. At



the present time, Kenya is one of the only three countries in the world
with a total fertility rate greater than 7.0. The recent rate of fertility
decline of 0.7% per annum is well below the declines of 2% per annum or
more achieved by countries with vigorous population programs. The
Government has recently intensified its commitment to addressing the
problem of rapid populacion growth. The National Council on Population and
Development (NCPD) has adopted a target of slowing population growth to
3.3% p.a. by 1988, the end of the Fifth Plan period, which would represent
a dramatic acceleration in the rate of fertility decline. However, an
adequate program to meet this objective has not yet been defined. In order
to achieve or move closer to the demographic objective, an expansion of
both demand-promoting education activlties and service delivery will be
needed.
Prospects for the Kenyan Economy
20.       Growth Prospects.  Because of higher coffee prices and lower oil
prlces, Kenya's external terms of trade are expected to Improve by 21% in
1986-87, as compared with 1985. There will be substantial increases In
export receipts, national income, and government revenue. GDP growth
should approach 5% annually in 1986-87. In order to maintain the economy
on a stable path, the Government intends to apply some of the exceptional
coffee revenues to reducLng the Government budget deficit in FY87, and to
generally manage domestic demand in such a way as to permit an accumulation
of International reserves in 1986-87, in order to provide a cushion for the
eventual return of coffee prices to more normal levels. Depending on the
pace of implementation of policy measures to improve the efficiency of
investment, expand exports, and mobilize domestic resources, after 1987
growth could either be sustained at about 5% p.a., or else could lapse back
to 3.5% p.a.
21.       The Sessional Paper.  In early 1986 the Government published its
Sessional Paper on Economic Management for Renewed Growth. With the
drought emergency over and with the economy successfully stabilized, the
objective of the Sessional Paper is to provide a framework for Kenyan
development for the remainder of this century. The Paper emphasizes that,
in order to provide productive employment for a labor force which is
expected to increase by 86X between 1985 and by year 2000, an acceleration
of output growth is needed. GDP growth Is targeted to be 5.6% annually.
The Paper targets coffee production to triple, and tea production to more
than double, by the year 2000, arising from replanting with higher-yielding
varieties and area expansion. In the area of trade and Industry, more
uniform import tariffs and more liberal import licensing are expected to
promote greater efficiency in the manufacturing sector, and encourage
exporting. The exchange rate will be managed in such a way as to establish
Kenya's competitiveness in world markets.
22.       The Paper devotes considerable attention to rural-urban balance,
with an emphasis on town and secondary city development in order to avoid
concentration of urban population growth in Nairobi and Mombasa. The local
authorities are to be strengthened, and the District Development Committees
are to play an increasing role in planning rural development. The fiscal
chapter of the paper incorporates the budget rationalization program
(pars. 17 above). The Paper states that the private sector must play the



- 7 -
dominant role in revitalizing Kenya's economy, and that the Government will
establish market-based Incentives and regulatory itructuras to channel
private sector activity in desirable directions, while relying less on
Instruments of direct control.
23.       External Capital Rc uairommntR and Debt Servicing.  lhe Fifth Plan
provides for current account deficits (not external borrowing) averaging 42
of GDP over the Plan period.  This is An appropriate and sustainable level,
taking into Account the concessionality of Kenya's capital inflow, and
assuming thit export growth cAn be accelerated am intended. Due to the
increase in coffee export recelpts in 1986-87, it is expected that the
current necount deficits during 1986-87 will be lower than usual - about 3%
of GDP. During 1986-87, it is expected that gross loan disbursements from
official sources will be about $450 million annually, while gross loan
disbursements from private sources (chiefly suppliers' credits) will be
about $100 million nnnually. In addition, Kenya recelves grant aid of
about $130 million annually. The debt service ratio Is expected to drop
sharply from 30% in 1985 to 24% in 1986, reflecting higher coffee receipts,
and then decrease gradually to 191 in 1990.
24.       IHF Relations with Kenya.  Kenya's stabilization efforts have
been supported by a series of IMF programs. The two most recent programs
were successfully completed, with all planned purchases actually made. At
the present time, Kenya does not have a balance of payments need to qualify
it for drawing on ordinary IMF resources. The Government's planned demand
tmanagement stance for 1986-87 (para. 21) is consistent with IMF staff views
on appropriate economic policies under current circumstances. Kenya is
expected to draw upcn the recently established IMF Structural Adjustment
Facility, beginning in 1987.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
25.       To date, Kenya has received 45 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, 47 IDA credits, one Special Fund Credit, and one
African Facility Credit, amounting to US$2,002.3 million, in support of 82
operations. In addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling US$245 million which were extended for the development of common
services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three partner states of the former East African
Community (EAC). As of September 30, 1986, IFC had committed a total of
US$66.3 million for 15 operations in Kenya. Annex II contains a summary
statements of Bank and IFC loans, as well as IDA credits to Kenya.
26.       Since 1980, Bank Group lending has been oriented towards
assisting the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy,
resulting in the inclusion of structural adjustment lending. SAL I
supported policy reform, institutional development, and studies in the
areas of trade and industry, public expenditure planning, and external debt
management. SAL II supported continuation of the structural adjustment
program to the additional areas of agriculture, energy, and population.
Government implementation of SAL I and especially SAL II was relatively
weak, reflecting divided or inadequate commitment, administrative



weakneaes, lnadequjate preparattan oF aome program components, and
diversion of G:overnment attention toward urgent alort-term problems,
Including the exceptionally sevore drought of 1984. The drought
contributed signifIcAntly to distracting the fncusi of reform in the
agricultural sector. In pArticular institutions like the National Cereals
and Produce Board CNCPB), which has hben earmarked for reform, were unable
to proceed on account of changed priorities.
27.       In view of tihe dif ftcilttie  tchnt lhad bhon experienced with the
comprehensive SAL approach, In 1984 Lila Baink and the Government agreed that
Bank financial support for the Government's struectiral adjustment efforts
would he more narrowly focuss"ed on sector adjtustment loanns  The recentl.v
approved agricultural sector operation Is the first of such loans.  In the
future, it is envisaged thnt tnduntrtiil regtructuring, trade policy, and
budget rationalization may he supported by quick-disbursing lending.
Drawing upon the lessons of the SAL. expertence, greater attention has been
paid to consensus building througlh more Aetive Government participation in
program preparation.  Thin we helieve, has allowed for a more realistic
"sSOmment of the scope and pace of required policy reforms and
institutional development processes. It Is our view that this approach
will result in more rapid policy reForm thian would occur without the Bank'.
involvement.
28.       Projects for financing and tiheir dexign have been selected with a
view to consolidating nr complementing policy actions under the structural
adjustment program. While continuing priority has been given to
agricultural and development finance projects, increasing attention has
been given to infrastructure projects. Thus, in FY84, the Kiambere
Hydroelectric Power Project, the Second Highway Sector Project and a
Geothermal Exploration Project were approved. [n FY85, a Nairobi Third
Water Supply Engineering Project and a Third Telecommunications Project
were approved. The Sixth Education Project, Petroleum Exploration
Technical Assistance Project, Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation, and
the Agricultural Sector Management Project were approved in FY86.
29.       Project implementation deteriorated In the 198s, in contrast to
the successful implementation performance in the past. However, recent
efforts by the Government and the Bank have begun to reverse this trend.
Factors accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some
of the more pervasive factors have been institutional/management
constraints, procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a
lack of local financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing
and submitting reimbursement claims, have led to Kenya's poor project
disbursement record.  An in-depth review of the causes of this situation
has been undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible
solutions have been discussed with the Government at Country Implementation
Review (CIR) meetings. During these discussions, the Government and the
Bank are continuing to review the Government's development objectives,
project portpolio and investment priorities in the context of
implementation capacity and resource constraints. Recent improvements in
budgetary and financial management in the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock Developmentl/ which are to be Introduced gradually to other
ministries, are reaping henefits.
I/ Formerly a single ninistry, divided in October 1986.



- 9 -
30.       At the end of 1984, IBRD held 25%, and IBRD/IDA combined held 39%
of Xenya's stock of external debt. During 1984, IBRD's share of Kenya's
debt servlce payments was 22%, and IBRD/IDA's share was 23%. These ratlos
are expected to remain stable over the medium-term future.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
31.       As of September 30, 1986, IFC has committed a total of US$70.2
millionl for fifteen operations in Kenya. These include loans for ten
companies: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.;
Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.;
Bamburi Portland Cement Company, Ltd; Tetra Pak Converters, Ltd; Leather
Industries of Kenya, Ltd; Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd; Madhu
Paper International, Ltd.; and Oil Crop Development, Ltd.   Also included
are a US$2.0 million credit line to the Kenya Commercial Bank, Ltd., a
US$5.7 million credit line to the Kenya Commercial Finance Company, Ltd., a
US$5.2 million credit line to the Equatorial Beach Properties, and equity
investments in (US$1.3 million), Diamond Trust of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.8
million), and Industrial Promotion Services of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.6
million). As of September 30, 1986, IFC held for its own account US$56.9
million, comprising US$43.8 million of loans and US$13.1 million of
equity. A summary of IFC Investments In Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE SECTOR
32.       Analysis of Kenya's agricultural sector objectives, performance
and constraints is contained in the Kenya Agricultural Sector Report
(Report No. 4629-KE, January 7, 1986) which was distributed to the
Executive Directors. Despite Kenya's progress in industrialization, the
agricultural sector, including livestock, remains vitally important for the
continued growth and development of the domestic economy as well as for the
livelihoods of most of Kenya's people. Agriculture's share of the gross
domestic product (31% in 1984) remains the highest of any sector. The
population is predominantly rural (85%) and agriculture provides employment
(directly or indirectly) for nearly 70% of the nation's people. The sector
produces nearly all the nation's food and serves as the main source of
export earning (68% in 1985) and raw materials for the predominantly
resource-based industrial sector.
33.       While Kenya's agricultural structure has undergone considerable
change since independence in 1963, it is still characterized by a degree of
dualism. Ranches and large farms cover about 40% of total farmed area,
while smallholdings cover the remaining 60%. With the continuing
sub-division of large group-owned farms, the proportion of land owned and
farmed by smallholders is increasing. Smallholder agriculture is the
dominant mode of production, accounting for an estimated 75% of production
and 85% of total agricultural employment. The average size of Kenya's 1.9
million smallholdings is 2.3 ha, with over three quarters of these under 2
ha.



- 10 -
Performance and Near Term Prospects
34.       The vigorous agricultural growth rate (4.7% per annum), which
Kenya achieved during the first decade after independence, decelerated to
an average 3.2% per annum between 1972 and 1983. Over the same period, the
populatlon growth rate accelerated to 3.9%, signalling a decline in per
capita production. Droughts affected Kenya in 1979, 1980 and 1984. Growth
of the agricultural gross domestic product fell to -3.7% in 1984. However,
the sector recovered in 1985 with record maize and wheat crops. Aside from
the effects of the droughts, one major factor that contributed to the
decline in agricultural growth since the early 1970s is the poor delivery
of essential agricultural services, including animal health services, due
to weaknesses in Government institutions.
35.       Analysis undertaken by IDA for an Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation (Report No. P-4278-KE) indicated that without significant
agricultural policy and structural changes, Kenya's agricultural growth is
unlikely to keep up with population growth. Most agricultural growth has
come about in the past 20 years as a result of (in order of importance)
expansion in land area cultivated, improved producer prices, expanded
availability of farm inputs other than fertilizer, and farm investment in
equipment, land Improvement, livestock, tree crops, irrigation, etc.
Fertilizer availability has declined as has Government investment in
agricultural extension, research and animal health services. Agricultural
labor use has stagnated. In the future, sources of agricultural growth
must change since continued expansion of cultivated land is severely
constrained. Producer prices now approximate world price parity levels. A
continuation of present trends, with these two new constraints, is
projected to lend to an agricultural growth rate of about 2.5% p.a.
compared to projected population growth of 4% p.a.
36.       It is therefore essential for Kenya's agricultural growth
strategy to shift to one of improving agricultural technology through
better agricultural research and extension, and better animal health
services (milk and meat production, along with coffee and maize are Kenya's
most important agricultural commodities), Farm investment (private and
public) should continue to be encouraged. Supply of farm inputs and
fertilizer should be expanded. The policy changes required for this
structural shift are embodied in the recently approved Kenya Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program.
Agricultural Sector AdJustment Program
37.       The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program is now the cornerstone
of Government's development strategy. Specifically, it includes the
following:
(a) fertilizer policy (pricing, marketing, import, distribution), and
increased fertilizer imports financed by the Agricultural
Adjustment Credit, will make fertilizer more widely available;
(b) adjustment in farm input policies and IDA financing of imported
inputs will make available more hybrid seeds, agricultural
chemicals and agricultural machinery;



- 11 -
(c) expansion in agricultural credit availability through credit
policy reform and expansion in supply of imported investment
goods financed by the IDA credit, will increase agricultural
investment;
(d) increased producer prices by about 5% in real terms over two
years, will improve agricultural terms of trade. Agricultural
marketing systems will be improved;
(e) there will be increased Government budget allocations to the
Ministry of Agriculture for, among other things, research and
extension. Expenditure on research and extension will increase
by 3-6% p.a. in real terms;
(f) increased public investment in agriculture will occur through
savings resulting from parastatal divestiture and restructuring,
reduction in consumer subsidies, reduction in agricultural
subsidies (e.g., veterinary and tractor hire services), increased
credit recovery, and curbing Government personnel costs; and
(g) more efficient investment in agriculture will result from
reduction of ineffective public projects under the budget
rationalization program, improved sector management and aid
coordination.
Successful implementation of these measures is expected to increase
agricultural growth to about 4.5Z p.a.
The Livestock Subsector
Production of and Demand for Livestock Products
38.       Most of the livestock in Kenya is owned by smallholders and
pastoralists. Almost half of all smallholders own livestock. The
percentage of smallholder income from livestock is estimated to average
about 25% although it varies depending on the area. There are about 11.0
million cattle, 7.5 million goats, 7.0 million sheep, as well as camels,
pigs, poultry and donkeys in Kenya. Of the total cattle numbers, about 20%
are exotic breeds and crosses with indigenous cattle, together referred to
as 'grade' cattle.
39.       Kenya produces about 1,600 million liters of milk and about
120,000 tons of beef (carcass equivalent) annually. The productivity of
the national herd is low. It is estimated that the average grade cow
produces about 900 liters of milk per annum compared to an expected norm of
at least 2,000 liters per annum. Over two thirds of the national milk
productioa comes from smallholders. Most milk is consumed on the farm or
marketed informally in rural areas with only about 250 million liters
marketed in urban areas almost entirely by the Kenya Cooperative Creameries
(KCC). The estimated 170 million liters produced by the pastoralist herds
is almost all used for home consumption.



- 12 -
40.       Commercial milk supplies to the urban markets have grown little
over the past ten years while demand has increased dramatically, mainly due
to the rapidly expanding urban population and to the introduction in 1979
of a School Milk Programme. During the 1980s, in spite of the growing
demand and slower growing supply, imports have beed kept by Government at
low levels. In consequence, there is a strong demand for milk and milk
products at the going Government controlled prices. In many areas, local
prices on informal markets exceed those paid by KCC (which are higher than
world price levels). It is estimated that, at present prices, an urban
demand of about 50 million liters is unsatisfied.
41.       About 60% of the beef produced is marketed and the rest is
consumed on the farm. Between one half and two thirds of the production
comes from the smallholder sector. In a normal year, only a small amount
(about one fifth of production) comes from the pastoralist herds; livestock
being kept mainly as a family asset. Marketing is handled mostly by the
private sector. Very limited amounts of cattle now pass through the
Coverument owned Kenya Meat Comission (KMC) because of the latter's quasi
bankrupt situation.
Milk and Meat Production
42.       Increased production of meat and milk, and improved livelihood
for siallholder livestock owners and pastoralists must be generated
through:
(a)  more effective prevention of animal diseases;
(b)  research on and extension of improved livectock technology;
(c)  improved availability of the limited amounts of credit required
by farmers for livestock development;
(d)  maintenance of the present relatively free and effective systems
of milk and meat marketing, including the maintenance of Kenya's
existing benign meat and milk pricing policy.
43.       Livestock extension is increasingly efficiently handled by the
IDA financed National Extension Project (Credit 1387-KE). Livestock
research will be improved under a national agricultural research program
for which IDA is providing assistance in preparation. Credit is not a
severe constraint to livestock development. Again, IDA is presently
financing an Agricultural Credit Project in Kenya (Credit 1143-KE) which
provides credit to farmers for livestock development. Livestock marketing
and pricing policy is presently liberal, with most meat and milk products
sold on the open market at market determined prices. Official prices paid
by parastatals are approximately at world price levels.
44.       The major remaining constraint to livestock development is animal
health. Cattle mortality from disease In Kenya is high: 10% on small
farm , 7% on large farms. The cause includes poor (and deteriorating)
animal health services. In recent years, deteriorating animal disease



- 13 -
control services of neighboring countries, together with financial and
other constraints experienced by Kenya's Department of Veterinary Services
(DVS), have resulted in the livestock population of Kenya coming under
increasing risk. There is a serious risk of massive reintroduction of
rinderpest and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia through migratory or trade
movements of cattle into Kenya from Uganda, Ethiopia and the Sudan where
the disease is present. The low levels of vaccination being presently
achieved against these diseases, particularly in the high risk northern
pastoral areas, indicate the possibility of potentially widespread
epidemics should this reintroduction take place. In seven out of fourteen
high risk border districts, the average vaccination coverage against
rinderpest is less than 11% and the maximum achieved was 46%, a coverage
totally inadequate to protect the cattle population in those areas against
a reintroduction of the disease. Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia has
already been observed in Western Kenya and its presence is suspected in the
northern pastoral districts. Lumpy skin disease has been recently
reintroduced from Uganda. Outbreaks of Foot and Mouth Disease can have a
catastrophic effect on herds of grade dairy cattle causing lactation loss,
abortion and infertility which reduce farm output to below half for up to
two years. The decline in the levels of vaccination against foot and mouth
disease has led to increased incidence of the disease and outbreaks are
common throughout Kenya. The disease has a disproportionate effect upon
the dairy areas as compared to the pastoral ones. Major sheep and goat
diseases such as contagious caprine pleuropneumona, and sheep and goat pox
are widespread. Major poultry diseases include Newcastle disease, fowl
pox, coccidosis, and fowl typhoid.
45.       Tick control for small scale dairy farmers was originally
encouraged by the building of communal (Harambee) dips. However, local
management of these dips after construction was so poor that the DVS took
over the management of communal dips as part of the Tick Control Program.
Subsequently, the DVS itself has been unable to meet its responsibilities
with the resources available. The difficulties experienced are due to
shortage of acaricides (the chemicals which kill ticks), inadequate control
of acaricide strength in the dips (allowing the build up of resistance in
ticks), lack of funds to maintain dips and inadequate supervision of the
dips. As a result, the farmers have little confidence in the efficacy of
the dips and refrain from using them. Hence in many areas of Kenya the
Tick Control Program has collapsed and the incidence of East Coast Fever
has increased, placing the smallholder industry in jeopardy.
46.       Financial losses to the livestock industry caused by existing
diseases are staggering. Losses are estimated at about KE35.0 million
(US$43.0 million) p.a. in milk and meat production due to livestock
diseases which are easily preventable with an improved animal health
service. At the individual level these diseases can wipe out entire herds
owned by smallholders and pastoralists, reducing communities to the status
of economic refugees. This is particularly true of the pastoralist
population who have no alternative economic occupation to that of
livestock.



- 14 -
Animal Health Services
47.       Responsibility for Animal Health Services lies with the Ministry
of Livestock Development's Department of Veterinary Services (DVS), which
is endowed with same of the best technical expertise in Africa. However,
its management capability is weak. The DVS reeds improved management
information systems and training of its managers to improve these systems.
48.       Many problems facing the DVS stem from budgetary constraints.
Between 1980/81 and 1985/26, there has been a decline in the total budget
of the Department by 28% in constant prices with a sharper decline in
transport operating expenditures (-37%) and a collapse in capital
expenditures (-88Z). The Government's open-ended policy of recruiting all
the newly trained people graduated from its training institutions (about 75
veterinary officers, 35 livestock officers and 250 animal health assistants
are tralned annually) has put an increasing and unsustainable pressure on
the department budget. Related to the budget problem Is the fact that cost
recovery for all animal health services (vaccinations, dips, artificial
insemination, and clinical services) has been grossly inadequate, covering
only a small percentage of costs.
49.       The results of poor management combined with the budget shortfall
are first, that vaccination programs, in particular rinderpest, contagious
bovine pleuropneumonia and foot and mouth disease, have deteriorated due to
the lack of adequate transport and the breakdown of the cold storage
chain. In addition, other vaccination programs have been adversely
affected as exemplified by a recent rabies epidemic. Second, the disease
surveillance and investigation network of the Department, an essential
prerequisite to any successful disease control activity, has been severely
constrained by lack of transport and by the inability to replace old and
obsolete laboratory equipment. Third, similar problems have been
encountered with vaccine production, particularly in the -:accine production
unit at Kabete where continual breakdowns in equipment have disrupted
production. Fourth, the supplies of acaricides for the 3,440 cattle dips
which are intended to control tick and tick borne diseases have been
inadequate. Management of the dips is also poor. Consequently, during the
last quarter of each fiscal year, dips are seldom refilled or replenished
adequately with acaricide, resulting in increased livestock morbidity and
mortality rates and a decline in the dipping rates as farmers lose
confidence in Government services. Fifth, clinical veterinary services
have been hampered by lack of transport, clinical equipment and drugs. In
many areas these services have almost ceased operation. The Government is
planning to launch, on a pilot basis, an experiment to test the
effectiveness of veterinary services delivered by contracted private
practitioners. The Kenya Veterinary Association, a non-government
organization, would implement the pilot, which would be financed with
bilateral assistance.



- 15 -
50.       The DVS has a fleet of 1,116 vehicles, including 659 vehicles
engaged in activities which would be supported by the proposed project. Of
these, only 294 or 45% are in running condition. Most of the remaining
vehicles are assigned to the artificial insemination division. Budget
allocations for both vehicle repairs and replacement have been inadequate.
51.       The strategy pursued through the proposed project is to
rehabilitate the Government-run animal health services over a period of
five years, while developing a longer term solution to the above
outstanding issues, which will include full cost recovery for specific
public services. Strengthening the management of the DVS would encourage
the examination of alternative delivery systems for animal health services
and the development of private or contract operations.
Bank Group Strategy and Experience in the Sector
52.       The Bank's strategy for assisting Kenya's agricultural
development coincides with Government objectives, as described in the Plan
and other policy documents. It is growth oriented, with a primary emphasis
on intensification of production, particularly smallholder production,
which offers much untapped potential and meets complementary goals of
income distribution, employment and foreign exchange generation. The
Bank's operational program is geared to address major constraints and to
stimulate growth, through actions to improve basic farmer services
(especially extension, research, animal health input supply, marketing and
credit), to address key physical resource management issues (forestry and
soil conservation), support better policy planning and implementation,
assist in restructuring public investments, improve training for
agricultural staff, and improve aid coordination.
53.       The Bank has had a long involvement in Kenya's agricultural
sector. To date, we have financed 30 projects in agriculture, forestry and
fisheries. Investments have been spread across all key subsectors, with an
emphasis on smallholders: export crops (coffee and tea); industrial crops
and agro-industry (sugar and cotton); foodcrops and rural development (the
Integrated Agricultural Development Program); large and smallscale
irrigation; semi-arid lands development; forestry; fisheries; livestock;
extension; credit; and technical assistance. Our present portfolio of ten
on-going projects reflects substantial pruning of investments and
redirection of efforts toward strategic priorities, especially improvements
in farmer services. Future project lending will directly complement the
Government's sector adjustment program, providing integrated support for
longer term institution building and development of agricultural services.
Our pipeline includes project proposals in the areas of forestry, semi-arid
land development, agricultural research, extension, credit, export crops,
and smallscale irrigation.
54.       The extensive practical experience gained through project
implementation has been complemented by considerable sector work. In
addition to the recent Agricultural Sector Report, informal and formal



- 16 -
studies have been done on agricultural inputs, credit, maize marketing and
pricing, incentives, irrigation, land issues, the grain sector,
cooperatives, the public investment program, resource allocation, private
sector investment, and non-governmental organizations. Studies have begun
on the coffee and the forestry subsectors. These studies provide the basis
for a continuation of lending in these important subsectors, including
further elaboration of policy reforms.
55.       A recent group of project completion reports and Project
Performance Audit Reports for agricultural projects in Kenya has provided
many recommendations regarding Bank involvement in the sector. Two lessons
are particularly relevant for the proposed Animal Health Services
Project. Firstly, project design must realistically account for
Government's limited institutional and management capacity. Secondly,
project design must account for the impact of policy issues in project
design, such as pricing, marketing arrangements and conflicting donor
demands. In addition to these general lessons, the World Bank group has
learned from its involvement in two Kenya livestock projects and two
integrated agricultural development projects which included large livestock
components. Impact Evaluation anu Project Performance Audit Reports showed
that these projects performed poorly primarily due to weak management
systems on which these projects relied. The Projects were affected by:
(M) institutional and administrative weaknesses in Project design (too many
components which could not be managed by weak Government institutions);
(ii) shortages of management expertise; (iii) inadequate Government budget
allocations; and (iv) policy issues (low official price of beef,
inefficient Government involvement in beef marketing, inadequate cost
recovery on livestock services). The proposed Animal Health Services
Project has been designed with these lessons in mind. It involves one
component (animal health), managed by one Government Department (Veterinary
Services). Policy constraints which affected past livestock projects have
been explicitly dealt with in project design (management improvement and
cost recovery), or in the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (user
charges for livestock services, inputs and budget rationalization).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
56.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Kenya with
assistance from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD),
IDA, and the Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program. IFAD's appraisal was completed in late 1985. In May/June 1986
IDA conducted an appraisal of the proposed project in response to a request
from Government for assistance in closing the financing gap. Negotiations
were completed in Washington, D.C., December 8-11, 1986. The Kenyan
delegation was led by Mr. J. Adamba, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Livestock Development. A Credit and Project Summary is provided at the
beginning of this report and a supplementary project data sheet is
presented at Annex III.
U



- 17 -
Rationale for IDA Involvement
57.       The project would represent the first step in a longer term
program to support one of Kenya's key agricultural subsectors whlch ranks
high in the Government's priorities for achieving food self sufficiency and
is an important contributor to agricultural production and to farm
incomes. External support is essential to consolidate the gains made since
Independence in improving the genetic stock of Kenya's cattle herd and in
providing livestock health protection. The project would support an
institution-building effort consistent with the institutional reform
activities generally supported by IDA. The Government wishes IDA to
continue to play a lead role in developing the subsector. The financial
contribution of IDA is necessary to cover the external financing
requirements of the project which exceed the amounts available from other
concessional sources.
Project Objectives and Description
58.       The main objective of the proposed project is to rehabilitate
animal health services, and to provide the services with a viable and
sustainable institutional framework for the future. The project would aim
to introduce gradually full cost recovery for animal health services over
the life of the project. The project objectives would be achieved through
support to:
(a) management and administrative systems for the DVS;
(b) training for DVS staff in new systems;
(c) disease and pest control activities;
(d) tick control program;
(e) clinical services; and
(f) pilot trials for tsetse fly and tick-borne disease control.
Detailed Features
59.       Management and Administrative Systems. The proposed project
would provide consultancies to develop management and administrative
systems as follows:
(a) development of a field services manual providing operating and
supervision guidelines for the front line field services;
(b) design and implement veterinary medicine distribution and stores
management systems with the objective of: (i) simplifying drug
stores management; (ii) reducing purchase and wastage of drugs;
and (iii) establishing adequate accounting systems;
(c) develop and implement new planning, budgeting and monitoring
systems for the DVS;
(d) develop and implement quick and reliable procedures for the
collection, collation and analysis of management information and
procedures for the review of the Department and District annual
work plans, budgets and reports; and



- 18 -
(e) a study on vehicle management would: (i) review and modify
vehicle recording/monitoring procedures; (ii) propose guidelines
for vehicle allocations and operations; (iii) help set a
systematic maintenance and overhaul schedule; and (iv) propose
streamlined procedures for the repair of accident-damaged
vehicles and for disposing of fully depreciated vehicles.
60.       Training.  The introduction of new management systems will
require training of the staff of the Department responsiblc for
implementing these systems. The training program would be developed
jointly by the technical assistance team, a Project Training Coordinator
and other training specialists in the KLD. The technical assistance team
would be provided by UNDP. The training capacity available under the
Agricultural Sector Management Project would be used to implement the
training program.
61.       Disease and Pest Control Activities.  Support would be provided
to strengthen the rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia and foot
and mouth disease vaccination campaigns with the objective of achieving a
752 vaccination coverage. Such a coverage would produce adequate levels of
protective immunity against rinderpest and contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia in the cattle population of high-risk areas. In the case
of foot and mouth disease, the target coverage would not completely protect
the cattle population but it would be a reasonable target and should
substantially reduce both the incidence and the extent of production losses
associated with the disease. Disease and pest control activities would
also be supported to cover other endemic diseases such as trypanosomiasis,
anthrax, black quarter and rabies. The project would provide vaccines,
vehicles, equipment, some staff housing and offices, and operational
support to carry out the vaccination campaigns effectively.
62.       Disease surveillance activities, essential to the disease control
program, would include the investigation of suspect outbreaks, comprising:
(i) identification of the causative agents; (ii) the monitoring of
vaccination campaigns to ensure that vaccination coverage and levels of
immunity are being satisfactorily maintained in the target population;
(iii) estimates of disease incidence to ascertain that control measures are
having the desired effect; and (iv) the investigation of those aspects of
the epidemiology of the disease in question that may affect control
activities. Support would be provided for the construction of cold rooms,
provision of laboratory equipment, vehicles and other equipment, and
operating costs.
63.       Tick Control Program.  The Government's Tick Control Program
would be supported with a view to strengthening the management of cattle
dips and ensuring that cattle owners have access to technically efficient
dips before instituting full cost recovery charges. Where farmers support
the program, dip administration would be returned to the local level.
Where dips are expensive to operate and farmers have little interest, the
DVS would be encouraged to examine alternatives and withdraw from
supporting the communal dipping programme. Expenditures under this
component include acaricides, bicycles, and motorcycles, seven tanker
trucks, portable pumps, bicycles and motorcycle allowances and transport
operating costs.



- 19 -
64.       Clinical Services.  The project would encoutrage a more direct
involvement of veterinarians with livestock owners, and improve the une of
animal health assistants to reduce costs of visiting and treatment.
Expenditures under this component include: (i) drugs and sera for about
800,000 treatments annually over the project period (five yearR); (ii)
instruments required for animal health assistants to perform simple
clinical interventions; (iii) bicycles for the animal health assistants and
for livestock officers; and (iv) motorcycles for the veterinary
supervisors. Operating expendltures would include vehicle operating costs,
and motorcycle and bicycle allowances.
65.       Pilot Trials for the Control of Tsetse Fly and Tick-borne Disease
Control. New and promising methods of tsetse fly and tick-borne disease
control are being developed by the International Center of Insect
Physiology and Ecology (ICIPE). The project would support field testing of
a low cost strategy to control tsetse flies based on the use of traps
incorporating potent attractants. Trials would be undertaken to improve
the methods of control of ticks based on less frequent dtppings and on an
inducement of humoral immunity in the cattle that can damage the tick or
interfere with the tick life cycle to the extent of reducing tick
populations. The tick related trials would: (i) develop criteria for
recognizing trigger levels of tick infestation leading to acaricide
intervention; and (ii) assess the effectiveness of the antigens used to
achieve reduced tick infestation through the induced immunity of host
cattle. The trials would incorporate training of Government staff who
would participate fully in their execution. Expenditures under this
component include research personnel, vehicles, equipment, operating and
training costs.
Organization and Management
66.       The project would be implemented by the Director of Veterinary
Services who has overall responsibility for animal health activities in
Kenya. Annual work plans, prepared according to a pre-establJshea format
and consistent with the budget ceilings, would guide the decailed
implementation. At negotiations assurances were given that salary
expenditures within DVS shall not exceed 50% of DVS' total operating
costs. The review of project costs and impact would facilitate strategic
management decisions regarding the maintenance, gradual withdrawal or
substitution of the Government run services by private operations. The
monitoring of the project would concentrate on ensuring that disease
control measures are properly applied and have the desired effect on
disease incidence based on annual project work plans and the semi-annual
reports would provide the necessary technical and financial information.
An adequately staffed Project and Management Support Unit has been
established in the DVS to monitor the implementation of the project. The
Unit will include an Epidemiology and Economics Unit which has developed
valuable experience in monitoring the Government's Tick Control Program
with electronic equipment. Monitoring of field activities will rely on the
close supervision of the front line staff, an essential requirement of the
proposed project. Monitoring of the Department's vehicle operations would
be ensured according to the results of a Ministry-wide review.



- 20 -
67.       Field management systems would be centered on the activities of
veterinary officers and animal health assistants. In the high potential
areas, as user charges are increased to the levels necessary to assure
adequate cost recovery, the farmer will demand a quality of service which
assures hl of increased income. Cattle fertility levels will thus become
a focus of animal health services, including routine pregnancy testing as
part of the artificial insemination package. To facilitate closer
identification between the veterlnary staff and farmers, front line
veterinary officers would manage discrete teams of three or four animal
health assistants In each division. These teams would operate at the dip
site during dippings, along fixed routes, and would be available for
consultation at the office or for farm visits on request. Rather than
traditional vaccination campaigns, a continuous program would provide the
high potential areas with six-monthly vaccination visits. With fewer
animals vaccinated each day, the veterinary staff would devote more time to
treating animals and to discussing livestock productivity through improved
anmlal husbandry techniques. In the low potential areas the veterinary
staff would continue to exercise their current role in vaccination
programs, disease surveillance and livestock movement control.
68.       The management of the communal dipping program would be treated
as a separate coat center. In each district a Tick Control Officer would
be responsible for managing the program. Animal Health Assistants would be
appointed as dip supervisors for approximately 60 dips, and would report to
the District Tick Control Officer. The District Tick Control Officer would
monitor dip operating costs and utilization rates to allow dipping charges
to reflect the full costs of local operation. Where dips are clearly
viable, an early handover of operating responsibility to the dip committee
would be encouraged (possibly with contract management). Responsibility
for dip testing would rest with the local veterinary officer and his team.
69.       Disease surveillance is carried out by several institutions.
Rinderpest surveillance is the responsibility of the Veterinary Research
Division of the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute at Mugaga, the
organization and management of which was reviewed during the preappraisal
of the National Agricultural Research Project (October, 1986) and is
considered satisfactory. Surveillance of contagious bovine pleuropneumonia
is undertaken by the testing units of the Field Services Division of the
DVS. The performance of this Division is constrained by its limited
transport caj.acity. The surveillance of foot and mouth disease would
continue to be conducted by the Foot and Mouth Research Institute which
performs satisfactorily.
70.       The pilot trials for the control of tsetse flies and ticks would
be contracted by the MLD to the International Center for Insect Physiology
and Ecology (ICIPE), through an exchange of letters of understanding. The
ICIPE research programs on tsetse flies and livestock ticks have adequate
scientific leadership and scientists to undertake the required trials
although one additional scientist would be recruited for the trials to
evaluate the technology In the field.



- 21 -
Cost Recovery
71.       Tha introduction of full cost recovery for drugs, increaoed
charges for dipping, and artificial Insemination services were approved by
Cabinet in November, 1986. Fees would be introduced prlor to credit
offectiveneem.  Fees would be charged for dippings and for clinical
usrvices. (All comipulsory vaceination. would be carried out free of
charge.) Once the effectiveness of the dipping is restored, dipping fees
would be collected following the procedure which has been successfully
devoloped in a pilot district. Fees would be charged for dipping at rates
which would he gradually increased to cover costs. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would review dipping fees
every year and increase the fee from KSh 0.30 to KShs 0.50 for 1986/87, to
KSh 1.00 for 1987/88, and for 1988/89 to KSh 1.50, with a view to achieving
full cost recovery by the end of the project period. Dipping fee
collection performance would be calculated for each district and, within
each district, for each dip supervisor. Fees for clinical services would
be charged after each consultation at the current rate of KSh 30.0 for
on-farm treatment and KSh 10.0 for roadside treatment. The fee for
clinical services does not include the price of drugs which would be
charged at the recommended non-subsidized retail price. The retail price
includes a 33.3% margin over the wholesale price for drugs. The drug
charges, combined with clinical services charges represent full cost
recovery. At negotiations the Government provided assurances that fees for
clinical services would be reviewed annually and maintained at levels to
achieve recovery of the full cost of operations.
Project Costs and Financing
72.       Total project cost, Including physical contingencies and expected
price increases, is estimated at KSh 1,128 million (US$70.5 million), with
a foreign exchange component of US$45.0 million or 64 percent of project
cost. The cost estimates are based on September 1986 prices and include
taxes and duties of KSh 96 million (US$6.0 million). Operating costs,
Including drugs, sera, vaccines and acaricides, account for 82 per cent of
total costs, vehicles and equipment and vehicle repair 11 per cent, civil
works, 4 per cent, and consultant services, 3 per cent. Physical
contingencies have been assessed at 5 per cent. Price contingency
estimates for local current costs are 10 per cent per annum; and for
foreign exchange costs 7.2 per cent in 1986/87, 6.8 per cent in 1987/88 and
1988/89, 7.0 per cent in 1989/90, and 7.1 per cent per annum in 1990191.
Vehicles directly imported for the project would be exempted from import
duties and taxes.
73.       IDA would provide US$15.0 million to finance about 21 percent of
total project cost and cover 22 percent of total foreign exchange and 19
percent of total local costs. Cofinanciers, comprising IFAD, OPEC and UNDP
would contribute US$14.0 million. Total external financing would thus be
US$29.0 million, or 41 percent of total costs and would cover 45 percent
(US$20.4 million) of foreign exchange costs and 34 percent of local costs
(US08.6 million). Donor financing for incremental operating costs would be
provided on a declining percentage basis beginning in FY87/88. The IDA
Credit would include retroactive financing on the order of US$1.5 million



- 22 -
for expenditure. incurred from July 1, 1986, to coincide with cofinancers tciming
and financing.  Retroactive financtng will not exceed 10 percent of the credit
amount. The Government wouild finanea the remaining project coot of US$41.5
million, including taxes and duties, of whichl UIS$20.3 million equivalent would
accrued f rom cost recovery for nervices.
Procurement and DishurRements
74.       internatlonal competitive bidding would ho used for contracts
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent incltdtng most of the vehicles and equipment
and some of the drug supplies.  For :jcAricides, the most expensive item to
be procured (US$23 million), the proculrement practice of the Government,
which relies on supplies from four commereial companion represented in the
country, Is considered ntitsfactory and would he continued under the
project.  Vaccines would he procured by direct contract when necessary,
given the special nature of the product. Local shopping would apply for
equipment and materials estimated at less than US$50,000 on the basis of
the comparison of price quotntions from at least three suppliers. Local
competltive bidding would be ueed for contracts costing less than US$50,000
for the purchase of materials for maintenance of dips and buildings (in
dispersed locations), small numbers of vehicles, and the repair of
vehicles. Consultant services, would be recruited and financed by UNDP
under guidelines consistent with those used for recruitment of IDA-financed
consultants.
PROCUREMENT PLAN
(US$ million)l/
Local      Dirert       Not
1CB       LCB       Shopping   Contract  Applicable   Total
Acaricide, Vaccine and
Sera                               22.80        2.00       12.98                  37.78
( 5.32)    ( 0.47)    ( 3.03)                  ( 8.82)
Vehicles and Equipment   6.42        0.71                                           7.13
( 1.86)   ( 0.21)                                        ( 2.07)
Repair of Vehicles        0.28                   0.30                               0.58
( 0.21)                (0.23)                            ( 0.44)
Operating Expenditure                                                   11.34      11.34
( 3.67)    ( 3.67)
Other                    10.58       2.53                     0.62                 13.73
Total                     17.28     26.04        2.30        13.60      11.34      70.56
( 2.07)   ( 5.53)    C 0.70)       C 3.03)   C 3.67)    (15.00)
I/ Figures In parenthesis indicate IDA share.



- 23 -
75.       The disbursement period is not expected to exceed five and a half
years as: (i) the project would be implemented by a single Department; and
(it) procedures for claiming disbursements for the project would rely on
the Government's established accounting system. Disbursement categories
have been designed so that each category corresponds to an account or a
group of accounts in the Government ledger, in order that statements of
expenditure may be supported by copies of the relevart ledger accounts.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenses for
local expenditures for repair of vehicles, vehicle operating costs and
maintenance of plant and equipment, as well as contracts of less than
US$20,000 equivalent. Other items would be fully documented. Donor
funding would be disbursed as follow:
Financing
IDA   IFAD   OPEC  UNDP  Total  Foreign Local
1. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
Mi)   New Vehicles                       2.45          2.45   100%      85%
(ii)  Repair of Vehicles  0.40                         0.40   100%      85%
(iii) Motorcycles &
Bicycles            0.60                       0.60   100%      85%
(iv)  Equipment                   1.20                 1.20   100%      85%
2. CIVIL WORKS                      0.20                 0.20   100%      B51
3. OPERATING COSTS
(i)   Vehicle Operating
costs               3.30                        3.30        (1)
(ii) Acaricides,
Vaccine and
Sera                7.94  5.80                 13.74        (2)
(iii) Maintenance of
Plant and
Equipment           0.50                        0.50   100%     85%
(iv)  Drugs                              2.05          2.05   1001      85%
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE      0.76                0.84   1.60   100%       100%
Subtotal                 13.50  7.20   4.50  0.84  26.04
5. UNALLOCATED               1.50  1.00   0.50  0.00   3.00
TOTAL                    15.00  8.20   5.00  0.84  29.04
(1) 85% up to aggregate amount of SDR 2.0 million (US$2.4 million) and 65Z
thereafter.
(2) IFAD to disburse 851; IDA to disburse 85% up to SDR 4.5 million (US$5.3
million) and 65% thereafter.
Accounts and Audits
76.       Project accounts would be based directly on the existing
Government accounting systems, which contains adequate controls and
produces timely reports. Project accounts would form part of Government
accounts and would be audited by the Government's Auditor General in the
normal course of his audit. Audit controls are systematic and thorough.



- 24 -
Benefits and Risks
77.       The main beneficiaries would be the pastoralists and the
smaliholder farmers, who own moat of the livestock. The project would
reduce the probability of the major epidemic diseases and the risk of East
Coast fever, particularly on improved dairy cattle. Milk and meat are
among the most important comodities produced in Kenya's agricultural
sector. Continued spread of livestock diseases could wipe out the
industry.
78.       The economic analysiB indicates a rate of return of in excess of
45%, with 452 representing the low case scenario, assuming conservatively
that milk and beef are the only components oE livestock prodiction. The
rate of return is high because there are immediate and substantial benefits
to the rehabilitation of those services, which make use of sunk costs.
79.       The main risks of the project include:  (a) possible inadequacy
of Government financial resources; (b) practical resistance to the cost
recovery proposed; (c) delays in vaccine production; and (d) the
possibility of insufficient supervision of field veterinary staff. The
risk of inadequate Government financial resources would be limited by the
Covernment's efforts to rationalize its budget. These efforts would be
closely monitored under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation,
approved by Board on June 23, 1986 (Credit 1717-KE, SFA A-21-KE). This
Operation requires that animal health services are adequately funded in the
Government budget; and Government is committed to satisfying this
objective. Cost recovery represents another risk as past attempts to
recover veterinary costs have not generally been successful. However, a
pilot project has shown that farmers are willing to pay the cost of an
effective dipping service. Cost recovery systems devised under the pilot
project would be replicated and cost recovery performance would be closely
monitored under this project. To minimize the rislk of procurement and of
other procedural delays, an IDA procurement specialist has been recruited
in Nairobi and would assist the DVS and the Chief Supplies Officer of the
MLD to jointly draw up a procurement plan each year as a part of the
project annual work plan. The execution of the plan, which would include a
schedule of deadlines, would be closely supervised by the IDA procurement
specialist in Nairobi.
PART V. RECONMENDATION
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Deceuber 29 , 1986



- 25 -                                                     AMNEXC I
Fplattaoio   19.7 ml]e  0 (1984)                                                         333  I   Page  1
GNP pair Cnpttat UB$300 (14) P38                                                              6
ENYA,   IOIIC MltDICRONE
Amount                      :numi growth rate (2) at Cenotent Price.
(ullilen UII
St crr_t   loo)                          Actual                    atit_ ed   rrojNeeion
1UI0    1981   1I62    3981 - 9--         1965-*r 1*
NATTW.AL ACCOOITE
Cross domestic predsctj             5.796              5.6     1.7     n.6      2.3     n.4       4.1         4.4
AgrtcuLture                       1,550              1.1     5.9     4.7      4.5   -3.3        1.6         4.5
Industry                          1,027              5.1     4.3   -0.6       1.1     2.2       4.0        5.4
BSr9ieee                          2,445               .'s    6.9     3.4      2.6     3.4       4.6         4.9
CouuumptLon                         4,162              0.0   -4.4      2.1      0.0     4.8       0.7         4.7
Cram. inwautmeat                    1,074             34.6   -3.5   -21.2   -14.7       2.4       2.5         A.6
teports of ClNFS                    1.474              5.4    -4.2    -0.4    -0. 9    -0.1       4.2         7.9
Imports of WG                       1.613             10.0   -21.D   -16.5   -19.8    16.3       -7.5         5.0
Cross domestic swing.               1,030             77.7    62.7    -5.6    13.0   -17.J       21.8         1.9
RIMS
COP defletor C134-1O0)                                 fi  5    71.6    R2.5    90.5   100.3       111.0
techane rate (8b/US$)                                    7.4     9.0    10.9    13.3    14.4       f6.4
Rare af Cop at Harlit Prices CZ)             Awrge. Annual lucra"a  (Z)
f t earr_r prie->,ur ,qI cen ntpricomI)a
ISdot        10            ISg9         I475"0                      go05  16
cross domestic Pr.-Ict/           100.0         100.0        100.0             6.0        1.9        4.7
Agriculture                      27.5         26.7          25.4             3.2        2.1        4.4
Industry                         18.8         17.7          IS I            7.9         2.0        5.2
Services                         38.6         42.2          43.8            5.4         3.9        4.7
Conasuption                        11.4         83.9          78.2             6.2        1.0        4.5
Gross in _ss at                    30.0          38.S         23.2            12.2       -9.3        6.4
Exporta ol CaPS                    18.6         25.4          26.7             1.3       -0.5        4.0
Imports of  M                      40.0         27.e          281              6.4      -10.3        4.4
GtOs  atoal savin_                 15.6          16.1         21.B            11.2        7.4        3.9
Am 2 of CDP
CNR    COWKJU    VIllla  /b                                                         Znttuted       NW  t
19011/2     1982/83     1983184      3984/35      19851R6       AM IJ
Raevnue and Ctats                       26.0         24.7        24.1         23.8         24.1          25.8
Crants                               1.4          1.5         1.2          1.7          1.9          2.6
ExpenDtuLN                              33.4         26.4        28.6        27.9          28.5          29.2
stearrset sxpedlturs                23.5         22.2        21.0        20.7          23.5         21.3
Dwsle.t ipsiDiture                   9.9          6.2         7.6         7.2           7.0          7.9
Ormrall cash deficIt                     6.7          3.1         4.2          5.0          4.4           3.5
Averap Annual Crautb (C)
(at coatant pticeX
1970-75     1975"-3     1980-5       1985-0D
oilER IICATOES
GNP growth rcot  (2)                                     5.5         4.*          2.7         5.3
GP       capita growth Mtn(C)                            2.2         1.3         -1.2         1.3
mar5  cas pticn  growth rats (2)                          -          4.9           -           -
20O0                                                     4.2         4.3         10.8         4.7
arginal savlng  rats                                    0.00        0.21         0.762       0.241
port elasticity                                         -0.2         1.1         -5.4         4.7
/a At _arket pricaa; componsots are expressed at factor cost ard will not add due to exclusion of
Indirect tow ad submdUie.
/b  Fisal years eami  June 30.
August 19A6



- 26 -
Population:       19.7 uillion (1984)                                                                   ANNEX  I
CGP Per Capita:  USS300 (1984)                                                                          Page  2
KENYA: EXTERNUL TRADE
Amount           - - - - -           - Annual Growth Rates (2)             - - - - - - - - - -
(million US$                             (At constant 1984 prices)
Indicator                    at current prices)                       Actual                     rAt.        Projected
1985            i980    1981    1982    1983    19B4    1985    1986            1990
EXrERNAL TRADE
Merchandiee exports                977              3.2    -5.2    -3.3    -1.5    -1.9         6.5       8.5       3.9
Prlmary                          854             -7.3      6.7    13.9    -1.1    -2.0        8.3       8.9       3.3
M aufactur"                      123             29.6   -16.3   -16.5    -3.0    -0.8    -3.7           6.4       8.1
Nerchandlme Imports              1,462              14.7   -22.8   -12.5   -11.3        7.3     1.2       3.2       5.3
Food                             141             57.6   -48.4    58.4   -10.1        8.8    18.5    -38.4         1.9
Petroleuo                        468             16.7   -21.5    -6.7   -18.2        0.4      2.5       3.9       1.9
Machinery *ad equipuent          370             19.0   -22.0   -19.2   -13.4    12.1   -10.0          14.3       7.5
Others                           483              5.0    -7.1    -3.6    -1.3    11.5         3.3      12.1       7.2
PRICES
Export price lndex                 100.0           57.6    63.2    69.4    83.3   100.0    98.6          83.5    114.2
Import price index                 100.0           50.4    64.4    74.0    94.8   100.0   118.3          98.1    12J.3
Terms of trade lidex               100.0          114.4    98.1    93.7    87.9   100.0    83.3          85.1      91.6
Compositlon of Merchandise
Trade (2)                              Average Annual Growth
(at current prices)                         (at coastnat p:i  ces)
1981     1984      1986       1990       1974-79   1980-84   1984-86   1985-90
Export.                               100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0           -        -2.2        7.6       4.R
Primary                             87.7      85.0     86.7       84.5           2.1       2.2        5.6       4.4
Manufactures                        12.3    1.0        13.6       15.5        -11.3       -3.4        1.5       7.7
Imports                               100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0           -        -7.3        2.2       4.8
Food                                 4.8      11.7       8.2        7.2       -10.4         5.9     -14.5      -7.9
Petroleum                           36.9      30.7     31.4        27.5         -2.8      -8.5         3.2      2.3
Machinery and equipment             27.2      27.8      27.4       29.7          1.7      -7.6         1.4       8.8
others                              31.2      29.8      33.1       35.5           -         0.9        7.6      8.1
Dlrection of Trade
Share of trade with                 Share of trade with               Share of trade with capital
induwtrial countries (Z)           developing countries (2)              surplus oil exporters (z)
1979     1981      19.35            1979     1981      1985             1979       1981       1985
Exports            54.4      42.1      59.7             34.0     45.0      38.3              1.8        2.3        2.0
Imports            67.4      57.3      56.7             10.0      8.2      17.4             20.3       33.5      25.9
August 1986



- 27 -                                                                      ANNEX I
tpeulatlasl  19.1 Stlesz (1984)                                                                                                                               Page   3
GN1P par Capital 034300 (134)
Actusl                             _          et                                  Prej Pctad
19D0        198l         1982         1933       t198                       IOUs ltV I,T               itos         ISH9         19S0
mports t  pot   ant4 servi0e 2.03H                        3 7h7       3 636        1 514        3 634       1 526       jSIO            a Wb.       2 322        2.34)1 3J092
aports t moods                           1,24         tiii         .L4           r12!      l,jur        t1          1,21V           3,218       TTi          3,451       l,b-
Ciports Of sareices                           S5         897          OH2          589         600          581          021            690         7b0          all          9141
jfl9rts of pouts mod  -erice'                3070       2 54         2 16l       1163         1384        I t8         2 2281         2310        7 512        2. Jb1
Imorts of Ipods                           YI          Iti                           ;        1,152        1 it  I1,5                              I ,4Z I 2   22,464
Imports of servtces                          43y         426          440          Jay         432          397          401            516         501         6h9          645
(of dhtch:   Intereat)                   (132)        (326)       C14b)        (127)        (201)       (2053        (202)          (211b)       (208)       (2093        (l11)
Tranafrsr (sat)                                340           95    li                115          147         149           95           IO           lOb         110          3I)
Courret Rcant baLanes                         -392        -743         -477         -134         -201        -204         -221           -2,6        -211%        -333         -3911
Direct tiasatent luciD                          141          60          O0           74            0           4n          4S             )n           ill         5b5
Public HtT_ ions  n t                          44           213          317          84 150 12'5                          2J4        2H              2419         341
CGrs  dilburstsnt.                           Sb2         43J         PW            262         431          ]7H          456            4711        48h           I           bill
Nepsy   Mts                                  3 [i         Ib2        lIH0          11          IHI          25J          222            220         217          244          74n
Iii Credit (n.s)                                6S           217        341           l6         -1            Wf          92             -18         -in          7J           -
Purchasee                                     18           15         18S          142          47          125            -             1H          I1           1-
espurheas                                     9            a          39           4           59           by           92             8.h         74           9b tn
otw,,r capttal (net) la                        145          111           11          65           26           -S          7b             52          Si            71          91
Cbawae in Gra-  teserrs                       -153        -25D          -20          I1h            2            7          441            In           15          42           5Ul
Heoursam I teas:
Grss roaerve- at yars- g-d                   50D         Z50          230          39gr        1944         405          441            47q         494          51h          5b16
esranve     weet Imports                      30            b           1           3            11           9           10             3:1           I           9            9
Current arccnt del lctt as X Of CDP
including official grants lb             IZ.b         11.1         J1.          2.     1    3.4           1.6         1.1            1.3          1.2          I.          1.5
Excluding oifieil pirants le             14.2         12.3          .a0         4.3          5.9         b.3          4.3            4.3          4.9         4.6          4.5
ilEXRIIAL CAPITAL AN1 ULT
Gross Ditsbrseents
Offlcal EIrasts Id                        123           82           U           128         150          145
Conrsesisnsl lons                         178          149          191          92          204          253
91Lteral1-MEC                            h6           04          b5           44          91          I
lltl-ertl-UPVC                           -             8           6            4           3D          54
ItA                                      72           35          as5          20          3h           52
Oher                                    41           22           Is          24           it           n9
noncofcesalonai loans 3t3                              2a8          206          171         229          125
Ofilcial export ce"dits                  16           31           16          51           I7          26
two0                                     44           59          85           99           ii          7
Other eultrltsral                       16           I1          25            a           Is          28
Prlvte-sorce                           307          la)          hO           11           64            1
Public ML? leo-w  - total                 562          4317         397         262          431          178
Debt Outstandtig and Disbursed            2.21.6       2.316       2.428        2.393        2.875       3,056
Offtcial-sorcs                        1 305       1,404        1.624        1.748       2.3Ue        2,412
Private-aoorrce                         931          910         804          645          738         644
Undtsbursed Debt                        1.388        1,254       1.400        1,244        1.272       13035
Debt 5srvce
Total paymase                           249          281         326          305         482          527
(Of dhitc:  Interet:)                13Z3        (126)        (146)       (127)        (203)        (208)
Payountalszport receipts               12.2         l6.4        20.2         20.1         29.5        34.0
A,verj inter- rt rate                      5.9         5.4          b.0          5.3         5.2          5.2
(a  Includas short-tem capital, eon_reitl ba's net foreign  polticon, error  snd ni ssiem snd valuation adjusctnt.
Tb   oclet len  official grants -abve the linC as an Ite  contrhbting to the determination of the  urreant accnret  Iit.
iF  Treating offlcial  rants as a  belo, the lint  Itts ahicl  contributes to the financing of the current accent daticit.
7    CoG rsnaent transfer racltptC  In tCh  balsce of paymats.
A.Ur t 1986



- 28 -                                ANNEX II
Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loane and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1986
- ~ USS Million
Loan or                                                                Amount (Leas Cancellations)
Credit *    Year   Borrower   Purpone                                 lenk 11    IDA    Undlaburaed
Thirty-mix (36) loann. of which four were cancelled, twenty-eight
(28) Credits and three (3) Third Window Loans Fully Disbursed*         563.06    360.06
1449       1977    Kenya      Bure Irrigation Settlement               31.00                 6.97
750       1978    Kenya      Small Scsle Industry                                 7.67      2.67
1550       1978    Kenya       Second Urban                            25.00                17.93
1684       1979    Kenya      Highway Sector                           90.00                 1.84
914       1979    Kenya       Srallbolder Coffee Improvement                     27.00    21.28
959       1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dew.                       7.50      2.18
962       1980    Kenya       Baringo Semi-Arld Areas                             4.00      0.45
1799       1980    Kenya      Third Power (Olkaris Geothermal)         40.00 21              2.05
1817       1980    IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank             30.00                10.42
1045       1980    Kenya      Export Promotion Technical Asst.                     4.50      3.74
1051       1980    Kenya       Fisheries                                           6.50      6.31
1107       1981    Kenya       Fifth Education                                    40.00    27.54
1976       1981    Kenya       Raivway                                  58.00                9.32
1995       1981    Kenya       Fourth Agriculture                      25.00                 4.95
2065       1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exploration                     4.00                0.38
(2098      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III                               21.50               21.50
(1213      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III 31                                      16.00      3.19
1237       1982    Kenya      Cotton Proc. & Marketing 3/                         22.00    21.47
1238       1982    Kenya       Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning 3/                               23.00    14.08
2155       1982    Kenya       Second Teleco umnicationa               44.70                17.96
1277       1983    Kenya      Agric. Technical Assistance 3/                       6.00      0.92
2237       1983    Kenya       Olkaria Geothermal Expansion             12.00       -        5.74
1387       1983    Kenya      National Extension 3J                               15.00    10.07
(2319      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns                             7.00                6.98
(1390      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns 31                                   22.00    15.32
2359       1984    Kenya       Kiambere Hydroelectric                  95.00                52.70
(2409      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Highway Sector                     50.00                49.88
(F017      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Highway Sector                                40.00    45.86
1486       1984    Kenya      Geothermal Exploration                              24.50    26.36
1566       1985    Kenya      Water Engineering 3/                                 6.00      4.09
2574       1985    Kenya       Third Telecomaunications 41             32.60                32.60
1673       1986    Kenya       Sixth Education 3j4/                               37.50    42.47
1675       1986    Kenya      Petroleum Explor. Tech. Assist. 3/4/                 6.00      6.67
(A021      (1986    Kenya       Agricultural Sector Adjustment 347                 40.00    42.71
(1717      (1986    Kenya      Agricultural Sector Adjustment TfN1                 20.00    21.36
1718       1986    Kenya      Agricultural Sector Management 31I/                 11.50    12.38
Total                                1,128.86    746.73   572.34
of which has been repaid             157.89       8.53
Total now outstanding                  970.97    738.20
Amount oold                   11.74
of which has been repaid  11.81    - 0.07
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                    959.24    772.34
TOTAL undisbursed                                 241.21    331.13   572.34
*   In addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$243.7 million
which were extended for the development of conmon services (rallways, ports,
telecominications, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner
states of the former East African Community (EAC).
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
21 Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/  IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR'a.
4/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX It
Pag 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Inveastment In Kenya as at
September 30, 1986
Fiscal Year  Obligor                        Type of luminess        Amount in USS Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,  Kenya Hotel Properties         Hotels                    5.2     0.7       5.9
and 1973
1970, 1974,  Pan African Paper Mills       Pulp and Paper           22.2      6.3      28.5
1977, 1979
and 1981
1972         Tourism Promotion             Hotels                    2.4      -1/       2.4
Services
1976         Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.   Textiles                     6.3     2.8       9.1
1977         Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.  Capital Market               2.0     -         2.0
1980         Development Finance            Development Finance       5.9     1.3       7.2
Company of Kenya Ltd.
1981         Kenya Commercial Finance    Money & Capital Market  5.7          -         5.7
1982         Bamburi Portland              Cement 6 Construction   5.1        -         5.1
Cement Co., Ltd.              Material
1982         Diamond Trust of Kenya        Money & Capital Market  -          0.8       O.R
Limited
1982         Industrial Promotion          Money & Capital Market  -          0.6       0.6
Services (Kenya) Ltd.
1983         Tetra Pak Converters           Pulp & Paper Products   2.2       0.3       2.5
Limited
1984         Leather Induatries of         Tanning                   2.1      0.6       2.7
Kenya Limited
1984         Nadhu Paper International   Pulp b Paper Products  37.1          2.0      39.1
Limited
19B5         Equatorial Beach              Tourism                    5.2     -         5.2
Properties
1985         Oil Crop Development Ltd.                               8.9      1.4      10.3
Total Gross Comditients                               110.3    16.8    127.1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment. adjustments and sales                      47.7      3.7      70.2
Total Commitments now held by IFC                     43.8    13.1       56.9
Total Undisbursed                                      12.2     0.8      13.1
1/ $44,937.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
ANIMAL HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                 Seven months
(b)  Project prepared by:                           Government with
assistance of donors
'c)  First presentation to IDA:                     March 1986
(d)  Appraisal:                                     April 1986
(e)  Negotiations:                                  December 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 February 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of effectiveness of the Credit are as follows:
(a) appointment of consultants to carry out management studies; and
(b) an immediate increase of dipping fees to KSh 0.50 per animal.



S U D A N~THI PI
-"  c/SM) a  amba~  F                                  ------
104'  L  IA/K/P/A ~     ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~SOMAI
o    CNANVI  I ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ 54mUR
Ekbre  JArF                                                                        -------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Kech       .,-AARIVRe       CA4NEo                     
tAKE <NY%KAKA         1 KE/tf),             KaorqP atCtt                        ONU
sIrYANAADR
Suk                    I~            ~,obt:~T       



9  X  8   8KaMEGA  (         \          t      ~o  Kabarret                                                              *                        f_
, 1                                                                       0//2:AH
'Alfull~~~~                                             ~ _  ;         I  
Kerichol~'\ v.,: S . l>                                                  D          \                  h
Ffly  -  aO, D l^ # ! ,J ;!!S~~~mW ng.I .-f
6 ,,t- .  : ...                    .
,:   Itt *:                                                                      /                       \xUX s?              ,                         ^~~~~~~0t~
~1 <Ch o
t,'cib4L              hr n"e  issrgot.  a.l  se?o-s                                                                                 ,,Rrrt 
Y P lr1 .~C?;rri/3
x~~~NML HELT  SERVICES



