OFFifCIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1758 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Animal Health Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1758 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) by agreement dated October 22, 1986 (the OPEC Fund Loan
Agreement), the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries'
Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund) has agreed to make
a loan (the OPEC Fund Loan) to the Borrower in an amount of five
million dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the OPEC Loan
Agreement;
(C) by agreement dated July 21, 1986 (the IFAD Loan
Agreement), the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) has agreed to make a loan (the IFAD Loan) to the Borrower
in an aggregate principal amount of seven million fifty thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,050,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the IFAD Loan
Agreement;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant in an amount of eight
hundred and forty-five thousand dollars ($845,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the UNDP Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985


﻿-2-
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and, the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "MLD"' means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock
Development;
(b)  "DVS"  means the Department    of Veterinary   Services
within MLD;
(c) "ICIPE" means the International Centre for Insect
Physiology and Ecology; and
(d) "KSH" means Kenya shilling, the Borrower's currency.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not


﻿-3-
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15, in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1997, and ending
January 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 15, 2007 shall be one-half of one per-
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Livestock Development with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿-4-
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be finar     out of the proceeds of the credit shall be governed
by the ;.visions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall regularly review with the
Association the Project's annual workplan and budget, with a view
to ensuring that during implementation of the Project, salary
expenses within DVS are maintained at levels not exceeding 50% of
DVS's total operating costs.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) annually review
with the Association user charges for dipping services; and
(ii) increase such charges annually in order to achieve recovery
of full operating costs by completion of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) annually review with the
Association user charges for clinical treatment services; and
(ii) maintain the charges at such levels as to achieve recovery
of the full cost of operations.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain until completion of
the Project, full cost recovery for veterinary clinical drugs
distributed by DVS; and (ii) annually review with the Association
the prices of such drugs.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall enter into arrangements
with ICIPE, satisfactory to the Association, for ICIPE to carry
out the pilot trials on the control of tsetse flies and ticks
under Part E of the Project.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) (i) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof; it being specified that the
Borrower: (1) shall ensure that the activities carried out under
the Project are identified as a separate budget line (head)
in the estimates and the Appropriation Accounts; (2) shall
prepare, on the basis of the relevant Borrower's ledger accounts,
monthly memoranda to record Project costs and outstanding dis-
bursement claims; and (3) shall, through the Director of Veteri-
nary Services, submit semi-annual reports to the Association
recording said Project costs and outstanding disbursement claims
and showing how the costs and claims are to be reconciled; and
(ii) not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
the Borrower shall prepare, according to the format of the
monthly report, and submit to the Association, an annual report
certifying that the accounts included in that report are
consistent with the final unaudited relevant Borrower's ledger
accounts.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; it being specified that said statements shall be
prepared on a monthly basis, and it being further specified that
the Borrower shall, on a quarterly basis, submit said statements
to the Association and certify that they are consistent with
the relevant Borrower's ledger accounts; (ii) retain, until
one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently


﻿-6-
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than eight months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors,
of said scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going: (1) an opinion by said auditors in respect of the expen-
ditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (2) a
statement from the Borrower explaining any inconsistency between
the accounts included in the report referred to in Section 4.01
(a) (ii) hereof and the accounts so audited; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning said accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and


﻿-7-
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions,   the  following   additional  event   is  specified,
namely that the events specified in paragraph (i) (B) of Section
5.01   of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower shall have increased dipping fees from
Ksh 0.30 per dipping to Ksh 0.50; and
(b) the Borrower shall have employed the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance is designated as representative of
the Borrol:%er for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By 1d /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By  -C *   ~Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Vehicles:                                   100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(i) Repairs of            340,000
vehicles
(ii) Motorcyles            510,000
and bicylces
(2) Incremental operating
costs for the Project:
(i) Vehicle operat-     2,800,000          85% up to aggre-
ing costs                             gate amount of
SDR 2,000,000,
and 65% there-
after
(ii) Acaricides, sera    6,720,000          85% up to aggre-
and vaccine                           gate amount of
SDR 4,500,000,
and 65% there-
after
(iii) Maintenance of        420,000          100% of foreign
plant and equip-                      expenditures and
ment                                  85% of local ex-
penditures


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3) Technical                  640,000          100%
assistance
(4) Unallocated              1,270,000
TOTAL             12,700,000
2.   For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a) the term- "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in a
currency other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods and services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "incremental operating costs for the Project"
means expenditures budgeted under the budget-head created for the
Project in the Borrower's Development Estimates.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,250,000 for
all categories except Category (2) (ii) of the table in para-
graph 1 above may be made on account of payments ma6e for such
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1986; and
(b) in respect of payments for expenditures under Cate-
gory (2) (ii) of the table in paragraph 1 above, until funds
provided for under the IFAD Loan Agreement for this category have
been exhausted.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the institu-
tional framework for the effective delivery of animal health
services in Kenya.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of Management Systems in the Department
of Veterinary Services
1.   Review and strengthening of management and administrative
systems for DVS, including planning, budgeting and monitoring
systems, detailed operating and supervision guidelines for front-
line field staff, through the provision of technical assistance
and training.
2.   Improvement of veterinary medicine and- vaccine distribution
and store management to simplify drug store management, reduce
excessive purchase and wastage of drugs and strengthen account-
ing systems through the provision of technical assistance and
training.
3.   A review of vehicle management systems within DVS.
Part B:   Disease and Pest Control Activities
1.   Strengthening  of  the  Borrower's  rinderpest, contagious
bovine pleuropneumonia and foot-and-mouth disease vaccination
campaigns, as well as other related activities, through the
provision of vaccines, vehicles, equipment, staff housing and
offices, and incremental operating expenses.
2.   Rehabilitation  of  veterinary   laboratories  through  the
construction of cold rooms, and provision of laboratory equip-
ment, vehicles and other equipment, and operating costs.
3.   Support to the Borrower's disease surveillance activities
through the provision of operating costs.


﻿- 12 -
Part C:   Tick Control Program
Improvement of the Borrower's Tick Contol Program through
strengthening the management of cattle dips and improving the
recovery of dipping fees.
Part D:   Clinical Services
Strengthening of clinical services through the reorganiza-
tion of delivery arrangements and the provision of drugs, sera,
instruments, bicycles and motorcycles.
Part E:   Pilot Trials for the Control of Tsetse Fly and
Tick-borne Diseases
1.   Support for field testing of a low cost strategy to control
tsetse flies.
2.   Support for trials to improve the methods of control of
ticks.
3.   Provision of training, research personnel, vehicles, equip-
ment, operating and training costs for the above activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for vehicles estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 each may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $50,000 each may be awarded on the basis
of the comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers, in accordance with the Borrower's proce-
dures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Contracts for acaricides may be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 14 -
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of -the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The Director of Veterinary Services shall be responsible
for the implementation and coordination of the Project. Detailed
implementation of the Project shall be guided by Annual Work
Plans prepared in accordance with a pre-established format and
consistent with the relevant budget ceilings.
2.   The Director of Veterinary     Services shall   prepare  the
departmental work plan in consultation with the appropriate
sections of MLD.
3.   Field Services
Field Veterinary Officers shall supervise the vaccination
campaigns and coordinate the clinical services with the arti-
ficial insemination program. The Provincial Director of Veteri-
nary Services, in conjunction with veterinary investigation
laboratories, shall organise regular meetings to be attended by
District Veterinary Officers and other field officers to discuss
the observed pattern of disease incidence.
4.   Tick Control Program
Tick Control Officers shall organise dip supervisions to
check dipping records and ensure an efficient distribution
of acaricides. The Tick Control Officers shall compile dip
operation costs in their district in relation to dip utilization
rates, in order to provide the analytical basis to determine cost
recovery charges.
5.   Disease Surveillance
Testing units of DVS shall continue to undertake the sur-
veillance of contagious bovine pleuropneumonia. Under the Project
the number of mobile testing units shall be increased to eight in
order to cover other risk areas.
The Foot-and-Mouth Research Laboratory shall continue to
conduct surveillance of foot-and-mouth disease. Teams from the
Laboratory shall conduct epidemiological investigations in the
field and monitor levels of protective immunity in the vaccinated
target populations.


﻿- 16 -
6.   Project Monitoring
The DVS shall prepare annual and semi-annual reports
containing technical information on the following:
(i) the number of types of vaccines issued;
(ii) the number of types of vaccinations carried out and
estimates of vaccination coverage achieved in target
populations;
(iii) the number of outbreaks of infectious diseases and the
action taken in the investigation and control of these
outbreaks;
(iv) details of    specific  field  studies  carried  out to
investigate the effectiveness of the control programs
with particular reference to rinderpest, contagious
bovine pleuropneumonia and foot-and-mouth disease;
(v) the estimated number of operational and non-operational
dips;
(vi) the estimated total number of cattle dipped and dipping
coverage achieved in the target population;
(vii) total dipwash samples examined to determine the per-
centage within the accepted acaricide levels; and
(viii) the number of cases treated and the amount and type of
drugs involved.
In addition to the above, the above-mentioned reports shall
provide the necessary data on the following:
(i) the vehicle situation;
(ii) user charges collected;
(iii) budget allocations and expenditures; and
(iv) disbursements and outstanding claims.


﻿- 17 -
7.   Vehicle Monitoring and Repairs
The Borrower shall establish a vehicle monitoring system
within DVS to ensure proper investment planning and management.
Within each district, vehicles shall be repaired by the nearest
manufacturer's official agent or a reputable garage in accordance
with the Borrower's procedures.
The Borrower shall prepare plans and schedules for the
repair of accident-damaged vehicles, and for the disposal of
old and unusable vehicles.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


