.4   8   -               )s (>0  (1 Z '- ///
ilocument ot
The World Bank
FOR JFt ICIAI L'SE ONLVh
Report No. 1 2357-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRPTIC AN) POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 5, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients orly in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without A arld Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA) - 100 Centiies
Eguivalency of 1 US5 in DA since 1985
1985               5.03
1986               4.70
1987 8             4.85
1988               5.92
1989               7.46
1-990              8. (10
1991              17.35
199?              22.49
1993              22.00
1994  (APRIL 12)  36.00
ABBREVIATIONS
bbl/d :    barrels per day                 mm    :    millimecer
ha    :    hectare                         MM3   :    million of cubic meters
Km          kilometer                      MMT   :    million of metric tons
lcpd  :    liters per capita per day       m3/   :    cubic meters per second
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AGEP        : Agence Nationale de 1'Eatt Potable et Industrielle et
de 1'Assainissement
AGID        : Agence Nationale de Rdalisation et de Gestion des
Infrastructures Hydrauliques pour Irrigation et le Drainage
ANB         : Agence Nationale des Barrages
ANID        : Agence Nationale d'Irrigation et de Drainage
ANRH        : Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques
DGAIH       : Direction des Grands Amenagements et Infrastructures
Hydrauliques
DHW         : Direction de l'Hydraulique de la Wilaya
DRFUE       : Direction de la Reglementation, de la Protection et de
l'Usage de 1'Eau
EPA         : Entreprise Publique Administrative
EPDEMIA     : Etablissement Public de Gestion e; de Distribution des Eaux
Kdnageres et Industrielles et de l'Assainissement
EPE         : Entreprise de Production d'Eau
EPEA        : Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution
d'Eau d'Annaba
EPEOR       : Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution
d'Eau d'Oran
EPIC        : Entreprise Publique, Industrielle et Commerciale
GOA         : Government of Algeria
MA          : Ministere de l'Agriculture
ME          : Ministere de 1'Equipement
SEDAL       : Socift6 des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger
WILAYA(TE)  : Province(s)



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
VATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY   . . . . . .    . . . . . . . .. . .  .    . . . .
I.  INTRODUCTION.           .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
II.   THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR.                  .  .   .  . . . . . . . .    3
General Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   3
Population Distribution . . . . .                                                3 . . .  . . . . . . . .  ,    3
Water Resources.   .                  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . .  4
Service Levels.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Institutional Arrangements   . . . . . . . .  . .  . . . . . .    5
Investments in the Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Industrial Water Demand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Finances    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  7
Staffing and Management.8
The Bank Experience in the Sector  .             . . . . . . . .  . . . .    8
Environmental Aspects  .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 9
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Project Genesis and Concept . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    9
Objectives of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Institutional Reforms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Project Execution . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    14
Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Executing Agency   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Technical Assistance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Project Accounts and Audit   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
V.    WATER SUPPLY MANAGEMENT   . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Sector Structure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Concessionary Arrangements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Staffing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Commercial Operations ....................    23
Accotnting System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Other Management Procedures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
This report was prepared and written by Mr. Fritz Rodriguez (MNIIN);
Mr. Charles Sterling (MNIIN); and Mr. Alain F. Thys (Consultant).
This documt has a rstricted distrbution and may be used by  cpient oy in *te pefrmm    of their
officil dutes Its contents may not otherwie be hdislosed wihout World D *n autoizaton



Table of Contents (continued)
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .                       24
Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . .   24
Past and Present Financial Performsnce   . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Revenues and Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Financing Plan   . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .   27
Future Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Monitoring System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
VII.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Project Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Least-Cost Alternative   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Economic Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Economic Efficiency  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Environmental Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Institution Building   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Risks    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  31
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           .   31



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.       Land and Water Resources
2.       Cost of Water Supply Services in 1992
3.       Projected Cost of Water Supply Services in 1994
4.       Contract Model for Optimizing Water Sttpply Operations
5.       Selection Criteria for Sewage Plant Rehabilitation
6.       List of Studies and Operational. Equipment to be Procured
7.       Program for Upgrading Meteorological Recording Operations
8.       Terms of Reference for Management Studies of Surface Water and
Groundwater in Soummam Valley
9.       Detailed Cost Estima.es
10.       Price E&calation Calculation
11.       Project Implementation Schedule
12.       List of Contracts to be Placed for the Project
13.       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
14.       AGEP's Organizational Chart - 1993
15.       Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to AGEP
16.       Water S-pply Operations in the Project Area
17.       Concesssionary Arrangements for Managing Urban
Water Supply Services
18.       Contract de Gestion pour l'Exploitation des Services
Publics d'Alimentation en Eau Potable
19.       Lettre Traitant des Politiques de D6veloppement du
Secteur de l'Eau
20.       EPEA's Organtzational Chart - 1992
21.       EPEOR's Organizational Chart - 1992
22.       Proposed Organizational Chart for Regional Water Utilities
23.       Terms of Reference for Setting out Commercial Operations of
Water Utilities
24.       EPEA - Income, Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow Statements
25.       EPEOR - Income, Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow Statements
26.       Assumptions for Financial Projections
27.       Monitoring Indicators
28.       Assumptions for Economic Evaluation of the Project
29.       Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Man- No.         IBRD 25235



DEMOMRATIC AM  POPUIAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERI
WATE SUPPLY AND SW AG   U       ITATIOX  PQJECT
LOAN AND  RJT S Y
Borrowei:                :     Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Not applicable.
hmwunit                  :    US$110 million equivalent
Zeama                    :    Repayable in 17 years including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Poverty Cateorv:    Not applicable.
Proiect Descrltion      :    The project seeks to restructure the urben   water
supply sector by contracting out a number of its
operations, such as leak detection and repair,
optimization of meter reading and billing, and network
recalibration and mapping, with private entrepreneurs.
It advocates the creation of self-financing water
utilities  that  would  operate  under  concession
agreements with the Government.  To promote water
conservation, the report recommends chrArging the true
economic cost of the services to consumers.  Until
now, a national tariff structure has been applied for
water services, with no provision for capital
consumption and expansion.   The project proposes
changing this policy by levying regional tariffs that
would cover both operating and maintenance costs, and
the concession fees. The Government would use these
fees to finance asset renewal and expansion. As large
volumes of water produced are now unaccounted for, the
project includes a network rehabilitation program
aiming at reducing water losses.   Most wastewater
treatment plants in Algeria are currently inoperative.
As a result, water pollution is spreading around the
large urban agglomerations, damaging the natural
environment. To mitigate these damages, the project
proposes the rehabilitation of a number of existing
wastewater treatment plants.   Under the project,
institutional development assistance would be provided
to three specialized agencies of the Ministry of
Equipment:  AGEP, ANB, and ANRH.  This assistance
would aim at improving project evaluation procedures
in these agencies. Project benefits would encompass
the recovery of 32 Mm3 of annual water production that
is now lost, and substantial improvement of water
quality in the country. Project execution faces some
risks relating to the Government not living up to its
obligations under the concession agreements. Other



- ii 1
risks r late to the extent and cost of the
rehabilitation works,  which cannot be  determined
accurately, and to possible slow pace of their
execution. These risks are inherent to the nature of
that type of works. To minimize the first risks, Bank
review and approval of the concession agreements is
proposed, to be followed by a mid-term review in the
summer of 1997. To diminish the second ones, a number
of seminars are - scheduled to take place at project
inception, to discuss strategies for quick project
implementation.
Fstimated Cost                            C al           Foreign       Total
-US$ Million-
Water System Rehabilitation        24.5               46.0        70.5
Sewage Plant Rehabilitation        -.5                 7.8 ..L
Subtotal                           30.0               53.8        83.8
Physical Contingencies              3.0                5.4         8.4
Project Impiementation              1.8                3.2         5.0
Project Preparation                 1.5               10.0        11.5
Operational Equipment               0.8                8.7         9.5
Institutional Development                              9.O        112
Total Base Cost
(Mid-1993 prices)                  39.3              90.1        129.4
Price Escalation                   2L2. 19.9                      40.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST1                60.               11.0.
Financimg Plan
Concession Fees                    54.1               --          54.1
Government                          5.9                .           5.9
IBRD                               -                             110.0
Total Sources                      60.0              110.0       170.0
Zstmated Disbsementg
BkE*                           1995  199£ 1222211222 2 21 
Annual                         7.3   15.4  19.2  18.9  17.6   15.6  11.3  4.7
Cumulative                     7.3   22.7  41.9  60.8  78.4   94.0 105.3 110.0
Economic Rate of Return        About 17 percent on the aggregate investments,
excluding those for reaabilitating existing
wastewater treatment plants, accounting for
about 12 percent of the total project cost.
Staff AnRraisal LenoOt  :      12357-AL
IBRD 25235
I/    Inoclud,, 55816.S mllion .quvalemt in taes mad dutlsa.



DEMOCRATIC AnE POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERI
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PR.OJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPQRT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        This report appraises a work program for the rehabilitation of urban
water supply and sewerage services in Algeria during the period 1994-2000. There
are currently many flaws in the way these services are provided in this country.
The supply is interLittent, with insufficient pressure. Almost 45 percent of the
volumes of water producedl are unaccounted for, thus not available to meet
consumers' demand. With respect to sewerage, most of the wastewater generftted
in the urban areas is d.'scharged untreated in the river system and the
Mediterranean Sea. A number of wastewater treatment plants have been built in
the last twenty years, but most of them are currently inoperative.   Other
operational aspects in the sector are also in great need of reform. The existing
water distributors are public enterprises legally defined as commercial and
industrial entities  (EPIC), and as such, under Algerian legislation, have
possible access to Government subsidies for both capital investments and
operations.   In some cases,  tariffs are insufficient to meet operational
requirements, and inefficiency permeates the sector.
1.02        This poor performance, however, should not be attributed to Govern-
ment's neglect of the sector. Between 1974 and 1989 the Government made a total
investment of US$4.2 billion in the sector, increasing per capita investments
from US$48.0 in 1974 to US$102.0 in 1989. A number of institutional reforms were
also undertaken during the same period. From a centralized management at the
beginning, regional organizations were subsequently set up to manage water supply
and sewerage in the country. These reforms, however, were not accompanied by
necessary financial measures. Until recently,water has not been considered an
economic good, and the Government has not attempted to charge its real cost to
consumers. This approach, however, is now being revised as the Government has
taken a number of actions aiming at introditeing more efficiency in the sector
management. These include a recent doubling of tariffs, a program for full
metering of water consumption,and enforcement of regulations governing the
management of water utilities in the country.
1.03        The Bank has been active in the sector since 1978, and so far has
made five loans for urban water supply and sewerage works. Except for the last
one, these loans financed projects in the taree largest cities in the country,
Algiers, Oran, and Constantine. The fifth loan financed works in medium-size
cities.   Through these loans, an attempt was made to strengthen the sector
institution.  Though not always successful, it has nevertheless led to major
improvement of water supply services in the large urban areas. It has advocated
the application of more realistic user charges, the establishment of self-
accounting entities to manage the services. A large tariff increase that took
effect in early 1993, was in response to the Bank's advocacy for more efficiency
in the sector. From a municipal department in 1978, the water service in Algiers
has evolved to a semi-autonomous entity. Similar evolution has taken place in
other cities involved in the Bank-financed projects.



- 2 -
1.04        The previous projects, together with the structural reforms that they
tried to achieve, were confined to specific areas.  The proposed project is
taking a bolder approach to institutional reforms in the sector. It advocates
taking a first step in the path to privatization of the management of water
services in Algeria. It calls for the establishment of self-accounting entities,
for more efficiency in providing the services,and for developing national
expertise  in water  resources  management.    The proposed  project  follows
recommendations of a recently completed sector report on a strategy for the
development and management of water resources in Algeria.   For now, a large
proportion of water produced is lost through leaks in the network. Because of
low tariffs, consumers have not attempted to conserve water. Large volumes of
water are wasted inside the dwellings through faulty plumbing systems.. If these
wastes can be reduced, it is proiected that the available fresh water resources
could meet water demand up to the year 2030.
1.05        With this objective in view, the project includes a rehabilitation
program aiming at reducing water losses in the network.   It advocates the
adoption and applicatior of a more progressive tariff structure that would
promote water conservatior. To enhance environmental conditions, the project
contemplates the rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plants that are neces3ary
to protect the w^ter resource base. Institutional development assistance would
also be provided to operators in the sector, including training of their staff.
Implementation of these components, however, is contingent upon the issuance by
the Government of directives f5r- the establishment of self-financing water
utilities, with a clear mandate and incentives for increasing performance and
efficiency.
1.06        The estimated total cost of the project is US$170.0 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$110.0 million.  A Bank loan is proposed to
finance this component. The balance will be financed by cash generation in the
sector, and Government funds.   Detailed project design is under way and is
expected to be finished by the time the Bank loan is ap1 roved, to allow immediate
start of procurement. The project would be executed during the period 1994-2001.
A mid-term review of progress in project execution and in compliance with loan
covenants is scheduled to take place during the summer of 1997.
1.07        Project preparation was partially financed under Bank Loan 2821-AL,
and carried out by the Kinistry of Equipment with the assistance of consultants.
The Bank actively participated in project formulation and discussed it with
lenders involved in the water sector in Algeria. A Bank mission composed of
Messrs. Fritz Rodriguez and Charles Sterling (Bank staff) and Mr. Alain F. Thys
(Consultant), appraised the project in June 1993.



II. THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
General Features
2.01        With an area of about 2.4 million km2, Algeria is the largest country
in North Africa. Most of this area, however, extends into the Sahara Desert, is
unfit for agriculture, but rich in mineral resources. North of the Saharan Atlas
is a semi-arid region encompassing a coastal strip along the Mediterranean, the
interior plains, some highlands near the coast, and the high plateaux. More than
90 percent of the population livos in this region. The mean annual rainfall in
this northern part of the country varies between 300 mm and 1,000 mm, exceeding
600 mm only in the central and eastern coastal plains where rich arable land is
found. It is less than 100 mm south of the Atlas in the Sahara.
2.02        There are 17 major river basins in Algerie.  Some of them are shared
by other countries: the Medjerda with Tunisia; the Tafna, Guir, Dra and Daoura
with Morocco. Based on rainfall and surface water regime, climate, and soil
characteristics, 11 hydrographic regions have been identified in the country:
Oranie, Chelf, Algeroise, Soummam, Constantinoise, Annaba, Medjerdah-Mellegue,
Hodna-Zahres Sersou, Aures Nementchas, Chott Chergu' South Atlas, and Southern
Algeria. This regional distribution is used in comparing water demand with the
available supply in different parts of the country.
2.03        Administratively, Algeria ia divided into 48 provinces (wilayate),
567 counties (dairate),  and 1540 communes.   At the provincial level,  the
executive is headed by a Governor (Wali), and his cabinet includes
representatives of each of the Central Government's ministries.
PoMIlation Distribution
2.04        The 1987 census recorded a population of 23 million in Algeria, half
living in urban areas. A previous census was carried out in 1977. Between these
two censuses, the population kept growing at an average annual rate of 3.1
percent. The urbanization rate alst increased during that period from 39 percent
in 1977 to 50 percent in 1987.  The expectation is that the share of urban
population will continue to increase, reaching 58 percent of the total population
by the year 2000. The stationary population in Algeria is projected to be around
76 million. More than 90 percent of the population lives in the northern part
of the country, accounting for only 12 percent of the land. As a result, the
population density is relatively high in this part. It ranges from 50 persons
per jn2 in the steppe to 220 perions per km2 in the coastal plains. In fact,
almost 40 percent of the total population resides along the coast between Oran
and Annaba in a strip accounting for less than 2 percent of the total area. Only
7 percent of the total population lives in the southern part of the country.
1/    In this report the teiz urban water refers to potable water used in households, pubLUc entities, and
iustries in both urban end rural areas.



-4-
2.05        Over 70 percent of the total population lives in fixed settlements
that need to be provided with public water supply and sewerage services. The
rest of the population is dispersed, necessitating at the most the provision of
water points for its supply. About 44 percent of Algerians are under 15 years
of age, 65 percent under 25 years of age.  Although one-fifth of the urban
population is concentrated ir. the capital city, Algiers, there exist in addition
a number of -relatively large and medium-size cities distributed across the-
northern part of the courntry, where puhlic services such as water supply and
sewerage can be provided at a reasonable cost. This distribution saggests that
a decentralized sector organization for urban water supply can be implemented in
Algeria, provided the necessary staff can be feund to manage the resulting
independent systems.
at_er Resources
2.06        A detailed description of land and water resources in Algeria is
given in Annex }. Total water resources are estimated at 19.1 billion m3 per
year, comprising 12.4 billion m3 of surface water and 6.7 of groundwater.
Surface waters are particularly abundant in the coastal plains (11.1 billion m3),
but decrease rapidly in the steppe (0.7 billion m3) and in the Saharan Atlas (0.6
billion m3).  Because of irregular flows and heterogeneoue distribution, the
surface water resources cannot readily be exploited for irrigation and urban
water supply.  Most of the rivers are dry in the summer, and their quality
deteriorates in the winter, as the rising flows carry high solid contents. Their
regulation througih costly reservoirs is often required to obtain economically
exploitable yields. It is estimated that, with full damming, about 5.7 billion
m3 per year or 46 percent of the surface waters in northern Algeria could be
mobilized for irrigation and urban water supply. Presently, an average of 2.2
billion m3 is exploited from a total of 45 impounding dams. Large investments
remain to be made for full mobilization of the surface water resources.
2.07        As a result of high infiltration from storm runoff and surface water
resources, and of the existence of large fossil water deposits, groundwater is
available over much of the country. The average annual yield of groundwater is
estimated at 6.7 billion m3, but more than two-thirds of these resources (4.9
billion m3) are located in the Sahara Desert. In Northern Algeria, more than 80
percent of groundwater is already under exploitation, particularly in the coastal
plains. The balance of 0.3 billion m3 is essentially in the steppe in Zahrez,
Chott Hodna, and Chott Chergui. Overall, the average yield of water resources,
excluding groundwater in the Sahara, with full development of storage, is
estimated at 7.4 billion m3/year. This should be sufficient to cover the water
needs for urban, industrial and agricultural use until the early part of the next
century. Beyond that, it will be necessary to reclaim wastewaters and to tap
non-renewable groundwater in the northern part of the Sahara, and later on to
demineralize brackish water to meet the demand.
Service Levels
2.08        Government investments over the last decade or so have allowed to
increase service levels in 1989 to about 81 percent of the total population with
direct connections to the water network, from an estimated 50 percent in 1976.



- 5 -
Despite this achievement attained during a period of high urban population
growth, much remains to be done in terms of improving the quality of the
services.  The average consumption in households, estimated at 100 lcd, is
considered adequate. In some places where it is lower, it could be much improved
if losses were reduced to more acceptable levels. About 87 percent of the urban
population have direct access to public water supply through private service
lines; it is about 75 percent in agglomerated rural areas.  The rest of the
population is served- by standposts and private wells.  The water quality is
considered safe, although cholera and other water-relateo diseases have been
endemic in Algeria.
2.09        The service levels are somewhat lower in the sewerage subsector.
About 70 percent of households in urban areas are connected to public sewer
systems. In many instances, these systems are combined networks carrying botlh
wastewater and stormwater runoff. Large volumes of wastewater are discharged
untreated into the Mediterranean and the rivers. It is estimated that in 1992
only 17 percent of domestic and -ndustrial wastewaters received some form of
treatment prior to their disposal. This threatened water quality and created
environmental hazards in the country. By the end of 1990, the Government had
provided grants for the construction of 77 wastewater treatment plants; but most
of them are now inoperative. Access to sewerage services in rural areas is
provided to about 20 percent of the population.
Institutional Arra&Uements
2.10        The Ministry of Equipment (ME) is responsible for the development,
management, and conservation of water resources in the country. Thtis Ministry
plans and builds urban water supply, sewerage, and irrigation conveyance systems.
These functions are decentralized in a number of departments (Directions). The
Direction des Grands Amenagements et Infrastructures Hydrauliques (DGAIH),
carries out the planning and design of water resources development schemes.
Another department, La Direction de la Reglementation, de la Protection et de
1'Usage de l'Eau (DRPUE), regulates sector operations including the sharing of
water resources among different uses, and the setting of tariffs. Two semi-
autonomous agencies provide specific services in the sector:   the Agence
Nationale des Barrages (ANB) for the construction of dams, and the Agence
Nationale  des  Ressources  Hydraullques  (ANRH)  for  the  collection  and
interpretation of hydrologic data, and the monitoring of water quality.
2.11        The main regulatory agency of the urban water supply and sewerage
sector is the Agence Nationale de 1'Eau Potable et Industrielle et de
1 'Assainissement (AGEP). When established in 1986, this agency was assigned the
task of formulating detailed policies for the urban water supply and sewerage
sector, and of monitoring the operations in the sector.   Other specific
assignments were the provision of technical assistance to the sector operators,
and staff training. Unfortunately, AGEP has not fulfilled these assignments.
Instead, it has spent its resources planning and supervising the construction of
water projects. To a large extent, this has curtailed AGEP staff from their true
mandate of improving sector operations. Their assistance in this area has been
minimal. As part of a fourth Bank-financed water supply project (Loan 2821-AL),
it was agreed to undertake management studies to determine what actions should



- 6 -
be taken to improve efficiency in the sector.  These studies were completed
recently.
2.12        Water supply services to consumers are now provided by nine regional
enterprises and 26 wilaya agencies. They are responsible for both production and
distribution of urban water, and for sewerage services. The reasons for having
two kinds of organizations are not fully transparent. Except that in the case
of a regional enterprise, it appears that its water production facilities are
usually located in more than one wilaya, making it a natural regional
organization. Economies of scale and cross-subsidization appear not to have been
determinant factors in setting up the current organization. The enterprises are
semi-autonomous entities, with industrial statute (EPIC) giving them possible
access to government funds for operations and capital investments.   Their
operations are not guided by commercial objectives, or return on investments.
The proposed project advocates radical changes in the status of the entirprises
to transform them into truly commercial entities. It further proposes the use
of economic criteria and competition to optimize the geographical division of
services in the country.
Investments in the Sector
2.13        Since 1974 the Government has made increasingly large investments in
the sector. During the First Five-Year Plan (1980-1984), investments in the
order of DA 6.0 billion (US$1.2 billion) or about DA 300 (US$60.0) per capita
were made in the sector.   This amount increased to DA 10.4 billion (US$2.2
billion) during the Second Five-Year Plan (1985-1989). Table 2.1 illustrates the
increasing importance given to the sector over successive plan periods. Given
the continuing need to make up for backlogs in water infrastructure provision,
the Government is not considering curtailing investments in the sector in the
coming years.
Table 2.1: Sector Investment Plant
(in current DA)
Total            Per Capita
Investment Plan         DA          US$       DA    US$
.... billion..
1974-77                4.0          0 8       240    48
1980-84                6.0          1.2       300    60
1985-89               10.4          2.2       476   102
Source: MlJintry of EqUymnt.
Industrial Water Demand
2.14        There are a limited number of industries that use large volumes of
water in Algeria. Beside', except for the industrial complex in Arzew, the
industries are dispersed over the territory, thus imposing no disproportionate
load on the water system In particular areas. Also, some of the industries with
heavy water use have their own water supply. This is the case of the industrial



- 7 -
complex in Arzew, a phosphate rock processing plane in Djebel Onk, the steel
complexes, and the petrochemical industries.   The fact is that, at present,
industry is not a major water consumer in Algeria, as shown in Table 2.2 below.
As is the case for most countries at Algeria's stage of development, the major
consumer is the household sector.
Table 2.2: Volume and Structure of Sales in 1987
Usage             Volume (Mm3)         Percent
Domestic             520                 67
Industrial*          119                 16
Commercial            60                  8
Public               .70                  9
TOTAL          zu                  Q
* Excluding the volumes of water produced by industries for their om u8o.
2.15        The industrial sector accounted for about 16 percent of total water
used in 1987. To this amount should be added the volumes consumed by industries
equipped with their own water supplies, estimated to amount to 40 Mm3. This
gives a total industrial water use of 159 Nm3 in 1987, i.e., about 20 percent of
the total use in that year.   Given the current and expected macroeconomic
situation in Algeria, it is not foreseen that the structure of water uses would
markedly change in the coming years.
Finances
2.16        Annex 2 provides the cost of urban water in different provinces of
the country in 1992, while Annex 3 depicts the projected cost in 1994. The bulk
of past investments in the sector were financed by government grants, and not
surprisingly, the asset base of the regional water enterprises is very low. Very
often, the Government-funded fixed assets have not been registered in the
enterprises' books, and no depreciation allowance has been made for these assets.
This practice distorts the financial situation in the sector, giving a blurry
picture of the financial position of the enterprises. In general, the level of
receivables is high, on average 10 months of sales. This is compounded by the
presence of illegal or unregistered connections that provide no revenues to the
enterprises. Most of the water enterprises posted operating losses at the end
of 1991, though by allowing their accounts payable to increase, cash collection
was sufficient to cover expenses in that year.
2.17        The current tariff structure for urban water supply was established
by Decree No. 85-267 issued in October 1985. It is an increasing block rate
structure encompassing four blocks in domestic consumption. The base price per
=3 in the first block is currently DA 2.20, generating an average revenue of DA
6.30 (US$0.18) per,-. With some exceptions (Medea, Tiatat, Illizi, Tamaurasset,
Tebessa), this amount is projected to be sufficient to meet operating costs of
the 35 enterprises in 1994 as illustrated in Annex 3. In some cases, it will
also be sufficient to cover capital investments. A more detailed discussion of
the tariff structure is carried out in paras. 6.05-6.07.



Staffina and Management
2.18        With an average ratio of 14 employees per 1,000 connections, the
enterprises are considered overstaffed. At the same time, there is a shortage
of qualified staff in the sector. Labor productivity is low. The work seems to
be reduced to the minimum necessary to continue providing services, and no effort
is made to Improve them. A case in point is the high volume of losses in the
water network. No systematic approach to repairing the leaks has been taken, and
the staff seems to be comfortable with the situation. Long delays are observed
betweer, the time a customer requests a service line and the time the work is
done. In some cases, receivables amount to more than a year of sales, but no
action is taken, since cash collection can meet salaries and other operating
expenses. There is a definite lack of dedication and involvement by the staff.
2.19        The salaries and employment conditions in the enterprises are lover
than in the industry and energy sectors.   Most of them,  therefore,  are
experiencing difficulties in recruiting staff of high caliber in areas such as
finance and accounting.   These difficulties are accentuated in enterprises
located in places relatively far away from large urban centers. This situation
could be remedied through the implementation of a comprehensive staff training
program. An additional remedial action would be regionalizaticn of the services.
It would be a lesser burden for staff if they are stationed in large cities where
the main offices of regional water companies are located. From there, they could
provide operational assistance to small utilities in the region, and at the same
time, enjoy the amenities of a large city.
The Bank xperiLen_c in the Sector
2.20        The Bank became involved in the sector in 1978 when Loan 1545-AL of
US$82.0 million was made for the Algiers Sewerage Project, to finance the
construction of sewer interceptors and a sewerage treatment plant in Greater
Algiers, and management and engineering studies in the cities of Algiers,
Constantine, and Oran. One of the objectives of this project was to strengthen
the sector organization in Greater Algiers through the creation of a regional
water supply and sewerage authority (SEDAL).   In spite of some delays in
implementing agreed policies, the SEDAL experience was good and instrumental in
the Government decision, in 1986, to set up similar authorities in the rest of
the country.
2.21        To help improve water supply and sewerage services in the Algiers
area, in 1980 the Bank made a US$5.0-million loan (S-17-AL) to finance a water
resources study, the Water Master Plan for the Algiers/Sebaou Area. Upon the
recommendations of this study, a water supply project, -overing the first
construction stage of the Master Plan, was defined for Greater Algiers. In June
1984, the Bank zAade a US$290-million loan (2461-AL) to finance part of this
construction. This loan also addressed the institutional development of the
sector by partly financing the setting up of AGEP, the implementation of a sector
survey, and organizational, managerial and financial studies for the Algiers
water company. Implementation of the Algiers project was completed at the end
of 1992.



-9-
2.22        In 1985, the Bank made a US$262-million loan (2591-AL) to finance
water supply and sewerage works in Oran and Constantine, and technical assistance
for 13 regional water companies in the areas of organization, management, finance
and staff training. A fifth loan of US$250 million (Loan 2821-AL) was made in
1987 to finance part of the investments in the sector during the period 1986-
1991. Implementation of these two projects is progressing reasonably well, with
the first one expected to be completed by the end of 1994, and the second one in
1995. The latter was restructured in 1993 -to introduce more urgently needed
works.
2.23        Since the beginning of its involvement in the sector, the Bank's
lending strategy has been geared essentially toward the development of a strong
institutional framework for the sector, that would result in sound investment
programming, improved operational efficiency of the water utilities, and
ultimately in improved and expanded services. To this end, the Bank has been
actively assisting the Government in putting in place financially strong and
viable organizations, and in expanding water supply and sewerage services in the
large and intermediate cities, as outlined in the Second Five-Year Plan.
Important institutional reforms have already been achieved under the four
previous Bank-financed projects, but much remains to be done to establish a more
cohesive approach to the use and management of the water resources.
Environmental Asnects
2.24        Domestic and industrial wastewaters  in Algeria are discharged
virtually untreated into the Mediterranean and the river system. Only 17 percent
of the wastes actually receive some form of treatment. Industrial pollution is
particularly heavy near the large coastal cities of Algiers, Annaba, and Oran.
Apart from the unpleasant sight of polluted waters in the Algiers Bay and El
Harrach River near Algiers, there is serious risk of polluting the groundwater
aquifer along the coast, a source of potable water for the large coastal urban
communities.   Because of water pollution in the Bay and the river system,
recreational activities such as bathing, swimming, and sailing, have ceased in
this area.
2.25        The first phase of a wastewater collection and treatment master plan
for Greater Algiers is now operaLional.   Wastewaters generated in the most
industrialized part of this conurbation are now treated for their eventual reuse
in agriculture. There are plans for completing the implementation of the master
plan, and for implementing similar programs in the regions of Annaba and Oran.
III. THE PROPOSED PROECT
Proiect Genesis and Concept
3 01        In 1987 the Bank made a loan of US$250 million (2821-AL) to the
Government of Algeria to finance a number of water supply and sewerage works in
the country. The loan also covered studies in areas with deficient water supply
to determine how services could be improved in these areas. At the beginning,



- 10 -
project implementation experienced some difficulties. The sector organization
was changed with the creation of thirty-five water utilities replacing thirteen
regional  authorities  with  which  the  loan  had  been  negotiated.    Since
reimbursement agreements were to be entered between the Government and the
implementing agencies, additional negotiations took place between the Government
and the Bank following loan signing.   The project itself included some
controversial works such as the construction of two dams along the Tunisian
border. Recently, the project had been restructured, eliminating these works and
introducing more needed subprojects.
3.02        Meanwhile, the studies included in the loan have been carried out
successfully. They have defined a number of urgently needed works for which
detailed design is currently under way. These studies have also showed that large
volumes of water produced were unaccounted for, and that the systems were in
great need of rehabilitation. This finding has led the way in conceiving the
proposed project. On the institutional side, both the Government and the Bank
have recognized the need to restructure the sector by introducing more efficiency
in the provision of water supply and sewerage services in the country.  An
institutional study along with a sector survey were included in Loan 2821-AL.
They were conducted by an Algerian/French consortium (CNAT/SAUR-Afrique), and
completed recently. The study recommendations have been taken into account in
forovulating the proposed project.
Oblectives of the Prolect
3.03        The  proposed  project would seek  to rationalize  institutional
arrangements in the urban water sector with a view to achieving full cost
recovery by autonomous, self-financing utilities. As these institutional reforms
are taking shape, the project will proceed with the rehabilitation of existing
urban water supply and sewer systems. As highlighted in para. 1.01, large
volumes of water production, around 45 percent, are now unaccounted for, due to
leaks in the systems, metering defects, and illegal connections. Leakages are
considered the cause for three quarters of water unaccounted for. The project
would attempt to optimize water distribution in a number of cities with current
water production considered relatively sufficient to fill water demand in these
cities. They are the cities of Annaba, Ain Temouchent, Bejaia, Jijel, Mascara,
Oran, Relizane, Sidi Bel Abes, Setif, and Tlemcen with a total population of 2.0
million. The rehabilitation program would cover leak detection and repair, the
setting up of a reliable metering system, both bulk and individual, the
establishment of efficient billing and collection procedures, and an updated
census of water customers.
3.04        The difficult situation of sewerage operations in Algeria has already
been highlighted in this report (paras. 1.01 and 2.09). The communes now operate
the sewer systems, but have neither the technical capability nor the financial
resources to perform this task.   Beginning in 1993,  the Government began
collecting a 10-percent surcharge on water bills to cover sewerage expenses.
This surcharge, however, was considered insufficient to ensure normal operation
and maintenance of the sewerage installations. It was increased to 20 percent
effective January 1st,  1994.   But further increases  are needed to meet
operational requirements.   The proposed project addresses this issue.   It



- 11 -
Includes the rehabilltation of a number of sewage treatment plants. However, to
ensure adequate operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated plants, during
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that Bank loan proceeds
for a sewerage rehabilitation subproject in a city would be disbursed only after
the Bank has been satisfied that a sewerage organization has been tstablished in
this city, and funds to cover sewerage operations have been identified.
3.05        As the water supply rehabilitation program is being implemented, it
will be necessary to strengthen regulations in the sector. The Government has
recently made a start in this direction. It has proposed that communes, as the
owners of water distribution and sewage networks, give them in concession to
water utilities. It has recently issued regulations governing the functioning
and operations of water utilities.   The Government has also regulated the
relations between customers and water utilities. A large meter installation
program is currently under implementation with the goal of full metering of all
individual connections in urban areas by the end of 1994.
3.06        Some major issues, however, still remain to be tackled. They include
tariff levels, asset renewal, increasing productivity and efficiency in the
sector, and intersectoral coordination. The proposed project addresses these
issues.
Frolect Descrintion
3.07        The proposed project would include:
(i)   water supply system rehabilitation in ten cities, inclusive of
leak detection and repairs, meter installation, and gauging;
(ii)  water distribution network relooping and balancing in the same
ten cities;
(iii) rehabilitation of about 24 sewage treatment plants located in
different places in the country;
(iv)  consulting services to AGEP and ANB to carry out feasibility
and detailed studies, and environmental impact assessments of
projected water and sewerage works;
(v)   institutional development assistance to AGEP, ANB, ANRH, and
the water utilities; and
(vi)  supply of operational equipment to AGEP, ANB, ANRH, and the
water utilities.
3.08        For the rehabilitation program of water supply systems,  it is
proposed to contract out with private specialized companies following competitive
tendering.   The contracts would be based on target costs for water loss
reduction.  The contractors would get a bonus if actual costs are less than the
target costs, and a penalty if they are more. The contracts would be executed
in three phases. The first one would cover a quick study to determine whether
a large proportion of water unaccounted for in a subproject is resulting from



- 12 -
leaks in the system. Depending uponI this finding, a decision would be made on
whether or not the subproject should be undertaken.
3.09        In the second phase, the metering system would be rehabilitated,
water leaks detected and repaired, and an evaluation of the water network
operations carried out. In the third phase, the network would be recalibrated
with a system and procedures set out to control loss in the network. In each
city involved in the program, a unit would be detached from the water utility to
work with the specialized company. It is expected that by the time the program
is completed, the unit staff would be trained enough to take over leak detection
and repairs in the city. The rehabilitation program in a city is expected to
last about four years. A more detailed outline of the contract is provided in
Annex 4.
3.10        Given the high level of water pollution in the country, as a result
of the breakdown of most sewage treatment plants, it is proposed rehabilitating
24 of them.  Selection criteria of these plants that were agreed upon during
negotiations, are given in Annex 5.  In rehabilitating the selected plants,
particular attention would be paid to the disposal of liquid and solid wastes.
Whenever reuse of the plants' effluent in agriculture is not contemplated, it
should be disinfected prior to disposal.   Dry beds are used to process the
plants' sludge. Special equipment would be provided for safe transportation of
dried sludge to farms where it would be used in agriculture.
3.11        As additi.onal components, the project includes consulting services
to carry out detailed studies and environmental impact assessments of future
water works, and the supply of operational equipment. A list of these studies
and of operational equipment is shown in Annex 6. Special assistance would be
given to ANRH in the form of consulting services and provision of hydrologic and
operational equipment. ANRH is the national agency responsible for monitoring
water resources in the country. An overview of this agency is outlined in Annex
7. Terms of reference for a particular study of water resources development
management in Soummam Valley are outlined in Annex 8. For tendering purposes and
to speed up their procurement, similar items of equipment will be packaged
together.
Institutional Reforms
3.12        A proposal has been made to the Government for restructuring the
utilities to make them operate and maintain water systems under concessionary
arrangements with the Government as owner of the water systems. most of these
systems have been financed by Government grants and are not included in the asset
base of the utilities. For now, no system is in place to generate funds for
renewal and expansion of water works. Whenever this is required, the Government
until now has provided the necessary funds. A systematic change of this practice
is proposed, whereby the concession fees would be allocated for asset renewal and
expansion.
3.13        It is proposed that at the beginning, these institutional reforms be
carried out in only two utilities: one in the east (EPEA), and the other in the
west (EPEOR). These two utilities are now the best run in the country. The



- 13 -
proposed reforms would be experimented during the next two and a half years.
After evaluation, they would be standardized in the sector. At negotiations, the
Government agreed to complete the execution of concession agreements with all
utilities  in the sector by January  lst, 1997.   Meanwhile,  institutional
development assistance would be provided to the utilities to make them better
prepared for entering into the concession agreements with the Government.  A
discussion of these agreements is carried out in paras. 5.07-5.09.
3.14        A national tariff structure  is now applied for vater services
countrywide. This system, however, has created inefficiency in the provision of
the services. In places where the cost is higher than the tariff, consumers have
not made an efficient use of the supply. Meanwhile, in places where the cost
could be lower, operative inefficiency has predominated through high expenses and
waste. As shown in Annex 3, operating costs vary markedly from one region to
another. To make consumption more responsive to prices of the services, it is
proposed to apply regional tariffs.   A detailed discussion of the tariff
structure  is carried out in paras.  5.04-5.06 and 6.05-6.07.   As for the
concession agreements, the Government has agreed to apply regional tariffs by
January 1, 1997 at the latest.
Cost Estimtes
3.15        The estimated total cost of the project is DA 5,801.3 JDillion
(US$170.0 million), with a foreign exchange component of DA 4,481.3 million
(US$110 million), i.e., 64.7 percent of the total cost. A summary of the cost
estimates is given irt Table 4.1.   Detailed estimates and price escalation
calculation of project investments are provided in Annexes 9 and 10.
3.16        The cost estimates are based on an evaluation of the works that would
be required to reduce unaccounted for water and rehabilitate the sewage treatment
plants. It takes hold on previous experience in similar circumstances. The
estimates include taxes and duties. A 10 percent allowance has been added for
physical contingencies. Construction supervision is projected to account for
about 6 percent of the base cost. During project execution, local expenditures
are projected to increase by 20 percent in 1994, 18 percent in 1995, 16 percent
in 1996, 14 percent in 1997, 12 percent in 1998, and 10 percent in 1999 and 2000.
Foreign expenditures, meanwhile, are expected to increase by 3.4 percent in 1994,
2.9 percent in 1995, 3.0 percent in 1996, 2.7 percent in 1997, 2.7 in 1998, 2.5
in 1999, and 2.5 percent in 2000. Price escalation is forecast to amount to
about 31 percent of the base cost. To convert DA amounts in US$, exchange rates
of DA 36.0 for US$ 1.0 in 1994, DA 37.5 in 1995, DA 41.0 in 1996, DA 43.0 in
1997, DA 47.0 in 1998, DA 50.0 in 1999 and in 2000, are used.
3.17        The project provides  for an estimated 1,100 person-months  of
consulting services for project preparation and implementation, and for
institutional development assistance to AGEP, ANB, ANRH, and the utilities.



- 14 -
Table 3.1: Cost Estimates
LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL  LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL  PERCENT
ITEM                                                              OF TOTAL
DA Million               US$ Million
Water systems rehabiliation   539.0    1,012.0  1,551.0   24.5  48.0   70.5   54.5
Sewerage rehabititation  121.0   171.6   292.6    5.5        7.8    13.3      10.3
Subtotal        660.0    1,183.6  1,843.6   30.0     53.8   83.8       64.8
Physical contingencies  66 9     118.4   184.4    3.0        5.4    8.4        6.5
Project implementation  39.6      71.0   110.6    1.8        3.2    5.0        3.8
Project preparation     33.0     220.0   253.0    1.5       10.0    11.5       8.9
Supply of operational
equipment               17.6     191.4   2090     0.8        8.7    9.5        7.3
Institutional development  48.4  198.0   246.4    2.2        9.0    11.2       8.7
Total cost (Mid 1993 pnoes)  864.6    1,982.4  2,847.0   39.3  90.1   129.4  100.0
Price escalation       455.4    2,498.9  2,954.3   20.7     19.9   40.6       31.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST  1,320.0    4,481.3  6,813    60.0     110.0   170.0     131A
(current prices)
Prolect Executlon
3.18        A bar  chart  illustrating  construction phases  of  the project
components is shown in Annex 11. Project construction is expected to begin by
mid-1994 and to be completed by the year 2000.   Bids for the water supply
rehabilitation program are scheduled to be called by mid-1994, so as to allow for
a quick start-up of project- execution. The execution of the sewerage component
is expected to begin in early 1995.
3.19        The  Directions  de  1'Hydraulique  de Wilayate  (DHW)  would  be
responsible for the execution of the rehabilitation works. This responsibility
would be carried out in concert with the water utilities coneerned, with the
assistance of consultants acceptable to the Bank. For the purpose of Bank review
of contracts and loan disbursement, the works of the DHWs would be coordinated
by AGEP. Studies and environmental impact assessments included in the project
would be undertaken by concerned agencies, also with the assistance of
consultants acceptable to the Bank. All consultants under the project would be
retained not later than March 31, 1996, in accordance the Bank Group Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 15 -
Project Financing
3.20        A Bank loan of US$110 million is proposed to finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project. The loan would be made to the Government, to be
repaid over 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. Through the concession fees, the Government is expected to raise
a minimum of DA 1,549.0 million (US$54.1 million equivalent). The balance of
local cost would be financed by the Government who would keep ownership of the
works. An outline of the financing plan for the project is given in para. 6.08.
Cost Recoverv
3.21        Investments that the Government would make to rehabilitate the water
supply systems would be recovered through the payment of concession fees by the
utilities. As the systems are reshaped and produce more water for sale, the fees
would increase to achieve full cost recovery of the investments. In addition,
the Government would use part of the Bank loan to finance institutional
development assistance, and the supply of operational equipment to water
utilities in the country. This cost needs also to be recovered. To this effect,
whenever such financing is provided to utilities, the concession agreements with
these utilities would specify how repayment of expenses for technical assistance
and operational equipment should be made to Government. Repayment terms and
conditions might vary, depending upon the financial situation of a utility.
These terms and conditions would be reviewed at the time the Bank approves the
agreements.
Procurement
3.22        Proposed procurement arrangements for the project are depicted in
Table 3.2. A list of contracts to be placed for the project is given in Annex
12. The project elements have been distributed into contract packages that should
ensure efficiency and economy in project implementation, and at the same time
provide the opportunity for domestic contractors to participate in bidding.
Supplies of pipes, valves, and fittings for the water supply rehabilitation
component would be grouped into one contract.    For efficiency and cost
containment, single contracts covering both equipment supply and civil works
would be laid for the rehabilitation of sewage treatment plants. These contracts
would be for small amounts (less than US$800,000 each), dispersed, and of little
interest to foreign bidders. Therefore, they would be procured by LCB acceptable
to the Bank.
3.23        Except for those items, all other Bank-financed works and goods
contracts would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement- under IBRD Loans. To speed
up the procurement process, agreement was reached during negotiations on standard
sets of tender documents that would be used to procure civil works and equipment.
In particular, a special contract type has been prepared for the water supply
rehabilitation program. Since it will not be possible to determine in advance
bills of quantities for these rehabilitation works, a target price contract would
be used to implement this program. Contractors would be reimbursed against
actual costs of works performed plus a fixed fee. To provide incentives for
increasing performance, contractors would get a bonus if actual costs are less
than the target costs, or a penalty if they are higher. An outline of this
contract type is given in Annex 4.



- 16 -
ta2le 3.2: Sutmary of P-, uderocue,iienAtangruie
(US$ Million Equivalent)
PROJECT ELEMENT                                               TOTAL
IeB    LCB    OTHER   Ui.B.F.    COST
1. Works
1.1 Leak repairs                        -                70          7.0
12 Rehabilitation:
Water systems             41.5      -        -        -         41.5
(24.9)    -                           (24.9)
Wastewater systems         -       19.7      -        -         19.7
(11.8)                      (11.8)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment and machlnery:
vehides, trucks
daa procssIng             12.8      -        -       -          12.8
(10.0)                               (10.0)
2.2 Matelals.
Pipes, fitings, valves    46.5      -        -       -          46.5
(x325.5)                             (32.5)
3 Srnice cofr
3.1 Unaounted for
water reducwon             8.?      _        _       _           83
(5-8)                                 (58
4. Consultances
4.1  Projet inpmentation       -        -        3.6     -           3.6
(2.5)              (2.5)
42 Pro  preparation            -                15.50    _          15.5
(12.0)             (12.0)
4.3 Institutionsl deveopment   -        -       15.10    -          15.1
(10.5)             (10.5)
109.1     19.7     34.2     7.        170.0
TOTAL               (73.2)   (11.8)    (25.)             (110.0)
NOTE, FIgue In pae       s are t  respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. N.B.F.: Not Bank fnaeh
a      Finaed by the Algian Governmt; procured under LCB or by force account
b.     Needed for the Water Systems Rehabilitton Program.
C.     Prored In hcoordanie wth Worbd Bank's Gudelnes: Use of Consulknts by World Bank Borrows and by
the Wodd Bank as Executng Agency, August 1981.



- 17 -
3.24        With minor exceptions, local procurement regulations in Algeria have
been found acceptable to the Bank.  In this context, works contracts above a
thresbold of US$2 million would be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures.
The review process will cover about 89 percent of the total value of Bank-
financed works contracts.  Goods contracts above a threshold of US$300,000 would
also be subject to prior review, covering about 91 percent of the total value of
Bank-financed goods.   In evaluating bids for the supply of equipment and
materials, a 15 percent margin of preference or the actual customs duties,
whichever is lower, would be allowed for goods manufactured in Algeria.
Consulting services would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency.
Disbursement
3.25        The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment and materials; (ii) 80 percent of local
expenditures for goods procured locally; (iii) 60 percent of total expenditures
for civil works; (iv) 80 percent of total expenditures of consulting services for
project preparation; and (v) 70 percent of total expenditures of consulting
services for project implementation and institutional development assistance.
Overall, the Bank loan would finance about 65 percent of the planned investments.
3.26        Estimated quarterly disbursements of the loan and Government funds
have been derived from the Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 11), and are
shown in Annex 13.  The estimates match disbursement profiles of past water
projects in Algeria with due consideration of the status of project preparation.
Disbursement is projected to be somewhat slow during the first two years of
project execution, but to pick up rapidly thereafter.
3.27        In order to make prompt payments to contractors and consultants, the
Bank has agreed to advance regularly funds for the establishment of a Revolving
Fund in Algeria to cover these payments. The Fund would be maintained at the
Central Bank of Algeria for a maximum amount of US$7.0 million, which would cover
the Bank's sl re of eligible expenditures on the project over a period of four
months.   r   Fund would be maintained in US dollars and replenished by
reimbursement applications from the Government in US dollars. Applications with
appropriate supporting documentation, covering the use of the Fund, should be
submitted when approximately half of the maximum allowed avount in the Fund has
been spent.
3.28        The closing date of the loan would be December 31st, 2001, i.e. one
year after the end of the provisional acceptance and uaintenance period of the
works, which is the time needed to monitor their performance and to return
retention money on civil works contracts.



- 18 -
IV.  PROJECT -VJLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
ExecyAting Aiencv
4.01        The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Equipment through
the  nat.onal water  supply  agency Agence Nationale  de  1'Eau  Potable  et
Industrielle et de 1 'Assainissement (AGEP), and its local representatives for the
water sector in the wilayate (DHW). The water supply and sewerage rehabilitation
works would be implemented by the DHWs, in cooperation with the utilities.
Execution of the studies included in the project would be supervised by AGEP and
the Agence Nationale des Barrages (ANB). To facilitate Bank supervision, and
probably to speed up project implementation, all procurement activities under the
project would be centralized in AGEP.
4.02        Annex 14 shoaws AGEP's current organization.  1.is agency was created
in June 1985, but became operational only in 1987, with the mandate to provide
technical assistance to water supply enterprises. Its responsibilities encompass
technical support to water utilities, preparation of standards and norms, design
of tariff structures, recording of assets, and implementation of regional
projects.   To execute these tasks, AGEP has established four departments:
operations, works,  studies and programming,  and administration.   There is
agreement between the Bank and the Ministry of Equipment that AGE? so far has
only fulfilled the last part of its mandate, i.e. project construction
supervision.   AGEP has been the implementing agency of three ongoing Bank-
financed projects (Loan 2821-, 2591-, and 2461-AL) and has acquired experience
in this area.
4.03        At the time of AGEP's creation, there was a void in technical
capability for construction supervision, and quite naturally AGEP took over this
task. But an important element of its mandate, the assistance to the water
utilites, remains to be fulfilled, and an effort should be made to reach this
objective. A number of weaknesses have been hindering AGEP's operations. One
of them is an acute shortage of competent staff. As a ministry agency (EPA), its
salary scale is not competitive with those of the private sector. Consequently,
AGEP has been urable to recruit qualified staff.   The staff includes only
engineers, and no economists or financial analysts. It follows that its project
analysis capability is rather weak, focussed essentially on engineering aspects.
AGEP has also been suffering from excessive oversight by staff from the Ministry
of Equipment.
4.04        Complete restructuring of AGEP is envisaged under the proposed
project.   Its present responsibility for construction supervision will be
assigned to a new agency to be set up as an EPA. Meanwhile, the status of AGEP
would be changed into EPIC to make it the main regulatory agency for the urban
water supply sector. The restructured AGEP also will be the supervisory and
enforcement agency of the Government in relation to the concession agreements
with the water utilities. Under its new status, AGEP would be provided with
administrative and financial autonomy. As a result, it will be able to establish
a more competitive salary scale that would allow it to attract more qualified



- 19 -
professionals.   Part of the concession funds would be used to cover AGEP's
expenses. The proposed reforms would be carried out gradually, but should be
completed by January 1, 1997. The decree transforming AGEP's status into EPIC,
should  be  issued by  July  1,  1996.    During  the  transformation  period,
institutional development assistance would be provided to AGEP. A brief outline
of this assistance is given in paras. 4.06 and 4.07. Detailed terms of reference
for it are depicted in Annex 15.
Operatimn and NaIntenance
4.05        The rehabilitated works would be operated and maintained by the
utilities.   Their staff would be involved in their execution,  so as to
familiarize themselve. with operating peculiarities of these installations.
Norms to follow for operating and maintaining Government-owned facilities would
be covenanted in the concession agreements.  The staff are also expected to
participate in a large staff training program, currently under implementation.
Technical Assistance
4.06        As outlined in the project description, technical assistance would
be provided to the new AGEP, ANB, and the Agence Nationale des Ressources
Rydraul.lques (ANRH). The assistance to AGEP would include two parts. The first
one would involve the participation of experts in project analysis and appraisal.
It would cover the financial and economic tests that should be carried out for
projects, to determine their viability. Most of AGEP's studies are now executed
by consultants on the basis of terms of reference prepared by AGEP. The experts
would assist AGEP's staff in drafting these terms of reference and in evaluating
the consultants' reports.
4.07        The second part would address the technical assistance that the
restructured AGEP would be mandated to provide to water utilities in the country.
Experts would assist AGEP's staff in preparing operational procedures that C.e
utilities should follow in managing their systems. These procedures would in
particular cover commercial and financial activities. Together with the experts,
AGEP's staff should organize regular visits of the utilities to review their
operations and to collect operational data. The private sector in Algeria is
capable of providing this assistance to AGEP, and should be encouraged to do so.
Whenever it is necessary, foreign experts would be called upon and engaged by the
local private firm in charge of the assistance to AGEP.
4.08        As for AGEP, the assistance to ANB would focus on drafting terms of
reference for studies, and on reviewing studies and reports prepared by
consultants. Special training would also be given to ANB's staff on assessing
environmental impact of water resources development projects. The technical
assistance to ANRH would consist of an evaluation of ANRH's existing equipment
and current procedures to determine how they should be modernized and made more
effective.



- 20 -
ReDortin=
4.09        In order to monitor progress in project implementation, it was agreed
during negotiations that the Ministry of Equipment through AGEP woula submit, to
the Bank, quarterly reports on project activities by AGEP, ANB, ANRH, and the
concerned DHWs. These reports would in particular cover:
(i)   progress in procurement of equipment, materials, and civil
works, including revised timing of procurement actions such as
bidding and contract awards;
(ii) progress in rehabilitation of water networks and sewage
treatment plants;
(iii) expenditures on the project and updated cost estimates of
remaining works; and
(iv) execution and evaluation of the technical assistance programs.
4.10        Assurances were also obtained that, within six months following the
closing date of the loar., the Ministry of Equipment through AGEP would prepare
and submit to the Bank - completion report on the execution and initial operation
of the project, its costs and benefits derived or to be derived from it, the
performance and fulfillment by the Government, the Ministry of Equipment and its
agencies, and the Bank, of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement,
and the accomplishment of the objectives of the Bank loan.
Prolect Accounts and Audit
4.11        t.GEP maintains separate accounts and records of its projects.  A
financial controller from the Ministry of Economy regularly controls these
accounts.   Nevertheless,  they should be  audited by  independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. To this end, during negotiations agreement was reached
on appointing the Inspection Gin6rale des Finances (IGF) as such auditors, to
execute an annual audit of the project accounts, including the Revolving Fund
account.  Certified copies of the accounts as well as the auditors's reports
sho-ld be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of a
fiscal year.
V. WATER SUPPLY NANAGERNT
Background
5.01        Water supply operations in Algeria are managed by regional and wilaya
utilities. There are now, in total, thirty-five of them. The regional ones
usually cover adjacent wilayate with common water production systems, such as in
Setif, Oran, and Algiers. Other than this commonality, there seems to be no
other rationale for the adopted geographical division.   An impediment to a
rational approach for the partition of regional companies is the current



- 21 -
application of national uniform tariffs, a situation that is expected to change
under the proposed project (para. 6.06).
5.02        When regional tariffs are applied, it would become possible to use
market forces to determine the size and limits of regional utilities.   This
approach is described thereinafter,  Meanwhile, it is proposed to leave the
sector organization unchanged. As previously mentioned (para. 3.13), the new
institutional arrangements would be experimented with two regional utilities: the
Entreprfse de Productlon de Gestion et de Distribution d 'Eau d'Annaba (EPEA), and
the Ehtreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution d 'Eau d 'Oran (EPEOR).
A detailed description of their jurisdiction together with An evaluation of past
operations of these utilities are given in Annex 16. Tney would operate the
systems under concession agreements with the Government. A brief outline of
these agreements is given in paras. 5.07 to 5.09. Meanwhile, more details are
provided in Annex 17. A full French version of the concession agreements is
given in Annex 18,
5.03        A timetable for standardizing the use of these agreements in the
sector and for applying regional tariffs is depicted in a sector development
policy letter dated March 19th, 1994 (Annex 19), that the Government has
transmitted to the Bank. This letter also covers other policies, such as pricing
of sewerage services, environmental management of land and water resources, and
water usage regulations, that the Government is expected to implement in the
water resour'-es sector during the period 1994-2000.
Sector Structure
5.04        A national tariff structure is now applied for urban water services
in Algeria. However, the cost of providing these services differs from one
region to another. As a result, some utilities derive a rent, while others post
a deficit. If this situation exists in a group of adjacent wilayate, it would
be possible to agglomerate them into a regional. utility with its revenues and
expen3ss in equilibrium, without changing the current average tariff. It would
be more than a zero-sum-game operation, as Government subsidies now given to the
non-profitable utilities would no longer be necessary. It is thus possible to
come out from this regrouping with the ideal geographic division of the sector,
resulting from a search for economies of scale, population distribution and
densities, production costs, and operating efficiency of the utilities.
5.05        There are many ways to arrive at the ideal structure, and some
constraints should be placed to limit the number of solutions. One of them is
geographical boundaries. Obviously, a wilaya in the West should not be allowed
to associate with a wilaya in the East. They must maintain contiguity within the
same region. Another constraint should be the number of regional utilities.
There are now nine of them in the northern part of Algeria. This number should
be allowed to grow to no more than eleven, similar to the number of hydrographic
regions in the country. In fact, the strategy outlined here is to put in place
a system under which the existing regional utilities would take over the wilaya
enterprises. In the process, some wilaya enterprises might instead decide to
join together to form new regional utilities, or to stay independent. However,
as national tariffs would no longer be applied, wilaya utilities will have to set



- 22 -
their own tariffs, which might be much higher than regional ones. This should,
in principle, discourage wilayate from setting up thteir own utilities. But they
can opt for this alternative, if consumers are willing to pay the higher prices,
including concession fees to the Government.
5.06        Under the proposed system, managed competition would be used to set
up the sector structure in Algeria. Regional utilities around a wilaya would be
allowed to bid for taking over the water supply system in that wilaya. Normally,
two to three regional utilities, at the most, would be in a position to submit
concessionary bids.  One should expect that the most efficiently run utility
should win the bid. To ensure transparency in the process, a study should be
carried out by the Government to determine what should be the cost of the
services in the wilaya, so that the winning bid can be qualified. Following the
bidding, the tariffs of the regional utility that has won the concession, would
need to be adjusted to reflect the new cost of the services. The bidding process
should be initiated and managed by the Government. The regional utilities might
propose possible takeovers, but should not be allowed t3 start takeover
discussions with wilaya enterprises without prior Government authorization.
Concess ionarv Arrangements
5.07        Two central features have been at the root of slow progress in the
sector development in Algeria. The first one relates to the Government's poor
cost recovery scheme under which major investments have been financed by
subsidies.   The second one refers to the application of a national tariff
structure, unrelated to the real cost of providing the services. The tariff has
been assumed to cover only operating costs, and no allowance has been made for
asset renewal and expansion. Under the proposed concessions, both features would
disappear, as concession fees would be calculated on the basis of the capital
required for asset renewal and expansion.
5.08        Tariffs to be levied in a region would be determined as the sum of
efficient operating and maintenance costs in the region, and the concession fees.
Both the tariffs and concession fees would be adjusted annually on the basis of
an indexation formula covering all major components in the water supply industry,
such as labor, electricity, and chemicals.  Any operational profit would be
retained by the utility management and shared among its staff as performance
bonuses. This will provide an incentive for the utilities to compress operating
expenses, expand operations and increase revenues, and consequently bonuses.
Concurrently, the utilities would be under the obligation to provide an agreed
upon level of service, including a rate of service expantsion. In this context,
the concession agreements should specify the types of investment and equipment
renewal to be made by the utilities, and those by the Government.
5.09        The concessions would have a duration of six years, but would spell
out special circumstances for their cancellation.   One of them could be
unsatisfactory performance by a utility. They would also set out the tariffs
that would be applied at inception of the concession period and circumstances and
procedures for their indexation and possible revision. Under the new
institutional arrangements, the tariffs would be integrated in the concession
agreements and no longer be part of a national decision.   Drafts of these



- 23 -
agreements for the two selected utilities, EPEA and EPEOR, were approved during
negotiations. Their execution would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Any
proposed modification of these concessions should be submitted for the Bank's
prior approval. Their termination, without prior consultation with the Bank,
should be cause for suspension of loan disbursements.
Organixation sad Management
5.10        There would be some variations in the organization of the different
regional utilities. But the organizational core essentially would remain the
same.   Since a utility covers various wilayate. a branch office would be
established in each of them. The setup would be completed in a wilaya with the
establishment of an administrative unit in each daira. This organization follows
the country's administrative subdivision, and might not always be the most
efficient one, as the work load might differ among the dairas. But for a start,
it should be accepted until a cost accounting system is in place that would
determine the resulting costs in the dairas and decide on the opportunity of
equipping them with units. The head office would be locrted in the largest urban
area.
5.11        Annex 22 shows a proposed organizational structure of the regional
utilities.  Four departments would be established at the head office: finance,
commercial, administration/personnel, and engineering/operations. At a branch
level, a similar organization would be set up. Meanwhile at a daira level, only
two divisions would be put in place: commercial, and engineering/operations.
Executive Boards, made up of representatives of the Government, the industrial
sector, and consumers, would evaluate the utilities' policies and operations, and
set out directions and priorities. In addition, Administrative Boards,composed
of the utilities' managers, would evaluate results and discuss corrective
measures.
5.12        Internal audit sections, reporting directly to the General Managers,
would be set up in the utilities. Two other sections, dealing respectively with
legal questions and public relations, would also be put in place.
Staffing
5.13        For now, staff productivity in the regional utilities is considered
low. The number of customers per employee vary from 63 in EPEA to 110 in EPEOR.
Ratios twice higher have been observed in neighboring countries. Most of the
excess staff, however, are in the low grade jobs such as guardians and
messengers, and more professionals would need to be recruited.   Until now,
Government salary structures have been applied in the water industry. This
situation is expected to change in the newly restructured utilities, as they
would be free to set salary scales that would make them more attractive to
qualified profeseionals.
Commerelal OperAtlons
5.14        The commercial operations of EPEA and EPEOR are not now run
efficiently. Long delays occur from the end of a billing period to the time



24 -
bills are dispatched to consumers. Collection is neither efficient. To redress
this situation, technical assistance would be provided to these utilities to
design and put in ylace an effective commercial system. Terms of reference for
this assistance are given in Annex 23.
5.15        EPEA and EPEOR currently bill household customers quarterly, while
industries and other large consumers are billed monthly. This practice would
continue Lo the future, except that household bills would be issued on a
continuous cycle. lIt addition to consumption, the utilities levy fixed charges
for connection maintenance and meter rental. At the end of 1993, arrears for
water consumption averaged eight months of sales.
Acc.ounting System
5.16        The utilities'  accounts would be kept on an accrual basis and
computerized. The computer equipment has been in service for some time, and the
staff have been trained in this area. Payroll, budgets, and stock management
would also be computerized. The utilities should quickly begin developing a cost
accounting system. The limited assets whose renewal rests with the utilities
would be re-evaluated annually on the basis of an index to be introduced in the
concession agreements.   As indicated in para. 4.02, AGEP will manage the
Government-owned assets.
Other llanagement Procedu-res
5.17        The utilities' annual accounts would be audited by external auditors
acceptable to the Government and the Bank. The selection and appointment of such
auditors would be recorded in the concession agreements. These auditors' annual
reports should be submitted to the Government and the Bank not later than
September 30th of each year.   Assurances to this effect were given during
negotiations. This requirement would be recorded in the concession agreements.
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that Bank staff would be given
access to any other report they might need to evaluate progress in project
implementation.
5.18        The  utilities  would  also  establish  procedures  for  personnel
management and staff training. An information system would be put in place to
allow quick and full dissemination of management data in the utilities.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Overview
6.01        As mentioned earlier in this report, two regional utilities, EPEA and
EPEOR, have been selected to experiment with the proposed concessionary
arrangements in the water supply sector. After evaluation at the end of 1996,
the experiment would be replicated along similar lines at other water supply
utilities. The organization, staffing, and management procedures of EPEA and



- 25 -
EPEOR are discussed in paras. 5.10-5.18. This chapter deals with their financial
performance, past and future.
6.02        At present, EPEA and EPOR provide service to about 70X of their
jurisdictional areas.   As they expand service to small agglomerations, the
average unit cost of water produced will increase, although some of the 'ncrease
may be compensated by overall efficiency gains.   Tariff increases will be
necessary in the future because of the expansion just mentioned and the ongoing
inflation. A uniform national tariff schedule is currently applied for water
services. The recommendation is made for introducing regional tariffs.
Past and Present Financial Performance
6.03        The actual income statements, balance sheets,  and sources and
applications of funds statements of EPEA and EPEOR --e given in Annexes 24 and
25. Highlights of their 1993 financial performance -.;-pear in Table 6.1,
Table 6.1:  Financial Indicatorg in 1293
REGIONAL      OPERATING     COLLECTIOM      PAYABLE    CURRENT   DEBT:EQUIVY
UflLfIY        RATIO     PERIOD, MONTHS    MONTHS       RATIO       RATIO
EPEA             0.87            6             17         2.6          6:94
EPEOR            0.86           8             33          1.5          77:23
6.04        Although EPEA and EPEOR had fairly acute operating problems in the
period 1991-1993, there is evidence that in 1993 the discipline associated with
the project was already producing improvements. Both utilities had favorable
operating ratios, and their outstanding receivables were lower. However, both
utilities had unacceptably high payables. Further, EPEOR had a very unfavorable
debt to equity ratio. The year 1993 was particularly difficult for EPEOR on
account of a severe drought in the Oran region, which severely curtailed the
amount of water available. As a result, the volume of water sold dropped from
91 million m3 in 1992 to 55 million m3 in 1993, and a rationing system was
introduced to meet the demand. In the meantime, EPEOR was able to remain solvent
by sharply increasing its volume of outside civil works.
=yeniia and Costp
6.05        Water utilities in Algeria derive their revenues from water sales,
meter rentals and repairs, and civil works. In 1993, EPEA's revenues from water
sales accounted for about 84X of total revenues, EPEOR's only about 65X. In
time, however, water sales at these utilities are expected to represent over 90X
of their total revenues. It should be pointed out that, in the absence of cost
accounting systems, costs are not systematically allocated to each of the major
activities, all expenses being treated as period costs. An analysis shows that
the 1993 average revenues and costs of water sold per m3 by EPEA were DA 3.96 and



- 26 -
DA 3.55, while the average cost of water produced was DA 2.51. The corresponding
1993 figures for EPEOR were DA 5.24, DA 4.89, and DA 3.13.
Table-La: Watgr Tariff Structure
EXISTING STRUCTURE
ANNUAL
WATER USAGE       ALLOWANCE, M3     TARIFF DA/K3      WATER RATES IN 1994
Household           0 - 100           1.00 U'                 2.20
100 - 220           2.50 U                 5.50
221 - 330           4.25 U                 9.35
> 330           5.00 U                11.00
Public              Uniform           3.50 U                  7.70
Commercial             n              4.25 U                  9.35
Industrial             "              5.00 U                 11.00
6.06        Under the proposed sector restructuring (para. 3.12), the utilities
would be responsible for system operation and maintenance, and mechanical
equipment renewal. The Government would be responsible for system expansion and
renewal. The tariffs should be sufficient to satisfy both obligations. For the
Government, an important source of financing would be the concession fees (para.
5.08). As costs differ from one region to another, regional r.triff structures
should be applied. A simpler structure should also be adopted for different
classes of consumption. The present national structure is made up of seven
classes inclusive of four for households, and one each for public dwellings,
commercial activities and industries. Effective January lst, 1994, the national
water tariffs have been increased by 33X. The rates that are now in force are
given in Table 6.2.
6.07        The new tariffs would allow EPEA and EPEOR to meet their operating
expenses, service their debts, and begin to service their concession obligations.
These tariffs have been specified in the agreements between the Government and
the utilities.  They would be indexed to inflation and cost increases, and
adjusted annually. The execution of the concession agreements with EPEA and
EPEOR is a condition of effectiveness.
I/   'U* is the unit charge levied for water use in the first block of domestic conimiptian.
A multiplicator is applied for uses in other blocks.



- 27 -
Financinj Plan
6.08        The project's financing plan is set out in Table 6.3.  Financing
sources would be concession fees, Government funds, and the proposed Bank loan.
Z     l3: FinansgPlan (1994 - 2000)
DA               USS             PERCEW
lMillion
Proposed Projed                5,801.3            170.0              83.9
Capitalized Interest           1.3322              &i ii
Total Requirmento            730.7                                 10.
Concession Fees               1,549.0             54.1               26.7
Govwrnmt Finandng             1.,102                                 i n
Total Nalional Funding       2.2                                   4 57
Proeseds of Bank Loan        4,481.3            110.0              54.3
TOTAL SOURCES
future Financial Perfgmnce
6.09        Forecasts of future financial performance by EPEA and EPEOR are
outlined in Annexes 24 and 25. Assumptions made in preparing these forecasts are
described in Annex 26.  Assuming that greater staff productivity and cost
containment would materialize as conceived in the forecasts, these utilities
should be able to maintain a healthy financial situation during the projection
period. The projections assume that collection periods would be reduced to four
months by year 2000 from the present level of around 8 months. Meanwhile,
payment periods would decrease from the present 17 and 33 months to about 4 and
10 months, respectively for EPEA and EPEOR.   The operating ratio of both
utilities would fluctuate around 0.9 during the projection period.   Amounts
equivalent to 20X of basic personnel costs have been provided for staff
performance bonuses. This is expected to provide a strong incentive for staff
to fulfill the objectives of the proposed project. The projected tariffs are
estimated to be within the margin of consumers' affordability, and should not
generate increased levels of receivables.



- 28 -
Nonitorina System
6.10        Annex 27 gives the technical and financial indicators that the
Government should monitor to evaluate the utilities' performance. This Annex
also shows values forecast for the indicators in the years 1994 through 2000.
These forecasts should be covenanted in the concession agreements.   During
negotiations, it was agreed that the Government, as part of its progress reports
to the Bank, would report on the evolution of the indicators to the Bank on a
quarterly basis during the project execution. The Government hps also engaged
itself to carry out any action suggested by the Bank, aiming at meeting targeted
values of the indicators.
VII.  ECONO_IC JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits
7.01        Because of its different components, the project would give rise to
a number of complementary benefits.   First, through its main objective of
reducing unaccounted for water, it would increase available production and
consequently water sales in the project area. Total water production in the
cities where the network rehabilitation program would be executed, is currently
estimated at 128 Km3/year.   Only 55 percent of this production,  i.e. 70.4
Mm3/year, is now recorded as sales to consumers. It is expected that, by the end
of the project execution, this percentage would increase to 80 through the
recovery of 32 Nm3/year.
7.02        Other elements of this program include network recalibration and
mapping. The first one is expected to bring better services to consumers through
more adequate water pressure and less interruptions in the distribution. There
are many public health benefits inherent in a continuous service, as the risks
of pollution entering the water system are curtailed to a minimum.   The
availability of maps of the systems would help in increasing work productivity
in the utilities. At present, there are no detailed maps of the distribution
network. Before proceeding with repairs in the network, very often much time
must be spent searching for the location of pipes and other buried equipment.
Faster repairs should become possible with the availability of maps.
7.03        As a complementary approach to optimizing water production in the
country, it is proposed to assist ANRH in monitoring water resources, and to
finance a number of studies of water production systems. These studies are aimed
at identifying the works to be built, in addition to further rehabilitation, to
meet future water demand in the country.
7.04        The last project component deals with sewerage rehabilitation in the
country. This component benefits would be translated in improved environment,
better public health conditions, and enhanced welfare of the population.



- 29 -
Least-Cost Alternative
7.05        The proposed project is the least-cost way of improving water supply
service in Algeria. While new investments could be made to increase production
to meet expanded demand, this would lead to a larger percentage of unaccounted
for water and faster depletion of the resources. In a water sector study carried
out recently by the Bank, it has been estimated that, if unaccounted for water
could be reduced to 20 percent from its present 45 percent, the available fresh
water resources could meet the demand by an extended period of 10 years from 2020
to  2030.    Whenever water  losses are higher  than  the  above percentage,
rehabilitation works should be undertaken first, prior to production expansion.
Economic Return
7.06        Annex 28 outlines the assumptions made in calculating the return on
the proposed investments. The economic rate of return on the project, excluding
the sewerage rehabilitation program, would be about 17 percent. Benefits from
the water supply rehabilitation program are valued using the water production
cost of DA 3.00/m3 in 1994, times the volumes of water recovered of S2 Mm3/year
beginning in year 2000.
7.07        A number of benefits relating to the sewerage component have already
been mentioned in para. 7.04.   They are, however, difficult to quantify in
monetary values. The most obvious benefits would result from savings that would
incur in treating waters for urban supply downstream of the sewerage works. But
most of the benefits would come from environmental improvements which are
intangible in nature.
7.08        A sensitivity analysis has been carried out on changes in benefits
and costs on the project. An increase of 20 percent in the cost stream would
reduce the return to 15 percent. A reduction of 10 percent in the costs would
increase the return to 20 percent. A decrease of 20 percent in the projected
tariffs would reduce the return to 12 percent. This analysis shows that as long
as no radical changes occur during project execution, the project would be worth
undertaking from an economic viewpoint.
Economic Efficiency
7.09        Annex 28 shows basic assumptions for calculating the long-run
marginal costs (LRMC) in the regions of Annaba and Oran. At the expected 1994
price levels, it is estimated to be US$0.31/m3 (DA 11.16/m3) in Annaba and
US$0.45/m3 (DA 16.20/m3) in Oran.  These estimates corroborate the hydrologic
situation in Algeria where much more water resources are avail ble in the east
(Annaba) than in the west (Oran). The projected average revenues of DA 6.07/m3
in Annaba and DA 6.82/e3 in Oran in 1994 are below the respective LRMCs in these
regions. For economic efficiency, the tariffs of large consumers would need to
be raised in real terms over the coming years.
7.10        The current tariff structure calls  for progressive  rates  for
increasing consumption blocks. It provides for a first subsidized block of 100
m3 per family per year. As consumption increases, higher rates are levied. In



- 30 -
Annaba, apart from the first three domestic categories up to 330 M3 per year,
consumers in the other categories and industries are charged tariffs close to the
marginal cost.   Thus, to some extent, economic efficiency ls being achieved in
the Annaba region, while at the same time safeguarding social equity. To attain
similar results in Oran, the tariffs of domestic customers consuming more than
330 m3 per year, and for other uses would have to increase annually by 7 percent
in real terms to equal the LRMC in year 2000.
Environmental Impact
7.11        The project will have a major positive impact on the environment.
By stopping leakages in the water distribution network, it will improve
sanitation in urban areas, through the elimination of water pools, a propitious
environment for the development of germ carrier vectors. A rehabilttated water
network would provide better assurances against infiltration of wastewater in the
network, and possible contamination of the drinking water and spread of vector-
borne diseases. The rehabilitation of sewage treatment plants would contribute
to a major improvement of water quality in Algeria. Wastewaters, now generated
in urban areas, are disposed of without treatment. As a result, the environment
around these areas has been seriously affected.  The project is expected to
redress this situation in a number of them.
7.12        In rehabilitating the sewage treatment plants, necessary precautions
would be taken to ensure that the plants' effluent and sludge are disposed of
without damaging the environment. When it is not reused in irrigation, the
effluent would be disinfected prior to disposal. As indicated in para. 3.10, the
plants' sludge would be composted for use in farming. The plants' operations
would be monitored to ensure the safe use of their effluent and sludge in
agriculture. Appropriate safeguard instructions would be given to farmers. In
this context, prior to undertaking the rehabilitation of a plant, the necessary
investigation and analysis would be carried out to ensure that there is no
industrial discharge that might affect the plant operation.
7.13        Because treatment plants and other project construction might have
limited adverse environmental effects, the project has been rated "Category B".
Necessary precautions will be taken to keep effects resulting from construction,
such as noise, air pollution, and population influx, to a minimum.
Institution Building
7.14        A major project objective remains the institutional reforms that are
expected to be accomplished in the sector.   These expectations include the
establishment of financially viable utilities; the application of tariffs,
promoters of water conservation; and effective cost recovery. To realize them,
the project proposes a first start toward privatization of the sector through the
introduction of concessions for the management of the systems.   It further
recommends contracting out: (i) leak detection and repair works; (ii)
optimization of meter reading and billing; and (iii) customer survey and
recording. The project covers about 20 percent of sector operations in Algeria.
If successful, it will be replicated for the rest, to achieve a major sector
reform in the country.



- 31 -
Riskgs
7.15        There are some risks associated with project execution.  The major
one relates to the Government not living up to its obligations under the proposed
concession agreements with the utilities, particularly with regards to tariff
adjustment and other support to the utilities, relating to the payment of water
consumption by public entities. If this occurs, the utilities in return might
not be able to meet their obligations, with the end result of project failure in
terms of institutional reforms. As a first action toward minimizing this risk,
the concession agreements with EPEA and EPEOR have been reviewed and approved by
the  Bank  during  negotiations.    Their  ratification  is  a  condition  of
effectiveness. Further action would be a mid-torm review in the summer of 1997
to evaluate possible deviations from the loan agreement and necessary corrective
measures.
7.16        Other risks may surface in the execution of the rehabilitation works.
In general, these are slow, tedious, difficult undertakings.  As it is not
possible to identify them with exactness, the estimates are not utterly reliable.
To manage these risks, it is proposed to hold two seminars at project inception,
to discuss the leak detection program and procurement. The aim is to set out in
advance, actions that would need to be taken to keep project execution and costs
under control.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION
8.01        Agreement having been reached on the issues outlined in Chapters III
through VII, and subject to the condition of effectiveness set forth in paras.
5.09 and 7.15, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$110 million
to the Government of Algeria for a term of 17 years including 5 years of grace.
Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
May 5th, 1994



- 32 -
AN=1
Page 1 of 4
DEORXI MM  OPOPULAR REA .LIC OF ALERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
LAN AND_ VATER RESOURCS
GeffiffralFere a
1.          With an area of about 2.4 m'llion km2, Algeria is the largest country
in North Africa. Host of this area, however, extends into the Sahara Desert, is
unfit for agriculture, but rich in mineral resources. North of the Saharan Atlas
is a semi-arid region encompassing a coastal strip along the Mediterranean, the
interior plains, some highlands near the coast, and the high plateaux. More than
90 percent of the population lives in this region. The mean annual rainfall in
this northern part of the country varies between 300 mm and 1,000 mm, exceeding
600 mm only in the central and eastern coastal plains where rich arable land is
found. It is less than 100 mm south of the Atlas in the Sahara.
2.          There are 17 major river basins in Algeria.  Some of them are shared
by other countries: the Medjerda with Tunisia; the Tafna, Guir, Dra and Daoura
with Morocco; and the Niger by Mali and Niger. Based on rainfall and surface
water regime, climate, and soil characteristics, 11 hydrographic regions have
been  identified  in  the  country:    Oranie,  Cheliff,  Algeroise,  Soummam,
Constantinoise,  Annaba,  Nedjerdah-Mellegue,   Hodna-Zahres  Sersou,  Aures
Nementchas, Chott Chergui South Atlas, and Southern Algeria.   This regional
distribution is used in comparing water demand with the available s-"ply in
different parts of the country.
3.          Administratively, Algeria is divided into 48 provinces (wilayate),
567 counties (dairate), and 1,540 communes.   At the provincial lcvel, the
executive is headed by a Governor (Wali), and his cabinet includes
representatives of each of the Central Government's ministries.
FoMUlation Distribution
4.          The 1987 census recorded a population of 23 million in Algeria, half
of it living in urban areas. A previous census was carried out in 1977. Between
these two censuses, the population kept growing at an average annual rate of 3.1
percent. The urbanization rate also increased during that period from 39 percent
in 1977 to 50 percent in 1987.  The expectation is that the share of urban
population will continue to increase, reaching 58 percent of the total population
by the year 2000. The stationary population in Algeria is projected to be around
76 million. As previously mentioned, more than 90 percent of the population
lives in the northern part of the country, accounting for only 12 percent of the
land. As a result, the population density - relatively high in this part. It
ranges from 50 persons per km2 in the st. ,pe to 220 persons per km2 in the
coastal plains. In fact, almost 40 percent of- the total population resides along
the coast between Oran and Annaba in a strip accounting for less than 2 percent
of the total area. Only 7 percent of the total population lives in the southern
part of the country.



- 33 -
ANN9X X
Page 2 of 4
5.          Over 70 percent of the total population lives in fixed settlements
that need to be provided with public water supply and sewerage services. The
rest of the population is dispersed, necessitating at the most the provision of
water points for its supply. About 44 percent of 41gerians are under 15 years
of age, 65 percent under 25 years of age. Although one-fourth of the urban
population is concentrated in the capital city, Algiers, there exist in addition
a number of relatively large and medium-size cities distributed across the
northern part of the country, where public services such as water supply and
sewerage can be provided at a reasonable cost. This distribution suggests that
a decentralized sectoral organization for urban water supply can be implemented
in Algeria, provided the necessary st&ff can be found to manage the resulting
independent systems.
Land Resources
6.          Out of a total land area of 238 million ha, only 40 million ha are
considered suitable for farming.  Less than 10 percent of this arable land,
however, is actually under cultivation, while another 10 percent is laying
fallow.  Some 31 million ha are used for pasture and grazing, and about 3.7
million ha in raising cereals such as corn and sorghum. Most of the Algerian
territory consists of the Sahara Desert and is not usable for agriculture. Land
evaluation is still in progress in Algeria. At the end of 1986, the evaluation
was completed for a total area of 5.8 ha.
7.          Overall, irrigated farming is practiced on about 320,000 ha, a very
small percentage of the cultivable land.   Government plans are to expand
irrigated land by 20,000 ha yearly. So far, however, little progress has been
made in this area. The best arable land, about 168,000 ha, is found in the
western part of Algeria; but less than 10 percent of this land is presently under
irrigation.   The fact is that farming in Algeria heavily relies on rainfall.
As a result of good rainfall in the last two years, the amount of fallow land has
decreased, but erosion has accelerated with an estimated loss of 15,000 ha of
steppe land eve'y year. This soil degradation has led to siltation problems in
the reservoir system, with the resulting loss of capacity and deterioration of
water quality for urban supply. Land management is 8 pressing issue that the
Government should address forthrightly, if surface water quality is to be
lmproved, and water structures such as impounding dams, transmission facilities
and irrigation grids are to provide continuous benefits.
8.          Algeria is endowed with 1.5 million ha of canopied forests.  The
dst,:estation rate during the first half of the 1980s, however, was 40,000 ha
each year. About half million ha of land is classified as protected areas.
Vater Resources
9.          Total water resources in Algeria are estimated at 19.1 billion m3 per
year, comprising 12.4 billion m3 of surface water and 6.7 of groundwater.
Surface waters are particularly abundant in the coastal plains (11.1 billion m3),
but decrease rapidly in the steppe (0.7 billion m3) and in the Saharan Atlas
(0.6 billion n3) . Because of irregular flows and heterogeneous distribution, the
surface water resources cannot readily be exploited for irrigation and urban



- 34 -
Page 3 of 4
water supply.  Most of the rivers are dry in the summer, and their quality
deteriorates in the winter, because the rising flows have high solid contents.
Their regulation through costly reservoirs is often required to obtain
economically exploitable yields. It is estimated that, with full damming, about
5.7 billion m3 per year or 46 percent of the surface waters in northern Algeria
could be mobillzed for irrigation and urban water supply. Presently, an average
of 2.2 billion m3 is exploited from a total of 45 impounding dams.   Large
investments remain to be made for full mobilization of the surface water
resources.
10.         As a result of high infiltration from storm runoff and surface water
resources, and of the existence of large fossil water deposits, groundwater is
available over much of the country. The average annual yield of groundwater is
estimated at 6.7 billion m3, but more than two thirds of these resources (4.9
billion m3) are located in the Sahara Desert. Their evaluation was carried out
in the course of oil exploration and drilling, and with the help of simulation
models.   These aquifers lie very deep under the ground surface, and their
exploitation would ie costly. When economically feasible, their utilization
should be essentially for local consumption. Any water transfer scheme appaars
to be an expensive proposition that should not be included in a mid-term balance
sheet of available water resources.
11.         Of the 1.8 billion m3 of groundwater available in northern Algeria,
1.5 billion m3 are already in exploitation, particularly in the coastal plains.
The unexploited balance of 0.3 billion m3 is essentially in tne steppe in Zahrez,
Chott Hodna and Chott Chergui.  Thus, the average yield of water resources,
excluding groundwater in the Sahara, with full development of storage, is
estimated at 7.4 billion m3/year. This should be sufficient to cover the water
needs for urban, industrial and agricultural use until the early part of the next
century. Beyond that, it will be necessary to reclaim wastewaters and to tap
non-renewable groundwater in the northern part of the Sahara, and later on to
demineralize brackish water to meet the demand. This situation already exists
in some urban areas along the coast, such as in Oran, where the present demand
exceeds the available supply in the river basin, and water must be transferred
from the adjacent Chelif basin.   Also, in other regions, it might be more
economical to reclaim wastewater instead of tapping additional outside fresh
water.
12.         Most urban are&s are presently supplied with groundwater, also a main
source of water for irrigated farming. While surface water is under-exploited,
groundwater resources are already utilized to more than 80 percent of their full
capacity. Domestic, public and industrial uses currently account for about 34
percent of water used. These needs, however, will expand rapidly with larger
population and possibly higher per capita consumption associated with greater
income. It is estimated that, presently, irrigation farming is in use in only
4 percent (320,000 ha) of the arable land.
13.         The following table gives the volumes of water consumed in 1987 by
different types of users. Serious water shortages, and potential conflicts of
use, are likely to develop in the more densely populated watersheds, and along
the coastal areas where the majority of the population is concentrated. In the



- 35 -
Page 4 of 4
long run, reclamation of wastewater and eventually desalination will become
necessary to meet the demand.
Water Use in 1987
(Million m3)
By End-user             Volume             Percent
Households                  580                24
Industry                    159                 7
Public                       70                 3
Irrigation               1.584                 66
TOTAL              La. 910.0
ealautorl Framework
14.         The institutional perspective of the water resources sector in
Algeria is geared toward improving the nation's welfare. The Constitution states
that water resources belong to the nation's people and should be used for their
welfare and prosperity. Emphasis is also on protecting the environment. These
objectives are spelled out in three legislative frameworks: the Water Code or
Law No. 83-17 (1983); Law No. 83-03 (1983) relating to environmental protection;
and Decree No. 85-266 (1985> regulating the provision of public water and
Sanitation services. Under the Water Code, usage priority of the water resources
is given first to drinking water, followed by agriculture use and industry.
Decree No. 92-100 (1992) regulates the establishment and operation of water
utilities in the country. The regulation and operation of large-scale irrigation
areas are spelled out in Decrees No. 85-259 and 261 (1985). Meanwhile, the
disposal and management of national lands are regulated by Law No. 84.16 of June
30, 1984.  It should be noted that, while these regulations are full of good
intent, their application is not always carried out to the letter of the law.
This is particularly the case for environmental and pricing regulations.



DEMOCRATIN JWD POUAREPUOLIC ALGERIA
WATER 8UPPLY AND SEWERAE REILTATION 
COST OF WATER SUPPLY SERVIE IN 1982
POPULATION, 1000
TOTAL   9 SRSVB)  NO. SERVICE              WATER    PERCAPITA           OPERATI        AVERAGE
UNES    SALES, 106 MS    CON& LCD        COSTS. 10 ODA        COST
(l)          (2)                            (4)(L()                                        )
A11110110            8,415           64        243,400            126.            119             W7.0          4.00
Annaba                 841           78         60,000             55*           239              168.0         3.05
ChIet                1.416           20    D     8.20              15.6          161               35.5         2.14
C _saatanlln.        1.914           62        112.800             Sao0            8              18.7          4.41
m1m                  1,7             45         79200              20.0           so              10.0             4
Oran                 2.9             am        205.700             88.0           125             363.0         4.01
6619                 1,4             46         s5.101             24.4           82                5.0         S.9O
Xbd                    OSS           3S         28.700              7.9                            42.8         6.42
Im,9           73        126                 37.0            82              167.0         4.1
WYAIITS
Ad                      772          es          el7                2.0            82               9.e         2.0
B                                    Sy0  7     6O0                1"            t10               75.            02
ea                     20            so         18,200             12.9           18               3.7          2.79
SaWs                   01            8          MM50                a.9            78              34*0         3*
_a                     41            431        .2a0               14.4           187              25.9          167
Dub                   607            53         71M00               5.             47              11           2.23
0Ousd                  44            27         1 0                 4.0           1                102 
El11h                   72                       0,    f i          1.5           0                 9.4         w*@
O_de                   20            07         41.100                             7                            4.1                      a
Gushow                 410           go         2.160                              7               25.0         4*
mmb                     S4           07          2.00               OA            88 41                         7.75
ua                     804           99         1260                6.2           175              38.9          .5
Lagho                  S                        17,00               0.6           1S3              26.4          3.42
W166                   311           57         16,800              4.7           107              20.8         4.4
Meotag...              500           56 1G,600                      *.1            82              43.1          4A8
Nsa..                   60           60         11,000              30 so         12                7.4         4.88
0            . a am    6             78         24.00               0.3           139              23.3           5
Ouft*                  810           el         29.400             19.6           17               02.4         4.20
Palmt.                 627           37         21,700              6.2            73              14.0         2.5
asI Sl Ab              ale           40          0.800             09.            129              15.4          1.02
Samd.                  279           as         24.D0               8.5           131              14.4         1.00
Skda                   712           51         26.00              15.9           120              48.6         3.05
Sm*-Ahra               106           70          9.900              4.6           171              27.7         5.10
TaMeWa                  44           as          3.,00              0.6            48               3.0         0.00
Tabos                  Soo0          as         38,700              5.7            61              34.0         6.99
llnduf                  20           74          l,60o              0.6           111               32          6.23
ALGMERIA             MIS55-                                                                      UL.4
_                -               ~~~~~~~~_                                         _,
NOTE: lalCok  ^( gve. w pcea        oodu  lpopultion need by to te.
In tal In 1692 Uty pmAlded ervls  to 142...9000 poopl. L.. aboeaMof Otm total population.
ibi Column (5) Ib ra to betwm cdumn (4) and coumn (1) tims column (2).
Ija Column (7) laobtalwed by dhh     cohmn (6) by comn (4).



DUdOCAAWMADOFPlA                  aR
fTW  SUPPLY AND _W E       E RABIhT&           PRWWT
6R_ MOSrOFW ATf SUJPPLY S0VCEN 1N
OPERATINdaCOSTS  WATEt SALEM        OffRCDOT  CAPITAL ASSETS          PROVISION   ALLOWANME   TOrALCOST          CAPITAL
tOOlA          looms      PERMS, DA            IOODA  FOR ASiEWAL    PERM8 DA              CARA  CONS.A A
USODA
(1)                           (                (4)            ()            (6)             ) 
RE MA
A*t*                                 71S.0           186.            581            12.175          243A           1.8           7.11           34
Annaba                               810.0            01.0           5.18            2.000           40.o          0.06          6.84           19
C0J                                    60.8           18.0           2.7*            1.01            14.0          188           4.18           40
C     _wWIn                           224.i           88.0           5.78            5.087           100.7         2.69          8.7            4
Medea                                 182.     9      22             G8       S       .013           50.8          2.70          0.6            se
Oane                                  $81n.          O6.0            6.6e            9.160           68.0          1.18          6.2            20
Sawl                                  184.5           15.4           6.09            8,217           04.8          2.44          7.58           46
iawr                                   00.             9.6           7.18            1.392           27.           8.27          10.40          40
T-OUZa               2386.                            40.0           &01             6,232           104.7         2.62           8.5           44
Abr                                     0.4            2.2           4.27              264            5.1          2.82            .59          64
SeIn                                  106.6           20.6            .12            2.130           42.0          2.06          7.17           40
lsOhaw                                 47.7           19.1           8.*4              747            14.9         1.14          4.70           S1
Bouk                                  46.6             .0e           slo             1.307           20.1          2.72          7.7           64
own.                                   88.1           16.6           244               8s             17.          1.1           as.           47
Seb                                    16.7            6.7           2.08            1.320           26.4          4,.0           7.00         Ise
ElOsd                                  14A             5.0           2.08             60             10.1          2.02          4.90           70
Eal B                                  13. S          1.0           8.81              2              6.3          3.31          11.08          40
Sbrdm                                  472             0.7           6.4               o6n           19.2          2.21           7.08          41
tu_m                                   85.4            6.0           6.90              0              18.2         3.20           .10           54
mlm                                    4.4             0.4          11.00               as            1.4          8.60          14.60          32
_ thancht 82.0                                         8.7           4.78              412            0.2          122           0.00           26
Lhaa                                  41.0             0.8           4.47              766           16.4           .e6          0.13           37
USa.                                   2M              6.1           6.78              a0            10.2          2.00           7.78          as
stapn.m                                0tO1.0         10.6           6.61            1.379            27.0         2.09           8.44          46
Na_ne                                  24.6            8.9           0.81              386             0.7          1.72          8.08          27
Out. a DmzoN                           47.2           10.1           4.67              79N            10.0         1.69           6.26          34
OMwa                                  116.7           21.2           6.60            1,222            24.4          1.15          6.66          21
PAlzn*                                 20.7            8.7           8.09              006            19.7         2.04           6.03          Os
SWkSol Abb.e                           21.4           10.3           2.12              874            17.6          1.70          3.02          so
a"                                     20.4            0.2           2.2               761            16.0          1.3           8.86          74
Sklda                                  66.7           17.2           SAM             1,640           30.8           1.78          6.78          46
Sauk-Ahm                               86*2            4.9           8.00              as             0.1           t24           0.24          1s
Tma_Ot                                  4.8            0.            8.60              123             2.5          6.00         13.60          se
Tab..                                  4.2             0.2           7.77            1,307            20.1         4.21          11.00          64
Tindout                                 4.6            0.7           0.43               64             1.3          1.0           620           20
14*             617S            6.14       6     7, 97         1.144M            6             0 w
NOTE  lei COdmn (8) bIt. rafio b*twe 0 u (1) and 
Pbi Cdumn(s) kdlutae anl _a"   sosumpto atoace or c a 0-    pedod.
pcl Col. (6) b the rao b twen eum_e (5)nd (.
Id) CIok    (7) bI Omam of ockmmnmo anti p.
(f Coa m8) is te rdlio ofcolumn(S) mr eonnn (8).



- 38 -
AEN= 4
Page 1 of 4
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIZ OF AMLERIA
WATE R =SPL  AND SEUMAG REHADILAT1ON MROUNT
CONTRACT MODEL FOR
OPTIMIZING WATER SUPPLY OPERATIONS
Introduction
1.          In theory, urban water supply production in some large Algerian
cities is sufficient to meet demand. For example, in the city of Annaba, current
water production reaches about 240 liters per capita per day. This means that,
even if 50 percent of the production tiere unaccounted, the available supply would
be 120 liters per capita per day, an allowance largely sufficient for a city of
the size of Annaba. The reality, however, is very different. In spite of the
relatively large production, water is rationed in the city of Annaba. Some areas
receive water 12 hours a day, while others only 3 hours a day. Because of the
unreliability of the services, consumers have accustomed to store water when it
is supplied, and to discard the remaining stored water at the beginning of the
next supply.   As a result of such prar-tice, the percapita consumption has
increased substantially.  But even that increase should not have led to the
current rationing in the city. The fact is that, even at peak hour demand, the
available supply could fill the demand.
2.          Two problems are associated with the inability of water utilities in
Algeria to provide continuous water services. The first one is the large volume
of water unaccounted for, resulting from leaks, illegal connections, and metering
errors. The second one is the lack of capacity and pressure in distribution
networks. Primary pipelines do not have the necessary capacity to convey peak
hour demand. Because of the type of material used in connections, leakage occurs
very often in service lines to consumers. To solve these problems, an action
plan should cover the entire spectrum of water supply operations. Water leakage
might be a faulty area with major impact on water availability. Faulty metering
might be also a major culprit.   Illegal connections may be another area
responsible for the disparity between production and metered consumption.
3.          The following outlines a type of contract to be used for optimizing
urban water supply operations in Algeria.
Reonired ServLces
4.          The  type  of contract  outlined here  is  intended  to be more
interventionist than a traditional consultancy approach for providing advice and
training. It is a start toward privatization of leak detection and repair, and
commercial activities of water utilities. In entering into a contract with a
specialized company, a major objective for water utilities should be to increase
metered consumption and consequently sales and revenues. To reach this goal the
following services should be spelled out in the contract:



- 39 -
AN    4
Page 2 of 4
(a)   diagnostic of the system operations inclusive of metering,
leakage level, pipe capacity, and pressure availability;
(b)   repair of leaks and other defects;
(c)   replacement of defective equipment (district meters, valves,
pressure reducers, overflows etc.);
(d)   consumer  metering,  meter  reading,  billing  and  revenue
collection;
(e)   modelling of the distribution system;
(f)   mapping of the distribution network; and
(g)   master planning of distribution system.
Contractina Appnroach
5.          As the problem data such as volumes of water unaccounted for, the
state of the metering system, and repair works to be done, are not actually
known, a traditional contract with a bill of works cannot be used for optimizing
urban water supply operations. Instead, a Target Cost Reimbursement Contract
(TCRC) is used.   It is based on direct reimbursement of works done by a
contractor, but with incentives to speed up the works and to increase
performance. This is achieved through a bonus or a penalty to the contractor for
exceeding the target cost or failing to meet it. Essentially, the contractor
will be asked to quote a target cost for increasing metered water consumption by
implementing a work program. If the actual cost of this program is less than
the target cost, the contractor will get a bonus.  Otherwise, he will pay a
penalty.
6.          The following elements are included in the target cost:
(a)   the contractor's reimbursable costs in executing the works but
excluding those carried out on behalf of the water utility;
(b)   abortive work requested by the contractor wherein no defect is
found within the location indicated by the contractor;
(c)   attendance by the utility's staff at works being executed by
the contractor at his request; and
(d)   the cost of water losses or the difference between water
production and metered consumption times the marginal cost of
producing one unit of water.



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
7.          Water losses as used in the target cost include all forms of losses
such as leaks, metering defect, and illegal connections.   The utility will
provide the marginal cost of producing one unit of water. This rate may be
increased by the utility from time to time. The cost of water losses will be the
total volumes of water unaccounted for time the cost of unit of water.
Contract Execution
8.          The contract will be executed in three distinct phases:  The first
phase will include a quick study to corroborate the extent of water losses,
whether they are resulting from leaks in the system, illegal connections, or
metering defect.  During this phase, the contractor will also determine the
conditions of bulk meters, reservoir overflows, district valves, and other
equipment on line in the system. This phase is expected to be executed quickly,
in less than four months. After the study is completed, more accurate data will
become available to allow a more precise evaluation of the parameters included
in the target cost. At this stage, both the utility and the contractor will
review the results of the study to agree on a set of updated parameters for the
contract.
9.          The second phase will include the execution of works aimed at
increasing metered consumption, covering leak detection and repair, consumer
survey, installation of meters,determination of pipeline characteristics, repair
to pipes ,service lines, valves, etc. This phase is expected to last about three
years. Like for the second phase, a third phase will be undertaken only after
an evaluation of the systems set in place for controlling unaccounted for water
has been carried out, proving the effectiveness of such systems.
10.         The third phase will cover recalibration and modelling of the
distribution system. During this phase a map of the system will be prepared
together with a customer data base. A rehabilitation program will be proposed
as the first construction stage of a master plan of the water supply system.
Cometitive Tendering
11.         Competitive pressure will come on the level of fixed fees that the
contractor will charge to the utility. This level will depend on the size of the
contract, data reliability, and bidder's perceptions of risk. Pressure on the
contractor's efficiency will come from the target cost. For him to get a bonus,
actual costs will have to be lower than the target cost. The final cost to the
utility will also depend on the absolute amount of the target cost. In the
utility's interest, it will be necessary to provide accurate data, leaving the
possibility of revising them if necessary.
Bid Evaluation
12.         In carrying out bid evaluation, both the fixed fees and bonus amount
should be taken into account. Bidders should be requested to quote a fixed price
for the first phase (the study). They should also outline the methodologies and
resources they will use to execute the two subsequent phases, including a target



- 41 -
Page 4 of 4
cost for the second phase. A fixed fee will be quoted for the third phase. The
bonus amount is related to the target cost, making the utility and the contractor
share the inevitable difference between the actual cost "A" and the target
cost"T". IfMB' represent the bonus to the contractor, then the cost IC' to the
utility will be:
C   A + B
"BO is the difference between the actual and the target costs times a percentage
S"s:
B   (T - A) S
"S" being the share of saving/overrun going to the contractor.   Thus, the
following expression can be obtained:
C   A + (T -A) S
13.         The cost of the work program will occur only once.   Thus in
introducing it in the target cost, only an annual payment should be considered.
If "Fcr' is the capital recovery factor, then the payment amount will be AFcr.
On this basis the finel cost to the utility will depend upon the contractor's
fees and the bonus amount. The function for bid evaluation then will be:
F + Sx Tx Fcr
IF" being the fixed fees quoted by bidders.
The values of 'S" and "Fcr", as well as the evaluat on formula should be provided
in the tender documents. In addition, a detailed description of the works should
be given in the documents. Other elements will be detailed schedules of cost
parameters, rates and charges, terms of payment, times and stages of completion,
takeover procedures, and performance procedures.



- 42 -                             ANNEX 
Page 1 of 3
DEMOCRATIC AOR POPULAR REPUBLIC OF AMGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR SEWAGE PLANT REHABILITATION
1.          This Annex outlines the criteria that would be used to select sewage
treatment plants that would be rehabilitated under the project. This selection
should be first approved by the Bank, before loan funds can be disbursed for a
subproject.  To speed up procurement for this project component, a group of
plants should be selected at project inception. Equipment and materials for this
group should be packaged and procured together. It is estimated that some 25
plants would be rehabilitated under the project. The Government should make an
effort to select them by the end of 1994, the first year of project
implementation. A list of plants in need of rehabilitation is given in Table 7.1
Table 7.1:  List of Sewage Treatment Plnt  4nNeed of Rehabilitation
CAPACITY
COMPLETION    POPULATION
ID NO.   WILAYA   LOCATION               YEAR            EQ         X3/DAY
01    Algiers   Baraki                  1989       750,000       150,000
02               El Alia                --              --         3,000
03      "        Bologhine              --                         2,000
04               Bab-Ezzouar            1976            --        20,000
05    Annaba    Annaba                 *1984       500,000        67,000
06      a        Serraidi               --          24,000            --
07      a        Berrahal                --          6,000            --
08      a        Drean                   --          6,000            --
09      0        Chettaibi               --          6,000            --
10      n        0. El Anes             --          12,000            --
11    Bouira    S. El Bhouzlane         1972        25,000         2,850
12    Blida      Blida                  1988       350,000            --
13    Bejaia    Bejaia                  1986        80,000        13,000
14               Aokas                  1985         4,500           450
1S               Tichy                  1986         1,200           100
16    Djelfa    Djelfa                  1986        88,000        14,000
17    Ouargla   Ouargla                 1974        87,000        21,600
18               Touggourt              1989        62,500            --
19               H. Hessaoud            1979         5,000
20               H. Messaoud            1960         2,000            --
21    Saida      Saida                  1978        78,000         7,600
22    Ghardia   Bounoura                1987        60,000        15,600
23    T. Ouzou  T. Ouzou E.             1973        28,000         4,080
24      a        T. Ouzou W.            1984        25,000         4,320
25      a        D.B. Xhedda            1973        14,500         1,770
26      a        Tadmait                1984        13,000         2,420
27      a        Boghni                 1984        13,000         2,100



-43-                                ANNX 5
Page 2 of 3
CAPACITY
COMPLETION   POPULATION
ID  O0.  WILAYA         LOCATION            YEAR           EQ         H3/DAY
28    Boumerdes       Baghlia              1984        7,000           --
29      n             Corso                1962        1,500           --
30    Tipaza          Tipaza               --          3,500           -^
31                    S. Ferruch           1992       '5,000           -
32      n             Kolea                1587       45,000       10,000
33                    C  des Pins          1992        5,000           --
34                    Azur Plage           --          2,000           -
35                    Staqueli             1982        1,500           --
36                    Zeralda              1976        2,500           --
37    El-Tarf         El Kala              1985       25,000        3,750
38                    Zerizer              1985        3,000          260
39                    Asfour               1984        5,000           --
40    Tiaret          Tiaret               1985       60,000        9,000
41    A. Temouchent  A. Temou              1962       20,000           --
42       n            El-Amria             1954           --           --
43    Bechar          Bechar               1971       30,000        9,000
44    S.S. Abbes      Sfisef               1981       16,000        4,080
45                    Telagh               1980       12,000        1,800
46      '             Tilmouni             1980        2,000          200
47                    Ben-Badis            1980        8,000          950
48    Oran            Es Senia             1975       15,000        1,500
49       n            Bousfer              1990       10,000           --
50                    El-Karma*            1987        6,000           --
51                    Misserghin           1980        5,000          500
52    Mascara         Tighennif            1984       16,000        2,600
b     tIade up of lagoos. Ezeopt for these two plants, eal the others use activated sludge process.
Priority Assignment
2.          A number of considerations should be made in assigning priority to
a plant for its rehabilitation. The first one should relate to the type of
treatment process used in the plant. Priority should be given to those using
simple processes such as lagoons, trickling filters. The least priority should
go to sludge activated process. In this context, an investigation would be made
to determine whether there is any industrial discharge which might affect the
treatment process. In the affirmative, the concerned industry would be required
to pretreat its wastes prior to their disposal in the sewer system.
3.          The next consideration should deal with the function of the plant,
whether or not it provides an environmental protection that could not otherwise
be obtained through a natural process. This lead to the third consideration
relating to the plant location.  If a plant is situated at a short distance
upstream of a water intake, with no possibility for natural recovery of water
quality before it reaches the intake, priority should be given to such a plant.



- 44-
Page 3 of 3
4.          On the contrary, if there is no close downstream use, or there in
sufficient time and reach for quality recovery, no priority should be given to
such a plant. Further consideration should be given to the use of the plant
effluent. If it is used for irrigation, for instance, less treatment would be
required. More would be needed when the effluent is discharged into a water body
that is used for urban water supply. In any event, an economic analysis should
be carried out to determine which alternative would be more economic, more sewage
treatment and less water treatment, or the reverse. Aesthetic considerations
should become a factor when treatment is necessary to preserve the natural beauty
of the environment.
Rehabilitation Program
5.          Once a plant has been identified, consultants would be hired to
evaluate its priority for rehabilitation on the basis of the foregoing criteria.
The next step would be for them to carry out rehabilitation studies, followed by
the preparation of a work program. Both the capital and operating costs of the
program would be calculated by the consultants. They should also carry out an
institutional review to determine the organization to put in place to operate and
maintain the plant. Finally, they should prepare operational procedures for the
plant. In general, consulting services would be required to inspect regularly
plant operations,  and when necessary,  to assist  in resolving particular
operational problems.
U,bnole0Ct ApMrOl
6.          On the basis of the consultants' report on the opportunity of
rehabilitating a sewage treatment plant, the implementing agency would submit a
request for financing the rehabilitation program. The request would indicate the
dispositions that the Government is taking to ensure normal operation and
maintenance of the plant. Indications should also be given on financial sources
to cover such operation.   The Bank will promptly advise the agency of its
decision concerning the plant financing. No loan amount would be disbursed on
a subproject that has not been approved by the Bank.



- 45 -
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND M SEWEAE REH&EILITATION PROJBCT
LMST OF STUDIES AND OPRAIONAL ROUIPMEN  TO I& PROCURE  UNDER TE  PROJECT
FESIp.TYSTUDIES AND  IAs
-     Barika impounding dam in Ksila Wilaya
-     El Beida impounding dam in Khenchela Wilaya
-     Sidi Akacha impounding dam in Chelf
-    Akbou impounding dam in Bejaia
-    Ait Zaouia impounding dam in Setif
DETAILED STUDIES AND _IAs
-    Water supply for Sidi Bel Abbes
-    Water supply for Bejaia
-     Sewerage in Oran
-     Neskiana impounding dam in Tebessa Wilaya
-     Tabellout impounding dam in Jijel Wilaya
-     Boussiaba      a       La
-     Porte de Fer impounding dam in Bordj Bou. Wilaya
-     Boulatane impounding dam in El Taref Wilaya
-     Djidiouia       '            Relizane Wilays
-     Taourira               "     Tipaza Wilaya
For EPEs:   tractors, cranes, trench diggers, trucks, pipe layers,
bulldozers, pumps, air compressors, sludge haulers.
For EPEs, ANB, AGEP, ANRH:
Sedan vehicles, four-wheel drive vehicles, topographic
instruments, drawing instruments, computers, photocopy
machines.



- 46 -
MM 7
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCTIC AM  POPL   REULIC OZ AGEIA
MMfl "UML  amD SEWEAGE RflILITAMION PROJO
PRgRm  101 UPGRAIN
NTItQIQIDXCAL RU!CORDING Ot -tx
1.          Hydrology is the science which analyses the occurrence, position, and
movement of water on earth. Such analysis is essential for conceiving, operating
hydraulic structures.   In Algeria, it is the responsibility of the Agence
Natlonale des Ressources HydraulIques (ANRH) to record and analyze hydrological
data.   This agency was set up i.. 1942, and over the years has provided
distinguished assistance to the hydraulic sector. Its equipment and materials
are now becoming obsolete, and it is looking for ways to modernize them. The
proposed project includes financing for this modernization.
NZandate
2.          ANRH is responsible for maintaining an inventory of water and land
resources in Algeria. In carrying out this responsibility, ANRH observes and
measures hydro-climatological phenomena in the country. ANRH disposes of 200
flow measurement stations, 1500 rainfall gages, and 250 recording rainfall gages
to record rainfall in the country. In addition, it has 60 weather stations
recording temperatures, wind movements, humidity, and evaporation data. ANRH
also maintains an inventory of 70,000 wells to control groundwater exploitation,
recharge and movement in the country.
3.          So far, ANRH has surveyed se-ven million ha of land, recording and
classifying their possible use in agriculture. One of the determinants in this
classification is water requirement for different types of culture.   Other
determinants refer to the chemical characteristics of the soils.
4.          On request, ANRH carries out special studies related to groundwater
yield, flow regime and forecast, recurrent floods in dam design, and soil
suitability. An important function of ANRH is data dissemination as an essential
ingredient in project concept and design.
=BaRIzation
5.          To execute the above mandate, ANRH disposes of six departments at the
head office, three branch offices one respectively in the center, east and west,
and 25 units. The six departments include hydrology, hydrogeology, pedology,
chemistry, progranming and information, and administration. ANRH has a total
staff of 3,200, is well structured, and provides valuable services to the water
sector.



- 47 -
Page 2 of 2
4ve a emet Progra
6.          A major objective of ANRH is to modernize its recording equipment and
materials.  For now the data are recorded, later on read, and then transmitted
to the central office. This process takes time, and the data are not always
faithfully reported. ANRH is proposing to equip its stations with the necessary
systems that would allow simultaneous recording and transmission of data, Some
of the stations would be equipped with radio systems, and others with satellite
communication.   As necessary complementary materials,  computer and other
operational equipment would be provided to ANRH.
7.          On the software side, assistance would be given to ANRH to valorize
its data bank. Between the time data are now recorded and then published, a
substantial period of time elapses. Until now, the 1990 weather data have not
yet been published. This long delay diminishes the usefulness of the data. Such
publications should take place not later than four months after the end of a
calendar year. The proposed modernization of recording equipment should help to
investigate and transmit information for its immediate dissemination.
8.          Additional assistance would be provided to ANRH in firming up their
knowledge of the meteorological causes in floods and droughts, and their
management of water resources. Support would also be given to them to set up an
information system in the agency. At project inception, consultants would be
employed to specify the modernization program of equipment, and the technical
assistance.
9.          The estimated total cost of the development program is US$4.0
million, covering the following items:
US$ Mtil}ion
(i)   Network Development-and Modernization           1.0
(ii)  Groundwater Investigation                       0.4
(iii) Soil Investigation                              0.4
(iv)  Setting up of Information System                0.6
(v)   Equipment for Water Quality Monitoring          1.0
(vi)  Investigation of Groundwater in Sahara          0.5
(vii) Research Program on Drought and Groundwater    Q1
TOTAL COST
10.         The program would be executed during the period 1994-1996. Depending
upon its success, the possibility of providing additional assistance to ANRH
beyond 1996 would be Investigated as part of future operations in the water
sector.



- 48 -
Page I of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPLY AND BEVERAGEM   E AILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFEENC  FOR MANAGMEENT STUDIES OF
SURFACE WATER AM GROUNIDWATER IN SOUNNA VALLEY
Backgound
1.          Oued Summam starts at the iunction of two tributaries: Oued Sahel and
Oued Bou Sellam. From there it runs for about 90 kms. to the city of Bejaia
where it discharges into the Mediterranean. The Soummam Valley has an average
width of 2 kms, which in many reaches extends to 5 kms.  The river basin has a
total area of 8,800 km2. The average rainfall in the valley is about 600 mm per
year, but reaches 1,000 mm in the mountains. The valley has experienced some
major floodings. A flood of 5,200 m3 per second was observed in 1957. The 10-
year predicted flood has been calculated to be 3,000 m3 per second; but the
average flow of the river is only 25 ms per second (788 Mm3 per year).
2.          Besides  a  number  of  settlements  in  the  valley,  some  major
infrastructures have been built along the river. They include a national road
linking the east of the country to the capital city of Algiers, a railway, a
major oil pipeline, and a gas pipeline. Floods have occasioned major damages to
these infrastructures, and some large dams are planned or under construction on
Oued Sahel and Oued Bou Sellam to control floods in the valley. A geological
barrier at Sidi Aich City divides the valley into two parts: the higher Soummam
with an area of 40 km2 and the lower Soummam with 75 km2.
3.          Alluvial deposits form  a continuous strip along the river, with
large groundwater reserves. As a result, groundwater is used for both urban
water su-yly and irrigation.  A large number of wells are in operation in the
valley. It is estimated that about 5,500 m3 per day are pumped in the upper
valley, and 7,800 m3 per day in the lower valley.   Irrigated agriculture is
practiced in some 4,280 Ha.  There are some 2,000 springs in the Wilaya of
Bejaia, and most of them are used for water supply. Total population in this
wilaya was estimated at 700,000 in 1987.
Objectives of the Studies
4.          A dam at Tichi Af on Oued Bou Sellam,  wust above the confluent of
this ousd with Oued Sahel, is currently under construction.   This dam was
originally conceived to protect the valley from floods, and would regulate 150
Nm3 per year. The Government is now considerlng transferring this regulated
water to Bejaia for urban supply, and to the Sahel for irrigation. Hydrological
studies that were undertaken by ANRH in the 1970s, indicated that recharge of
groundwater in the lower valley would not be affected by this transfer. The
general conclusion of this study was that the hydrological cycle in the valley
would not be unduly disturbed by major transfers of water.



- 49 -
Page 2 of 2
5.          An environmental impact assessment (EIA), however, was not carried
out by ANRH.  Such a study should be completed before a final decision is made
on the proposed transfer. These terms of reference briefly cover this study.
G=2=nts f the Studio-&
6.          The EIA studies should cover an analysis of the environment in the
valley dealing with inter alia the natural resources, fauna and flora,
agricultural uses, forestry, and groundwater and surface water uses.   The
analysis should be supported by a hydrological model simulating the different
uses of water in the valley. The impact of the dam on the existing environment
should be evaluated in terms of its adverse effects on agriculture, the fauna and
flora.
7.          Particular attention should be paid to actions that would modify
significantly the present ecological systems. The study should also highlight
measures to be taken by the Government to mitigate possible adverse effects of
the proposed water transfer. It should further indicate how the economy in the
Soummam Valley might be affected by this transfer, and whether benefits of
transferring water outside the valley are commensurate with losses in the valley.
The study should ascertain whether it would be possible to recharge groundwater
in the lower valley through discharges from the Tichi Af dam. It should also
review the possibility of e,=eanding irrigated agriculture in the valley.
Regacmmedatlons
8.          The study should recommend the most appropriate modus operandi for
storing and releasing water of Oued Bou Sellam, with a view to maintaining the
ecological balance and enhancing agricultural development in the valley, while
allowing, if possible, some water transfer to the Sahel and to Bejaia.



- so -
Page 1 of 1
DiMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
DA MIlilon                 US$ IVlIIon
rTEM               Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Percent
1. Water SUDDIV Rehabilitation
Annaba                    74.8      138.6   213.4      3.4       6.3       9.?
Ain Temouchent            15.4      28.6    44.0       0.7       1.3       2.0
Bejaia City               37.4      72.6   110.0       1.7       3.3       5.0
Jijel Supply              24.2      41.8    66.0       1.1       1.9       3.0
Mascara City              22.0      44.0    66.0       1.0       2.0       3.0
Oran City                193.6     360.8   554.4       8.6      16.4      25.2
Relizans System           26.4      50.6    77.0       1.2       2.3       3.5
Sidi Bel Abbes            50.6      94.6   145.2       2.3       4.3       6.6
Setif City                59.4      114.4   173.8      2.7       5.2       7.9
Tlemcen                   3562 6.0   101.2             1-6       3.0       4.6
Subtatal (I)               EnD    1.012.0  1.551.0       24.5     46.0      7QM
11. Seweaae Rehabilitation
Sewerage treament plants   17.6     37.4     55.0      0.8       1.7       2.5
Pumping stations           17.6     44.0     61.6      0.8       2.0       2.8
Sewer network           9      0      2    176.0       39        4.1  8£
Sub Total (III              121.0   171.6      MA        5         7.8      13.3       i0.
lL Sub Total Rehablftation    6§.0   11836   1,843.       30.0      53.8                 a
I and 11
Physical contingencies     66.0    118.4    184.4      3.0       5.4       8.4       6.5
Project implementation     39.6     71.0    110.6      1.8       3.2       5.0       3.9
Studies, ElAs by ANB       22.0    143.0    165.0      1.0       6.5       7.5       5.8
Studies, ElAs by AGEP      11.0     77.0     88.0      0.5       3.5       4.0      3&1
Supply of operationat
equipment to ANRH         8.8     79.2     88.0      0.4       3.6       4.0       3.1
*    * ANB            2.2     13.2     15.4      0.1       0.6       0.7        0.5
*    a EPEs           6,6     99.0    105.6      0.3       4.5       4.8        3.7
Training and technical
assistance to ANRH        6.6     24.2     30.8      0.3       1.1       1.4       1.1
ANB           132      50.6     63.8      0.6       2.3       2.9       2.2
*     * AGEP          11.0     46.2     57.2      0.5       2.1       2.6       2.0
*     * EPEs          17.6     77.0     94.6      0.8       3.5     4.3        _
IV. Total Base Cost (July 1993)    8   1.982.4  2.847.0    393       90.t      129.4     10
V. Price Escalation            455.4  2,498.9  2,954.3     20.7       19.9      40.6      31A
VI. TOTAL PROJECT COST
(curent prices)         I32a   4.481.3   5 81.3                          UNA
VII. Percent                    22.8     77.2    100.0     35.3       64.7     100.0



DEMOCRATIC AND   LAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHASBILTATION PROJECT
PRKCE E8CALATION AlfCULATION
(USS NI)
FlM PART              low                less              s8                197               iees                I9N              TOTAL
ITEw                 LOCAL   FOREIGN   LOCAL  FOREIGN   LOCAL FOREIGN  LOCAL FOREIGN  LOCAL FOREIGN  LOCAL FOREIGN    LOCAL FOREIGN   LOCAL FORE3GN
1. Water Oupply Rehsb.         4.9        9.2       0.2        0.6     3.4       .4      3.7      6.9      4.1     11.6      3.7      0.8        2.6      4.6     24.6     40.0
11. Sew      Reshab.           1.1         1.6      -          -       0.4      0.0      0.4      0.6      o.a      1.2      1.4      1.0        1.4      1.9      6.6      7.8
111. Subtotal Conruction       9.0        10.8     0J.2        0.6     3.8       7.0     4.1      7.6      6.9     12.7      S.1      8.8        3.9      6.6     30.0      63.8
Physloal Conlngenolo        0.6         1.1       -         -       0.4       0.7     0.4       0.8     0.7      1.3      0.6      o.e        0.4      0.8      3.0       5.4
Projsct Implementation      0.          0.7       -         -       0.2       0.4     0.3       0.4     0.4      0.8      0 3      0.6        0.2      0.4      1.8       3.2
ANW'Studba and EAs          0.1         1.3       -         -       0.1       1.0     02        1.0     0.2      1.0      0.2      1.1        0.2      1.1       1.0      6.5
AGEPes tdle.and ElAn        0.1         0.4       -         -        -        -       0.1       0.7     0.1      0.8      0.1      0.8        0.1      0.8      0.6       3.6
Supply atOp.. EquIpment     0.1         1.7       --        -       0.1       1.4     0.1       1.4     0.1      1.A      0.2      1.4        0.2      1.4      0.8       8.7
Inst Develop. Assidanc
to ANFH. ANB. AGEP & EPE    -          -         -         -       0.4       1.0     0.4       2.0     0.4      2.0      0.5      2.0        0.6      2.0       2.2      9.0
IV. TotalBaseCoot(JuiyISM3)    7.3        10.0      0.2        0.8     6.0      11.5     5.6     13.8      8.8     20.0      a.9     16.6        6.6     12.8     39.3      W0.1
V. Prbe Escaaon                 -          -         -         -       1.6       2.3     2.6       3.2     6.7      6.3      6.6      4.7        6.4      4.4     20.7      19.9
VI. Total Proect Cost          7.3        16,0      0.2        0.6     6.6      13.8     8.2      17.0    14.6     26.3    12.4      202        ¶0e      17.2      60.0    110,0
VIl. CostInDAmIlIlon         10.6e    3s2.0         4.4       17.6   143.0    617.6   180.4    97.0   319.0   1087.9   272S         949.4      239.8    eeo.o   1320.0   4481.3
VIL. Exchane Rates                 22.0                       36.0              37.5              41.0             43.0              47.0                50.0
0



ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ Million Equivalent)
"ect F....ent                                                          Proj_c_ Y__  __m   P                              Total ._.__..
fProject Ulement                 1994        1995         1        .   1997        19                       2000    PaYmOnt R
1. WORKS
.   .       .   .        * 1.4. *    .*1.4.       . 1.4-         1..        1.4,         7.0         GovtFin.
1.1 LeakRepairs                                                             a 3 D            '
1.2 Rehabilitation                     .   .8.3'                              8.3'        8.3'        '8.3'        8.3           41.5       LCB
Water Systems Rehabiafion        * c b a b                          M              m b  :   I
*  ,    .     '          .(4.9).     *  (.         5.0)        (5-0)'      250),           4.9)
a  3.9      :3.9        :3.9:        :4.0:        :4.0:         19.7       LCB
Wastewater Systeffr,RehabiNtation t      a a     i aeam m      mm   mu    gm I Mm, =13  on                0 E!l f J
,(2.4)     !(2.4):       k2.4):      :(2.3):      (2.3)         (11.8)
2. GOODS
2.1 Equipment and Machinery            ,   ,        ,             .      ,     ,     .                 ,          , ,
*        '~~~~1.3-.   '2.6'       '3.2'        '3.2'       '2.5'                      12.8       ICB
Vehicles. Trucks, Oata Processing   a  .       (                                    ln
*   ,  ,(1.0),  .(2.O).    ~~~~~~(2.5):  (2.5):      (2.0).                     (10.0)
2.2 Materlals                                        .4          6              o6:       :8.A:        8.4_         8.5:        46.5        ICB
Pie.Vles, Fiftros                        :8.4, NMm.6.8:aa                          ,   am         Mla
'(5.9)'      (4.8)'      (4.1)'      '(5.8)       (5.9)        (6.0)        (32.5)
3 SERVICE CONTRACT                              0.6     I.I          1.8          1.6        ,1.7         '1.7                       8.3        ICB
3.1 Unaccounted for Water Reduction          ,                                                                         ' , mm  m 
'(0.4)   '(0.8),    '(1.1)        (1 .1)     '(1.2)       ' (I -        '            (5.8)
4. COISULTANCIES                            Q0.1;       0.5' :0.6,               :0.6:       :0.6:        :0.6:        S.6         3.6
4.1 Project Implementation                                   gm    I=         NM     =  a     . Man  m , 2                                Short List
.           .4)'       (0.4)       (0.4)'       (0.4)       '(0.4)'      '           (2'5)
,4.4'       ' .          '7.6'        '2.6'       '0.6'        '0.3'        15.5      Short Ust
4.2 Project Preparation                         no a            m o          =ol     1=  a on    mm         In !l , f     V
4,2 Projt P i43.4)                   (5.9).       , (2.0)     .(0.5)       :(02),       (12.0)
.4.6                     .72.        .2.5.         0.6.         0.2         15.1      ShortList
4.3 Institutional Development                   o            is            on   Z    I m          m   m             M 1
,   (3.3):               : ,   l5-0)'  :. ' 7):   '(0.4):     :(,(Qi        (10.5)
TOTALS        0.7          20.3        25.2        39.8          32.6        28.1        23.3          170.0
(Bank-Financed)    (0.5)           (14.8)       (15.6)      (26.4)       (21.0)      (17.7)      (14.0)        (1100.0)
iXer                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
Cl D af i Document Preparatn             B Bidding Period  1        ConsructionStudy Penod                                            S_
3A03W54834E 



- 53 -
A\NNEX t2
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
UST OF CQNTRACTS TO BE PLACED FOR THE PROJECT
TOTAL
PROJECT COMPONENT             PROCUREMENT fTEMS            CONTRACT NO.    PAYMENT
US$ Million
I.  Water SuoRlv Rehab.           Unaccounted fbr water reduction  WSSR-U1 to 10      8.3
Leak repairs                WSSR-L-01 to 10          7.0
Supply of pipes and fitings  WSSR-(;01              46.5
Pipe network recalibration  WSSR-N-01 to 10         41.5
SUBTOTAL                                   103.3
II. Sewerage rehabilition         Equipment supply and works  WSSR-8-01 to 25         19.7
Ill. Operational eouipm           Supply of equipment for
transportation, construction
and data processing         WSSR-D-01 to 03         12.8
IV. Studies. enineerino           Feasibility, detailed studies and
ElAs                        WSSR-E-01 to 10         15.5
V. Instutional Development        Training and consultants'
assistance                  WSSR-F.01 to 04         15.1
VI. Proiect Imnlsmentation        Design and supervision      WSSR-H-01 to 10        _
TOTAL                                   170.0



- 54 -
- 54 -                        ~~~~~~~ANbLEX 13
DEMOCRATIC MOD POPULAR REPU8UC Of ALGERIA
WATER SUPLY ANMD SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
OESTMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURDSEMENTg
(USS Million)
Bank Loan             Ceovemment Funds
Bank FY' and Quarter    In Quarer  Cumulalvo'   In Quarter   Cumulative3
First                 02           0.2         0.1           0.1
Second                0.3          0.5         0.1           0.2
Third                 3.3          3.8         1.6           1.8
Fourth                3.5          7.3         1.6           3.4
1S«   First                  3.5         10.8          1.6          5.0
Second                3.5         14.3         1.7           6.7
Third                 4.1         18.4         2.0           8.7
Fourth                4.3         22.7         2.0          10.7
t997   First                 4.3         27.0          2.1         12.8
Second                4.3         31.3         2.1          14.9
Third                 5.3         36.6         2.6          17.5
FouRt                 5.3         41.9         2.6          20.1
Fist                  5.4         47.3         2.6          22.7
Second                5.3         52.6         2.7          25.4
Third                 4.1         5:6.7        2.6          28.0
Fourth                4.1         60.8         2.6          30.6
First                 4.9         65.7         2.6          33.2
Second                4.1         69.6         2.6          35.8
Third                 4.3         74.1         2.7          38.5
Fourth                4.3         78.4         2.7          41.2
;{QQQ   First                4.3         82.7          2.7         43.9
Second                4.3         87.0         2.3          46.2
Third                 4.0         91.0         1.8          48.0
Fouth                 3.0         94.0         1.8          49.8
2QQj   First                 3.0         97.0          1.8         51.6
Second                3,0        100.0         1.9          53.5
Thid                  2.7        102.7         1.7          55.2
Fourth                2.6        105.3         1.6          56.8
iCQQ2   First                2.4         107.7         1.6         58.4
Second                2.3        110.0         1.6          60.0
3,1    l b_ b)n sId1 O tefo Pcf  you to me 30t o Nt urm yaw.
a,      g         uainuW  dbNaMe  as wA aft ih ooWuqot  qetau.



ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
AGENCE NATIONALE DE l:EAU POTABLE ET INDUSTRIELLE ET DE L'AS$AINISSEMENT
AGEP
Organizational Chart - 1993
ORIENTATION
BOARD
I
GENERAL
MANAGER
DEPUTY                    DEPUTY
MANAGER                   MANAGER
ADMINISTRATION             SRTUDAEMST_                  RKS                    OPERATIONS
_    PERSONNEL    l  _SDiESEAND                                               TECHNICAL
REERCH 
_   BUDGET  lG_ PROGRAMS                           PROJECTS                 REGULTiONS
SYSTEM
ORGANIZATION
INSPECTION   j
SADStW54834D
z



- 56 -
Page 1 of 3
DEXORAIIC AND POPUALARRPUBLI-C OF ALGERIA.
DATM  SUPPLYAWD SEERAG  LOHAMILTA ION OEC
TERIf OF UEFERENC   O
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO AGEP
1.      ~~The Agerzce Nationale de 1'Eau Potable et de l'Assalinssement (AGEP)
was set up itt June 1987 to provide technical assistance to the water supply and
sewerage sector. The original intent was to make it a national agency that would
oversee the operations of water and sewerage utilities in the country. Some key
tasks outlined in the bylaws creating AGEP were standardization of operational
norms in the sector, dissemination of knowledge, experiments and practices, and
staff training. As a side task, AGEP was mandated to supervise construction
implementation of regional works financed by Goverrnment funds. For now, AGEP is
an administrative agency directly attached to the Ministry of Equipment. It is
devoid of admi~nistrative, technical, and financial autonomy.
2.          At the time of its creation, most of the personnel who joined AGEP
came from operational units in the Ministry of Equipment in charge of project
construction implementation. Most if not all of them were engineers. The first
General Manager himself was an engineer. As a result, since its inception AGE?
has devoted most of its time and resources to construction supervision. So far,
AGEP has not been staffed with economists, system analysts, financial analysts,
and has paid little attention to these aspects of institutional management. A
consequence of this neglect has been the low rate of sectoral development
recorded in the last six years.
3.          One of the problems that AGE? has been confronting is the lack of
autonomy and c-ompetitiveness that would have allowed it to attract high caliber
staff for implementing an effective assistance progr.am to the utilities. The
decision has now been made by the Government to transform AGEP into an
autonomous, commerciaLl and industrial agency. This transformation would allow
it to set out more attractive pay scales and benefits. At the same time, as the
Government is changing institutional arrangements in the sector, a national
agency should be in place to monitor these changes. The Government is proposing
to mandate a restructured AGEP with this task.
rnstituional Set-Mgi
4.          The new operational mode in the water supply and sewerage sector in
Algeria would consist of independent utilities operating the systems under
concession agreements with the Government as the owner of the systems. For these
arrangements to be successful, a number of performances must be achieved in the
sector. First, the systems must be able to perform well, so that the utilities
can operate efficiently.   Second, the Government must have the capacity to
forecast future needs in the sector, and to make the necessary investments in
time, so as to maintain the operational conditions of the systems. And thirdly,
an organization -should be in place to control the utilities' operations, ensure



- 57 -
Page 2 of 3
that concession fees are paid on time, and decide on the use of these fees. The
proposed restructuring of AGEP aims at making this agency fulfill these
functions.
Reauirsd Assistance
5.          These terms of reference describe the assistance that AGEP would need
to set up the organization necessary to carry out the foregoing functions. As
this organization is being put in place, further assistance would be given to
AGEP' staff in performing these functions. Under this assistance, each function
would be described in detail and codified in procedures that would be followed
in performing this function. An organizational structure would be prepared for
AGEP, showing the different levels of organization in the agency and the
interconnections between them. A job description would be prepared for each
staff position, describing the precise role that this staff would play in the
organization.
6.          Under the proposed assistance, operational manuals would be prepared
and codified for all operating aspects of AGEP.   An important area for
codification would be the relations between AGEP and the utilities and other
governmental agencies. As AGEP would become an investment agency handling large
Government funds, a system should be in place to control its management and
operations. Additional assistance would cover the setting of an information
system, computerization of its operations, and equipment specifications. All
operational procedures would be codified, including technical assistance aspects,
investment decisions, construction supervision, fund management and investment,
billing and collection, monitoring of covenants under concession agreements with
the utilities.
Areas to be Covered
7.          The new AGEP is scheduled to perform three main functions:
portfolio management overseeing the quality of management of
installations owned by the Government, their refurbishment and
expansion; adherence to covenants in concession agreements;
billing and collection of fees;
-     technical assistance to utilities with  the objective of
strengthening and standardizing procedures of the water and
sewerage utilities; and
-    planning and implementation of investments for rehabilitating
and expanding water supply and sewerage installations.
8.          To cover these areas, it is proposed to establish seven departments
in AGEP. They would be:
-    Rlanning, to look at supply and demand of water in the
country, collect data, forecast future water use, and estimate
investment requirements to meet future demand;



- 58 -
Page 3 of 3
studies, to commission and follow up the preparation of
rehabilitation and expansion plans of water and sewage
systems, bidding and selection of contractors to execute these
plans;
new _w2&s. to supervise construction of regional water
projects;
thnical ssixstalce , to guide utilities in the implementation
of technical, commercial, and financial procedures, and
organize staff training;
V nortfolio management,  to manage funds stemming from the
concessions, monitor the life and conditions of assets owned
by the Government, supervise the execution of concession
agreements, and bill and collect concession fees from water
utilities.
-     findnce, to establish the origin and disposition of funds in
the agency, secure financing for the sector when necessary,
and formulate financial strategies for the agency and the
sector; and
-     «dDEnista*.tion,, to manage human resources in the agency and
provide administrative support dealing with procurement,
stock, communications and transportation.
Ezecution of the Assistance
9.          The requested assistance should be executed in three phases.  The
first one should cover the design of the organizational structure, specifications
and procedures of AGEP's administrative departments and divisions.   Job
descriptions should be prepared for the main functions performed in the agency.
This phase is expected to last six months. The second phase should include the
implementation of recommendations made under the initial phase. This phase is
also expected to have a duration of six months. The last phase would cover
support to AGEP in getting acquainted with and executing the functions and
procedures prescribed under the requested assistance. This phase is expected to
last a year.



- 59 -
Page 1 of 6
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERI
KATME SUPPLY AND StEW G  REHABILITATION PROJECT
TR  SUPPL  OPtTIONS IN T   PROJE           A
1.          The proposed new inst-itutional arrangements would be experiment with
two existing regional utilities: the Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de
Dlstribution d'Eau d'Annaba (EPEA) and the Entreprise de Production, de Gestion-
et de Distribution d'Eau d'Oran (EPEOR). They are considered the best run in the
sector.   The first one is located in the east, and the other in the west.
Together they cover six wilayate with a total population of 3.7 million. As the
experiment is being carried out at these two utilities, institutional development
assistance would be provided to the others. By mid 1996, the new institutional
arrangements would be in place for all the utilities, which would manage water
supply systems under concession agreements with the Government.
2.          At this stage it is not proposed to change the legal status of the
utilities. However, necessary provisions would be introduced in the concession
agreements that would provide full institutional autonomy to the utilities.
Drafts of the agreements with EPEA and EPEOR have been approved during
negotiations.   Background of the establishment of these two utilities and
appraisal of their past operations are discussed below.
A.    TRRISE DE PRODUCTION. DE GESTION ET
D  DISTRIBION D'RAU D2ANNAA-EPEA
Baucround
3.          The Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distributlon d'Eau
d'Annaba, EPEA, was set up in May 1983 to provide water supply services in the
wilayate of Annaba and El Tarf.   For now, EPEA  serves 73 percent of the
agglomerated population in Annaba and El Tarf. In the service area, EPEA has
66,400 customers, with the possibility of increasing this number, as it takes
over the remaining systems during the next five years. At its creation, EPEA
took over centers that were served by the Eastern Regional Office of SONADE.
Nokmt ea
4.          The total population in the area served by EPEA is currently
estimated to be 0.8 million. About 73 percent of this population is already
served by EPEA.   It thus needs to extend services to an additional 226,000
people. In 1992 water production reached 83.9 Mm3, but only 41.9 Mm3 was billed
to customers; 50 percent of this production was unaccounted for. In that year
there were 66,400 customers for an average of 9.3 persons per connection. The
consolidated average percapita consumption was 187 liters per day.   This



- 60 -
Page 2 of 6
allowance appears high, but is misleading, given that almost 40 percent of the
production was delivered to industries. If this allocation is excluded, domestic
per capita consumption would be about 112 lpcd, judged appropriate for the type
of climate in EPEA's jurisdiction area.   The current water production is
considered sufficient to meet present demand, but as service expansion is taking
place, production will have to be increased. Works, partly financed under Loan
2821-AL, are currently under way to expand water production in this region.
a SLanMnihgnt
5.          At present, EPEA is serving two  wilayate, namely Annaba and  El
Tarf. Accordingly, two branches have been established one in each wilaya. In
addition, a head office has been set up in Annaba, the largest , most important
city in the region. In the wilayate, an administrative unit has been put in
place  in  each  daira.    This  organization,  which  follows  the  country's
administrative subdivision, might not always be the most productive, efficient
setup, as the work load might be different from one daira to another. But for
a start, it should be considered appropriate until a cost accounting system is
in place that would allow to calculate the resulting costs in the dairas. The
units' works in a wilaya are supervised by the wilaya branch office. In turn,
the branch offices' works are controlled by the head office.
6.          Annex 20 shows EPEA's interim organizational structure.   Three
departments are now established at the head office: finance/commercial,
technical, and personnel. At the branch level, a similar organization is in
place.   Meanwhile, at the daira level, only two divisions, commercial and
engineering/operations, have been set up. Although Law No. 90-11 of April 21st,
1990, set out the establishment and functioning of Governing Boards to oversee
the utilities'  operations,  those boards have never met.   Under the new
institutional arrangements, Executive Boards would be formed to supervise the
utilities' works.   These boards would be made of representatives of the
Government, the industrial/commercial sector, anid consumers.   In addition,
Administrative Boards, composed of the utilities' managers, would be set up to
evaluate the utilities' policies and operations.   The Executive Boards are
expected to meet regularly on a monthly schedule, while the administrative Boards
would meet weekly.
7.          Annex 22 shows a proposed organizational structure for the utilities.
Basically,   four  departments  would  be  set  up:   finance,   commercial,
administration/personnel, and engineering/operations. An internal audit section
would be set up in all of them, reporting directly to the General Manager. Two
other sections, one dealing with legal questions and another with public
relations,  would also be  in place.   Most of EPEA's operations are now
computerized.   This prac.ice is expected to expand gradually to cover all
operations by mid 1995.
staffing
8.          At the beginning of 1993, there were a total number of 1,047 staff
in EPUA. This represents a ratio of one employee for 61 customers. It is
extremely low, as ratios four times higher have been observed in neighboring



- 61 -
ANEX-16
Page 3 of 6
Morocco and Tunisia. As EPEA takes over new systems in its jurisdiction, this
number is expected to increase, as obligation would be made to EPEA to take all
employees of the joining communes. However, EPEA should make an effort to reduce
the number of staff through attrition and other means. A performance indicator
dealing with staff numbers would be set out in contract plans between the
Government, the Communes and EPA.
9.          Government salary structures are applied for employees in the water
utility industry.   However,  provisions should be made  in the concession
agreements for specific fringe benefits to employees. With the addition of these
benefits, current salaries should become competitive with those in the industry
and energy sectors. Consequently, EPEA should not experience difficulties in
recruiting qualified staff. In addition, a training program is planned for the
personnsl of the water utilities.
Billing aod Collection
10.         EPEA bills household customers quarterly, while industries and other
large consumers are billed monthly. This practice is in variance in some places
such as in the dairas of Sidi Ammar and El Hadjar. EPEA is, however, expected
to follow this practice in all the dairas. In 1994 EPEA is expected to generate
an average revenue of DA 6.07/m3 as the result of applying a unit base of DA
2.20/m3.  In addition, EPEA would levy fixed charges for connection maintenance
and meter rental. All connections are expected to be equipped with meters by the
end of 1994. Customers will have a 15-day period to pay their bills. Beyond
that a 5 percent penalty would be applied. All billing and collection operations
would be computerized. Arrears for water sales now average almost a year of
sales. EPEA should make an effort to reduce those receivables.
A&counting Sv ten
11.         EPEA's accounts have been kept on an accrual basis and computerized.
Customers billing and collection, and payroll, are also computerized. EPEA is
planning to computerize budget and stock management, and to develop a cost
accounting system. EPEA revaluates its assets annually. On the other hand,
other accounting procedures have been sketchy.   There  is not a written
information system in place. All that is expected to change under the technical
assistance program included in the proposed project.
Other ManaMement Procedures
12.         EPEA's accounts have   been audited regularly, though with some
delays. Under its contract plans with the Government and the Communes, EPEA
would be required to appoint external auditors, acceptable to the Government, for
an swnual audit of its financial accounts. These auditors' annual report should
be submitted to the Government for its review and approval not later than
September 30th of each year. EPEA should be allowed to hire either State-owned
or private auditing offices. The best qualified firm should be retained, as
EPEA's staff, during the formative years of the company, would benefit from
regular exchanges of views with auditors who have broad experience in public
utilities practices. The requirement for submission by the regional utilities



- 62 -
A= 16
Page 4 of 6
of audit reports to the Bank has been recorded in the draft loan agreement
between the Government and the Bank. Bank staff will be given access to the
utilities' accounts and records, and non compliance with this requirement should
be grounds for loan suspension.
13.         EPFA has established procedures for staff recruitment, and has
institutionalized staff training.   There are, hewever,  no procedures for
exchanging information within the company. Those will be formalized under the
proposed technical assistance to EPEA. An internal auditor provides support to
the General Manager for the control and application of existing procedures.
Finance
14.         The financial situation of EPEA has been relatively stable in the
last five years. Its operating ratio in 1992 was slightly higher than one, but
on a cash basis the company was able to covpr its operations. The situation
should substantially improve and stabilize, as a result of the 33-percent tariff
increase in 1994.
B. RNTREpRIE DE PREDUCTION. DE GESTIQN ET DE
DISTRIBUION DRIAUJ D'ORAN-EPEO
15.         EPEOR provides services in the wilayate of Oran, Tlemcen, Ain
Temouchent, and Mascara.  In terms of population covered, it is the second
largest regional utility after the one in Algiers. EPEOR was set up in may 1983
to replace the Western Regional Office of SONADE, making it responsible for both
water and sewerage services in the western part of the country. The population
in this region is growing at an annual rate of 3.1 percent. In 1992 it was
estimated at 2.8 million inhabitants distributed in some 441,000 households. As
of now, only 68 percent of the population is served by EPEOR. Its services have
been extended particularly in the wilaya of Oran where 92 percent of households
are connected to the water network. In the other wilayte, the service levels
have reached 53 percent in Mascara to 62 percent in Ain Temouchent. A large
percentage of the total population lives in small villages supplied by individual
wells and standpipes.   EPEOR is not expected to extend services to these
communities.
Narketi=
16.         The Oran region has recently experienced a series of droughts, and
as a result, the water resources have been insufficient to meet the demand. Water
supply in the region is now rationed, and In Oran, water in most areas is
available only every other day.    Production  is generally metered,  but
distribution is not. Volumes of water billed are only estimated, as a large
number of connections are not equipped with meters.   For instance, in Ain
Temouchent, the volumes billed have been found to be higher than the amounts
produced. In general, however, the statistical data are considered sufficiently



- 63 -
ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 6
good to make reliable extrapolations and projections. They must, however, be
taken with caution.
17.         The 1992 production was 145 Nm3 of which 91 Mm3 were sold through
211,000 service lines. Current losses are estimated at 37 percent. However,
overall, the volume distributed per service line is quite high and should have
been sufficient to satisfy the demand, if other conditions were satisfied.
Estimated water production and consumption per service line in cubic meters per
year in 1992 are given below:
9Xlaya   prQduCtjn   aCognsumDtion
Ain Temounchent          328                   292
Oran                     700                   422
Mascara                  371                    237
Tlemcen                  800                   700
18.         Preslmably, unaccounted for water must be higher than 40 percent and
not the 28 percent quoted in reports.   Apparently production data are more
accurate than volumes sold or consumption. Percapita domestic consumption has
been calculated to be 94 lpcd in Oran, but 229 lped in Tlemcen. In 1992 total
production grew to 145 Nm3 and sales to 91 Wm3. Because of the current drought,
sales dropped to 55 Mm3 in 1993.
Naniaement and 0rganization
19.         EPEOR covers four wilayate and is organized accordingly.  Its head
office is located in Oran, and In each wilaya there is a departmental branch.
At the head office there are five administrative departments: commercial,
operations, finance, administration/personnel, and stores. They regularly provide
management with reports on their activities.   These reports are generally
complete, giving statistics on production, distribution, receivables, works
undsrtaken, finances, and procurement. However, some Important ratios helpful
in determining the company's position and planning corrective measures, are
missing in these reports.   These aspects have been discussed with EPEOR's
management, and as a result of these discussions, the content of the reports is
expected to be modified to make them more useful to management. At present, the
company does have the data processing capacity it needs to computerize its
activities. In addition, under the proposed loan, assistance would be provided
to EPEOR for acquiring operational equipment.
20.         At the end of 1992, EPEOR's staff numbered 1,837 of which management
represented about 7 percent, technlcal 15 percent, and operational 78 percent.
The ratio of connections per staff is 115, which is considered low.  The
proportion of qualified staff is also low, as seems to be the case for most of
the utilities. On the other hand , the number of unskilled staff is high and
includes a large number of security guards and messengers. Like for EPEA, EPEOR
is committed to increasing this ratio by gradually reducing its staff through
attrition.



- 64 -
Page 6 of 6
BiLLInaI #ad Collecto
21.         Billing is processed monthly for large consumers, and quarterly for
the rest. When there is no meter or it is broken, billing is made on the basis
of a fixed estimated volume of consumption. Presently, about 20 percent of the
service lines are not metered. But all connections are scheduled to be equipped
with aeters by the end of 1994. Meter readings are processed at the head office,
and collection at local levels. This information is processed at the central
level about a month later. Updating of customers' records as regards unpaid
bills is made in an adhoc manner, and does not allow close supervision.
AccountIna and Audit
22.         Separate accounts are kept in each branch and processed manually.
They are consolidated and computerized at the head office every quarter. There
is no cost accounting and no internal auditing.  This is an area for which
assistance would be provided under the proposed loan. A Government agency, SNC,
has in the past carried out the external auditing of EPEOR's accounts. In the
future, the company would look for the assistance of private auditors to carry
out this work.
23.         An analysis of EPEOR's past financial results shows that payables
have increased in proportion to increases in accounts receivables. Purchases as
well as customs duties and taxes have remained unpaid in 1992. However, based
on the following ratios in 1993, the consolidated company appears to be
financially profitable:
Personnel cost:   total revenues    0.50
Total revenues:   total costs        1.16
Personnel cost:   total costs        0.57



- 65 -
AKNNF 17
Page 1 of 4
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIh
WATER SUPPLY AND SEERARGE REHABILJTATION PROJECT
CONCESSONA   AANGUEMEWNTS FOR XMNAGING URBAN WATER SUPPLY SERVICES
1.          This Annex outlines what should be the contents of concession
agreements between the Government and utilities for managing urban water supply
services in Algeria. The long-term objective for the sector is to privatize the
management of these services, or to contract out with specialized companies that
would take over the existing parastatals. The Government, however, will continue
to own the installations. In the path to this limited divestiture, there are a
number of issues that need to be resolved before this objective can be achieved.
Resolving these issues would also lead to improved quality of the services, and
to enhanced management capability in the sector. As this is being achieved,
private entrepreneurship will develop in the sector, with the possibility for
national enterprises to compete for the proposed management contracts. Their
participation will make it more acceptable for the Government to allow the
intervention of foreign companies in the management of urban water supply
services in the country.
2.          Five issues need to be addressed in promoting institutional reforms
in the water supply sector in Algeria. The first one relates to the Government's
control of operations all over the country. For wilayate or communes to enter
into management contracts with private enterprises, it would be necessary for
them to have full control of operations in their jurisdiction, including the
setting of tariff levels. This means that full decentralization of the decision
making process should be achieved in the sector. The second issue concerns
ownership of water distribution networks in the communes.   For economies of
scale, it will be necessary to set up regional water companies covering a large
number of communes.  The issue is how to encourage the communes to join the
regional companies, so as to achieve those economies. The best alternative might
be to provide financial incentives to them by undertaking works for improving
services in a commune, once it has decided to join a regional enterprise.
3.          The third issue refers to the current application of a national
uniform tariff structure in the country. Tariffs are expected to be different
in the various regions, and should be decided on the basis of the cost of
providing the services. The fourth one relates to the lack of expertise in the
sector. For a privatization program to be successful, both capital and technical
expertise must be available in the country, so that national enterprises are able
to participate in this program.  This participation would help to turn down
feelings against privatization. The fifth and final issue concerns the status
of the existing enterprises, as they are now functioning as industrial and
commercial outfits devoid of financial autonomy. If progress is to be made in
resolving the first four issues, more institutional and financial autonomy should
be given to the enterprises. This should be the first step to take in the path
toward divestiture in the sector.



- 66 -
ANNEX 17l
Page 2 of 4
Preamble
4.          Before a concession agreement can be drafted, the jurisdiction of the
regional enterprise concerned must be defined by the Government. Since such a
concession will cover a number of communes in different wilayate, the parties to
the concession should be the Government and the enterprise. The next step would
be to determine the costs to the enterprise to provide the required services in
its jurisdiction. The purpose of this study would be to determine the value of
the installations, and consequently, of the concession fees that should be
charged to the enterprise.  From there, the tariff levels would be set out,
giving the enterprise a margin for making profits through increased productivity
and efficiency.
5.          In  compensation  for  the use  of  the  State-owned  assets,  the
enterprises would pay concession fees to the Government. These payments should
be made quarterly, at the latest, 30 days after the end of a quarter.  The
concession fees would be adjusted annually on the basis of an indexation formula
that covers major inputs in the water supply industry. The enterprises should
engage themselves to carry out effective operation and maintenance of the
conceded assets.
The Knteririses  Obligations
6.          The enterprises should be required to provide the services in
accordance with norms specified in the contracts. These should include quantity,
quality and pressure. The norms of quantity and quality can be exceeded, but any
reduction would need to be approved by the Government. In addition zo these
technical specifications, an expansion rate of the services should be spelled out
in the contracts. The enterprises should be under the obligation to implement
a permanent program for effective reduction of water unaccounted for. Their
objective should be to minimize the difference between water produced and
consumed. A time bound schedule for progressive reduction of water unaccounted
for should be specified in the contracts.
7.          The contracts should also contain a schedule of works and equipment
renewal to be executed by the enterprises. This schedule, in general, should
include pipeline extension for new customers, renewal of pumps, electrical
motors, transformers and lines. Major expansion works would be executed by the
Government. As additional duties, the enterprises would keep up customer data
bases as well as updated maps of the networks.
8.          The enterprises should collect revenues for water consumption, and
any other taxes or uses, such as for sewerage, that the Government might ask them
to undertake. Amounts collected on behalf of the Government should be returned
to it without delay.
The State's Obliuations
9.          The contracts should set out the water tariff structure and levels
that the enterprises will be authorized to apply during the concession period.



- 67 -
ANNEA 17
Page 3 of 4
Like the concession fees, these levels will be adjusted annually on the basis of
an agreed indexation formula. Based on the studies that were carried out prior
to the signing of a contract, the cost of providing the services should be known
to both parties.  The Government should allow the enterprises to retain any
income surplus after concession and income tax payment. It should also take all
necessary measures to pay its water bills within a reasonable period of time.
Other than the tariff allowance, no subsidies or other form of financial
assistance should be given to the enterprises.
10.         The contracts should contain specific arrangements for payment by
Government, wilaya, and municipal dwellings of their water consumption. A system
of advance billing might be established by which a down payment is made by these
dwellings at the beginning of a fiscal year. Any balance should be paid at the
end of the fiscal year. The Government should guarantee these payments. The
enterprises should be authorized to deduct any unpaid amount from concession
fees.
11.         The Government should also be responsible for financing and executing
expansion and renewal works. Among them should be the rehabilitation program
included in the proposed project.   The enterprises should be allowed to
participate in the planning, conceptualization, and design of the works. As
operators of the installations, their suggestions and proposals should be given
due consideration in planning system expansion.
Performce Bonuses
12.         The enterprises should be allowed to retain any income surplus
resulting from operations, after payment of all obligations including the
concession fees. The surplus should be shared among staff in an enterprise. In
addition, the enterprises should keep their depreciation allowance to service
their debt and to finance their own work program. The concept of profit should
build up incentives for increased performance in the enterprises.
OOvernment'a Control
13.         The type and extent of Government's control of the enterprises'
operations should be indicated in the concession agreements. As owner of the
installations, the Government should be represented on the enterprises'
administrative boards. Besides, it may have permanent technical and financial
auditors in place in the enterprises.  These auditors should carry out post
control of the operations.   To facilitate the Government's  control,  the
enterprises should be required to submit a number of reports dealing with the
financial and technical operations of the systems. A detailed outline of these
reports should be provided in the agreements. Obligation should also be made to
the enterprises to submit audits of their financial accounts within nine months
after the closing of a fiscal year. These audits should be carried out by
external auditors acceptable to the Government and the Bank.



- 68 -
Page 4 of 4
14.         Specific  provisions  should be made  in an  agreement  for  its
cancellation, and removal of an enterprise's management. These should include
cases for not meeting performance specifications, late submission of reports, and
non payment of concession fees.
Coe-ssin= Dation
15.         A concession agreement should be signed for a period of six years.
Expected performances at different time intervals during the agreement duration
should be spelled out in the agreement.



- 69 -
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIG    ALGIENE  =OCRATIQUE E1 PQEO AIRE
NINISTERE DE L'EOUIVPEX
Contrat de Gestion
pour 1 'Exploitation
des Services Publics
d'Alimentation en Eau Potable



- 70 -
AMNEX 18
Page 2 of 8
Entre les soussign6s:
L'Etat, repr6sent6 par le Ministre de 1'Equipement, d6sign6 dans le texte qui suit
par "l'Etat',
d'une part,
et
L'Etablissement de Production, de   Gestion   et   de   Distribution d'Eau de
______________________  Etablissement Public A caractere industriel et commercial
(EPIC), reprdsent6 par son Directeur G6n6ral, Monsieur               , lequel est
dfment habilit6 A la signature des presentes et d6sign4 dans le texte qui suit par
11'Etablissement".
d'autre part
IL A ETE CONVENU CE QUI SUIT



- 71 -
Page 3 of 8
ARTICLE 1 - OBJET PM CONTRAT
Par lea prdsentes, l'Etat consent A dormer en ges-tion les installations publiques
de production, de transport, at de distribution de l'eau potable situ6es dans le
p6rim6tre de concession d6fini A l'Article 2 suivant, A l'Etablissement Public de
Production et de Distribution d'Eau  de _
L'Etablissement slengage A exploiter et A entretenir les installations qui lui ont
6te confides selon les termes du pr6sent Contrat et du Cahier des Charges
d'exploitation qui y est annexe, et a payer une redevance & l'Etat.
ARTICLE 2 - PERIMETRE GEOGRAPHIQUE - AGGLOMERATIONS CONCERNEES
L'Etablissement exerce son activitd sur un territoire g6ographique dont les
limites sont dfinies comme suit:
*  Wilaya de                   : totalit4 du territoire de la Wilaya
*  Wilaya de                   : totalit6 du territoire de la Wilaya
Wilaya de                    : Communes de              I            I_,  ,   et
Dans le cadre g6ographique tel que dofini ci-dessus, 1'Etablissement exerce son
activit6 our la totalit6 de la partie agglom6r4e des Communes de type urbaines et
semi-urba'-nes, la definition prise en compte pour ces derniares communes 6tant
celle du Ministere de l'Interieur.
La gestion des services d'eau des Communes rurales et do l'habitat dispers6 eat
exclue du champ du pr4sent contrat, sauf exception(s) dCiment mentionn6e(s) dans
un document figurant en annexe du present contrat.
ARTICLE 3 - EXCLUSIVITE DU SERVICE
Pendant sa dur6e, le contrat de gestion confere A l'Etablissement le droit
exclusif d'exploiter au profit des abonnds les installations de distribution d'eau
potable qui lui ont ete donnees en gestion.
ARICLE 4 - -REALISATION DES TRAVAUX
Les travaux de premi6re installation ou les travaux de renouvellement dont la
Mattrise d'ouvrage est assuree par l'Etat sont execut6s selon lea modalitds des
Articles 17 et 21 du Cahier des Charges pour 1'Exploitation du Service Public
d'Alimentation en Eau Potable.
Cependant, et par derogation au paragraphe precedent du pr6sent Article, lea
'Travaux lids A l'Exploitation" tels que definis A l'Article 34 du Cahier des
Charges sont attribues A titre exclusif et ex6cut6s par l'Etablissement ou par un
sous-traitant qu'il aura ddsign6.



- 72 -
ANNEX 1 
Page 4 of 8
ARTICLE 5 - TARIF DE L-EAU
Le tarif de base de 1'eau vendue aux abonnes est unique et identique pour
l'ensemble des Abonnes dont la gestion du service de l'eau est assur6e par
lEtablissement.
Le prix de l'eau doit permettre de couvrir:
c     les charges d'exploitation et d'entretien des installations confiees
A 1'Etablissement, appelees A:
o     is redevance de gestion de l'Etablissement, appele, B; et
a     les imp6ts et taxes y aff4rent reprdsentant un pourcentage de A + B.
Le tarif de base T, est egal & la somme de A + B, avec A repr6sentant         pour
cent de T, et B - pour cent de T. Ce tarif de base est fixe a la date de la
signature du contrat A          dinars.   11 est r6visd annuellement selon les
dispositions de l'Article 7 de ce contrat, et ajust6 au 1e janvier de chaque
annee.
Durant la duree du contrat de gestion, l'Etablissement est autoris6 a appliquer
le bar&me des tarifs suivants
CATEGORIU  D'USAGER     TRANCIE DE CONSOWKATION            TARIF/M3
_3/AN
0-100
Menages                          101-220
221-330
>330
Administration              Tranche unique
Artisan et service           Tranche unique
Industrie/Tourisme           Tranche unique
UAIICLE 6 - REDEVANCE DE GESTION
L'Etablissement s'engage a payer une redevance annuelle A  I'Etat. Cette retevance
est vers6e A l'Etat en deux tranches, chacune dans les 90 jours k la fin de chaque
sumestre calendaire. Le montant initial de la redevance pour l'annee est fix4e
a                   El. le oast revise arnnuellement selon la formula de revision
definie en l'Article 7 du pr6sent contrat et ajust6e au 11 janvier de cheque
annee.



- 73 -
Page 5 of 8
ARTICLE 7 - REVISION DU TARIF DE L'EAU ET DE LA REDEVANCE DE CESTION
Afin de tenir compte de l'4volution des conditions dconomiques et techniques par
rapport a celles existant a la date de signature du present contrat, les 6lements
A et B du tarif T sont ajust6s au l janvier de chaque annde par application de
coefficients de rdvision calcul6s comme ci-dessous.
La composante A du tarif est revisee somme suit:
A - Ao(0.10 + 0.50 S + 0.20 E + 0.10 PC + 0.05 a + 0.05 C)
So       Eo       PCo        Plo       Co
La composante B du tarif est revisee comme suit:
B - Bo(O.10 + 0.33 S + 0.52 PI + 0.05 C)
So        PIo       Co
La date de prise en consid6ration des indices "o' dans lea formules ci-dessus
correspondent aux valeurs applicables au 30 septembre 1993. Dans ces formules:
A     represente la part du prix de base sp6cifiee A l'Article 5 du present
contrat;
B     est la part du prix de base initial du premier M3 d'eau vendue aux
abonnes et specifiee a l'Article 5 de ce contrat;
S     represente l'indice officiel des salaires dans les industries du
Bftiment et des Travaux Publics au 30 septembre de llaxnne en eours;
So    est la valeur de cet indice au 30 septambre 1993;
E     repr6sente la moyenne pond6rde des tarifs de nuit et de jour du KWh
moyenne tension au 30 septembre de l'annee en cours;
Eo    est la valeur de l'indice au 30 septembre 1993;
PC    represente le coat moyen des produits chimiques rapport6 au m3 d'eau
traitee au 30 septembre de l1'ann6e d'application;
PCo   est la valeur de l'indice au 30 septembre 1993;
C     represente le prix du litre de carburant au 30 septembre de l'ann6e
d'application;
Co    eat le prix du litre de carburant au 30 septembre 1993;
PI    repr6sente  l'indice  officiel des  Produits  Industriels  et Biens
Intermtdiaires au 30 septembre de l'annee d'application; at



- 74 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 8
Plo   est la valeur de l'indice au 30 septembre 1993.
Le nouveau montant de la redevance est calcul6 en multipliant le montant courant
de la redevance par la relation B sur Bo. Les nouveaux tarifs et redevance sont
appliquds A partir du 11 janvier de chaque ann6e d'application.
AQTICLE 8 - EVOLUTION DU TARIF
Pour tenir compte de l'evolution des conditions techniques et dconomiques suite
a la prise en charge de nouvelles communes par l'Etablissement, le tarif est
soumis A reexamen A la demande de l'une ou l'autre des parties. Le tarif rdvisd
tient compte des coats additionnels d'exploitation et d'entretien des nouvelles
installations prises en charge par l'Etablissement et de la redevance rdvis6e,
laquelle tient compte de l'amortissement des nouvelles installations donn4es en
gestion A l'Etablissament. Le tarif y compris la redevance sont dgalement r6vis6s
chaque fois que l'Etat confie de nouvelles installations en gestion A
1'Etablissement.
ARTIC 92 - 1¶ISE A JOUR DES FORMULES DE REVISION
Pour s'assurer que les formulas de revision sont representatives des coats rdels,
la composition de ces formules, y compris la partie fixe, est soumise & r6examen
A la demande de l'une ou Ilautre des parties dans les cas suivants:
9.1  Apres six ans.
9.2   En cas de variation de plus de 20X (en plus ou en moins) du volume global
vendu par rapport aux previsions annexees au present contrat; ces previsions
tiennent compte de la prise en charge dlinstallations et de branchements
nouveaux pendant la periode de six ans du contrat de gestion, telle que
prevue au programme d'investissament de 1'Etat.
9.3   En cas de variation du tarif de plus de 50X (en plus ou en moins) par simple
application des formules de r4vision depuis la derniere negociation des
tarifs.
9.4   En cas de modification des imp6ts, taxes et redevances mises A la charge de
l'Etablissement.
L'Etablissement doit produire A cette fin tous les justificatifs et les documents
necessaires ou demandos par 1'Etat, dont notamment, ses comptes d'exploitation.
ARTICLE 10 - ENTREE EN VIGUEU  - DMREE - DATE DE PRISE EN CHARGE DU SERVICE
Le prdsent contrat entre en vigueur A la date de sa signature par leas deux
parties.
11 proud effet des la prise en charge par l'Etablissement du ! rvice
d'alimentation en eau des Collectivitds d6finies A l'Article 2 du present contrat,



- 75 -
ANNEX -18
Page 7 of 8
m6me si, par mesure transitoire, le service des eaux de la totalit4 des communes
n'est pas effectivement pris en ciharge. Dans ce dernier cas,
un calendrier est elabord et annexe au present contrat, determinant la date de
prise en charge effective des services d'eau de ces communes.
Le Contrat est conclu pour une dur6e de six (6) ans. Les parties conviennent que
le contrat de gestion sera tacitement reconduit par p6riodes suppl6mentaires d'une
dur6e de six (6) ans, sauf d6nonciation dOment notifi6e par l'une des parties au
moins six mois avant 1'expiration de la periode en cours.
ARTICLE 11 - CONTINUITE DU CONTRAT EN CAS DE CHANGEHENT DE STATUT
DE L'ETABLISSEMENT
Tout changement juridique de l'Etablissement, dans la mesure oit ce changement ne
remet pas en cause les termes du present contrat, ni ceux du Cahier des Charges
d'Exploitation du service de 1'Eau potable, ne met pas fin au pr6sent contrat.
Les modifications necessaires a apporter aux clauses du present contrat ainsi qu'&
celles du Cahier des Charges d'Exploitation du Service de 1'Eau Potable, devront
Atre effectuees par voie d'avenant, de sorte A assurer la continuit4 et la
coherence des textes par rapport & la situation reelle des partenaires.
ARTICLE 12 - PRMIS EN CHARGE DES INSTALLATIONS
La prise en charge des installations s'effectue dans les conditions et selon les
modalites prevues au Cahier des Charges d'Exploitation du Service de l'EaW
Potable.
La p6riode dite "d'exploitation" commence l.e jour de la prise en charge du
service.
Pour ce qui concerne les Communes dont les services d'eau sont pris en charge
apr&s un certain delai, dans le respect du planning mentionne a l'Article 10 ci-
dessus, la p6riode d'exploitation court selon les echeances de la premiere prise
en charge, sans que l'Etablissement puisse se pr4valoir d'une date plus tardive
pour demander une prolongation de la dur6e du prdsent contrat.
ARTICLE 13 - CONTROLE DES COMPTES
L'Etablissement a' engage a tenir ses comptes sur la base du Plan Comptable
national. A la fin de chaque exercice, il soumet ses comptes et etats financiers
A des controles par des experts comptables externes. Danz lea neuf (9) mois
suivant la fin de l'exercice, les experts comptables fournissent un rapport sur
la gestion de l'Rtablissement y compris des 6tats financiers certifi6s dont un
Bilan, un dtat des comptes de resultats, et un 6tat des Emplois et des Ressources.
ARTICLE_ U - RELENENT DS LITItES
Tout litige n6, de l'application du prfsent contrat, est r6gle conform6aent aux
dispositions de l'Article 46 du Cahier de Charges pour l'Exploitation des Services
Publics d'Alimentation en Eau Potable.



- 76 -
ANNEX_18
Page 8 of 8
ARIILE 15 - NOIFICATIO
Toute notification adressee en application du pr6sent contrat est soit ddlivrde
en main propre contre dtcharge dCkment sign6e, soit adress.e par lettre recommandoe
avec accus6 de reception.
Toute notification donnee par 1'Etat A 1'Etablissement devra 6tre adressee A
ltadresse du Sibge Social de cette derniere et mentionn6e A l'Article 16 ci-aprbs.
Touts notification donn6e par l'Etablissement A 1'Etat en execution du pr4sent
contrat doit 6tre adressee soit directement A l'adresse du Ministere charge de
1'Hydraulique soit au siege de tout Organisme ou structure que ce dernier aurait
d6signd comme valablement apte A la recevoir.
ARICLE 16 - DOCILIATION
L'Etat fait acte de domiciliation, pour la signature des presentes, a ladresse
du Ninistere charg4 de 1'Hydraulique ou au Si&ge social de tout Organisme ou
Structure que ce dernier aura ddsign6 comme valablement apte A le representer.
L'Etablissement fait acte de domiciliation & son Sibge Focial qui, au moment de
la signature des pr6sentes, est 6tabli &
Fait & _A_                        , le
en      exemplaires originaux
Pour l'gtat, et par d6l6gation,      Pour l'Etablissement R6gional,
le Directeur,



- 77
Page 1 of 6
Le 19 mars 1994
Monsieur Lewis Preston
President
Banque Internationale pour la
Reconstruction et le DUveloppement
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Etats-Unis d'Amdrique
Monsieur le President,
A l'occasion du nouveau pret que la Banque accorde au secteur de
1'AEP et de l'Assainissement en Algerie, je souhaite vous dire tout d'abord
toute ma satisfaction de voir un pr6t de votre institution enti&rement
consacre a la rehabilitation des systemes existants d'AEP et d'assainissement.
I1 s'agit la, J'en suis convaincu, de ia meilleure preuve quo le
secteur de 1'Equipement, qui a jusque lA axe ses efforts sur le developpement
d'infrastructures nouvelles, a identifie de nouvelles prioritds, toutes
consacrees a une meilleure gestion du patrimoine.
Je soubaite vivement que le programme de travail mis au point par
les experts de nos deux instituions pour le developpoment d'infrastructures
nouvelles et la r6habilitation d'infrastructures existantes, soit mend A terms
dans leas ddlais prdvus, et je suis persuade que vous ne mdnagerez aucun effort
pour l'aboutissement de cette ddmarche. Je profite de cette occasion pour
remercier la Banque de laide technique et financi6re qu'elle a apportde
jusqu'a prdsent au secteur de l'hydraulique et pour exposer A votre
institution les grandes lignes de la politique que nous appliquons
actuellement dans le secteur de lleau potable et de l'assainissement, ainsi
que celle qua nous avons l' intention de mettre en place progressivement.
Les projets que la Banque a acceptd de financer en partie ces dix
dernieres anndes ont permis une nette amdlioration des services d'alimentation
en eau et d'assainissement dans nos grands centres urbains et en particulier
dans la capitale, concernde par le Pret 2461-AL qui vient de se clBturer & la
satisfaction g6n6rale.
Dans le cadre des proj ets finances par la Banque, plusieurs
tentatives de restructuration du secteur de l'eau potable et de
l'assainissement ont etd effectudes avec a chaque fois l'objectif d'en
amdliorer lVefficacitt. Cos tentatives n'ont pas toujours donne les rdsultats
escompt6s, peut 6tre parce qua nous nous sommes A chaque fois limit6s A la
seule architecture institutionnelle.
C'est pour cette raison quo nous avons convenu avec la Banque de
rdaliser des 6tudes d'organisatLon et de gestion du secteur dans le cadre du
2' Projet National d'Approvisionnement en Eau et d'Assainissement (Pret 2821-
AL). Ces dtudes sont bien avancedes et nous avons pu identifier un certain
nombre de recomnandations quo nous avons commencd A mettre en oeuvre avec le
concours technique apprdcid de la Banque.



- 78 -                             ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 6
Monsieur Lewis Preston                                            Le 19 mars 1994
Au cours de L'annee ecoulee, nous avons euitrepris un certain nombre
d'actions visant a introduire plus d'efficacit6 dans le secteur de l'eau
potable et de I'assainissement.  Apres un doublement des tarifs en debut 1993,
nous venons de decider une augmentation substantielle de 33 pour cent du prix
de l'eau potable a compter du 1' janvier 1994.
Pour la premiere fois en 1993 une taxe d'assainissement
representant 10 pour cent de la facture d'eau a ete instituee en faveur des
communes. Depuis le 10 janvier 1994 cette taxe a et6 portee a 20 pour cent de
la facture et a dt6 transformde en redevance d'assainissement. Elle est
destinee aux entreprises de gestion d'eau qui prendront en charge
progressivement les reseaux d'assainissement. Dans ce cadre, la Banque
pourrait apporter son concours pour assurer une meilleure prise en charge de
cette activit6 par les etablissements de 1'eau.
Parallelement a ces actions sur le tarif, le Ministere a engagd un
programme d'actions en direction des entreprises de distribution d'eau qui a
consistd:
1.   a clarifier la relation entre l'Etat et les entreprises d'une
part et les entreprises et les utilisateurs d'autre part, en
publiant le cahier des charges-type relatif a l'exploitation
des services d'eau potable et d'assainissement et le r6glement
general de l'abonne;
2.   A renforcer leL iiff6rentes fonctions de gestion dans
l'entreprise par la mise en oeuvre de procedures efficaces;
3.   A clarifier les comptes de I'ensemble des entreprises par
l'ex4cution de missions d'audit;
4.   A gdndraliser le comptage et donc A instituer une plus grande
transparence par l'installation de plusieurs centaines de
milliers de compteurs;
5.   A ameliorer le recouvrement des erdances par l'institution
systdmatique de mesures coercitives en direction des mauvais
payeurs, en particulier les administrations et lea services
publics; et
6.   & assainir le portefeuille de dettes par leur r6glement ou par
la mise au point d'dchdanciers de paiement avec les grands
cr6anciers du secteur (Fiscalite, Securit4 Sociale, SONELGAZ).
Ces actions ont dejA produit des resultats tout A fait
satisfaisants et la majoritd des-35 6rablissements de 1'eau, dont une bonne
partie sont deji sortis de leurs decouverts bancaires, devraient etre au
rendez vous du redressement financier attendu A la fin du lr trimestre 1994.
Les r6formes ci-dessus seront approfondies et poursuivies dans le
cadre du nouveau prft.
Le secteur de la distribution d'eau est compose de 35
6tablissements de 1'eau dont 9 etablissements r6gionaux correspondant
grossierement aux grandes rdgions hydrographiques du pays et 26 6tablissements
de wilays.



- 79 -
ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 6
Monsieur Lewis Preston                                           Le 19 mars 1994
Nous avons d6jA engage l'unification de la tutelle sur l'ensemble
des 35 etablissements d'eau et il a t  d6cide par consequent de transfArer
les 26 etablissements de wilaya sous lfautorit6 du Minist6re de l'Equipement a
compter de janvier 1994.
L'efficacit4 et la productivit6 du personnel dans le secteur de
l'approvisionnement en eau et de I'assainissement, qui restent une
preoccupation majeure de mon Minist6re, ont 6td considerablement ameliorees
durant l'annde 1993 et sont appel6es a etre poursuivies cette annee.
En depit de son caractere de service public essentiel quo nous
pensons consolider, nous sommes convaincus qulil faut donner encore plus
d'autonomie A la gestion de ce secteur pour amnliorer son efficacite par le
renforcemaent et la modernisation de ses moyens.
Nous avons decide de contractualiser la relation entre l'Etat et
les Collectivites Locales, propri6taires des infrastr-uctures d'alimentation en
eau potable et d'assainissement, d'une part, et les entreprises charg6es de la
gestion de celles-ci, d'autre part. La signature en 1992 de l'arrWt6
interministdriel portant approbation du cahier des charges-type pour
l'exploitation des services publics d'AEP a etd un premier pas vers cette
contractualisation.
L'enrichissement de ces cahiers des charges par l'introduction des
recommandatiuns de la Banque, formuldes dans le nouveau pret, permettra, des
1994, d'instituer une redevance que l'entreprise paiera au bailleur.
Cette redevance couvrira progressivement le coat de renouvellement
et de rdhabilitation des infrastructures hydrauliques.
La mise en place de ces relations contractuelles avec les
entreprises sera inaugurde avec les entreprises EPEOR et EPEA dans le courant
de lVann6e 1994, apres enrichissement avec le concours technique de la Banque,
du cahier des charges de concession du service public de l'eau. Cette
ddmarche sera dtendue progressivement A 1'ensemble des entreprises de gestion
de l'eau par sa gdndralisation A partir du 10 janvier 1997.
L'Agence Nationale de l'Eau Potable et de l'Assainissement (AGEP),
qui connaitra d'ici fin 1995 une reorganisation complete, est A notre point de
vue l'institution qui se pr6te le mieux pour contr6ler la mise en application
des contrats de gestion. Nous comptons proc4der au rdamdnagement de son
organisation et de son statut pour la rendre plus A meme d'assurer ses
missions tout en lui confdrant le maximum d'autonomie.
L'6conomie de l'eau et sa prdservation doivent 6tre des objectifs
essentiels du secteur de l1dquipement durant les prochaines anndes. Le
secteur de l'eau potable consomme environ un tiers des ressources en eaux
mobiliades.  L'irrigation consomme les autres deux tiers. Nous considdrons
toutefois qu'une partie trop importante estimde A 40 pour cent de l'eau livr6e
A 1'AEP et A prbs de la moitid de 1'eau d'irrigation sont perdues A cause de
fuites dues A 1'etat ddfectueux des rdseaux, alors que les fuites ne
reprdsentent en Europe occidentale que 15 a 20 pour cent pour l'eau potable.
Nous pensons qu'il faille r6habiliter d'urgence nos rdseeux. Cela permettra
de differer, probablement, d'importants investissements en leur substituant
une meilleure valorisation de la ressource en eau de plus en plus rare dans
nos contrees arides.



- 80 -
ANEX 19
Page 4 of 6
Monsieur Lewis Preston                                           Le 19 mars 1994
Par ailleurs, il faut souligner que malgre tous ces efforts,
certaines r6gions telles que l'Oranie, caracterisees par un deficit
pluviomdtrique important depuis plusieurs ann6es, connaissent des contraintes
d'approvisionnement en eau par les ressources classiques, et qui devront
n6cessiter par consequent, le recours aux techniques de dessalement d'eau de
mer ou de d4uindralisatiori d'eaux saumAtres.  La Banque mondiale pourrait
apporter son concours au d6veloppement de ces projets A l'avenir.
Si l'on souhaite que le tarif de 1'eau encourage la preservation
des ressources, il est ndcessaire que l'utilisateur paie & terme le vrai prix
de cette ressource. Nous sommes persuades que des tarifs r6gionaux
refleteront mieux la verite des coats qui varient assez largement d'une r6gion
A une autre; mais nous sommes aussi convaincus que dans ce domaine il faille
agir avec precaution. Aussi avons nous decid6:
1.  Dans un premier temps d'augmenter progressivement le tarif de
l'eau en incluant au fur et A mesure:
(a) la totalitd des frais de gestioa des installations.
Cette mesure a 6te atteinte pour la quasi-totalite des
dtablissements avec l'augmentation r6cente du tarif;
(b)  une part de plus en plus importante du cout de
l'assainissement jusqu'a la prise en compte de 1'ensemble
des charges d'assainissement par le tarif d'ici l'an
2000;
(c)  les charges de grosses reparations sur les r4seaux d'AEP;
et
(d) les charges de renouvellement et d'extension des reseaux
d'AEP.
2.   Dans un deuxieme temps et ce A partir du 10 janvier 1997, nous
comptons instituer des tarifs rdgionaux qui refletent la
realite des cofits dans chaque region.
A cette phase, nous aurons par ailleurs, grace & l'amelioration et
A la modernisation de la gestion des dtablissements de l'eau, optimis6 les
cotts d'intervention de ces dtablissements; ce qui nous permettra d'allier la
verite des prix A la verit6 des coCits de gestion.
De plus, dans cette tarification rdgionale et avec l'objectif de
conserver les ressources en eau, nous sommes de l'avis que les abonnds
domestiques consommant plus de 200 m3 par an, ainsi que le abonn6s publics,
commerciaux et industriels, devraient payer un tarif au moins egal au coait
economique a long terme de l'eau potable.  Au moment de signer tout contrat de
gestion, il faudra nous assurer, quand c'est necessaire, que les augmentations
de tarif sotent programm6es de telle sorte que le tarif pr6citd atteigne le
coat 6conomique en Van 2000. Ce sera le cas pour le contrat de gestion avec
EPEOR.
Il faut toutefois noter que les disparit6s de coit sont telles
(2,50 DA/m3 A Biskra et 20,57 DA/m3 A Tamanrasset) qu'il faudra probablement
mettre en place, pour les zones qui accusent des coats trop dloign4s de la
moyenne, un systeme de pdr6quation permettant de surcharger les tarifs pour
lea regions ou les coiLts *ont bas et de les rdduire pour les rdgions dont les
co*ts seraient excessifs.



- 811
Page 5 of 6
Monsieur Lewis Preston                                            Le 19 mars 1994
Outre La rehabilitation des reseaux et un tarif de l'eau dissuasif
qui penalise les gros consommateurs et lutte contre le gaspillage de leau,
nous pensons mettre au point, avec le concours de la Banque et d'autres
institutions, une reglementation et un programme educationnel qui encourage
l'conomie et la preservation de 1'eau.
Nous avons entam6 en 1993, en relation 6troite avec plusieurs
Ministeres dont notamment ceux de l'Industrie et de 1'Intdrieur et des
Collectivitea Locales, un vaste programme tendant A 1'economie de I'eau dans
les unit4s industrielles et & la lutte contre la pollution des eaux par les
rejets industriels.
Nous souhaitons vivement la contribution de la Banque aux plans
technique et financier, pour la mise en oeuvre de ce programme.
Comme vous le savez, quatre ministeres sont essentiellement
impliquds dans le developpement et la gestion des ressources en eau en
Algerie: Le MinistAre de l'Equipement, celui de l'Agriculture, celui de
l'Int6rieur et des Collectivit6s Locales, et celui charge de l'environnement.
Cette division des responsabilites requiert que ces quatre minist6res
coordonnent leurs travaux de planification et de pr6servation des ressources
en eau pour I'avenir.
Nous wommes convaincus qu'une meilleure coordination des politiques
de ces ministeres, A laquelle nous nous attachons actuellement, amxliorera
l'efficacite de nos investissements, particulierement en matiere de
prdservation et d'utilisation rationnelle de la ressource en eau.
Une des taches majeures de mon Ministere est de preserver les
dcosyst6mes aquatiques dans le pays, Nous avons enregistre une augmentation
de la pollution des eaux souterraines et de surface, qui est due A plusieurs
raisons.  Avec le concours du Ministere de l'agriculture et grace a une
meilleure information des agriculteurs, il sera possible de limiter la
pollution due A l'utilisation abusive d'engrais et de pesticides.
Nous pensons touterois que la pollution qu'il convient de combattre
le plus rapidement est celle qui est due A la d6fectuosite des reseaux
d'assainissement, A l'insuffisance de stations d'epuration, A l'absence de
maitrise des stations d'epuration existantes, et A l'absence de traitement des
rejets industriels et de leur recyclage.
Outre le programme de remise en dtat des stations d'epuration sur
le territoire national, le Ministere de l'Equipement espere renforcer sur les
plans materiel et technique, les entreprises de gestion de l'eau afin
d'ameliorer le service d'assainissement. I1 pense egalement multiplier le
nombre de stations sur le territoire national, et souhaite vivement int6resser
les bailleurs de fonds A son ambitieux programme d'6puration d'eaux us6es, qui
a ete entame depuis 1992 et qui porte sur 200 stations d'1puration.
Nous esperons vivement que les comp6tences techniques de la Banque
soient interessees A notre programme, de m8ime que nous sommes persuad4s que
votre institution pourra se faire notre interpr6te aupres d'autres bailleurs
de fonds pour soutenir notre effort de realisation de plusieurs dizaines de
stations sur le territoire national.
Comma vous pouvez le constater, d'importants efforts sont
n6cessaires pour initLer et developper les politiquee esquissees ci-dessus.
II nous semble qu'il sera possible de mettre au point avec la Banque un



- 82 -
ANNEX 19
Page 6 of 6
Nonsieur Lewis Preston                                           Le 19 mars 1994
planning dtexdcution de ces mesures. Ce planning devra tenir compte des
d6lais de maturation n6cessaires, ainsi que de la progressivitd des mesures
que nos devrons mettre en place durant ;'execution du projet.
Nous souhaltons vivement qua les experts de la Banque qui seront
charg6s d'6laborer les futurs projets d'A.E.P. et d'assainissement, se
chargent d'arr6ter un dcheancier rigoureux des mesures & initier et A mettre
en place pour lib4rer ddfinitivement le secteur de I'AEP et de
l'assainissement des entraves et lourdeurs qui g6nent son developpement,
Comme il nous parait indispensable que la Banque nous assiste pour 6valuer
pdriodiquement les progr6s r6alises dans ±a mise en place de ces politiques.
Nous esperons vivement recevoir le soutien entier de votre
institution dans 1'execution de nos politiques et programmes et vous prions de
croire, Monsieur le PrAsident, en 1'expression de notre haute consideration.
Mokdad Sifi
Ministre de 1'Equipement



ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENTREPRISE DE PRODUCTION, DE GESTION ET DE DISTRIBUTION D'EAU Q'ANNABA
EPEA
Organizational Chart - 1992
GENERAL
MANAGER
|  DATA                   INTE.R.N _L
_ TECHNICAL.     _FINANCE                         PERSONNEL                  ANNABA                   EtTARF
OPERATIONS/              ACCOUNlINO
NEW WORKS                                          SRIE
{  MAINTENANCE   l  _    COMMERCIAL          _
SADS\W54834C



WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENTREPRISE DE PRODUCTION, DE GESTION ET DE DISTRIBUTION D'EAU D'ORAN
EPEOR
Organizational Chart - 1992
GENERAL
MANAGER
DATA
PROCESSING
OPE.ATIONS                 LOGISTICS                   F _DMIRNSTRATION
PRODUCTION AND              MECHANICAL                     DGET                   PERSONNEL
DISTRIBUTION              MAINTENANCE          L-      BuDGET
PLANNING/               PROCUREMENT!                ACCOUNTING/                  GENERAL
STUDIES                   S                           AUDiT                  ADMINISTRATION
NEW WORKS
1  SEWERAG 
LABORATORY 
I  ORAN   |        | AIN TEMOUCHENT  |        |    MASCARA               L    TLENCEN
BRANCHBt  L   8RANCH  JBRANC____                     BRANCH
SADS\W54834B



ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Organizational Chart for Regional Water Utilities
I EXECUTIVE 
BOARD
|    GENERAL    g        { ADMINISTRATIVE
MANAGE                         BOARD 
PUBLIC          __       INTERNAL
RELATIONS     _ -AUDIT
ENGINEERING/             ADMINISTRATION/                                       COMMERCAL
_ OPERATIONS           _     PERSONE                        NE_                  CMECA 
_   STUDIES       _     PERSONNEL                  ACCOUNTING             BILLINGICOLLECTION
PROCUREMENT/                GENERAL                     CST                     CUSTOMERS
_    NEW WORKS     _       SERVICES                 ACCOUNTING                  SERVICES 
WATER PRODUCTION              TRAINING                  TREASURY    J        J   STATISTICS
0  ERGE 0 0 WS | 0 BUDGET  l-LDATA PROCESSING
WLAYA BRANCH             WILAYA BRANCH              WILAYA BRANCH      ---    WLA BRANCH
SADS\W54834A    1'



- 86 -                            ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIOUE ALGERIENNE DRERMOGAIQUE ET, POPULARE
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DES SYSTENES
D'APPIQYI$IONNEMENT EN EAU T D'ASSAINISSENENT
TU=ES DP REFERENCE POUR LA KISE EN PLACE
DS OUTILS DE GESTION CONMERCIALE
DgS ENTEPISES DE DISTRIBUTION D'RFAU
Avat-102o011
1.          Le Gouvernement Algerien procAde actuellement A la restructuration
des entreprises de production ot de distribution d'eau potable dans le but de les
rendre plus efficaces et performantes.   L'objectif est qu'elles arrivent A
gen6rer les fonds necessaires pour couvrir l'exploitation, la maintenance et le
renouvellement des systemes de production et de distribution d'eau. En meme
temps, il est propose de mettre en place des dispositifs institutionnels pour
inciter le personnel des entreprises A devenir plus productif et performant.
2.          Pour l instant il existe 9 entreprises r4gionales et 26 entreprises
de wilayate. L'objectif final est d'6tablir, tout au moins dans le nord du pays,
does entreprises r4gionales pour la desserte des services d'eau. Ce regroupement
s'efffectuerait A travers l'absorption des entreprises de wilayate par les
r6gionales, et vraisemblablement par la crdation de nouvelles rdgionales.
Toutefois, le nombre total d'entreprises r4gionales dans le nord n'espAre pas
d6passer la douzaine.   Ces changements dans l'organisation du secteur sont
programmes pour les deux prochaines anndes, et lVobjectif est qu'k la mi-97,
seulement des entre?rises r6gionales seront en place dans le nord du pays.
3.          En  attendant,  le  Gouvernement  se  propose  d'entreprendre  la
restructuration de deux entreprises regionales: 1'Entreprise de production, de
gestion et de distribution dteau d'Annaba-EPEA, et l'Entreprise de production,
de gestion et de distribution d'eau d'Oran-EPEOR.   Comme dojA indiqu6. les
juridictions territoriales de ces entreprises peuvent changer durant les deux
prochaines  annees.      En  cons4quence,   toute  recommandation  concernant
Ilorganisation, les systAmes et procedures de ces entreprises, devrait Atre
flexible, permettant son adaptation A toute nouvelle forme, structure et etendue
que pourraient prendre ces entrepreises A l'avenir.
4.          La Banque mondiale se propose d'accorder un prdt au Gouvernement
Alg6rien pour financer la resructuration d'EPEA et d'EPEOR.  Les services requis
sous les pr6sents termes de r6f6rence seront partiellement financds par les fonds
de ce pret.
gervices Reguis
5.          L'expertise  d'un consultant, ou d'un bureau d'6tudes ou d'un
exploitant de services de distribution d'eau potable, est requise pour concevoir,
mettre en place, et faire fonctionner les outils de gestion commerciale d'EPEA
et d'EPEOR. Par gestion commerciale, il faut entendre toute lea operations se
rapportant aux ventes d'eau potable aux abonnzs d'EPEA et d'EPEOR, et &
l'encaissement de ces ventes. Elles concernent aussi les procedures A suivre
pour raccorder les consommateurs aux r6seaux de distribution d'eau, ainsi quo
toutes lea statistiques relatives & la consommation, le nombre d'abonn6s, la
distribution de la consommation entre cat6gories d'abonn6s, et la r6partition des
ventes d'eau & travers le temps.



- 8A -NEX2
Page 2 of 8
6.          L'expertise  sera men6e  s6parl .ent pour  EPEA  et  EPEOR.    En
cons6quence, l'Administration alg6rienne chargee de cette op6ration, peut choisir
un seul expert pour les deux entreprises, ou deux diff6rents experts, un pour
chaque entreprise. Pour lui permettre ce choix, les consultants s6lectionnds
pour pr6senter des offres pour cette expertise devront soumettre deux offres
s6par4es, une pour EPEA, et une autre pour EPEOR.
CoMoitnSeS Territor.Ale d''ZEA et dtlPEO
7.          EPEA eat chargee de l'alimentation en eau potable dans lea wilayate
d'Annaba et El Tarf. La population totale dans ces deux wilayate est estim6e
aujourd'hui A 850.000 habitants. Environ 86 pour cent de cette population, i.e.,
735.000 habitants sont desservis par EPEA. Sur un total de 12 communes dans la
wilaya d'Annaba, EPEA A pr6sent gere 5; dans la wilaya d'El Tarf, elle g6re 18
sur un total de 24. EPEA esp6re prendre toutes les communes en charge vers la
mi-95.
8.          Au 30 juin 1993, EPEA comptait 67.000 abonn6s dont A peu pr&s la
moiti4 sans compteur. L'objectif est d'avoir tous les branchements munis de
compteurs a la fin de 1994. Durant llannee 93, EPEA a facture un volume total
de 53 Mma d'eau A ses abonnms.   EPEA compte un nombre important d'abonnds
industriels qui contribuent un fort pourcentage de son chiffre d'affaires.
9.          Pour fournir les services d'eau a ses abonn6s, EPEA dispose de quatre
unit6s: l'unite siege, lunit6 Annaba, Ilunite El Tarf, et l'unite de la villa
d'Annaba. Lea unit6s operationnelles sont elles-m6mes subdivisees en secteurs
en ce qui a trait & I'exploitation et la facturation des abonnes.
10.         Quant a EPEOR, elle a 18 responsabilite de la production et de la
distribution d'eau potable dans quatre wilayate: Oran, Ain Temouchent, Mascara,
et Tlemcen. La population totale actuelle dans ces wilayate est estim6 A 2,9
milion habitants.  A present, EPEOR assure la desserte d'environ 70 pour cent
de cette population, i.e., environ 2 million habitants. EPEOR espere desservir
la totalit6 de la population vers la fin de 1995.
11.         En 1993 EPEOR projete un chiffre d'affaires de 288 million de dinars
pour une vente d'eau de 55 Mm3.  Pres de 70 pour cent des revenus d'EPEOR
proviennent d'Oran, 26 pour cent de Mascara et Tlemcen, et 4 pour cent d'Ain
Temouchent. A la fin de 1993, EPEOR avait un total de 215.000 abonnFs. Comme
pour EPEA, environ la moiti6 de ces branchements n'6taient pas munis de
compteurs.  L'objectif est d'achever d'equiper la totalit6 des branchements de
compteurs A la fin de 1994.
12.         L'EPEOR east organis6e en quatre unit6s op6rationnelles, une dana
chacuns des quatre wilayate d6saervies par l'entreprise, et une unite de siag.
Leo  unit6s  op6rationnelles sont decoup6es en secteurs pour les operatious
d'exploitation et de facturation. Dans la assure du possible et toute les fois
quo les critAres economiques le justifient, les outils de j,ostion commerciale
devraient suivre le d6coupage administratif des entreprises.
13.         Avant de soumettre leurs propositions, les consultants prdqualifids
devraient contacter lea Directions Generales d'EPEA et EPEOR pour plus
d'informations our l'organisation et le fonctionnement de ces entreprises. Ils
devraient on particulier se renseigner our des changements organisationnels quo
lea entreprises couptent *ettre en place dana un proche avenir.



- 88-NEX
Page 3 of 8
Gestion Commerciale
14.         La gestion commerciale d'une entreprise de distribution d'eau touche
toutes les activitds se rapportant au raccordement d'un immeuble par nature au
reseau d'eau potable, le releve et la facturation de sa consommation d'eau,
L'encaissement de sa facture, le suivi de sa consommation A travers le temps,
L'entretien de son branchement et de son compteur, et quant c'est requis, son
d6branchement du rAseau.   Cette gestion est effectuee en coordination avec
d'autres services de 1'entreprise, particulierement les services techniques et
financiers. Les services techniques procedent A 1'execution des branchements,
leur entretien et d6branchement, Les services financiers contr6lent les recettes
des ventes d'eau.
15.         Pour les besoins de 1'expertise demand6e, la gestion commerciale
comprendrait deux parties:
-     la premire couvrant les activites prdc6dant l'abonnement d'un
immeuble oar nature, et son d6branchement suite A sa cessation
en tant qu'abonne de l'entreprise; et
-     la deuxieme se rapportant aux activites de son abonnement,
c'est-k-dire le relevd r6gulier de sa consommation, sa
facturation, et le paiement de sa consommation.
16.         Les deux parties sont interconnect6es et les activites de la deuxieme
partie sont complementaires A celles de la premiere. De la demande d'abonnement,
jusqu's sa resiliation possible, le dossier d'un abonnd devrait etre catalogue,
suivi, et si n.cessaire, reconstruit A tout moment.   L'expert est requis de
formuler toutes les procedures A suivre pour maintenir cette interconnexion et
reconistruction. II est propose que toutes les activitds soient informatisdes.
Au pr6able, l'expert devrait etablir la conformitd et suite logiques des
activit6s. De plus, le programme informatique devrait pouvoir produire toutes
les statistiques concernant les volumes d'eau facturds et revenus par categorie
de consommateurs, par diametre de branchements, et pour differentes p6riodes
d'une annee. Le programme devrait aussi pouvoir prevoir des consommations et
recettes futures sur la base des donnees enregistrees dans le pass6.
Gestion de I'Abonnement
17.         L'expert retenu pr6parera toutes les procedures, formes, et fichiers
necessaires pour l'enregistrement, la localisation, et description des abonn6s
aux services. 11 sp6cifiera leas liaisons A maintenir entre les services de
gestion commerciale, technique, et financi6re, durant la conduite de ces
procedures. I1 indiquera en particulier les temps limites pour l'ex6cution de
chaque etape des procedures sp6cifi6es.  Les procedures, formes, et fichiers
devront traiter des demarches suivantes:
la demande d'abonnement par le propridtaire d'un immeuble par
nature;
l'inspection des lieux, la localisation de l'immeuble sur le
cadastre;
la preparation d'un devis de branchement;



- 8EX  23
Page 4 of 8
le paiement du devis et de la caution d'abonnement;
l'ex6cution    du   branchement,    sa    localisation    et
lenregistrement du compteur, de la niche du compteur, et
autres materiels installes sur le branchement;
inscription de l'abonn6 au fichier des abonn6s;
resiliation de l'abonnement pour faute de paiement, ou sur
demande de l'abonne;
coupure des services ec enlevement du branchement;
demande de reconnexion, paiement d'arridr6s d'abonnement et du
devis de reconnexion; et
-     execution de la reconnexion et remise de Ilabonnement au
fichier des abonn6s.
18.         L'expert preparera des livrets de procedure pour toutes les activit4s
decrites  plus haut.   De plus,  il d6crira ces  activit6s  sous une forme
schematique, montrant les diff6rentes dtapes de 1'6volution d'une demande
d'abonnement, et les actions & r6aliser durant chaque 6tape.
Gestion des Abonn6s
19.         Comme pour la premiere partie couvrant la  demande d'abonnement
ju3squ'& sa resiliation et sa reconnexion possibles, l'expert pr4parera toutes
les procedures, formes, et fichiers n6cessaires pour la facturation et le
paiement des consommations d'eau des abonnes. Les damarches suivantes devront
6tre traitees:
le releve des consommations, y compris le decoupage de la
juridiction geographique des entreprises en secteurs, et les
tournees des relev6s. L'expert fera des recommandations quant
a la p6riodicit6 des relevds.   Le choix d'une pdriodicite
devra  etre base  sur des criteres  economiques.   I1  est
souhaitable qu' travers cette periodicite le releve soit
continu. Dans ce cas, l'expert devra sp6cifier les tourn6es
de releve durant chaque jour ouvrable de la periodicite.
L'expert indiquera sous quelle forme les coordonnees de
l'abonnement seront fournies aux releveurs, et les dispositifs
A prendre pour emp6cher toute erreur ou fraude dans les
releves;
la transmission et saisie des relev6s par l'ordinateur pour le
calcul des factures.  La programzation informatique devrait
permettre la d6tection d'anomalies dans les factures et leur
signalisation automatique;
distribution et mode d'envoi des factures aux abonnds par vote
postale ou par releveurs.   La facture devrait signaler uu
temps limite pour son palement, au-delA duquel des int6r6ts
seront ajoutes & la facture originale.   Ce paiement accru
devrait aussi etre indiqu6 sur la facture;



- 90 -                            ANNFA LI
Page 5 of 8
paiement de 7.a facture par vote postale, ou directement A une
banque ou aux releveurs;
-     enregistrement du paiement et conciliation entre la facture et
le paiement, contrble de la caisse des paiements;
-     listing des impaycs et mesures de relance aux abonnes en
retard de palement. Ce listing devrait indiquer le montant at
1'age des arri4rds;
-     application  de  mesures  coercitives  comme  la coupure  du
service, l'enl6vement du branchement;
-     la suppression temporaire de l'abonn6 du cardex des abonnrs
dans  lordinateur,  suite  ' la coupure  du  service.    Un
dispositif de s4curitd devrait 6tre mis en place pour emp4cher
un tel enlevement sans motif valable; et
-     lla pr6paration de statistiques relatives aux consommations et
revenus par categorie d'abonnds, diamttre de compteur, periode
de l'ann6e. Le programme d'ordinateur devrait aussi pouvoir
fournir les statistiques se rapportant A la distribution de la
frequence entre le nombre d'abonnes et le cumul de leurs
consommations.
SXst4me Informat igue
20.         Le systbme informatique comme decrit ici propose la centralisation
des activitds de facturation A l'unite de sULge.  Cependant, les activit6s
concernant la gesti-n de l'abonnement devraient 6tre d6centralisdes au niveau de
chaque unit6.   A ce niveau et probablement A celui de chaque secteur, des
terminaux devraient 6tre installes pour acceder aux informations d'abonnement
maintenues au niveau de l'unite de siege. A la demande d'abonnes, les unites et
secteurs operationnels devraient avoir la possibilite d'emettre des exemplaires
de factures deja 6mises.  Mais toutes les operations d'enregistrement et de
saisie de paiement,  et de passation d'ecritures comptables concernant la
facturation, devr^ient etre centralis6es au niveau de l'unit6 de siege.
21.         L'expert devra indiquer les modes de transmission et de saisie des
releves et paiements d'abonnement A l'unitd de siege.   Si jug6 adequat, les
unit6s operationnelles devraient pouvoir 4mettre directement les factures
d'abormement. L'expert devrait indiquer tous les dispositifs A mettre en place
pour le contr6le des paiements et de la caisse.
22.         Le syst&me informatique propose ici est optionnel.   L'expert est
invite A proposer des changements qui, de son avis, rendraient le systeme plus
sOr et efficace. L'une des investigations A mener est la possibilite d'avoir des
connexions t4ldphoniques pour le systeme informatique entre les unit6s at
secteurs.
D&roulement de g'Exoertise
23.         L'Administration alg6rienne envisage le deroulement de l'expertise
en quatre phases:



- 91 -                            AUNNE  23
±'age 6 of 8
Phase 1:    Ia compilation et confirmation de l'inventaire des
branchements dans chaque unIt-;  1'6tablissement de.
tournees de relev6 et fichiers d'abonnement dans chaque
unite; une 6valuation du nombre futur de branchements,
et des besoins en matdriel informatique; 1' investigation
des  liaisons  t16ephoniques;  la  confirmation  des
specifications du matdriel informatique (hardware et
software) recommand6 dans l'offre de l'expert. La dur6e
de cette phase est estimn6 A 3 mois;
Fhase_2:    la  pr6paration,  discussion  et   approb&tion  des
proct:dures, formes et fichiers requis pour la gestion de
l'abonnement et celle des abonnXs; organisation du
departement responsable de la gestion cc'Bmerciale;
parallelement A ces activit6s, la coumande et livraison
du mat6riel informatique. Cette phase devrait -'..chever
dans 6 mois au maximum;
Bhase__:    mise en place et d6marrage du syst6me informatique;
creation du fichier informatis6 d'abonn6s; misa en
oeuvre des procedures de gestion; formation du personnel
destine A travailler sur le mat6riel informatique et
logiciel.    Durant  cette  periode,  la  facturation
continuera A 6tre effectu6e A travers les systimes
existants.     Le  transfert  des  dossiers  se  fera
progressivement pour s'achever enti6rement dans une
pdriode de 6 mois au maximum; et
Phase 4:    suivi des op6rations et formation continue du personnel
durant une periode de 9 mois.
24.         La dur6e totale de 1Vexpertise est estim6e A 24 mois.   Durant
l'ex6cution de toutes les phases de l'expertise, l'expert devrait discuter et
associer le personnel du D6partement commercial des entreprises A ses activit6s.
Chaque entreprise d6signera un interlocuteur pour discuter avec leexpert de la
bonne marche et la coordination de lIexpertise avec le personnel de l'Entreprise.
L'expert devrait garantir la bonne marche et les resultats du systbme
informatique et des procedures mis en place.
Proc6dures de S4lection
25.         L'Administration alg6rienne a choisi et pr6qualif i6 cinq experts
(bureaux d'etudes, ingenieurs-conseils, exploitants), pour soumettre des offres
pour l'expertise demand6e. Ces experts ont le choix de soumettre pour les deux
entreprises, ou pour une seule. De toutes facons, l'Administration algerienne
se reserve le droit de s6lectionner un seul expert pour les deux entreprises, ou
deux experts, un par entreprise. De plus, l'Administration algerienne se reserve
le droit de ne pas donner suite A cette consultation.   Les depenses encourues
par les experts pour la preparation de leurs offres restent A leur charge. Ils
ne peuvent en aucun cas et sous aucune circonstance et sous aucun pretexte,
reclamer le remboursement de ces d6penses.
26.         L'Administration algdrienne basera sa s6lection sur IIexp4rience, la
muthodologie, le personnel, et l'offre financiere de l'expert, dans la forme
definie ci-apres. Une fois s6lectionne, l'Administration conclura un march6 avoc



- 92 -
Page 7 of 8
l'expert d"finissant le d6roulement de l'expertise, les garanties A donner, les
modes de paisment, la reception des services, et les obligations respectives de
l'Administration alg6rienne et de 1'expert.
Pr6Daration de 1'Off#
27.         LIoffre devrait comprendre une part tachnique et une part financiere.
La part technique comprendra un expose de l'experience et des qualifications de
l'expert dans la conception et la mise en oeuvre d'outils de gestion commerciale
d'entreprises de distribution d'eau potable. Elle incluira de plus une 6tude
critique des presents termes de reference, suivie de la methodologie que l'expert
se propose de mettre en oeuvre pour lVex6cution de L'expertise.  Enfin, elle
indiquera le personnel que l'expert compte utiliser pour executer les services
requis. Les c.v. de ce personnel seront soumis avec l'offre.
28.         La part financiere comprendra le prix de l'offre et tous les details
ndecessaires pour determiner le coat d3s composantes financieres. Les coots de
chaque phase devront etre indiques separement. Le coQt en personnel de l'offre
sera exprime sdpar6ment avec indication du coefficient de maj oration de l'expert.
Les depenses de transport, d'administration, et pour l'achat d'equipement et de
materiels, devront 6tre ind'qu6es aussi separement. Les perts des ddpenses en
devises et en dinars k1lg6riens devront Atre exprimees pour chaque item.
29.         L'offre financi6re devrait comprendre le montant destin6 A l'achat
du materiel informatique et de logiciels. Toutefois, l'Administration algerienne
peut opter pour l'achat direct de ce materiel et des logiciels par ses propres
services.
30.         L'offre devrait etre presentee en frangais, et toutes les relations
de l'expert avec les entreprises doivent se faire en frangais. I1 est vivement
recommand6 aux experts pr6qualifi6s de visiter EPEA et EPEOR pour recueillir les
informations necessaires A la preparation des offres. Ces entreprises mettront
toutes ces informations gratuitement A la disposition des experts.
Remise des offres
31,         Les experts prequalifies auront un delai de 60 jours A partir de la
date d'invitation de l'Administration algerienne pour remettre leurs offres.
Cette date limite de remise des offres sera indiqude dans la lettre d'invitation.
Jusement des Offres
32.         L'Administration algdrienne utilisera un systeme de points pour juger
les offres des experts.   La part technique recevra 60 points, et la part
financibre 40 points, pour urn total de 100. Les 60 points de la part technique
seront subdivis6s commae suit:
-     15 points pour l1exp6rience et les qualifications de l'expert;
-     25 points pour la m6thodologie de l'execution de lexpertise;
et
20 points pour les qualifications et l'exp6rience du personnel
propose pour l'expertise.



- 93 -
Page 8 of 8
33.         L'expertise sera confi6e A l'expert ou aUX deux experts qui auront
accumult  le plus grand nombre de points.   L'Administration alg6rienne fora
connaitre son choix dans un d6lai maximum de 90 jours apr6s la reception des
offres. L'Administration alg4rienne informera tous les experts prequalifies des
resultats de la consultation.   Les experts retenus devront se pr6senter A
l'Administration algerienne qul a lance cette invitation, dans un ddlai de 7
jours pour formaliser un marche pour i'execution de l'expertise.



- 94 -
ANNEX 24
Page 1 of 3
DEMOCRATIO AND POPULAR REPUIUC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
EPEA
(DAMIlIon)
ACTUAL                                   PROJECTED
1091    1992    199    1994   199       1986    1997    1908    1909    200
InflatIon Rate- Loca                                                  20%     191      18%     14i%     12%     10%      10%
- Foreign                                                    3.40%     2.8%    3.0%     2.7%    2.7%    2.5%    2.6%
Populatlonsidd(000)                          400      689     735    878      96    1t,082    1,115    1,171    1,230   1,291
Number ofCConectlons(000)                     61       64      70      73      80       88      93       97     102      107
Numberotftaff                                861    1.047   1.130   1,124    1.090    1,058    1.026    99N     986      936
Numberfof StIf.OoooConneoono                  11       1e      1e      15      14       12      11       10       8        0
AveragCostltaff(DA ON)                        83       87     112    135      159      185     211      230     260      285
Water Pwduoed (000 m3)                        68       73      76      88      a8       88      88       8S      80       88
Water Sold (000 m3)                           60       51      63       1      64       e6      67       6s      71       73
Unacounted-for Water(%)                       12%     30%A    29%    29%      27%      26%     23%      21%      10%     17%
Aweage Revenue (DAhmS)                       t 43    2.72    3.08   6.07    8.07    6.87    6.87    7.87    7.67    8.44
Taiff increase                                                        53%      0%      10%       0%     15%       0%     10%
OPERAMTINQ REVUE
Wat Sales                                    110      139     210    370      388      438     460      531     545      014
WO*s                                           a       26      38      31      37       41      43       46      47       49
Mewr Rntal Vnd Repalr                          1        1       1      16      19       25      30       36      40       47
LeSW  ad DeboProdon                                                   (19)    (10)    (22)    (23)    (27)    (27)    (31)
TOWal R9avee                                120      68a     248    US6      425      482     50       5164    605      679
OPERATNIG EXPENSES
Pereonnel                                     54       91     130    176      174      196     218      235     250      267
Porkmane Bonuses                               -        -       -      28      26       29      32       36      38       40
Sub-Total                                    54       91     130    201      200      226     249      270     288      307
Energy                                         5       1e      22      28      33       38      44       40      64       Se
ChemIcls                                       5        8       5      13      15       18      20       23      26       27
Other Suppie & Mateials                        6       12      21      42      50       57      6e       73      81       88
Sevlore                                        7        8       8      11      13       15      17       10      21       23
BuaendsJTaxee                                  7        9      11      21      22       26      26       31      32       36
Concession Fee                                 -        -       -      20      33       51      58       96      72       79
Saub-Total                                   64      141     186    336      366      430     480      530     672      621
Deprecitin                                    21       26      22       4       8        0      tO       11      12       14
Tota OperatIng EBpelmes                       106      187     217    340      374      439     490      541     585      C3C
NetOperalngneme                                15       (2)     32      57      51       43      10       43      20       45
Lowe Interedt                                  5        8       8       3       3        3       2        3       3        3
Les. Non-OrtIg AdJamnte                                         1       -       -        - 
Net Incoen3                                     a      (10)     23      54      48      41        a       40      17       41
Operatng Ratio                                87*    101%      87%    86%      89%      91%      98%     a9q      976*   g3



e 95 -
ANNEX 24
Page 2 of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
EPEA
(DA Million)
ACTUAL                               PROJECTED
1891  1Q92 18943   1             1905    198    19  e97    18  1099        2000
ASSErS
rixedAaeets                                 498      511     515      72      80      8s      9g       110     123      137
Leos: Accumulated Depreciation              (168)    (195)   (217)   430)    (38)    (47)      ,?7)    (68)     (80)    (94)
N   ixed Acse                    329      318     298      42      41       42      42       42      43       43
Ltzrent 1A4s:
Gasth and Equivalent                          3       12       1      16      52       80      18       1B      12       18
AcountoRso lvae                              e8      108     116    126      142      161     167      196     202      228
Prepald Expensss                              a        7       9      11      12       13      13       to      18       is
Other Reevables                              52       63      49      48      58       67      78       86      94      104
Inventory                                    25       47      41      48      43       50      57       e0      8        73
Tol Cufrfeit Awssft                159     224      215    248      308     341      331     372      390     438
TOTAL ASSETS                     485      840     513    289      348     382      373      416     432     478
EQUITY & LUBIIMES
Equity                                       400      384     407    177      225      286     273      314     331      372
MAedium- and Long-Term Debt                   36       33      24      32      20       26      21       26      28       32
Ourrent Uabllltee:
Accounte Payable                             28       84      76      71      83       78      73       as      86       6s
Current LT Debt Maturtie                      6        4       6       0      11       12       5        7       7        a
Overdraft                                     17      35       0       0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Totl Currer Uabilo                   50      123      82      80      84       02      78       76      73       74
TOTAL EQUITY & UABIUTIES               486      640     613    289      348      382     373      416     432      478
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Current Rato                                3.12    1.82    2.82   3.10      3.23e 72         4.22    4.91     5.30    5.87
OperainUg Ratio                              87%    101%     87%    88%      88%6    91OA     98%      93%     97%      93%
OoIctionPerlod (months)                       7        8       6       4       4        4       4        4       4        4
Panmnt Prbod (monthe)                        15       24      17       8       9        7       8        6       4        4
Inwentory(montth                             30       28      10      10       8        8       8        a       7        8
Peronnel C Rewnues                          46%      55%     62%    61%A    47%       47%A    50%      46%    48%       46%
Average Revenue per m3 sold                 1.83    2.72    3.80   8.07    6.07    8.67    6.67    7.67    7.67    844
Operating Cost per n 3 produced             1.54    2.28    2.89   3.87      4.26    4.98    5.67    6.16    8.65    7.21
Personnel Costs per mS produced             0.80    1.24     1.73   2.29     2.27    2.55     2.82    3.07    38.27    3.48
Coat of Enrgy per m3 produced               0.06    0.22     0.29   0.32    0.38     0.44    0.50     0.5      O.e1    0.07
CotofChemicalopermsproduced                 0.07    0.11     0.07   0.16    0.17    0.20         0.26 Ole    0.28    0.31



- 96 -
ANNEX 24
Page 3 of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBL  OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPlY MAR SEWERAE EHALITTION PROJ
EPEA
(DA Milon)
ACTUAL                                   PROJECTED
1991    1982    193   194          1099  16    1897    198        9       2000
USES OF FUNDS
Capital lnvmente                              30      13       4      18       A        8      10      11       13      14
Inreaae/(Decrea) In Working Capilt            1a      (5)     32      48      45      37        4      44       20      46
Debt Serie
Interet Chlgd to Operaione                    6               8       3       3       3        2       3        3       3
Amoaulotlz   of Loane                         5       8       a       6       a       11      12       5        7       7
OldDebt                                      5       6       6       6       6        6       6       0        0       0
New Deot                                                             1       3        6       8       6        7       7
Toe Io 8b s Gwe                            10       1a      17      9       12      13       14       8      10       10
TotmIUwe ofFuNdo                  56       21       53     75       as      so      28       93      42      40
SOURCES
Opertng Incom before Depreeon                 36      18      63      61      58       62      20      64       32     56
BorrowAng,                                    23       3       0      14       8       7        a       a       10      11
TotalSouroe                      59      21      53      75      aS       a9      28      as       42      69



- 97 -
ANNEX 25
Page I of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
EPEOR
(DA Millioh)
ACTUAL                                     PROJECTED
1991    192      S993   1984    109S    183    1897    19NS    189    2000
Inflation Rate - Local                                                  20%      18%      18%      14%     12%      10%      10%
- oreign                                                       3.40%     2.89%    3.0%    2.7q1    2.7%     2.5%     2.6g
PopulatnI 8ervsd (000)                       2,880    2,846    2,87   3200    3,275    3.350    3.504    3,863    3.804   38.8
Number of Connections (000)                    199     211      21S    232       245     280      272      284      295     308
Number of Staff                              1.81S    1.837    1.856   1.858    1,800    1,746    1.94    1,843    1,684    1.C46
Number of Staffl,000 ConineDtione                a        a       a       8        7        7       a        8        6        6
AverageCoet/Staff(DA000)                        78       a9     118    124       133      155     170      107      217      239
Water Produoed (000 m3)                        144      146      88      86      120      140     160      180      200      200
Water8 d (000m)                                86      el       56      50       78      07      114      132      15O      154
Unaccounted-for Water (%)                      41%      374%    38%    35%       33%      31%     29%      27%      25%      23%
Avejage Rewnue (IA)m3)                        210      2.42     6.24    6.82    6.82     7.50     7.60     8.26    8.25     8.25
Tariff inorease                                                         30%       0%      10%      0%      10%       0%6      0%
OPERATING REVENUES
Water Sals                                     185     221      288    382       532     728      864    1,086    1.240    1,273
Works                                           54     100      112      90       50      50       60       50       50       s0
Meter Rental ano Repalre                        24      35       41      54       82      71       s0       88       es      105
Leos: Bad Deb Provision                                                 (19)    (27)    (38)    (43)    (54)    (62)    (64)
Toal Revenuse                                 283     356      441    497       et8     811      941    1.170    1,324    1,384
OPERATING EXPENS£S
Personnel                                      143     180      219    230       240     270      209      324      34     398
Performance  onuses                              -       -        -      34       38      41       45       48       52      56
Sub-Total                                     14       180     218    264       278     311      343      373      388      426
Energy                                          39      40       14      44       72      e8      128      181      197      216
Chomieas                                        12       16      14      15       25       33      44       56       87       74
O#w 8upplies&Materials                          28       48      53      38       54       74      so      121      148      183
Se8vIae                                         11        9      14      15       18       21      23       26       29       32
Buinses Taxes                                    7        0       0      27       34      44       61       64       72       74
Concesslon Fee                                                           63      102      158     180      202      222      244
Sub-Totdl                                     240     D91      3S0    4e8       581     738      885    1,001    1,132    1,7
Depredaton                                      32      27       31      14       15       17      18       20       22       24
ToWlOporeaingEXpenM                             271     328      381    480       a6S     756      884    1,022    1.166  1,262
NetOperating Incone                              (8)     28       eo      17       22      58       67      148      170      112
Less: lntereet                                  18      39       21      10       15      10       23       15       33       21
Leos: Non-OperatIng Adjustments                 22      (0)      10           -            -        -        -        -        -
Net Income                                      (46)      (2)     29       7        6       48      34      134      137       01
Operating ratio                                103%      92%A    88%    97%       97%      9394     94g     87%      87%      92%



- 98 -
ANNEX 2S
Peg 2 013
DE}ilOCRATIC AND POPULfR REPUBUC OF ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAG=E REABIUATION PWJECT
EPEOR
(DA Million)
ACTUAL                                    PROJECTED
18891   182    1883   1884    185YS    1838 1c87    138t    1838    200
ASSETS
Fixed Ases                                   O8m      701      711    314       A48     383      421      468      613     682
Lose: Accumulated Depreciation               (292)   (318)   (350)  (1865    (170)   (186)   (205)   (22)    (247)   (272)
Net Fixed Assets                                374     382      381    159       178    18       217      241      265    2£0
Current Asste:
Cash and Equlvalent                            16       18      28      48       80       1       7i       63       84       77
Accounts Receivabte                           183     284      298    240       237     237      274      341      38       388
Prpaid Expenses                                F8      01       57      68       78     108      126      189      182     187
OtherReceivables                               87      89       87    100       104      107     110      113      116      117
Inventory                                     161     140       92      80      118     152      161      148      143      168
Toal Curro  Aseet                               4e4     673      56      547      627     012      733      818      010      we
TOTAL ASSETS                                    sos     865      8ze    707       80S     808      e0    1,064    1,176    1.228
EQUITY & LUABILMES
Equity                                          ot      989     128    136       141     187      222      a56      402     684
Medium-and Long-Term Debt                      438     448      418    208       210     210      206      202      187      11t
Current Uabillies:
Acounts Payable                               176      303     345    340       423     376      484      484      440      404
Current LT Debt MaturItes                      27       27      38      24       29      36       38       43       46       47
Overdraft                                     120      75        0       0        '       0        0        0        0        0
Toal Current UabIlitle                          331     410      383    3S4       463     411      523      4e8      486     451
TOTAL EQU.TY& UABSIUTIES                        888     866      920    707       803     808      860    1.054    1,176    1.2
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Current Raio                                 1.48     1.40     1.48    1.60    1.30     1.48     1.40    1.64     1.87     2.08
Opeing Rato                                  103%      92%     86%    87%       078%      346    04%      87%      87%6    a2m
Cclecton Period (months)                        8        8       8       e        6       4        4        4        4        4
Psymont Pelod (months)                         23      30       33      30       30      20       20       16       12      10
Inwntory(months)                               45      27       16      20       18      17       13       10        8        a
Personnel CostslRevenues                      64%      61% 5k60%    53%         45%      38%     37%      32%      30%A     31%
Average Revenue per m3 cod                   2.19     2.42     5.24    0.82    6.82     7.60     7.50    8.26     8.2S      .26
Operating Costs per m3 produced              1.80     2.26     4.43    6.68    4.97     6.38     5.62    5.88     5.77     f.20
Personnel Costs per m3 produoed              0.89     1.24     2.66    3.07    2.30     2.22     2.16    2.07     1.8e     2.12
Cost of Energy per m3 produced               0.27     0.34     0.61    0.51    0.60     0.70     0.80    0.8      0.08     1.08
CostofChe4mcelefperm3produced                0.08     0.11     0.16    0.17    0.21     024      0.27    0O30     0.34     0.37



- 99
ANNEX26
Page of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPUe   A  REPUBUC OF ALGERiA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABIUTATION
EPEO0
(DA Milon)
ACTUAL                                    PRJECTED
191t   1992    1993   1994    1886    198          1997    10W      1999    2000
USE OF FUNDS
Capitalinvestment                              117       36      10      21       32       37      39       44       47       49
Increa*A(Decreass) In Worlding Capital         (421       0      23    (21)       (9)     26       10      107      108      61
Debt sern4
Interest Charged to operalono                  I        39     2z       10       15       10      23       1s       33      21
Amodluon of Loans                              27       27      38      38       24      20       36       38       4S       48
Old Debt                                      27       27      36      36       18       to      tP       18       18       18
New Debt                                                                2        6       11      17       21       26       27
TOW Debt Serice                              43       88      S9      48       3g       30       "       "        78       90
TOWal Us"otUdf d                                119      101      91      47       62      102     108      20       229      1
SOURCES
Operating Income before Depreciaton              2       63      81      30       37       73      76      169      192      137
Borroiwngs                                     117       38      10      17       26       29      31       39       37       39
Toal Source                                     119      101      81      47       62      102     108      204      229      176



- 100 -
AMU 26
page 1 of 4
DE4CRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIP O)F' LE
UATERSUPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITAION PROJEC
ASSUNPTIONS FOR FXNANCIAL- PROJECTIOS
1.          About 50% of i%ater produced in Algerija is pres-ently unaccounted for.
Under the proposed project, a progressiv, narrowinig of the gap is foreseen
between the amount produced in m3 and the amount contsumed and billed to
customers.    This  gap  presenitly  reflects  not  only  water  losses  from  a
deterioratiug, poorly maintained infrastructure, but also from inLadequate leak
detection, metering, and billing procedures. It is assumed that over the project
period, all aspects cE unr,ccounted-for water will be addressed through project-
supported rehabilitation wo.rhz and a new incentive- scheme leading to improved
leak detection and repair, and commercial management.  On that basis, it is
envisaged that unaccounted-for water will be reduceed from about 29% in 1994 to
17% in 2000 in EPEA's operating area. and from 35% to 23% in EPEOR's.
O2er8ting Revenues
2.    (a)   Pro1LWaonof  ate  Saes
At EPEA, water production capacity will be fully utilized in
1994. Thereafter, the volume of water sold will increase only
with the gradual reduction of unaccounted-for water. It is
assumed that, with the continuing increase in the population
served and the number of connections, plauned rationing will
have to be introduced, if production is not increased. At
EPEOR, a severe drought has reduced water availability by
about 40% in 1993 in the Oran region, and severe rationing is
in effect. As of early 1994, the drought had not ended, and
thus water sales have been projected to start increasing only
in 1995, and to reach the full potential of the system by
1999. M4eanwhile, the amount of water sold would increas A more
rapidly than water availability .'ae to projected reduction in
unaccounted-for water.
(b)   Revenues from Water Saleg
In 1994, a country-wide tariff increase of 33% was introduced.
At EPEA, the resulting value of water sold is expected to
increase from 3.96 DA/M3 in 1993 to 6.07 DA/M3 in 1994 due to
EPFA's taking over responsibility for water distribution in
Annaba. Average revenues per in3 are also expected to go up
some 10% in 1996, 15% in 1998 and 10% in 2000. On this basis,
sales will increase from about DA 370 million in 1994 to DA
614 million ini 2000. At EPEOR, avierage revenues will grow 10%
in 1996, 15% in 1998, and 5% in 2000. Sales are expected to
grow from about DA 382 million in 1994 to 1,273 million in
2000.



- 101 -
ANNUlM 26
page 2 of 4
(c)   Qther Revenues
At both EPEA and EPEOR, these represent civil works contracts. The
pace of this activity rose sharply at EPEOR in 1993 in an effort to
compensate for the severe drop in revenues resulting from water
shortages.   In subsequent years, civil works contracts are not
expected to increase, due to an anticipated short supply of pipes in
the country.
(d)   Meter Rental And ReRair
With the takeover of the retail distribution in Annaba, EPEA is
expected to increase revenues for meter rentals and repairs.  At
both EPEA and EPEOR, tlhese revenues reflect projected volumes of
activity and local inflation.
(e)   Provision for Bad Debts
Provision for bad debts has been calculated at 5% of total sales.
g0eratin Exoenses
3.    (a)   Personnel and Productivity Incentives
In 1993, EPEA and EPEOR were over-staffed with about 16 and 9
employees per 1,000 connections, respectively. Productivity gains
should be achieved as a result of performance bonuses, for which the
equivalent of about 20% of the base cost of personnel has been added
to operating costs. In the year 2000, staff ratios are expected to
be reduced to about 9 and 5 employees per 1,000 connections,
respectively. The basis for awarding the performance bonuses will
include, inter-alia, the reduction of unaccounted-for water.
(b)   Energy and Chemicals
At both utilities, these are a factor of the volumes of water
produced at 1993 prices, increased throughout the projection period
for inflation.
(c)   Materials. Supplies. Services and Taxes
These are proportionate to water production and distribution, as
well as the volume of civil works and associated taxes, adjusted for
inflation.
(d)   Concession Fee
This charge represents the rent for the facilities placed at the
disposal of the utilities by Government. It has been estimated on
the basis of the current value of the facilities such as dams,
pipelines and treatment plants required to provide water to the
population served in each of EPEA and EPEOR in 1993. The average
life of such assets has been estimated at 50 years. The current



- 102 -
page 3 of 4
value has been increased each year for inflation. Firally, since
the concession fee was introduced after the implementation of the
1994 tariff increase, the fee has been reduced in the first three
years, and will become due in its entirety only beginning in l997,
when regional tariffs are introduced.
(e)   DepiSation
Depreciation covers the annual charge for the utilities-owned
assets.
Other Expenses
4.    (a)   Interest
Interest has been calculated on medium- and long-term debt at the
rate of 10% per annum.
Assets
5.    (a)   Fixed Assets
Beginning in 1994, the utilities only retain the fixed assets
necessary to operate and maintain the systems. Other facilities,
including dams, pipelines, and treatment plants continue to be owned
by the Government.
(b)   Accounts Receivable
Pursuant to the terms of the concession agreements,
receivables are expected to come down to the equivalent of 4
months of sales.
(c)   Preoaid ExRenses and Other Receivables
These are a factor of the volume of business adjusted annually for
inflation.
(d)   Inventory
Inventory levels at each of the utilities have been projected to
reflect the level and nature of their business, covering chemicals
and other supplies and materials requirements. They are expected to
go down from the equivalent of 19 months in 1993 to 8 months in the
year 2000 at EPEA, and from 20 months to 8 months at EPEOR.
LiabLlit1es
6.    (a)   Equitv and Long-term Debt
The transfer of fixed assets from the utilities to the Government in
1994 results in a reduction of EPEA's equity, and a reduction of
EPEOR's long-term debt. Afterwards, the equity of each utility



- 103 -
page 4 of 4
increases with each year's net income, while its long-term debt
increases with the development ot the assets necessary to operate
and maintain Its systems.
(b)   Accounts Pavable
Accounts  payable  have  bPoen  unduly  high  at  both  companies,
particularly  at EP1lOR.   This  is  expected  to  change  with  the
implementation of the concession Agreements.  EPEA's payables are
projected to drop from the equivalent of 19 months of the cost of
materials and supplies in 1995  to 8 months ln the year 2000, and
EPEOR's from 33 months to 10 months.



- 104 -
ANNX 27
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIP OF ALaERA
WATER SUPPLY AND S    AIGE R         ILITATION  ROJECT
NONITORIMG INDICATORR FgR EPE
INDICATORS            1994      1995      199       1997      1998      1999      2000
I.  MIEM5 QEERTI2N$
Water produced, Mm3/yr      88         as       88        88        88        88         88
Water sold, Mm3/yr          61         64       66        67        69        71         73
Unacoourted for waer, %     29         27       25        23        21        19         17
Numberofoonneions, 1000    73          80       88        93        97       102        107
IL. STAFFIN
Number of da              1,124      1,090    1,058     1,02%6     99        g85        93
Stff per 1,0Q0conne dom     15         14       12        11        10         9          9
PayoU as % of pses          e0         55       52        52        51        50         50
IU. EINANC
Operatingratio, %           86         88       91        98        93        97         93
Current ratlob               3.1        3.3      3.7       4.2       4.9       5.3        5.9
Ludck r atio                 2.5        2.8      3.2       3.5       4.1       4.4        4.9
Colaconpw-paiod,mot          4          4        4         4         4         4          4
Ptent pedlod, month          9          9        7         6         5         4          4
Profit margin on payroll, %d  26.7     23.9     18.0       3.3      15.0       6.0       13.5
Profi mawgin on sa   %      14.5       12.3      9.2       1.8       7.6       32        6.7
af     total operating spene dided by tot revenues X 100.
Q/     Oret asse, - invenor
current lablies
Net com
XIOO
p- am



ANNE& 27
Page 2 of 2
DEMOCRATIC ANM POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERI
WATE  RSU      A     SEG  REHBLTATION PRONJECT
ONIO-TORINGIDCAOSFO   PO
INDICATORS             le"       199       19        1997      198       1999       2000
I. M=M§ OPEATIONS
Water produced, Mrn3/yT     8a         120      140       160        18O       200        200
Water sold, Mm3/yr           56         78       97       114        132       150        154
Unaccounted for water, %     35         33       31        29        27        25          23
Number of oonne*ion8, 1000   232       245      260       272       284       295         30S
IL. TAINGE
Number of 8s              1,856      1,800    1,746      1,694     1,643     1,594      1,546
taffpsr 1,000 oonnecrs        8          7        7         6         6          5          5
Payrol as % ofexp nss        57         48       42        40        37         35         35
-11I. EANbg
OperSatg ratio,              97         97       93        94        87         87         92
Current raiod                 1.5        1.4      1.5       1:4        1.6       1.9        2.1
Quick raios                   1.3        1.1      1.1       1.1        1.3       1.6        1.7
Colletfion. piod, mont        6          5        4         4         4          4          4
Payment period, monxt        38         30       20        20         15        12         10
Profit margin on paWoM, %h    2.57       2.28    14.80     10.04     35.86      34.43      21.51
Profi margin on sales, %      1.8        1.2      6.3       4.0       12.3      1 1.1       7.2
a/     Tolal operat  expene divkid by tota rvenues X 100.
g,/    Cuffent ass-. -   hvo
cureret ab8e
W/        Net inoome
X100
P  ca



- 106 -
Page 1 of 4
DEMOCRATC AND POPUIAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERI
WATER SUP?LY AKD SEWERAGE R[Ai9LITATION PROJECT
ASSUMPTIQNS FOR  ECONOMIC EVALUAION OF THE PROECT
1.          The project comprises the rehabilitation of water supply systems, and
of wastewater treatment plants. The first component would generate additional
water sales and other benefits relating to public health improvements.   The
latter are difficult to express in monetary terms, and are not included in the
stream of project benefits. Only the water sales are considered in evaluating
the water supply component benefits. Works included in this component are to
recover water production which is now being lost in the distribution network.
Consequently, the marginal production cost has been used to express this recovery
in monetary valueb.
2.          The stream of costs includes both the initial capital investments and
future expenditures required for equipment renewal. All costs are taken net of
taxes and duties. These are estimated to amount to about 10 percent of the total
project cost. Only the incremental operating costs are included in this stream.
All values in the cost and benefit streams are expressed in terms of the 1993
price levels. Additional sales are valued at the 1993 average tariff of DA
5.5/m3.
3.          Table 29-1 gives the data used to calculate the return on the
investments for the water supply rehabilitation program. Based on an average
life of 25 years of the installations, the rate of return for this program is
estimated to be about 17 percent.
Table 29.1:  Cash Flow  8o  1S.R.. o Water Reailitation PrarM
Incremental         Capital         Operational          Total
Sales           Costs            Expenses          Cost
Year           -----------------------DA Killion------------------------
1994                 --               20.0                --            20.0
1995                 25.0            80.0                  4.5          84.5
1996                 45.0           105.0                  5.5         110.5
1997                 60.0           105.5                  d.0         113.5
1998                 75.0            76.5                 10.6          87.1
1999                 86.0            76.4                 15.0          91.4
2000                 96.0             -                   18.0          18.0
--                  96.0                                 18.0          18.0
--                  96.0                                 18.0          18.0
2020                 96.0                                 18.0          18.0



- 107 -
ASE.X 2a
Page 2 of 4
Table 29.2:                            ..Aveae Incremental Cost of Urban Uater in.. A.na. 
INCREMENTAL    CAPITAL   OPERATING    EQUIPMENT    TOTAL
YEAR          SALES lMb        COSTS     EXPENSES       RENEVAL      COST
--_ _____  -------------US$ Million---------_-__-_
1994               --           5.0                                  5.0
1995              --          10.0                                  10.0
1996               --         15.0                        -*        15.0
1997               --         10.0                                  10.0
1998               6.6        10.0           0.3                    10.3
1999              10.7          6.0          0.5                     6.5
2000              15.0        12.0           0.8                    12.8
2001              19.7        10.0           1.0                    11.0
2002              24.5        10.0           1.3          -1.3
2003              29.5          5.0          1.5                     6.5
2004              34.9        --             1.6                     1.6
2005              40.6        --             1.8                     1.8
2006              46.5        --             2.0                     2.0
2007              52.6        --             2.1                     2.1
2008              59.2        --             2.3                     2.3
2009              60.0        --             2.5                     2.5
2010              60.0        --             2.8                     2.8
2011              60.0        --             2.8                     2.8
2012              60.0        --             2.8          --         2.8
2013              60.0        --             2.8           3.0       5.8
2014              60.0         --            2.8           2.0       4.8
2015              60.0        --             2.8          --         2.8
I~~~_.                                          _       ----
2035               --          --            _                       _
1994-2035        224.7                                              69.9
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST: US$0.31/m3
WTZ: AU values la the cast ad reveue strem are aupreased in toM of tho 1994 prices.



- 108 -                              6MEL_2a
Page 3 of 4
Table 29.3: Averaae Incremental Cost of Uzban Water in Oran
INCREMENTAL       CAPITAL       OPERATING    EQUIPMENT    TOTAL
YEAR             SALES, Mm5        COSTS         EXPENSES       RENEVAL    COSTS
-- US$ Killion----------
1994                  --            5.0             --             -         5.0
1995                  --           10.0             --            --        1010
1996                  -            12.0             - -           --        12.0
1997                  --           15.0             -                       15.0
1998                  --           20.0             -             --        20.0
1999                  --           15.0             --            --        15.0
2000                  20.4          8.0               1.3                    9.3
2001                  22.8         10.0               1.4         --        11.4
2002                  25.1         10.0               1.5         --        11.5
2003                  27.4         15.0               1.7         --        16.7
2004                  30.0         20.0               1.8         -         21.8
2005                  32.3         25.0              2.0          --        27.0
2006                  35.0         20.0               2.2         --        22.2
2007                  37.7         15.0               2.4         --        17.4
2008                  40.3         10.0               2.6         --        12.6
2009                  43.1         --                2.7          --         2.7
2010                 45.7          --                2.7          --         2.7
2011                  48.4                           2.8          --         2.8
2012                  51.2         --                2.9          --         2.9
2013                  53.9         --                3.0           4.0       3.0
2014                  56.8         --                3.1           4.5       3.1
2015                  59.6         --                3.1          --         7.1
2016                  62.6         --                3.2          --         7.7
2017                  65.7         --                3.3          --         3.3
2018                  68.9         -3.4.                                     3.4
2019                  72.0         --                3.5          --         3.5
2020                  75.2         --                3.6          --         3.6
2021                  78.1         --                3.7          --         3.7
2022                  81.2         --                3.8          --         3.8
2023                  84.3         --                3.9           4.0       3.9
2024                  87.6         --                4.0           4.5       4.0
2025                  91.1         --                4.2           4.1       8.2
2026                  94.5         --                4.3          --         8.8
2027                  98.3         --                4.4          --         8.5
2028                 102.1         --                4.5          --         4.5
2029                 106.1         --                4.6          --         4.6
2030                 110.2         --                4.8          --         4.8
2031                 114.5         --                4.9          --         4.9
2032                 119.0         --                5.1          --         5.1
2033                 123.6         --                5.2          --         5.2
2034                 128.4         --                5.3          --         5.3
2035                 133.4         --                5.5          --         5.5
2036                 138.6         --                5.6          --         5.6
2037                 144.1         --                5.8          --         5.8
2038                 149.7         --                6.0          --         6.0
2039                 155.5         --                6.1          --         6.1
2040                 161.6         --                6.3          --         6.3
1994-ZU40            TW.O            --               --           --       113.7
AVERACE INCREMENTAL COST: US$0.45/H3
N:  AU wvuinet Lu the cost ad xweuu. *t.m are alPresed Xn te of the 194 prices.



- 109 -
H2: 28
Page 4 of 4
4.          As  regional  tariffs would be applied beginning  in  1997,  the
calculation has been made to determine what would be the long-run marginal costs
(LRMC) of water supply services in the regions served by EPEA and EPEOR. Data
used in this calculation are provided in Tables 29.2 and 29.3. The LRMC in EPEA
is based on investments for the Mexenna Reservoir whose production would be
sufficient to meet demands up to the year 2010.  In EPEOR, two production systems
would be required: the Gargar-Oran transmission facilities, and the Sidi Hadjel
Reservoir. These systems would be able to fill the demand up to the year 2040.
5.          The LRMC in the EPEA region is estimated to be DA 11.16 per X3 in
1994 prices, compared to an expected average revenue of DA 6.07 per m3 in that
year. In EPEOR it is about DA 16.20 per m3 compared to an expected revenue of
DA 6.82 per m3. This means that, for both utilities, tariffs for -onsumption of
more than 220 m3 per year would need to increase annually by about 4 percent in
real terms, in order to reach the 1UMCs in these regions by year 2000.



- 110 -
ANNEX-29
Page 1 of 2
DE!OCRATIC. AND POPULAR 1'MPUBLIC OF AlGERIA
WaTER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE IERABILITATION PROjECT
SELECTED DOCUENTS AND DATA AAIlALE I _E   OJECT FILE
1.    Etude Organisationnelle et de Gestioi  du Sous-Secteur de l'Eau Potable
et de l'Assainissement
Diagnostic de i'Entreprise d'Alger        -    EPEAL
d'Aauaba       -    EPEA
d'Adrar        -    EPDEMIA Adrar
de Batna       -    EPDEMIA Batna
de Bechar      -    EPDEMIA Bechar
de Bejaia      -    EPDEMIA Bejaia
de Biskra      -    EPDEMIA Biskra
de Constantine -    EPECO
de Chelf       -    EPEC
de Djelfa      -    EPDEM1A Djelfa
d'El Bayad     -    EPDEMIA El Bayad
2    ri nd'El Oued            -    EPDEKIA El Oued
Q "  t   de Ghardaia    -    EPDEMIA Ghardaia
q  tl    n  de Guelma   -    EPDEMIA Guelma
n n  "   =^d'Illizi     -    EPDEMIA Illizi
a n  n   de Khenchela   -    EPDEMIA Khenchela
a t  "   de Laghouat    -    EPDEKIA Laghouat
n  n  n  de Medea       -    EPEM
de Mostaganem  -    EPDEMIA Mostaganem
n  n  "       de M'Sila       -    EPDENIA M'Sila
de Naama       -    EPDEMIA Naama
d'Oum El Bouaghi    EPDEMIA Oum El Bouaghi
d'Ouargla      -    EPDEMIA d'Ouargla
d'Oran         -    EPEOR
de Relizane    -    EPDEMIA Relizane
de Saida       -    EPDENIA Saida
w  a  a   de Setif      -    EPES
H  a  n  de S. gel Abbes-     EPDEMIA S. Bel Abbes
f    a      a        de Souk-Ahras  -    EPDEMIA Souk-Ahras
de Skikda      -    EPDEIIA Skikda
aCn  a  de Tamanrasset -    EPDEMIA Tamanrasset
de Tebessa     '    EPDEMIA Tebessa
de Tiaret      -    EPET
de Tindouf     -    EPDEMIA Tindouf
de Tizi Ouzou  ^    EPETI
2.   Les Outils de Gestion   -    Commerciale
U "  "  "   -    Analytique-principes Gdn6raux
Ressources Humaines
Plan Comptable Adapts
Manuel d'Explication



- lLl -
ANNEX.29
Page 2 of 2
3.   Previsions et Gontr6le Budg6taires - Principes G6n6raux
4.   Scbdma Directeur Informatique
5.   Syst&me d'Organisation Comptable - Proc6dures de Gestion
6.   Contexte G6ndral - Mission Ao
7.   Rapport de Synthese des Diagnostics
8.   Plan de Recommandations
9.   Etude de Tarification
10.   Aspects Juridiques
11.  Contrat d'Exploitation du Service d'Eau Potable
12.   Plan de Formation des Entreprises
13.   Plan d'Action - Missions A12 A A22
14.   Description des Principales Fonctions
15. Maintenance - Definition et Organisation
16.   D6limitation Territoriale des Etablissements R6gionaux
17.   Diagnostic A.G.E.P.
18.   Plan de Recommandations
i9.   Service de l'Assainissement - Structures et Organisation
All above prepared by Groupement CNAT/SAUR Afrique, 1993.
20.   Diagnostic de la STEP de la Ville de Ben Badis
Diagnostic de la STEP de la Ville de Sfisef
Diagnostic de la STEP de la Ville de Telagh
Diagnostic de la STEP de la Ville de Tilmouni
Prepared by Hydro-Traitement, March 1993.



I  r  ,.  ,                                  _      '        18RD 25235
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
0 10 20 30 40 00
KILOMETERS
31          s                                                          ', - .
o                                                                                                                                                                                              -,   \A4ow          
0   c.~~~~~~~~~ 
-                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~ALGERIA
J                           WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                                                                                                                                         WA NAMES
*-M IUIESIREHABILITATION   PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                     ALGIERS              RELIDANE              0DJM ELBOAH
TDLEMCE                  AIN DEE A
-,                Q~~~~~~~UARGLA 1PROJECT LOCATION                                                                                                                                                           AIN TEMOUCEENE       BLIDA                  EL BA/CASH
OEN                  BOUIRA                LA,,OUA|
K                                                                                                                         -   PAVED NATIONAL ROADS                                 MOSEAGANEI/          60153 ecu ARIERIDI    STELFA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVD  ATINA RAD  MSTGAEMBORJ OUARERDJ DJLF
TINDOUE ~~~~~ ®                                              INSTITLITIONAL D~~~~~~~~~~LOPMENV                         -  -  PAVED WITADA ROADS                                  CHIEF               SEDIE                  ElMIRAAVD WAY~ROAD  CHEF  ETP
F    ADRAR                                              INSTITLITIONAL DEVELOPMEN'                                      R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AILEOADS                   TIPAA                MLt                   IKH'EENCIELA
Ho ~~~~-       TI, op  Lo.., popo'.A                                                                                      A'  AIRPORTS                                             SOSMERDES            CONSTANTINE           SKEESSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~RPOTS  OUERDS  ONSANTNETEBSS
N                                       ooIo.oly I., ,. ,AO.OT.....         WUPP          EE SAPNTD EXPANSIONERWERAGETITI OLIZOX                                                                                                ODELERW SELNNVTE
N                                               z1;:A.R [A                                                                                                H   TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                  OEJDA                S      EECEHAOL SRECD'
N       \        8               t >         A'olerw N. d~oooS  W  .IdFm6                    SEWERAGE WORKS                                             @    WILAYA CAPITALS                                     iEAIL               SADAD                  GHARDAIA
W QANCHASE1    )  tnyAArA= E   A  AA 69 NATIONAL CAPITAL  SKIKDA        TIAtT                  OUARGLA
N                            AAT TI. WAoIAAo,,k 0~~~~~"m P                                                                                   IAARDORD                                          ANNABA               TISSEMRSIL T            INEOSF
-   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                             .EL DARE            MEDEA                  AMDAR
40ooo.,.,Io, A,A,p,AO,. 0E                                                                                               5151 eEC AERES       MRR.A                  DMEANGREAS0ET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DI ELABSS  'StA  TMAGHASE
To                                      oI. -Eo|  . .<ALsdo..                                                                                                                                              AAASCARA             RATNA                 4t11Z              d
L.-- To AAJAAIA                                                                                                                                                                        OCTOREE ITT'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CT8R 9



