                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 29563




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (CPL-37430 SCL-3743A SCPD-3743S)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$110 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                    DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                                              FOR

                WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                           June 30, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective as of 06/30/2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar
                                          DA 1 = US$ 0.014
                                         US$ 1 = DA 71

                                      (as of April 1994)
                                       DA 1 = US $ 0.028
                                       US$ 1 = DA 36


                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1   December 31




                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AdE   : Algérienne des Eaux (Algerian Water Authority)
AGEP  : Agence Nationale de Gestion de l'Eau Potable (National Agency of Potable Water
        Management)
ANB   : Agence Nationale des Barrages (National Agency of Dams)
ANRH  : Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques (National Agency of Hydraulic Resources)
CAS   : Country Assistance Strategy
DHW   : Direction de l'Hydraulique de la Wilaya (Hydraulic Resources Directorate of Wilaya)
EPEAL : Etablissement Public Economique - Alger (Economic Public Enterprise of Algiers)
EPEOR : Etablissement Public Economique - Oran (Economic Public Enterprise of Oran)
GIS   : Geographical Information System
GoA   : Government of Algeria
LRMC  : Long-Run Marginal Cost
ONA   : Office National de l'Assainissement (National Agency of Sanitation)
PMU   : Project Management Unit
PSR   : Project Supervision Report
SAR   : Staff Appraisal Report
UFW   : Unaccounted For Water
WWTP  : Waste Water Treatment Plant




                               Vice President:      Christiaan Poortman
                             Country Director       Theodore Ahlers
                              Sector Manager        Emmanuel Forestier/Francoise Clottes
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Alexander E. Bakalian

                DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
          WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report                                            31
Map IBRD 33355

Project ID: P004974                                                  Project Name: DZ-WATER SUPPLY AND
                                                                     SEWERAGE
Team Leader: Alexander E. Bakalian                                   TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: DZ-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                             L/C/TF Number: CPL-37430; SCL-3743A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3743S
   Country/Department: ALGERIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (70%); Sewerage (27%); Central government
                            administration (3%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Infrastructure services for private
                            sector development (P); Regulation and competition policy (P);
                            Pollution management and environmental health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/16/1992                                     Effective: 09/30/1994                01/10/1995
     Appraisal: 06/09/1993                                         MTR: 07/01/1997                  06/26/1998
      Approval: 06/02/1994                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV. OF ALGERIA/ Agence Nationale de l'Eau Potable et Industrielle (AGEP)
                                           and Ministry of Water Resources
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:                 Francoise Clottes                              A. Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:             Alexander E. Bakalian                          Fritz Rodriguez
ICR Primary Author:             Ahmed El-Hamri and Alexander
                                E. Bakalian


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HU
                      Sustainability:      HUN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HU
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project development objectives were to assist the Government of Algeria in:

(a) Rehabilitating its urban water supply and sewerage systems;
(b) Improving the distribution of water in urban areas; and
(c) Rationalizing the institutional arrangements in the water sector with a view to achieving full cost
recovery through the establishment of efficient, self-financing water authorities.

The loan was approved by the Board on June 2, 1994, for an amount of US$110 million, and became
effective on January 10, 1995. The closing date of the Loan was initially set for December 31, 2001.

This project was prepared at a time when Algeria's water sector had many deficiencies in the way water
supply and sanitation services were provided in the country. The project aimed at improving the
performance of the water sector utilities by contracting out to the private sector a number of their activities,
such as leak detection and repair, metering, network optimization and mapping. Most importantly, it
advocated the creation of self-financing public water utilities that would operate under concession
agreements with the Government. The design of the project followed the recommendations of a
then-recently completed sector strategy report for the development and management of water resources in
Algeria.

Assessment of Original Objectives and Context.

The development objectives were too ambitious and mostly unrealistic as their definition did not take into
consideration the underlying political and institutional problems prevailing in the sector at that time. The
risks that were indicated in the staff appraisal report (related to "concession agreements" between the
utilities and Government and tariff adjustments) were quite generic and seem to have been addressed in the
policy note that was sent by the Government in March 1994 (Annex 19 of the Staff Appraisal Report).
Although some concerns about risk assessment had been expressed within Bank management, the project
was given approval for financing and implementation (Box 1).


   Box 1 - Some early concerns. At the Board discussions in June 1994, some members of the Board of
   Directors expressed concern about the following issues related to the project: (a) lack of CAS directions in
   terms of assistance to the water sector strategy; (b) Algeria's portfolio showed large undisbursed amounts
   owing to projects inactivity and implementation performance (notably the previous Loan 2821-AL for the 2nd
   National Water Supply and Sewerage Project; and (c) the security risk associated with a volatile political
   situation.


3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objectives of the project were changed twice: (a) in 1998, to extend the private sector
involvement to the commercial activities of the utilities such as billing and collection; and (b) in 2001, to
limit the objective of cost recovery to operating expenditures and debt service (excluding depreciation).
Moreover, on both occasions, the restructuring led to a substantial reduction in the scope of activities (see
below).




                                                       - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

The project included the following components:

1) Water Supply Systems: a) water supply system rehabilitation in 10 cities, inclusive of leak detection
    and repairs, meter installation and gauging and b) water distribution network re-looping and balancing
    in the same ten cities (Annaba, Ain Temouchent, Bejaia, Jijel, Mascara, Oran, Relizane, Sidi Bel
    Abbes, Setif, Tlemcen);
2) Sewerage: rehabilitation of about 24 sewage treatment plants located in different cities as well as
    rehabilitation of sewer networks and pumping stations;
3) Consulting services to the Agence Nationale de Gestion de l'Eau Potable (AGEP) and the Agence
    Nationale des Barrages (ANB) to carry out the feasibility and detailed studies, and environmental
    impact assessments of projected water and sewerage works;
4) Institutional Development to AGEP, ANB, Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques (ANRH)
    and the water utilities; and
5) Supply of operational equipment to AGEP, ANB, ANRH, and the water utilities.

3.4 Revised Components:

Immediately after approval, the project implementation run into serious difficulties linked to the inadequate
commitment of the Borrower to implementing the sector reforms agreed earlier, management weaknesses
within the Project Management Unit (PMU), procurement delays, the noncompliance with financial and
legal covenants, all in the context of a deteriorating security situation in the country.

The project underwent two major restructurings:

a) in 1998: after three years of a lack of tangible movement on implementation (Box 2), the Government
and the Bank agreed to restructure the project and reduce its scope (during the mid-term review mission of
June 1998). This lack of progress was due to delays in the procurement processes, the weakness of AGEP
to organize the procurement without external assistance and the Government's lack of follow-up on agreed
institutional reforms. By early 1998, an offer was received for the Oran (approved by the Bank but not
submitted to the National Tender Board) and Annaba sub-projects while those for Jijel and Bejaia failed to
attract any bidders. The focus of the restructuring was to reduce the project scope in water supply
rehabilitation to 4 cities, namely Algiers, Constantine, Oran and Annaba, while reducing the wastewater
component to the rehabilitation of 22 treatment plants. The restructuring also aimed at strengthening the
institutional arrangements in the sector by promoting autonomous self-financing utilities, and by extending
the rehabilitation contracts with the private operators to include the commercial activities (including billing
and collection). The restructuring was confirmed in late 1998 and the Government signed the amendment to
the Loan Agreement in January 1999. This amendment was not presented to the Bank's Board of Directors.




                                                      - 3 -

  Box 2 - Major delays in implementation in the early years ­ 1995-1998. The initial project financing scheme
  was based on a contribution of an amount of US$ 54.1 million from payment of concession fees by the
  participating utilities which would have been given financial autonomy. However, this mechanism was never fully
  implemented. Due to a Loan effectiveness condition, only the regional utilities of Oran and Annaba (of a total of 9)
  paid the fees in 1994-1996. Their yearly contribution was to equal 3% (an unrealistic amount) of their annual water
  sales. However, the 7 other regional utilities could not pay the concession fees to the treasury (Fonds National de
  l'Eau) because they did not generate adequate income and could not achieve cost recovery. The contracts for the
  remaining 26 wilaya-based utilities were signed in 1997. These agreements turned out to be mere formalities to
  comply with the Loan Agreement with little possibility for these utilities to actually make the payments given their
  weak financial situation. Up to July 1998, the implementation of the physical components had been insignificant.
  Disbursements had been minimal, and no commitments had been made for civil works. The implementing agency,
  AGEP, lacked the expertise required to carry out competitive bidding procedures of the required quality.
  Experienced consultants were needed to assist AGEP but were not recruited.


Continued deteriorating project implementation during the 1999-2000 period. Progress in
implementation, however, did not improve.            The action plan agreed upon in July 1998 had been
substantially delayed. This was partially due to the continuing difficult political and security situation of
1999 (Note: the presidential elections were held in April 1999 and contributed to a slow-down of activities).
Actually, only one rehabilitation contract had been signed for Oran (after lengthy procedures for approval
by the National Tender Board), while the bids for Algiers and Constantine, received by end of October
1999 had not been awarded yet. The tender for the fourth city, Annaba, had still to be re-launched pending
the formal rejection by GoA of the only bid previously received. As the possibility of a new restructuring of
the project was considered by the Bank, there was no action on the part of the Borrower. Repeated attempts
to rectify the implementation progress were carried out by the Bank Management and follow-up missions in
early 2000. Thus, the Bank decided to advise the Borrower of its intention to suspend disbursement of
funds from the Loan unless corrective measures were taken by mid-June 2000.

Suspension of Loan Disbursements. The Bank decided to suspend disbursements of the Loan on June 27,
2000. The Bank's conditions for lifting the Loan suspension consisted of the following: (i) the Borrower
had granted special budgetary support to the water authorities, equivalent to a 20% tariff increase, and
committed itself to review each year the amounts of budgetary support to be granted; (ii) the Borrower had
finalized the contract for rehabilitation of the water supply system in a pilot area of Algiers, and requested
a partial cancellation related to the Constantine and Annaba sub-projects; (iii) the Borrower had initiated a
sector reform, which included the main organizations involved in water supply and sanitation services, and
for Algiers and Oran, several institutional measures had been taken by the Borrower, including: (a) yearly
independent financial audits ; (b) operational assistance by private sector operators in the customer services
(billing and collection); (c) an increased participation of the regional water utilities (in Algiers and Oran) in
supervision of the rehabilitation activities underway in those cities (AGEP being the implementing entity,
maître d'ouvrage); and (d) performance contracts to be entered with the water utilities based on specific
performance indicators, including financial management; and (e) the Borrower had submitted appropriate
action plans to lift the qualifications of the 1998 audit reports, and recruited independent auditors to carry
out in a timely manner the 1999 audits.

Partial Cancellation of the Loan Amount. In December 2000, the borrower requested the cancellation of
the components related to the rehabilitation of the water supply systems of Constantine and Annaba. These
cities were taken out of the project after very difficult negotiations related to the procurement process, over
which the Bank expressed serious disagreements. The cancellation amount was US$28.1 million. The
project was then reduced to 2 cities (Oran and part of Algiers) for water supply system rehabilitation. By
January 2001 the Bank was satisfied that the Borrower had complied with many remedial measures



                                                        - 4 -

requested by the Bank's suspension letter, and in February 2001, the suspension was lifted. The Borrower
had, in particular, indicated to the Bank, its decision to reorganize the water supply and sewerage sector by
creating two national institutions, one for water (AdE, Algérienne des Eaux) and one for wastewater (ONA,
Office National de l'Assainissement) and by completing a major water tariff study.

b) in 2001: After lifting the suspension, the Bank team carried an assessment of the implementation
progress of the project (March and May 2001 missions) and the prospects for achieving the project
development objectives. The project team estimated that the basic thrust of the development objectives of
the project were still appropriate in the prevailing context of the country, and that the financing of basic
infrastructure rehabilitation by the Government was still needed and should continue before a reliable
strategy of institutional reforms and private sector participation could be initiated.        It was deemed
important that the Bank continue to provide assistance to the sector, and that above all, it accompanied the
newly launched reform toward reorganization and sustainability, even though it was not clear whether the
institutional changes that were occurring would lead to that outcome. The second restructuring of the
project was signed in October 2001, after its approval by the Bank's Board of Directors. The amendment
also included a 2-year extension of the closing date.

After these restructurings the revised components were:

1) Water Supply Systems: a) Network rehabilitation in Oran and part of Algiers (about 15%) inclusive of
    leak detection and repairs, meter installation and gauging and b) water distribution network re-looping
    and balancing in the same two cities;
2) Sewerage Rehabilitation: feasibility studies for the rehabilitation of about 22 sewage treatment plants;
3) Consulting services to AGEP and ANB to carry out the feasibility and detailed studies, and
    environmental impact assessments of projected water and sewerage works;
4) Institutional Development to AGEP, ANB, ANRH and the water utilities;
5) Supply of operational equipment to AGEP, ANB, ANRH, and the water utilities.

After these two major restructurings, when implementation progress was still slow in 2002 and it became
clear that the loan would not be disbursed in its entirety, a second partial loan cancellation was made in
2003 (following a January 2003 Country Portfolio Performance Review) in the amount of US$19 million
which reduced the final loan amount to US$62.9 million.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry is rated highly unsatisfactory. This assessment is based on (i) the low quality of project
design which did not reflect lessons from previous projects and a poor assessment of risks (Box 3); (ii) the
overly ambitious project scope which did not fully take into account the institutional constraints and risks
emanating from the Borrower's weak implementing capacity (procurement systems and management
capacity of AGEP to manage some potential 80 contracts - as projected in the SAR); (iii) the lack of
project ownership by the Borrower and the lack of participation of the regional water utilities (the main
beneficiaries of the loan) in project design; (iv) given the poor performance of the implementing agency in
previous projects, the implementation arrangements put in place were not adequate; (v) the failure to have
considered a pilot project to implement the reforms that were being introduced.




                                                      - 5 -

  Box 3 - Previous Bank Experience in the Sector. The Bank has been involved in the water sector in Algeria
  since the late 1970s. It has financed six loans (including this one):

  1978: Loan 1545-AL; US $ 82 million, Algiers Sewerage Project ; construction of sewer interceptors and sewage
  treatment plant in Algiers;
  1980: S-17-AL, US$ 5 million Water Resources Study and Master Plan for Algiers;
  1984: Loan 2461-AL, US $ 290 million, Water Supply in Algiers;
  1985: Loan 2591-AL US $ 262 million, Water Supply and Sewerage in Constantine and Oran;
  1987: Loan 2821-AL US $ 250 million, Second National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project;
  1994: Loan 3743-AL US $ 110 million, Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation Project

  Implementation experience showed that projects failed because of an environment characterized by weak
  institutional capacity. For example, in the case of the Algiers Water Supply project (2461-AL), despite the increase
  in production and expansion of services, heavy water losses had persisted (unaccounted for water at 50% in 1991
  and 1992). Also, little progress had been made towards carrying out these activities during the years following
  project completion and project sustainability had since been compromised. This failure can be attributed mainly to
  a bias towards capital investments over operation and maintenance activities. Similarly for Loan 2821-AL, while
  the aim was to create the capacity for sound investment programming and improve operational efficiency of the
  regional water utilities, the goals turned out to be unreachable as the project failed to consider the adverse
  socioeconomic climate in Algeria, the institutional and managerial inadequacies, and the degree of resistance to
  reform. Moreover, no key development outcomes were set for the project's institutional objectives.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of the objectives is highly unsatisfactory. At Loan closing on December 31, 2003, project
implementation had not progressed in any significant manner. The two major sub-projects (rehabilitation of
water networks in Oran and in part of Algiers) remain substantially incomplete. The Government indicated
that both sub-projects will continue to be executed using Government funding (the Algiers sub-project is
scheduled to be completed by August 2004 and the one in Oran - with a sizable contract adjustment -
around late-2006). However, even with the completion of the works, the ambitious target of 20%
unaccounted-for-water (under both contracts) will most likely not be achieved. On the institutional side, the
sector weaknesses remain as no improvement has been made in turning the utilities into self-financing
entities, tariffs have stayed well below the cost recovery levels and unaccounted for water is yet to be
improved. The situation in the other eight cities in the original design has not improved either. On the
wastewater component, no tangible outcomes have been achieved since the loan stipulated that the
rehabilitation of the sewage treatment plants would be carried out only when adequate institutional
arrangements would be made to operate the system and operational costs would be covered by the operator.
None of the improvements materialized.

Despite the unfinished works, some lessons have been learned and the Ministry of Water Resources has
indicated its desire to use the project design in other cities where network rehabilitation and utility
management need immediate attention. Although it is clear that much more needs to be done in Oran and
Algiers, the project has somewhat contributed to the upgrading of the capability of the local units in the two
cities, including the skills of the local private contractors, to repair and manage the water networks. Some
skills transfer has happened in mapping of physical infrastructure, in improved commercial systems,
hydraulic modeling of networks and good construction practices.




                                                          - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Water Supply Rehabilitation. This component is rated unsatisfactory as much of the work remained
incomplete at the project closing date.

a) Algiers Water Supply Rehabilitation

The inclusion of Algiers as a project activity in 1998 was considered an emergency operation. The wilaya
of Algiers has a network totaling 3819 Km in length with a UFW reaching 45 to 50%. The Bank decided to
include Algiers notwithstanding the total absence of preparatory designs. The awarding of the rehabilitation
contract was plagued by delays because of lengthy procurement procedures and the inexperience of the
PMU in launching a contract involving a private international operator. The contract for the rehabilitation
of the water supply system for Algiers was awarded to SEM-BRL (the water company of the city of
Marseille - France). The bidding process was launched during the second semester of 1998 and
implementation of the contract started in April 2001. The contract was amended due to a major
modification to increase the amount of pipe length to be rehabilitated (from 54 km to 144 km) in order to
attempt to meet the performance target of 20% UFW, specified in the contract. The duration of contract
implementation was 40 months (exceeding the Loan closing date of 12/31/2003).

Specifically, the Algiers contract consisted of 7 components:
A: activities included network cartography, data collection on the existing system and inclusion into a
    geographical information system (GIS);
B: leak detection and repair on Algiers' western zone side and repair/upgrading of 7.5 Km of the pumping
    system (discharge pipes) Hamiz-Bordj El-Kiffan ;
C: technical and functional assessment of the existing water supply system as well as development of a
    normative and mathematical model for the water supply network;
D: development of a master plan for the rehabilitation and upgrading of the water supply system;
E: development and implementation of: (a) managerial/operational guidelines for the water supply system
    and; (b) a system to lower unaccounted for water;
F: development and implementation of a management information system for billing and collection for
    Algiers' western zone;
G: rehabilitation of the Beni-Amrane pumping station's cooling system.

At Loan closing, the rate of completion for individual components was as follows: component A (network
mapping) has been completed at a 100%; component B's rate of completion was at 45%; component C was
at 58%, activities for component D have reached a completion rate of 23%; component E was at 68%;
component F was at 84%; and component G at about 90%. Moreover, in view of what has been completed
so far, the UFW objective of 20% (in the project zone) is unlikely to be achieved by the end the
rehabilitation contract (September 2004) because leak detection and repair works are still on-going and
behind schedule. Important activities that would have an impact on UFW reduction and the provision of
reliable water services have yet to be completed; these include (i) system testing and verification which is at
18% of target and (ii) water meter and connection replacement is progressing very slowly and is at 26%
(2,902 out of 11,200 planned have been installed).

b) Oran Water Supply Rehabilitation

The Oran rehabilitation operation sought to: (i) install a computerized water supply network information
system and update network mapping; (ii) reduce unaccounted for water through leak detection and repair,
and remove illegal connections; (iii) reduce the unaccounted for water to 20%; (iv) implement preventive


                                                    - 7 -

system maintenance and control; and (v) improve operational conditions of the network. In order to reach
these objectives project's activities focused on 5 components:

A. Network mapping and data collection on the existing urban water supply system;
B. Leak detection and repair operation;
C. Diagnosis of the existing water supply system and development of a mathematical model for the
     network;
D. Master plan development for the rehabilitation and the upgrading/recalibration of the network;
E. Development and implementation of operational norms and standards for the management of the water
     supply system including the reduction of unaccounted for water.

The bidding and awarding process for the Oran operation took about 3 years to complete and was a major
constraint in project implementation. Similarly to the Algiers case, work description and quantities required
for the Oran operation were not well defined from the outset because of the lack of feasibility studies and
master workplan. This has led to a significant amendment in the scope of work, mainly an increase in the
total length of pipes to be changed from 24 km to 60 km. Therefore, the contract has been the subject of 2
consecutive amendments. The first amendment had increased the initial amount from 1,285,022,249 DA to
1,397,345,193 DA. The second amendment to the contract (approved by the Bank in August 2002) which
has yet to be approved and implemented would bring the total contract amount to 1,939,526,470 DA
representing an increase of 51% over the initial amount. The delays in approving the amendments has
negatively impacted the Oran operation which has been halted since November 2002 pending payments of
arrears to the contractor.

At Loan closing, the rate of completion of the physical aspects of the operation was estimated at 50%. The
rate of completion of the 5 individual components is as follows: component A (network mapping) has been
completed at a 85%; component B's rate of completion was at 70% (not considering the second
amendment); component C was at 50%, activities for component D and E have not yet begun. As in
Algiers, the objective of 20% UFW is unlikely to be achieved by the end of the rehabilitation contract (the
amended contract will have a 30-month extension and will be financed by the Government, closing by late
2006).

Sewage Treatment Plant Rehabilitation. This component is rated highly unsatisfactory.

Initially, the project had included the rehabilitation of: (i) sewage collection networks (US$8 million), (ii)
sewage treatment plants (US$2.5 million) and (iii) pumping stations (US$2.8 million). The physical
rehabilitation of the treatment plants was dropped from the project because no institutional arrangements
for the management of the stations and the network were put in place. The Loan agreement stipulated that
the financing of the sewerage component was conditional on compliance with Loan covenants (Article III,
Section 3.05-b which stipulated that the Borrower shall (i) designate a sewerage authority to be responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the sewage treatment plant to be rehabilitated under the sub-project;
and (ii) secure the funds necessary to finance the operation and maintenance costs of the sewage treatment
plant). In reality, these conditions could only be fulfilled if the municipalities were to provide to the utilities
adequate funds to cover the operating costs of the treatment plants. This meant that management contracts
(with objectives and corresponding fees) had to be established between the municipalities and the utilities,
and that municipal budgets would allocate funds (money that they did not have) to cover the gap between
the actual operating costs of the treatment plants and the amounts collected through the sewerage tax
(representing 20% of the water bill). The sewerage tax equivalent to 20% of the water bill would be
collected by the utilities (as decreed by the water resources law) and transferred to the municipalities.




                                                      - 8 -

Attempts at making the system work were undertaken (in Algiers and Constantine) but ultimately failed
because the resources generated via the sewerage tax were insufficient. Moreover, from a technical and
investment perspective, the rehabilitation of the treatment plants was also considered inadequate as it did
not include rehabilitation of upstream sewage networks (actually there are conflicting information in parts
of the SAR and the legal agreement with regards to the inclusion of sewerage rehabilitation in the project).
It is within this context that the legal covenants governing the institutional and financial operations of the
sewerage component were not complied with and consequently the Bank cancelled their financing from the
loan. Thereafter, the implementation of the sewerage component was limited to the feasibility studies for
the rehabilitation of the wastewater treatment plants (WWTP). The first phase (11 WWTPs) of the
feasibility studies was completed in May 1999. The contract amounting to US$216,705 and DA 5.5
million, was implemented by the RSW-ENHYD consulting group, while the consulting firm of the second
batch was selected in 2002 but the contract was never concluded as the study was not programmed in the
Ministry's budget.

Technical Assistance Component of Agence Nationale des Barrages (ANB). This component is rated
satisfactory despite the delays in completing the programmed activities which are mainly attributable to
causes beyond the control of the agency. This component consisted of a number of feasibility studies of
transfers and dams. At Loan closing, two studies have been fully completed. The completed studies are:
(i) the Boulatane dam for a capacity of 20 million m to be mainly used for the irrigation of a perimeter in
                                                       3


the Tarf wilaya; and (ii) the Djidiouia dam (in the wilaya of Relizane) for a capacity of 22 million m to 3


irrigate the lower Chéliff valley. The other feasibility studies which are still ongoing or about to be
completed by the end of 2004 are: (i) the study for the Tabellout dam for a capacity of 190 million m to  3


contribute to the transfer scheme Sétif-Hodna; (ii) the Boussiaba dam in the wilaya of Mila for a total
capacity of 80 million m; this study has been delayed because of security concerns to carry out geological
                          3


surveys; (iii) the study for "Porte de Fer" dam, intended for urban water supply in the wilaya of Bordj Bou
Arriredj, has also been delayed because of delays in the geological surveys and other technical assessments;
and (iv) the study for Taourira dam, in the wilaya of Tipaza and intended for irrigation, has also been
delayed because of difficulties in carrying out the geological surveys.

Technical Assistance Component to Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques (ANRH). This
component is rated satisfactory. ANRH is the national agency responsible for monitoring water resources
in the country. The technical assistance to ANRH was in the form of (limited) consulting services and in
the provision of hydrological and operational equipment. The objective of this assistance was to modernize
ANRH's monitoring and analytical capacity through: (i) the installation of a water quality monitoring
system to help ANRH establish databases for the hydrological basins in Algeria; (ii) the acquisition of
equipment and chemicals for laboratory uses; (iii) the acquisition of hydro-geological equipment to improve
ANRH's capacity to carry out measurements of piezometric levels as well as to enhance its analytical
capability on baseline hydrology;         and (iv) the rehabilitation and modernization of the national
hydro-climatologic system in order to improve its reliability. Upgrading was extended to 12 hydrometric
stations in western Algeria; this will improve the data collection on precipitation and hydrology. The total
cost of this assistance was about US$3 million of which about US$67,000 was for consulting services and
the rest for equipment purchases.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR's economic evaluation of the project shows an economic rate of return (ERR) of 17 %, excluding
the sewerage rehabilitation program. This evaluation had many pitfalls as it did not assess risks that did
occur and impacted project outcomes. Furthermore, the economic evaluation did not include an estimate of
the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of the water supply service. An estimate of an LRMC would have been



                                                     - 9 -

a catalyst for implementing an appropriate water tariff policy.

The expected outcome of the project did not materialize as the project was continuously plagued by delays,
restructuring, suspension and partial loan cancellations. Furthermore, as the project did not achieve its
intended development objective, the ERR could only be negative. The water utilities involved in the project
are still in dire financial difficulties as they still have large debts to settle with the national treasury, the
national power utility, and other public firms. They have not been able to generate sufficient revenues to
pay their staff. let alone cover their operating expenses. As operating costs soared, tariffs have not been
adjusted accordingly. Average water tariffs for Algiers and Oran are 16 DA/m , whereas tariff levels for
                                                                                     3


cost recovery should be respectively 49.1 DA/m and 48.8 DA/m (according to a recent tariff study carried
                                                    3               3


out in 2002 by an international consulting firm). Water sales are way below what the project had predicted,
and unaccounted for water is still very high. Therefore, an ex-post economic evaluation would be a less
than useful exercise.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

For the same reasons indicated above, the calculation of a financial rate of return was deemed unnecessary.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional development impact is rated as negligible. Despite some efforts from the
Borrower to comply with the Loan covenants (e.g. budgetary support to utilities, regional tariff systems)
the institutional development impact is not tangible. The tariffs were set at much lower levels than needed,
not contributing to any improvement of the utilities' finances. Moreover, the most recent institutional
reorganization (implemented in January 2003), with the creation of the AdE and ONA, is still not showing
any concrete results. This is particularly serious with the ONA which is struggling to become a viable
entity, with the sewerage tariffs (at 20% of the water tariffs) not even coming close to covering its most
basic expenses. It is worth mentioning that the Bank was not involved in this exercise and did not explicitly
support this restructuring effort which led to a re-centralization of service provision. A recent Bank-led
strategy report (2003) has proposed the merging of the AdE and ONA and the decentralization of service
provision to the wilaya level.




5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The main factor that was outside the control of the Government or implementing agency was the poor
security situation prevailing in Algeria in the 1990s which was not conducive to appropriate project
implementation and supervision neither by the Bank nor by the Borrower (a travel ban was in place until
late 1997; and during 1998-2000 travel to Algeria was restricted and infrequent - four updates of the
project supervision report -PSR - are found in that period and no site visits). The security conditions clearly
undermined the environment in which the project was being executed. Moreover, foreign firms have been
somewhat reluctant to send expatriates to Algeria (as their staff had experienced a high degree of
insecurity), especially in the areas outside Algiers and the larger cities. For example, it is clear that the
implementation of the feasibility studies for dams that was under the ANB (through foreign consulting



                                                       - 10 -

firms) was delayed because of the security situation and the difficulty of carrying out critical field work.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

These factors are the following:

a) Lack of clear oversight from the Borrower on the implementation agency and frequent institutional
changes that took place during the project life. The weak institutional environment for project
implementation was manifested through: (i) unclear sector direction and vision (and unwillingness by he
Borrower to implement the policies enunciated in its policy note of March 1994 - Annex 19 of SAR); (ii)
unclear financial management rules that produced financing gaps in the project (such as lack of tariff
adjustments to provide financial resources for the utilities to pay their "concession" fees) and (iii)
overlapping of responsibilities in terms of investment financing and rehabilitation program funding (DHW,
AGEP, EPE-Algiers and EPE- Oran). For example, in 2001, when it became clear that AGEP would be
abolished and replaced officially by two new agencies, Algérienne des Eaux (AdE) and the Office National
de l'Assainissement (ONA), the execution of the contracts in Oran and Algiers was assumed to be
transferred to the ADE; however, following a decree on deconcentration in September 2002, the
responsibility for new investments, i.e. "maîtrise d'ouvrage", was given to the DHWs (of Oran and Algiers,
respectively). The transfer of the project implementation files to the DHWs took place in February 2003. In
Algiers, it was completed and works had resumed in March 2003 and the arrears due to the contractors had
largely been paid. However, in Oran, work has been at a standstill since November 2002. After many
months of negotiations between the DHW-Oran and the contractor on the contract amendments (especially
the proposed second amendment), the DHW-Oran decided to re-transfer the project responsibility to AdE.
In November 2003, the second amendment of the contract (which was first approved by the Bank in August
2002) was re-submitted by AdE to the "Commission Nationale des Marchés" and was re-approved. The
additional costs that the contractor had incurred since the shutdown of its activities are still in litigation
which has undermined resumption of the works and project completion. The amended contract should have
a 30-month extension and is to be financed by the Government (with a closing date in late 2006).

b) As indicated above, lengthy procurement procedures in Algeria contributed to the delays incurred during
project implementation. In addition to Bank's no objections, implementing agencies had to go through
national procurement commissions, depending on the size and type of the contract.                The issue of
procurement could have been mitigated if the "Commission Nationale des Marchés" was asked to show a
proactive attitude in the context of the project.

c) Water tariff adjustments were needed to be approved by the Government to ensure the viability of the
utilities. The Government was reluctant to discuss tariff adjustments with the Bank and used the tense
political situation as the reason for not being able to introduce adequate cost recovery tariffs.

d) Unclear strategy for the sewerage sub-sector that resulted in the lack of institutional arrangements for
the sewerage component of the project as well as non-compliance with the corresponding Loan covenants.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The implementing agencies should have availed themselves of the necessary technical assistance to procure
and manage the services that were provided by the loan. In the case of AGEP in particular, the Bank
insisted on many occasions that external project management expertise be retained and help AGEP in its
day-to-day operations; however, AGEP did not avail itself of this help.




                                                      - 11 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, was estimated at appraisal at some
US$170 million. Bank financing was set at US$110 million. After two cancellations, the loan amount was
reduced to US$62.9 million. Disbursements from the project proceeds reached US$38.4 million (about
35% of the original amount). The undisbursed loan amount was US$24.6 million. Details of these figures
appear in Annex 2.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project sustainability is rated as highly unlikely. In the case of Oran, the works that were initiated
under this project will continue for at least another 30 months (assuming that amendment 2 of the contract
is signed). Furthermore, it is not likely that the contract will reach the original target of 20% unaccounted
for water. In the meantime, the AdE-Oran has taken over the day-to-day operation and is trying to focus on
improved customer service. The long-term sustainability of the investments surely rely on the revenues that
the system will generate over time that will be sufficient to cover all the costs. In the case of Algiers, the
project has worked in an area that represent just about 15% of the customer base. It is not clear to what
extent the DHW-Algiers will continue investing in the rehabilitation of the rest of Algiers.

The Government's massive effort to re-build water supply networks to meet the demands can only be
sustainable if proper operation and maintenance is ensured. Project sustainability is not assured and could
be seriously threatened if no adequate operation and maintenance arrangements are put in place within an
enabling institutional structure and the appropriate tariffs that will support it.

The sustainability of project outputs implemented by DHWs (Algiers & Oran) may be undermined given
the deteriorating financial situation of AdE. Furthermore it remains to be seen to what extent the split in
the responsibility on investment in rehabilitation (DHW) and operation and maintenance (AdE and ONA)
can further complicate the long-term sustainability of the networks.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Measures for sustainable operations: After project completion, operations will be transferred to the AdE by
DHW-Algiers to carry out daily management of the water supply network in the project area. AdE-Algiers
is already participating in the overall coordination of the works (with the DHW of Algiers) and should be
able to take over the new assets and maintain them (with adequate tariffs). In Oran, AdE is already in
charge of the project (DHW-Oran has refused to take over the contract after the dissolution of AGEP) and
is involved in the supervision of the works (however the works are still in a hiatus since November 2002).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during project preparation is rated highly unsatisfactory.              At the time of
preparation and appraisal, the project did not fully take into consideration lessons from previous operations



                                                     - 12 -

(it is ironic that the implementation completion report of the previous loan - prepared in 1997 - lists as
lessons learned the same ones that are being identified for the present one); previous attempts at
institutional reform had not materialized, even when similar efforts were spent under most earlier loans.
The risk of the Government's lack of commitment to the stated policies should have led the team to spend
more efforts in ensuring the fulfillment of some conditionalities prior to loan negotiations. Furthermore, it
would have made sense to require the preparation of some bidding documents prior to Board approval.
Given the novelty of these service contracts to the Algerian utilities, the scope of the project should have
been more limited. More importantly, the project outcomes were not clearly defined except for output
indicators. The Bank did not explicitly require, as a condition for lending, any reform of sector
organizations or the granting of more autonomy to the utilities to enable them to provide better customer
service. Tariff levels were very low and it would have been logical to carry out some adjustment prior to
loan effectiveness. Therefore, proposed reforms were not fully followed up or not implemented at all. The
assessment of the capacity of the implementing agency was not adequate and more upfront work should
have been carried out to ensure that the proposed external assistance (to AGEP) was put in place early on.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's overall performance in supervision is rated unsatisfactory. In the first three years of the project
(1995-1998), the Bank showed limited proactivity in addressing the mounting delays and implementation
problems which was partly due to an intermittent travel ban to Algeria, for security reasons. It is only at the
mid-term review of the project in July 1998 that the major deficiencies were revealed and warranted an
amendment of loan agreements, mainly to reduce the scope of work.

On the procurement aspects, more diligent application of Bank procedures could have sped up
implementation, especially around the mid-term period. The turnover in Bank teams supervising the project
caused some procurement delays that occurred during transition periods. Moreover, it is also important to
mention the hiatus that occurred when the first Bank task manager left the project in 1997 following
accusations of irregularities in the procurement of services, and the poor state of documentation that was
left behind. All of these disturbances led to mounting delays at the early stage and diverted the
management's attention from key implementation problems.

In hindsight, the Bank could have been more proactive regarding the lack of progress on water tariff
increases and the deteriorating financial situation of the utilities that ensued. Raising the dialogue on this
issue to ministerial level should have been done earlier in project implementation. At the same time, it
should also be noted that the political environment was not fully conducive to a dialogue on this subject
around the late 1990s. However, as a minimum, and although already too late, the Bank could have
established the approval of the long overdue water tariff increases as a precondition for granting the
extension requested by the Government. Retrospectively, granting an extension without using its leverage
on the tariff issue should probably have been avoided.

Overall, it appears that the Bank was trying to be as accommodating as possible to salvage whatever was
left from the project and its relationship with the Borrower. The Bank management and the project team
tried many of the tools at its disposal to draw the attention of the Borrower (including suspension of
disbursement) to the need to adopt the agreed reforms but the political conditions were not suitable.
Moreover, the design of the project - from the beginning - was clearly inadequate for the country's
conditions.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:




                                                    - 13 -

The Bank's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated highly unsatisfactory. Despite the stated policy
objectives (Annex 19 of SAR) it appears that the Borrower was not ready to implement the project as
designed. The commitment made under the project objectives was not translated into action during
implementation. In hindsight, it is questionable to what extent the project design reflected the clear
convictions of the Borrower in pursuing sector improvement using the methodology and tools of the project
design. It is also clear that the project had too many implementing agencies (AGEP, ANB, ANRH,
DHWs) and weak coordinating capacity at the AGEP. The Borrower should have better prepared the
design of the contracts to be entered with the private operators and probably understood better what was
expected from each party (utility, private operator, DHW, etc.). It was indeed a novel contract and included
a difficult target (20% unaccounted for water) which should have been better assessed in light of the lack of
data on the conditions of the existing networks.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance is assessed as unsatisfactory because of: (i) its inability to
achieve project objectives (even the much reduced scope) despite the Bank's willingness to accommodate
the implementation delays; (ii) its noncompliance with the financial covenants of the Loan Agreement; (iii)
its inefficient procurement procedures which led to major delays from bidding to contract signing (more
than three years). Moreover, the Borrower did not intervene forcefully to try to redress the problems that
were being faced by the implementing agencies. A project with such a slow disbursing profile should have
prompted the Borrower to take the required actions to refocus the project on its initial objectives.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The implementing agencies' (AGEP, DHW and AdE) performance is rated unsatisfactory. In the first
place, a complex project (some ten cities for water system rehabilitation and 22 wastewater treatment
systems for rehabilitation) necessitated external management capacity which was not actively sought by the
implementing agency leading to the unsatisfactory results of the project. The presence of many
implementing agencies and the multiplication of components clearly did not match the capacity of the
implementing (and coordination) agency, AGEP.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated unsatisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be drawn from this project. Some of the key lessons are:

Keep the project design simple and set realistic targets based on previous country experience. The
initial components were neither realistically defined nor appropriately designed as they were too broad to
meet the project objectives. The project design did not take into account the specificity of the complex
sector problems in Algeria. Starting from ill-defined development objectives, the project did not link the
institutional capacity strengthening to previous results on the ground and lessons learned from past Bank



                                                    - 14 -

projects. Implementing agencies had not demonstrated in previous Bank operations that they were capable
of successfully executing complex and extensive components. Furthermore the activities included in the
institutional components proved to be insufficient to fully achieve the strengthening objectives, specifically
regarding the improvement of the financial capacity of the sector providers.

Implementation responsibility must be clearly defined and given to the agency that will be ultimately
be responsible for the operation of the water supply networks. The fact that the AGEP was initially
responsible for project implementation, even though the main beneficiaries were the EPEAL, EPEOR (and
later the DHWs and AdE) created delays and difficulties in the procurement and supervision of the works.
The split responsibility of investment (AGEP and later DHWs ­ maître d'ouvrage) and operation and
maintenance (EPEAL, EPEOR and later AdE) has continued to create unclear lines of accountability.

In water supply rehabilitation projects, where the knowledge of the physical conditions of the
network is limited, the works contract should be preceded (or run in parallel) to a consultancy that
will help locate the problems and assign them to the contractors. Under such conditions of uncertainty,
the contractors should probably be retained on the basis of preset amount of work and not be held
responsible for an outcome (20% unaccounted for water) that they cannot control, especially in the case of
this project where in both Algiers and Oran the water supply was intermittent and the contractors had
difficulties to measure flows, pressures and leaks under those conditions. Moreover, the main risk that was
not possible to mitigate was the political reluctance of the Government to accept the necessary (sizable)
contract amendments that ensued from the initial uncertainties.

The service contracts - as designed for this project - should have been split into two components: the
works contract and the technical assistance contract for all other services (studies, leak detection, GIS
and commercial cadastre and system improvement). The firms that were selected are primarily management
and operation firms (such as SEM and SAUR) and were not necessarily good at implementing the works
(and importing goods); in both cases, they have sub-contracted all the works to local firms. Otherwise, they
should be given a performance-based management contract and allow them to be responsible for the entire
operation and
maintenance activities.

The Bank management should have been more reactive and take corrective measures much earlier.
When it was becoming clear around the mid-term review (1998) that the Borrower and the implementing
agency were reluctant to implement the agreed reforms, loan conditions and project design, the Bank
management should have been more proactive and not allow the already accumulated implementation
delays to increase. It should have been unacceptable to sign the contracts after 5 years from effectiveness
(and their amendments) when it was known that the contracts will go beyond the closing date.

To implement new reforms in the sector, it would be more appropriate to design pilot project of
much smaller scale to test the commitment of the Government and the feasibility of the reform. In this
case, it would have been much more relevant to test the objectives in one or two locations before
committing to 10 utilities. Moreover, it was difficult to project the feasibility of rehabilitating wastewater
treatment plants when the operational costs are not clearly covered. The sector performance did not lend
itself for optimistic projections and yet the project was designed on that basis.

Large complex projects (with many contracts) require competent project management capacity to be
on board from the beginning. It is very likely that the implementation of this project could have been
more positive, had AGEP availed itself with capable technical advisers to help prepare bidding documents



                                                      - 15 -

and oversee the implementation of the contracts. Anecdotal evidence shows that PMUs that are assisted by
professional project managers have implemented their projects in timely manner and without creating large
(parallel) bureaucracies within government structures.

The Government should show their commitment to reforms by initiating them prior to project
implementation. Bank experience in many projects has shown that reforms in the water sector take time
and are tied to political cycles. It is increasingly clear that achievement of sector reform should not be
conditions of project implementation. Bank investment loans are not good vehicle for ensuring sector
reforms. For example, tariff adjustment or institutional restructuring should be carried out outside an
investment loan framework. In other words, it is better that sector reform precede major investments and
that governments demonstrate its seriousness in results. The Bank should have established the approval of
the long overdue water tariff adjustments as a precondition for consideration of the project closing date
extension.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                    - 16 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Water services improved in Oran and a pilot   25%.                                  45%
area of Algiers.




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Two contracts entered for water supply        Two contracts completed.              Contracts still on-going; the one in Oran has
rehabilitation.                                                                     still another 30 months to go and is at a halt
                                                                                    pending negotiations of an amendment and
                                                                                    the one in Algiers is due to be completed in
                                                                                    August 2004.
Twenty-two studies for WWTP rehabilitation. Twenty-two studies completed.           Eleven completed; process for the second
                                                                                    batch is frozen.
Sector reform prepared and implemented: (i) Reform implemented: decrees approved;   Reform partially implemented; impact not yet
decrees for new organization to be drafted,   organizational studies completed.     measurable
(ii) decrees to be approved, (iii) carry out
organization studies for sector agencies.


1End of project




                                                                - 18 -

         Table A: Performance indicators for the Algiers Water Supply System Rehabilitation

Component            Description                                   Rate of Completion as of 12/31/03
   A       Network cartography and GIS    Mapping at 100 %
                                          Data collection at 100 %
                                          Field validation : 3 804 km out of 3 819 km ( 99 % )
                                          Mapping & Manuals at ( 95 % )
                                          GIS design at: 98 %
                                          Supply of Equipment and software at (100%)
                                          Training : 12 staff have been trained
    B     Leak detection and Repair       Network Sectorization
          Rehabilitation and upgrading of - diagnosis and segmenting : 100 %
          the Hamiz piping system         - sectorization work and installation of control lines including water meters , taps
                                          and (60 % )
                                          Number of leaks detected : 1 005
                                          Leak repairs : 49 %
                                          Consumer survey (via sampling) 70 %
                                          Training for 16 staff
                                          Drafting of Manuals and Reports 70 %
                                          Supply of equipment, materials and measurement instruments: 100 %
                                          Pipe rehabilitation and upgrading : 25 %
   C       Network assessment             Diagnostics at 80 %
           (diagnosis) and development of Mathematical model development: 50 %
           a mathematical model           Information system- software training : PICCOLO program : 50 %
                                          Report on network operation : 50 %
   D       Master plan development        Socio-economic survey : 70 %
                                          Master plan : 0 %
                                          Definition and design of a works program : 14 %
                                          Schematics, manuals & reports : 30 %
    E      Management guidelines and      Managerial guidelines for the management of the water supply system : 60 %
           methods                        Feasibility study on a dedicated/specialized control system : 80 %
                                          Creation of an AdE leak detection unit : 85 %
                                          Leak detection information system : 90 %
                                          Operational guidelines and manuals : 60 %
                                          Evaluation of the implementation of managerial guidelines : 30 %
    F      Billing and Collection         Audit and recommendations : 100 %
                                          Cost and Tariff study : 100 %
                                          Water meters and consumers inventory : 100 %
                                          Connections and meters rehabilitation and upgrading : 26 %
                                          Training of 12 staff : 100 %
                                          Supply of computer equipment : 100 %
                                          Installation of the Water meters repair unit: 60 %
   G       Supply and assembly of         Works have been completed- final delivery not yet confirmed as equipment remains
           Hydrocyclones at Beni-Amrane   to be calibrated and validated (testing remains to be undertaken)
           pumping station




                                                      - 19 -

         Table B: Performance indicators for the Oran Water Supply System Rehabilitation

Component           Description                                 Rate of Completion as 31 December 2003
   A      Network cartography and GIS    Mapping at 100 %
                                         Data collection at 100 %
                                         Field validation : (100 % )
                                         Mapping & Manuals at ( 95 % )
                                         GIS design at: 100%
                                         Supply of equipment and software at (100%)
                                         Training : 5 staff have been trained
    B     Leak detection and Repair      Network Sectorization
                                         - diagnosis and segmenting : 100 %
                                         - sectorization work and installation of control lines including water meters , taps and
                                         ( 80% )
                                         Leak repairs: activity still on-going and hampered by technical issues due to network
                                         thus results are useless
                                         Consumer survey (via sampling) 90 %
                                         Training for 9 staff
                                         Drafting of Manuals and Reports 75 %
                                         Supply of equipment, materials and measurement instruments: 100 %
                                         Pipe rehabilitation and upgrading: 26.3 Km (65%)
   C      Network assessment             Diagnostics at 80 %
          (diagnosis) and development of Mathematical model development: 50 % as flow and pressure measurement activity
          a mathematical model           has yet to be started
                                         Output Report on network operation 0 %
                                         Training of 5 staff
   D      Master plan development        Socio-economic survey is still on-going
                                         Master plan : 0 %
                                         Definition and design of a works program : 20 %
    E     Management guidelines and      Guidelines for the management of the water supply system : 0 %
          methods                        Feasibility study on a dedicated/specialized control system : 0 %
                                         Creation of an AdE leak detection unit : 0 %
                                         Leak detection information system : 0 %
                                         Operational guidelines and manuals : 0 %
                                         Evaluation of the implementation of managerial guidelines : 0 %




                                                      - 20 -

Project Objectives, Components and Status: Changes during Project Life

                           Objectives                                 Components                                       Context & Status
1995          1.Rehabilitating of urban water supply      1.Water supply system rehabilitation in ten    The    project   ran   quickly    into   implementation
              and sewerage systems                        cities;                                        difficulties linked to inadequate commitment of the
                                                                                                         government      to    sector   reforms,    management
              2. Improving the distribution of water in   2. Rehabilitation of about 24 sewage           weaknesses of all agencies involved in the project,
              urban areas                                 treatment plants and sewage networks           non-compliance with financial and legal covenants,
                                                                                                         and     the    deteriorating     security    conditions.
              3.    Rationalizing     the   institutional 3. Consulting services to AGEP and ANB         Development and implementation objectives have
              arrangements in the water sector with a     to carry out feasibility and detailed studies, been rated unsatisfactory since early 1997. Up to July
              view to achieving full cost recovery        and environmental impact assessments of        1998, physical components execution had been
              through the establishment of efficient,     projected water and sewerage works;            insignificant because of the slow implementation of
              self-financing water authorities                                                           the project.   Disbursements had been minimal and
                                                          4. Institutional development assistance to     behind schedule, and no commitments had been
                                                          AGEP,     ANB,     ANRH,    and   the   water  made for civil works. The Borrower, notably AGEP,
                                                          utilities;                                     lacked the expertise required to carry out competitive
                                                                                                         bidding procedures of the required quality, and it
                                                          5. supply of operational equipment to          seemed that prequalified foreign firms were reluctant
                                                          AGEP,     ANB,     ANRH,    and   the   water  to intervene in the project. Institutional arrangements
                                                          utilities.                                     were not implemented
Restructuring 1.Rehabilitating urban water supply and     1. Water supply system rehabilitation in       It was agreed to keep only activities that would be
in 1998       sewerage systems                            four cities (Algiers, Oran, Annaba and         achieved by the closing date of 12/31/2001. These
                                                          Constantine)                                   activities would concern a small number of cities in
              2. Improving the distribution of water in                                                  order   to  increase   the   project's  impact  on   the
              urban areas                                 2. Studies for the rehabilitation of 22        population. Development objectives remained largely
                                                          sewage treatment plants;                       unchanged.      Borrower     seemed     committed     to
              3.    Rationalizing     the   institutional                                                strengthen    ownership     of  the   project.  Drought
              arrangements in the water sector with a     3. Consulting services to AGEP and ANB         situation in Algeria and the shortage of water in the
              view to achieving full cost recovery        to carry out feasibility and detailed studies, large cities was used as a rationale for including
              through the establishment of efficient,     and environmental impact assessments of        Algiers    and   Constantine     in   the  project.  As
              self-financing water authorities            projected water and sewerage works;            procurement procedures did not result in the selection
                                                                                                         of viable contractors, Annaba and Constantine were
                                                          4. Institutional development assistance to     later dropped from the project. Because the Borrower
                                                          AGEP, ANB and ANRH;                            could not provide for their technical and financial
                                                                                                         adequate management, WWTPs rehabilitation was
                                                          5. Supply of operational equipment to          dropped from the project. However, studies for the
                                                          AGEP, ANB, and ANRH.                           rehabilitation of the WWTP were kept as a project
                                                                                                         component.
Restructuring 1.   Rehabilitation    of   urban    water  1.     Rehabilitation of the water supply      The revised DO reflected the reduced scope of the
in 2001       systems in the city of Oran and in a        system in the city of Oran and of a pilot      project   which    was    limited   to  water   systems
              pilot area of the city of Algiers;          zone in the city of Algiers                    rehabilitation in Oran and a pilot area in Algiers, and
                                                                                                         to   preparatory    studies   for   wastewater    plants
              2.  Preparation     of   studies  for   the 2.    Studies for the rehabilitation of 22     rehabilitation. The cost recovery objectives included
              rehabilitation   of    sewage    treatment  WWTP                                           coverage of operating costs and debt service with the
              plants; and                                                                                exclusion of depreciation.     These revised DO were
                                                          3. T.A and studies for ANB                     considered achievable because at the time : (i) the
              3.     Rationalization    of  institutional                                                Borrower was committed to sector reform, tariff
              arrangements and the improvement of         4. T.A and supply of equipment for ANRH        restructuring and establishment of a viable financial
              cost recovery in the water sector by                                                       set up for the sector; and (ii) the last periodic Bank
              strengthening of the water authorities of                                                  supervision missions had observed good progress in
              the cities of Oran and Algiers.                                                            project implementation. However, a major factor
                                                                                                         undermined project implementation progress: the
                                                                                                         creation of two new centralized national entities,
                                                                                                         ADE for water and ONA for sewerage. This
                                                                                                         institutional transition contributed to the slowing
                                                                                                         down of project implementation and the ongoing
                                                                                                         rehabilitation contracts.
Closing 12/03 1. Partially achieved                       1. Partially completed                         The two major sub-projects (rehabilitation of water
                                                                                                         networks in Oran and in part of Algiers) remain
              2. Partially achieved                       2. Partially completed (only 11)               incomplete (works have been completed between 50
                                                                                                         and 75%).       The Algiers sub-project had been
              3. Not Achieved                             3. Partially competed (2 out of 6 studies)     restarted in mid 2003 (and is on-going) while the one
                                                                                                         in Oran has yet to be re-initiated (all indications are
                                                          4. Completed                                   that it would be restarted during the second quarter of
                                                                                                         2004 following agreements reached on the payments
                                                                                                         of all arrears due to the contractor).
                                                                                                         The Government indicated that both sub-projects
                                                                                                         would continue to be executed using Government
                                                                                                         funding (the Algiers sub-project is scheduled to be
                                                                                                         completed by August 2004 and the one in Oran -
                                                                                                         with a sizable contract adjustment - in mid-2006).
                                                                                                         However, even with the completion of the works, the
                                                                                                         ambitious target of 20% unaccounted-for-water will
                                                                                                         most likely not be achieved




                                                                            - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                           Table A: Total disbursement for Loan 3743-AL

Category                  Category Description        Disb. USD 3743S     Disb. USD 3743A   Total Disbursed
1-A                  CW-PARTS A-B                           1,224,978.04       5,867,367.96    7,092,346.00
1-B                  CW-PART C                                          0                 0             0.00
2                    EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS                   6,919,180.29     13,287,168.66  20,206,348.95
3-A                  CONSULTANTS SERVICES                    2,479,795.77      3,877,605.76    6,357,401.53
3-B                  CONSULTANTS SERVICES                      600,883.96      3,373,595.39    3,974,479.35
CONV-SA              SA - Conversion                                    0                 0             0.00
SA-A                 BANQUE D'ALGERIE                          -29,819.93        790,082.05      760,262.12
UNALLOCATED          UNALLOCATED                                        0                 0             0.00
                                                                                                        0.00
                     Totals (for all 8 Categories)         11,195,018.13      27,195,819.82  38,390,837.95




                          Table B: Expenditure by Category

                    Category                        Initial Amount    Revised Loan Amount
                                                        In US $             In US $
1.       CIVIL WORKS
CW for parts A and B                                     22 400 000             15 500 000
CW for part C                                            10 600 000                       0
2.       EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS                            38 300 000            24 487 550
3.       Technical Assistance and Consultants
T.A. & Consulting Services for part D                     10 800 000          11 100 000,00
T.A. & Consulting Services for parts A, B, C et E         16 900 000          11 300 000,00
4.       Unallocated                                      11 000 000               512 450
TOTAL                                                    110 000 000            62 900 000
Cancellation of amount from Loan on 12/12/2000           28 100 000
Cancellation of amount from Loan on 04/22/2003           19 000 000
Revised Loan Amount after 04/22/2003                     62 900 000




                                                    - 22 -

               Table C: Loan 3743-AL ­ Cancellations: Loan Amounts by Category

                   Category                  Initial Loan   Revised Loam Amount     Revised Loam Amount
                                              Amount               in US $                in US $
                                               in US $       After Cancellation of  After Cancellation of
                                                                 12/12/2000              04/22/2003
1.       CIVIL WORKS
CW for part A et B                               22 400 000             10 400 000           15 500 000,00
CW for part C                                    10 600 000              10 600 000                      0
2.       EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS                    38 300 000             34 200 000             24 487 550
3.       Technical Assistance & Consultants
  T.A & Consulting Services for part D            10 800 000             10 800 000          11 100 000,00
  T.A for part A, B, C and E                      16 900 000              4 900 000          11 300 000,00
4.       Unallocated                              11 000 000           11 000 000                 512 450

TOTAL                                          110 000 000             81 900 000              62 900 000




                                               - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Not calculated, given the incomplete status of project implementation.




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/25/1993                3    SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              04/28/1993                1    SANITARY ENGINEER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/30-07/22/1993          4    SANITARY ENGINEER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT
              02/15-21/1994             5    SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             LAWYER (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              07/12/1994                2    ENGINEER (1);                    S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              01/31/1995                1    SANITARY ENGINEER (1)            S               S
              10/30/1995                1    SANITARY ENGINEER (1)            S               S
              12/19/1996                1    SANITARY ENGINEER (1)            U               U
              03/10/1998                3    SANITARY ENGINEER (1);           U               U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              10/16/2000                3    SR. SANITARY EGR/TTL (1);        U               U
                                             FIN. MGT SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              05/24/2001                1    SR. SANITARY ENG. (TTL) (1)      S               U
              10/22/2001                2    SANITARY ENGINEER/TTL            S               S
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              05/21/2002                1    SANITARY ENGINEER/TTL            S               S
                                             (1)
              10/28/2002                2    TASK MANAGER (1); LEAD           U               U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/05/2003                2    WATER SUPPLY SPECIALIST          U               U
                                             (1); LEAD FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              07/17/1996                2    SANITARY ENGINEER (1);           U               U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
              07/23/1998                6    ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL          U               U
                                             ANALYST (2); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); SECTOR DIRECTOR (1);
                                             SECTOR MANAGER (1)



                                              - 25 -

      12/07/1998    2 SANITARY ENGINEER (1);    U    U
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);

ICR
      01/21/2004    2 ENGINEER/TTL (1);         S    S
                      ECONOMIST (1)




                      - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                         157,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                         200,000
  Supervision                            NA                         751,000
  ICR                                    NA                          20,000
  Total                                  NA                       1.128,000




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents, available in the project files, were used as the basis of this ICR:

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors
Staff Appraisal Report
Project aide-memoires
Project Supervision Reports
Audited Financial Statements




                                                   - 30 -

- 31 -

