Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3743 AL
Loan Agreement
(Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation Project)
 between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 16, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3743 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1994, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a letter dated March 19, 1994, 
setting out policies designed to further the development of the Borrower's water and 
sewerage sector;
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and 
a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)   "AGEP" means the National Authority for Potable and Industrial Water and 
Sewerage of the Borrower (Agence Nationale de l'Eau Potable et Industrielle et de 
l'Assainissement), a public authority established pursuant to Decree No. 85-164 of the 
Borrower, dated June 11, 1985, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (b)   "ANB" means the National Authority for Dams of the Borrower (Agence 
Nationale des Barrages), a public authority established pursuant to Decree No. 85-163 
of the Borrower, dated June 11, 1985, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (c)   "ANRH" means the National Authority for Hydraulic Resources of the 
Borrower (Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques), a public authority 
established pursuant to Decree No. 81-167 of the Borrower, dated July 25, 1981, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
      (d)   "Banque d'Algerie" means the Bank of Algeria, the Borrower's central bank, 
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same 
may be amended from time to time;
      (e)   "DHW" means, in connection with each Wilaya (as this term is hereafter 
defined), the Directorate of Hydraulic Resources of such Wilaya (Direction de 
l'Hydraulique de la Wilaya);
      (f)   "EPEA" means the water authority for the Annaba region (Etablissement de 
Production, de Gestion et de Distribution d'Eau d'Annaba), a public authority 
established pursuant to Decree 92-100 of the Borrower, dated March 3, 1992, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
      (g)   "EPEOR" means the water authority for the Oran region (Etablissement de 
Production, de Gestion et de Distribution d'Eau d'Oran), a public authority 
established pursuant to Decree 92-100 of the Borrower, dated March 3, 1992, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
      (h)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing January 1 
and ending December 31;
      (i)   "Concession Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Water Authority (as this term is hereafter defined) pursuant to Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "MOE" means the Ministry of Equipment of the Borrower;
      (k)   "New Public Authority" means the public authority to be established 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement; 
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
      (m)   "Water Authority" means a regional or local water authority established 
from time to time in the Borrower's territory, and this term shall include EPEA and 
EPEOR; and
      (n)   "Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower organized 
pursuant to the Borrower's Wilaya Law (Loi Relative a la Wilaya), No. 90-09, dated 
April 7, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred ten million 
dollars ($110,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Banque d'Algerie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
           (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
          (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
Page  4
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
    Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1997, enter into, 
and thereafter maintain in effect, a Concession Agreement with each Water Authority 
pursuant to which the Borrower shall grant to the Water Authority the right to operate 
all of the water production, supply and distribution systems located in the geographic 
area serviced by said Authority against the payment by the Water Authority of a rent, 
all in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
    (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Concession Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the objectives of the Project.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to 
establish, not later than July 1, 1996, an industrial and commercial public authority 
(etablissement public a caractere industriel et commercial), as this term is defined 
under Article 44 of Law No. 88-01 of the Borrower, dated January 12, 1988, as amended, 
whose objective shall be to further the institutional development of the Water 
Authorities and to supervise the implementation of the Concession Agreements.
    Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall select, from its investment program for the 
water and sewerage sector, sub-projects for the rehabilitation of sewage treatment 
plants to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Part C of the Project, on 
the basis of the criteria and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 
8 to this Agreement.
    (b)   In connection with each sub-project selected in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) designate a 
sewerage authority to be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the sewage 
treatment plant to be rehabilitated under said sub-project; and (ii) secure the funds 
necessary to finance the operation and maintenance costs of said sewage treatment 
plant.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
Page  5
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such Year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall establish, not later than January 1, 1997, and thereafter maintain, a 
system of regional tariffs, to be collected by the Water Authorities from customers in 
the respective geographic areas serviced by such Authorities, at levels sufficient to 
recover, in the case of each Water Authority, the Authority's operating expenditures 
and the rent due the Borrower under the Authority's Concession Agreement therewith.
    (b)   For purposes of Section 4.02 (a):
(i)
The term "operating expenditures" shall mean expenditures incurred 
on account of (x) the operation, maintenance and administration of 
the water production, supply and distribution systems to be 
managed by the Water Authority, including those to be 
rehabilitated under Parts A and B of the Project; (y) debt service 
requirements; and (z) performance bonuses.
(ii)
The expression "debt service requirements" shall mean the 
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, 
if any), and interest and other charges on debt.
(iii)
The expression "performance bonuses" shall mean the payments made 
by a Water Authority to its employees to reward efficiency and 
productivity.
(iv)
The term "rent" shall mean the annual amount necessary to 
amortize, over a period of fifty (50) years, the current value of 
the water production, supply and distribution systems operated by 
the Water Authority.
(v)
The expression "current value of the water production, supply and 
Page  6
distribution systems" shall mean the capital expenditures 
necessary to replace said systems at their current cost.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
    Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional ondition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has entered into Concession Agreements 
with each of EPEA and EPEOR.
    Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Zighout Youssef Palace
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular Republic
            of Algeria
          Cable address:                             Telex:
 
                      FINPLAN                          67073
                      Algiers
          For the Bank:
                International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America
                Cable address:                      Telex:
                      INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
                      Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                                     82987 (FTCC)
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                By /s/ Nourredine Zerhouni
Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
                By /s/ Daniel G. Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
    (a) under Parts           22,400,000        60%
        A and B of
        the Project
    (b) under Part C          10,600,000        60%
        of the Project
(2) Equipment and             38,300,000        100% of foreign
    materials                                   expenditures
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Consultants'
    services:
    (a) under Part D          10,800,000        80%
        of the Project
    (b) under Parts A, B,     16,900,000        70%
        C and E of the
        Project
(4) Unallocated               11,000,000
         TOTAL               110,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made:
    (a)   in respect of payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
    (b)   under Category 1 (b), unless the Borrower provides evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank of (i) the existence of a sewerage authority willing to operate and maintain 
a sewage treatment plant to be rehabilitated under a sub-project selected in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; and (ii) the 
availability of adequate funds to finance the operation and maintenance costs of the 
said sewage treatment plant.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for such expenditures for goods, works and services under 
Page  8
contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) rehabilitating 
its urban water supply and sewage systems; (b) improving the distribution of water in 
urban areas; and (c) rationalizing the institutional arrangements in the water sector 
with a view to achieving full cost recovery through the establishment of efficient, 
self-financing Water Authorities.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:   Water Supply System Rehabilitation
    Rehabilitation of the water supply systems in the cities of Annaba, Ain 
Temouchent, Bejaia, Jijel, Mascara, Oran, Relizane, Sidi Bel Abbes, Setif and Tlemcen 
through leak detection and repairs, meter installation, gauging, establishment of 
effective billing and collection procedures, and the preparation and periodical 
updating of a listing of water customers.
Part B:   Water Distribution Network
    Relooping, mapping and balancing of the Borrower's water distribution network.
Part C:   Sewage System Rehabilitation
    Rehabilitation of about twenty-four (24) sewage treatment plants, together with 
related installations, throughout the territory of the Borrower.
Part D:   Feasibility Studies and Environmental Impact Assessments
    Carrying out feasibility studies and environmental impact assessments in respect 
of future water and sewerage projects to be carried out in the territory of the 
Borrower.
Part E:   Institutional Development Program
1.  Strengthening AGEP's management capabilities to plan and implement sub-projects to 
be carried out under Parts A and B of the Project, as well as its capabilities to 
review feasibility studies and environmental impact assessments, and development of 
suitable operational procedures for AGEP, the New Public Authority and the Water 
Authorities.
2.  Strengthening ANB's capabilities to review feasibility studies and environmental 
impact assessments.
3.  Modernization of the equipment and operational procedures of ANRH.
4.  Provision of training to the staff of (i) AGEP in the areas referred to under 
paragraph 1 of this Part E; (ii) ANB in the areas referred to under paragraph 2 of 
this Part E; (iii) ANRH in the areas referred to under paragraph 3 of this Part E; and 
(iv) the New Public Authority and the Water Authorities in the areas referred to under 
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Part E.
Part F:   Operational Equipment
    Provision of operational equipment to AGEP, ANB, ANRH, the New Public Authority 
and the Water Authorities.
*          *          *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Page  9
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
    beginning November 15, 1999
    through November 15, 2010                      4,585,000
And on May 15, 2011                                4,545,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as Of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on the 
principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                              
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) 
applicable to 
the Loan on the day 
of prepayment 
multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years                              0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                              0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                                0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years                                1.00
     before maturity
Page  10
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A 
hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 
each, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $19,700,000, may be awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, and each contract for equipment and materials 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure. 
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines.
Page  11
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satis- factory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.  Project Implementation
    The overall responsibility for carrying out the Project shall be vested in MOE 
which shall carry out Parts A, B, C and F of the Project through AGEP and the DHWs, in 
cooperation with the Water Authorities, Part D of the Project through AGEP and ANB, 
Part E.1 of the Project through AGEP and the New Public Authority, Part E.2 of the 
Project through ANB and Part E.3 of the Project through ANRH. AGEP shall ensure that 
procurement under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
B.  Progress Reports
    Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower, through AGEP, shall, not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and 
October 31 of each year until completion of the Project, commencing April 30, 1995,  
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, describing the progress achieved in the implementation of 
the Project. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, said report shall (a) 
describe the progress achieved in procurement under the Project and, where 
appropriate, revise the procurement time schedule of the Project; (b) describe the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Project; (c) detail the expenditures incurred 
under the Project; (d) provide updated cost estimates for activities remaining to be 
carried out under the Project; and (e) describe, on the basis of monitoring indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the performance of EPEA and EPEOR under their respective 
Management Agreements.
C.  Mid-Term Review
1.  The Bank shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than July 1, 1997, a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
2.  The Borrower shall take thereafter all action which the Borrower and the Bank 
shall have agreed to be required on the Borrower's part to attain the objectives of 
the Project.
D.  Consultants
    The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1996, employ consultants, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, to assist (i) the DHWs in supervising the rehabilitation works to be 
carried out under Parts A, B and C of the Project; (ii) AGEP and the New Public 
Authority in carrying out Parts D, E.1 and E.4 of the Project; (iii) ANB in carrying 
Page  12
out Parts D, E.2 and E.4 of the Project; and (iv) ANRH in carrying out Parts E.3 and 
E.4 of the Project.
E.  Water Authorities' Records and Accounts
1.  The Borrower shall cause the Water Authorities to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures of the Water Authorities.
2.  The Borrower shall, commencing Fiscal Year 1994 in the case of EPEA and EPEOR, and 
Fiscal Year 1997 for all remaining Water Authorities (a) cause to have the records and 
accounts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than nine months after the end of Fiscal Year 1994 in the case of 
EPEA and EPEOR, and Fiscal Year 1997 for all remaining Water Authorities, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
F.     AGEP and the New Public Authority
    The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a draft plan 
for the reorganization of AGEP and the creation of the New Public Authority, and 
shall, after consultation with the Bank, implement such plan not later than Jaunary 1, 
1997.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) Set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
    (b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
Page  13
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Principal Terms and Conditions of
a Concession Agreement
A Concession Agreement shall:
    (a)   have a six (6) year term which shall be automatically renewable for similar 
durations;
    (b)   describe the geographical area within which the Water Authority shall 
provide water supply services;
    (c)   describe the water production, supply and distribution systems to be 
operated by the Water Authority;
    (d)   determine the standards and norms which the Water Authority shall apply in 
Page  14
providing water supply services;
    (e)   specify that tariffs to be collected on account of water supplied by the 
Water Authority shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 
(a) of this Agreement;
    (f)   establish criteria for the identification of the fixed assets and items of 
equipment whose renewal costs shall be borne by the Borrower and those whose renewal 
costs shall be borne by the Water Authority;
    (g)   establish criteria for the identification of the rehabilitation works to be 
carried out by the Borrower and those to be carried out by the Water Authority;
    (h)   not limit the power of the Water Authority to recruit and dismiss staff, set 
its own salary scale and discontinue water supply services to non-paying customers; 
and
    (i)   describe the nature and extent of the Borrower's control over the operations 
of the Water Authority, and the content of the technical and financial reports to be 
periodically furnished by the Water Authority to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 8
Sub-Projects under Part C of the Project
Selection Criteria; Procedures
1.  Selection Criteria
    A sewage treatment plant to be rehabilitated under Part C of the Project shall be 
adequately designed:
    (a)   to treat incoming wastewater at a level consistent with recognized discharge 
standards; and
    (b)   to provide environmental protection of a water source used for supply, 
recreational or aesthetic purposes.
2.  Procedures
    A request by the Borrower for approval of a sub-project under Part C of the 
Project shall be in writing and shall include:
    (a)   a brief description of the physical characteristics and condition of the 
sewage treatment plant to be rehabilitated, including the facilities to dispose of 
effluents and sludge;
    (b)   a brief description of the quality and quantity of water to be treated at 
the sewage plant, such desription to cover industrial waste, if any, and the need, if 
any, for pre-treatment;
    (c)   a cost estimate of the works necessary to rehabilitate the sewage treatment 
plant;
    (d)   a cost estimate of the operating expenditures necessary to maintain the 
sewage treatment plant to be rehabilitated;
    (e)   a brief assessment of the impact on the environment of the effluents and 
sludge to be disposed of;
    (f)   a copy of the instrument conferring the authority to operate the sewage 
treatment plant upon a duly established entity; and
    (g)   details of the availability and amount of funds to finance the operation and 
maintenance costs of the sewage treatment plant.
