Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICiAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6648-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENERGY CONSERVATION AND MODERNTZATION !'IOJECT
May 29, 1987
Energy Department
Petroleum Projects, Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officihJ duties. Its contents may not othetwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALINTS
Currency Unit               Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US $1.00           =        Rs 17.3
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 barrel (bbl)                               0.159 cubic meters (m3)
1 metric ton of oil                          7.4 bbl
(0.85 specific gravity)
bcm                                          billion (109) cubic meters
tpa                                  =       metric tons per annum
toe                                  =       tons of oil equivalent
kwh                                  =       kilowatt-hour
MW                                   =       megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
tpy                                  =       tons per year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
API              -   American Petroleum Institute
ARL              -   Attock Refinery Ltd.
ECNEC            -   Economic Committee of the National Executive Council
ESL              -   Energy Sector Loan
FY               -   Fiscal Year
GOP              -   Government of Pakistan
HOBC             -   High Octane Blending Component
HSD              -   High Speed Diesel
LDO              -   Light Diesel Oil
LPG              -   Liquified Petroleum Gas
MOF              -   Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MPNR             -   Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
NRL              -   National Refinery Limited
PERAC            -   State Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Corporation
PPIS             -   Petroleum Products Supply Options and Infrastructure
Study
PRL              -   Pakistan Refinery Limited
PSO              -   Pakistan State Oil Company
WAPDA            -   Water and Power Development Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFmICUIL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENERGY CONSERVATION AND MOVERNIZATION PROMCT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      State Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Corporation (PERAC) with the
Guarantee of the Government of Pakistan (GOP)
Beneficiary:   National Refinery Limited (NRL)
Amount:        US$21.0 million
Terms:         Standard IBRD variable interest rate, 15 years maturity, including 5 years
grace period.
On-Lending
Terms:         PERAC will relend US$19.2 million for the refinery modification and
training components to NRL at the Bank's variable interest rate, plus the
guarantee fee of 0.5% payable to COP, with a maturity of 15 years including
5 years of grace. NRL will also pay and an administrative fee of 0.25% to
PERAC. PERAC will retain the balance (US$1.8 million) to undertake
feasibility studies end small pilot projects. NRL and PERAC will bear the
foreign exchange risk for their respective portions of the ioan.
Project
Description:   The project objectives are to:  reduce refinery energy consumption;
increase crude processing capacity; modify NiL's refinery output mix to
better match demand; and to strengthen production optimization and control
systems and train staff.  Further, the project would promote a refinery
pricing system that will provide adequate incentives for efficiency
improvements, and assist Government in formulating an optimal investment
program for the refinery sector as a whole. The project would include:
(i)      balancing and modernization of the crude processing unit;
(ii)     a captive power plant;
(iii)    debottlenecking of the hydro-treater and platformer;
(iv)     process modifications to lube unit I;
(v)      efficiency improvement measures; and,
(vi)     studies, training, technical assistance, research and development.
These measures, identified under the previous refinery engineering project,
will yield significant benefits at relatively low incremental cost, by
modifying existing process units and adding ancilliary facilities.
Risks:         The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 42Z based on
projected crude-to-product price margins, which conservatively have been
assumed to be lower than current margins. The main risk is a decrease in
internaticnal refir.ery margins, which would reduce the benefits of refining
crade oil versus i.tporting refined products. However, even at margins
substantially below the average for che past ten years, the project would
be justified. The probabiWity of substantially lower margins over a
prolonged period of time is considered minor.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Cost:
Local        Foreign        Total
-Us $ million)
Balancing and Moderni-
sation of Crude Unit                   5.0           3.1           8.1
Captive Power Plant                      2.0           6.0           8.0
Platformer and Hydro-
treater Debottlenecking                3.2           2.6           5.8
Process Modification
of Lube Unit                           3.3           3.6           6.9
Efficiency Improvements                  0.1            1.7          1.8
Studies, Training & TA                   0.5           2.0           2.5
Base Cost                      14.1          19.0          33.1
Physical Contingencies                   1.4            1.9          3.3
Price Contingencies                      4.1            2.1          6.2
Total Project Cost                  19.6         23.0          42.6
Interest During Construction             4.0           4.4           8.4
Total Financing Required            23.6 a/      27.4          51.0
ai  Local costs include about US S5.3 million equivalent of taxes and
duties.
Financing Plan:                                 Local        Foreign      Total
(US $ million)
IBRD                                             -           21.0          21.0
MRL                                             22.0          -             22.0
Supplier Credits and Other Foreign Sources       1.6          6.4            8.0
Total                             23.6         27.4           51.0
Estimated Disbursements:                                (USmillion)
IBRD Fiscal Year                 PY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   PY92   FY93
Annual                           2.1    4.6      5.0    4.2    3.2    1.9
Cumulative                       2.1    6.7    11.7   15.9   19.1   21.0
Economic Rate of Return:   42X



PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENERGY CONSERVATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CHAPTER I.    ENERGY AND THE ROLE OF PETROLEUM ................,.....o   .    1
A.     The Energy Sector-Overviewv.............o....,..........    1
B.     Energy Resources...I...........                                 1
C.     Consumption of Commercial Energyo..............,..,....    2
D.     Energy Policy and the Role of Petroleum..,..o..........    3
E.     Petroleum Supply and Demand Balances,..................         4
CHAPTER II.   THE PETROLEUM PRODUCTS SUB-SECTOR.....................          5
A.     Petroleum Products Supply and Consumption..............         5
B.     Projected Demand and Supply Balances..................o         7
C.     Subsector Development Strategy.........................    9
D.     Petroleum Products Pricing...........,.................    13
E.     Structure of the Industry and Subsector Institutions...   15
P.     Role of the Bank ....................................".   17
CHAPTER III.  THE BENEFICIARY ...............              .     .........    18
A.     Background and Operations.......o....................   18
B.     Organization, Management and Staffing.....   .......... .   20
C.     Accounts and Audit.....................................    21
CHAPTER IV.   THE PROJECT ............................................       21
A.     Project Objectives and Rationale.......                        21
B.     Project De         s c r i pt..*#*****, .... .22
C.     Project Implementation Arrangements
and Status of Project Preparation..................   24
D.     Project Costs.           .............................         24
E.     Financing Plan and Items for Bank Financing***...***.   26
F.  Procuremento*oos .                                                27
G.     Disbursements...........                                       28
H.     Monitoring and Reporting...............*se.* .... o#o.   28
I.     Ecology and Sa                 f       ey..*....              28
J.        I     n      s     u      r     a      n     c      e       28
CHAPTER V.    FINANCIAL A SPECT S ...........    ........29
A.     Introduction....   ........ ...                                29
B.     NRL                                 ...                      29
C.  PARAC    33
D.     Financial Analysis of the Projecto.....                        34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan in
December 1986, consisting of L. Wijetilleke (Leader), M. Sergot W.J. Smith,
and H. Hamaguchi, of the Energy Department; and Mr. Gauhar Ali, of the Bank's
Resident Mission in Pakistan.



PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENERGY CONSERVATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents (Cont.)
CHAPTER VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ........................      35
A.     Introduction..rot......... ... . ......... on............    35
B.     Valuation of Project Benefitsn e f i tso....ooo.o..o.......   36
C.     Project Costs.......................                         37
D.     Project Economic Analysis a l           y s is....oo...o.o.....o......    37
E .    Pro jec t Risks        e04        .      t00000              3 9
CHAPTER VII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......   40
ANNEXES
1.1    Pakistan - Commercial Energy Balances
1.2    Petroleum Reserves by Region
1.3    Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production
1.4    Crude Oil and Petroleum Product Balances
2.1    Historical Petroleum Products Supply and Demand
2.2    Projected Petroleum Product Demand
2.3    Projected Petroleum Products Supply/Demand Balance
3.1    PERAC Organization Chart
3.2    NRL Organization Chart
3.3    NRL Product Output Mix
4.1    Project Cost Table by Year
4.2    Detailed Project Cost by Component
4.3    Project Incremental Production
4.4    Proposed Training Program
4.5    Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
4.6    Project Implementation Schedule
5.1    Assumptions Underlying Financial Analysis
5.2    NRL Income Statements
5.3    NRL Balance Sheets
5.4    NRL Sources and Uses of Funds Statements
5.5    PERAC Financial Statements
5.6    Project Financial Rate of Return
6.1    Assumptions Underlying Economic Analysis
6.2    Project Economic Analysis
6.3    Economic Sensitivity Analysis
7.1    Documents Available in the Project Files
MAP
IBRD 19904



I. ENERCY AND THE ROLE OF PETROLEUM
A. The Energy Sector - Overview
1.01     Pakistan's domestic energy resources have been developed at a much
slower pace than warranted, largely because of financial and managerial
constraints. Moreover, as policies to restrain the growth of consumption have
been inadequate, the country's dependence on imported energy in the form of
oil - crude and petroleum products - has increased. The import bill for oil
increased from US$63 million (about 8% of total imports) in FY73, to US$1,035
million (17% of imports) in FY86. Severe shortages of natural gas and
electricity, and the resultant increases in imports of liquid hydrocarbons,
have ushered the economy into the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-FY88). The
industrial and household sectors were particularly affected by these
shortages, which are increasingly becoming an impediment to maintaining the
economy's growth momentum. In recognit'on of the possible adverse impact of
increased dependenre on imported energy, and of continuing shortfalls in
energy supply, the Government accorded high priority to restructuring the
energy sector during the Sixth Plan.
1.02     The overall objectives of the Sixth Plan were to complete the
adjustment to high world energy prices by reducing the elasticity between GDP
growth and energy demand, and by sharply increasing investment to augment
domestic energy supplies. To encourage conservation and the more efficient
use of energy, the Plan emphasized more realistic pricing; in addition,
administrative measures such as changes in work hours, energy audits, and
improved education about conservation were also to be employed. However, the
measures to achieve these objectives were implemented on an ad hoc basis, and
as a result in the first two years of the plan period expenditures fell below
targets by about 50%, energy prices declined in real terms, and institutions
in the sector remained largely unresponsive.
1.03     Recognizing these problems, the Bank and the Government formulated a
package of policy reforms and priority investments under an Energy Sector Loan
(Loan number 2552-PAK, 1985), aimed at overcoming key bottlenecks in
commercial energy supplies. Consumer gas prices have been adjusted to better
reflect economic efficiency, and higher producer prices have played an
important role in providing appropriate incentives for the private sector and
improved public sector self-financing. Steps have been taken toward
establishing the pricing and financial arrangements under which the private
sector would set up plants to supply power to the national grid. Steps are
also underway to augment COP's capacity in energy planning and conservation.
B. Energy Resources
1.04     Pakistan's commercially exploitable domestic energy resources
consist, in order of importance, of hydropower, natural gas, oil, and coal.
The country also has a large base of renewable energy in the form of
agricultural and animal wastes, and solar and wind energy. In FY86, the
domestic supply of commercial primary energy was estimated at 12.6 million
tons of oil equivalent (toe). Natural gas accounted for 50% of total
indigenous supply, followed by hydroelectricity (26%), oil (16%), coal (8%),
and nuclear power (less than 1%). The annual growth rate of commercial energy
supplies during the first three years of tie Sixth Plan has been 5.2% against
a GNP growth rate of 6.3%.



- 2 -
1.05     Power,  Pakistan's hydropower potential is estimated at about 30,000
MW, of which only 2,900 MW has been daveloped and another 1,900 MN  is under
construction or at an advanced stage of preparation. Despite the large hydro
potential a major part of recent additions to capacity have been in the form
of thermal plants, as a result of delays and difficulties in implementing
hydro projects. About lOOO MW of generating capacity was added during the
first three years of the Sixth Plan, of which steam and combustion turbines
made up 60G. During these three years, electricity generation grew at a rate
of 81 per annum. Nonetheless, load shedding in the system continued and was
estimated at 1,700 MW in January 1986, virtually no improvement over 1983,
although during FY86 there was no load shedding in the Karachi area. Based on
the current investment program, total capacity would still be 1,800 MW short
of the target of 8,600 MW by the end of the Sixth Plan. Load shedding in the
system is, therefore, expected to continue through the end of the Plan and
into the early 1990s; Karachi would also face load shedding by 1988.
1.06     Coal and lignite.  Reserves of coal and lignite are estimated at
about 900 million tons, of which only 175 million tons are proven. Coal could
potentially play a much larger role in supplying commercial energy
requirements, if reserves could be proven and developed. GOP has outlined a
program for the formulation of a comprehensive coal exploration strategy to
determine the reserves where further assessment is justified. For the time
being, however, coal is unlikely to play a much larger role in energy
supplies.
1.07     Petroleum.  Natural gas is Pakistan's main commercially exploitable
hydrocarbon resource, with recoverable reserves (proven and probable)
estimated at about 350 million tons of oil equivalent (toe) - or enough to
last about 45 years at current rates of consumption. Proven and probable
recoverable reserves of oi'l are substantially smaller, at about 20 million
tons, and Pakistan currently produces only about 25% of its own oil
requirements. The expected development of oil and gas supplies is discussed
further in Section E, below.
C. Consumption of Commercial Energy
1.08     In FY86 total commercial energy consumption was 17.9 million toe, of
which the industrial sector comsumed 341, followed by the transportation
sector (18Z), domestic consumers (171), the power sector (17X), the
government, primarily defense, (61), agriculture (51), and commercial users
(3%). Total demand has been growing at over 6% p.a. over the past five years,
with the most dramatic increase in the domestic sector, where demand has grown
at about 151 p.a., mainly because of the improvement in living standards. The
demand management and pricing measures which GOP is now initiating will
eventually reduce the unusually high growth of consumption in the domestic
category. The industrial sector is expected to remain the major consumer of
energy over the next decade. GOP has recognized the need to undertake energy
audits and energy conservation measures both in the public and private
sectors, and is currently preparing comprehensive legislation on energy
conservation. Even with conservation and efficiency improvement measure3.
demand is expected to continue to grow in all sectors, while at the same time
there will be continuing bottlenecks in supply of all forms of commercial
energy.



- 3 -
D. Energy Policy and the Role of Petroleum
1.09     ihe setbacks experienced in the implementation of the investment
program for the energy sector during the first years of the Sixth Plan, and
the likelihood that existing resource constraints will continue, have prompted
the Government to adopt an energy sector development strategy involving a two-
pronged approach. The first concentrates on the implementation of (i) a core
investment program of high priority projects; and (ii) policy actions and
institutional reforms needed to mobilize sufficient resources for exectting
these projects, to restrain the growth of energy demand, and to enhance the
project implementation capabilities of the entities in the sector. The second
focuses on studies that would provide the inputs needed for the integrated
development of the sector during the Seventh and Eighth Plans. The
Government's development strategy for the energy sector consists of a set of
specific measures to address: (i) investment and development of supply; (ii)
pricing and demand management; and (iii) institutional development.
1.10     With respect to investments, GOP has formulated a core investment
program for power, as well as for oil and gas production and distribution,
under the auspices of the Energy Sector Loan which is currently being
implemented. On the pricing side, petroleum prices have largely been adjusted
to give better signals to both producers and consumers, with the weighted
average consumer price of gas having been increased by about 50. Electricity
tariffs have also been increased (by about 15X) under the ESL, representing a
first step towards restructuring of tariffs and the rationalizatiun of
consumption. Demand management is still in its early stages, although a
conservation group (ENERCON) has now been astablished within the Ministry of
Planning and Development. Institutionally, GOP is attempting to strengthen
OGDC, and is reorganizing WAPDA, the principal electricity utility, to
strengthen distribution functions. T, improve energy planning and analysis
capability within GOP, a new office of Energy Planning and Development
(ENERPLAN) has been established, and is currently preparing the 7th Plan
strategy for the energy sector.
1.11     Despite these measures, there will continue to be shortfalls in
energy supply. Demand will inevitably grow throughout the rest of the century
as overall economic growth continues, and as the structure of the economy
becomes more energy intensive. Domestic resources will not be able to meet
this demand, since there are technical and geographical limitations on the use
of natural gas, while at the same time there will be continuing constraints to
bringing new power generating capacity (especially hydro) on stream, and
domestic coal has yet to be developed on a significant scale. The supply of
oil and petroleum products will thus continue to play a central balancing
role.



- 4-
E. Petroleum Supply and Demand Balances
1.12      Pakistan's petroleum reserves and production are summarized in the
following table:
Tabie 1.1 Petroleum Reserves and Production
_____________________    Crude Oil         Natural Gas     Total Petroleum
(million tons)    (bcve) (million)   (million toe)
toe
Recoverable Reserves        19            460     35D           369
Pruduction
1980-81                     0.5            8.6     6.6           7.1
1985-86                     2.0           10.8     8.2          10.2
Reserve/Production
Ratio (Years) /a           10            43
/a (based on 1985-86 production)
To date gas production has come almost exclusively from the Sui and Mari
fields, but following a recent wave of exploration activity there have been a
number of new discoveries, and diversification of production to other
fields. However, the rate of growth of production (at about 5% p.a.) has been
moderate, as most of the new discoveries have yet to be brought into
production. Oil production, meanwhile, has more than trip:ed in the last four
years as a consequence of new discoveries. Over the next five years it is
anticipated that oil production from new fields will be offset by declines at
older fields, with total output stabilizing at about 2.5 million tpa (50,000
bbl/d). Natural gas production, however, could increase iubstantially as the
new fields currently being developed are brought on stream.
1.13     Demand for petroleum products is discussed in detail in Chapter II,
and is summarized in the following table:
Table 1.2 - Petroleum Products and Crude Oil Balances
(million tpa)
(Forecast)
_ _ __   1980-81  1985-86        1989-90
Petroleum Product Demand      5.1             7.6            9.5
Domestic Crude Production     0.5             2.0            2,5
Not Crude + Product Imports  4,9              6.1            7.5
Import Dependency            95%             82%            79%



- 5 -
Natural gas demand is expected to expand to match whatever level of supply
materializes, with some corresponding reduction of growth in demand for
products (already reflected in these projections). Total petroleum product
demand is expected to grow at about 5% p.a., resulting in a need to import
about 5 million tpa of products by 1992/93. Under any scenario impor-ed crude
and petroleum products will continue to be required, at substantial cost, to
balance energy demand. GOP's strategy in the patroleum products sector thus
has important ramifications on the energy sector as a whole, as well as on the
broader macroeconomic outlook for Pakistan.
II. THE PETROLEUM PRODUCTS SUBSECTOR
A. Petroleum Products Supply and Consumption
2.01     Pakistan currently uses some 7.2 million tpa of petroleum products,
of which 5.1 million tons are produced by three domestic refineries, and the
balance imported. Two refineries located at Karachi in the south refine
imported crude plus limited quantities of domestic crude. The third refinery,
at Rawalpindi, was built to refine domestic crude from the northern oilfields.
The two Karachi refineries produce about 80% of the domestic output of
products, while the inland refinery has historically produced only a small
proportion due to the limited availabilit-y of domestic crude. The existing
refinery configurations are outmoded, as a result of which the mix of products
does not match demand. Imported products, as well as those produced at
Karachi using imported crude, are moved to markets upcountry by a combination
of pipeline, road, and rail transport. There are substantial bottlenecks in
the distribution system, which are discussed subsequently in Section C.
2.02     Demand for petroleum products  js grown from 4.2 million tpa in
1980/81 to 6.6 million tpa in 1984/85, - a rate of over 10% per annum.
Demand is concentrated in the transport sector (50%), with a further 40% being
spread about evenly between power generation and domestic and industrial
consumers. The balance is made up of agricultural, government, and service
sector demand, as shown in the following table.
I/ Excluding non-energy products such as lube oils.



- 6 -
Table 2.1 Pakistan - Composition of PetrolAum Product Demand a/
(000's tons)
Average Annual
Sector            1980/81      1985/86    Growth Rate
Transport          2,631        3,410           6%
Power                183         1,N04         45%
Industry            261           946          29%
Domestic             516          800           9%
Agriculture          180          243           6%
Others               530          653           4%
TOTAL            4,301         7,056         11I
/a Does not Include demand for non-energy products (lube oils, etc.)
There has been a particularly rapid growth in the demand for fuel oil for
power generatior as more thermal generating capacity is added, and to feed
cement plants which have recently switched over from natural gas.
2.03      Geographically, demand is concentrated along the Indus river corridor
running north-east from Karachi, with about half of total demand in the
Punjab, some 1000 km. inland from the port and refineries at Karachi. Only 10
per cent of products are consumed in the relatively less developed Northwest
Frontier province and Baluchistan. Although the rate of growth in demand is
increasing most rapidly in these areas, the overall geographical pattern of
demand is not expected to change substantially in the foreseeable future.
2.04      The petroleum products sector is characterized by a pronounced, and
growing, shortage of diesel and fuel oil, as illustrated in Table 2.2.



- 7 -
Table 2.2 - Summary Petroleum Product Supply/Demand Balance - Historical
(million tpa)
1980/81                  1985/86
Production Consumption  Balance /a  Production Consumption  Balance
Llght Distillates
(mostly gasolines)  0.71     0.61       .0.1          0.93      0.89      _
Middle Distillates
Kerosene          0.17        0,53       (0,4)         0.30     0.81    (0.5)
Aviation Fuels    0.54        0.31       .0.2          0.50     0.37    +0.1
Diesels            1.11       2,15       (1.0)         1.65     2.98    (1,3)
Heavy Ends
Fuel Oil          1.49        0.73       +0.8          1.54     2.07    (0.5)
Others             0.26       0.26         _           0.37     0.36      _
Total               4.28        4.59       (0.3)         5.29     7.48    (2.2)
/a "n" Indicates less than 100,000 tons imbalance
In 1985/86 gross imports of 2.5 million tons of refined products cost
Pakistan about $450 million. The principal products imported are high speed
diesel and kerosene, which together account for about 80% of product imports.
Recently fuel oil imports have also become significant, due to increased power
sector demands. This pattern of imports is expected to continue, with the
share of fuel oil increasing, until such a time as refinery configurations may
be modified and new refinery capacity may be constructed (see Section B
below). Pakistan also exports limited quantities of petroleum products which
are surplus to its requirements. The volume and value of such exports has,
however, declined over the last five years as the country turned from a fuel
oil surplus situation to one of deficit. In 1980 almost 1 million tons of
products were exported, most of which was fuel oil, whereas by 1985/86 exports
consisted only of some 150,000 tons of naphtha.
B. Projected Demand and Supply Balances
2.05     Demand for petroleum products in Pakistan is bound to continue to
grow as the process of urbanization and industrialization continues. However
over the remainder of the century the pace of growth is expected to slow
somewhat from the recent very high levels. In considering future demand, a
wide range of forecasts is possible depending on the assumptions made with
respect to overall economic growth, the degree of substitution of petroleum
product demand by other fuels, and the specific demand for fuel oil for power
generation. During the course of the Petroleum Products Infrastructure Study
(paras. 2.12-2.16) a number of projections were made based on different growth
scenarios. Following review of the study by Banlk staff, the lowest of the
three sets of projections was selected as the most likely, although a middle
set of projections is also considered plausible under certain conditions.



- 8 -
2.06     The selected projections assume a moderate rate of GDP growth (5.5%
p.a., declining to 4% p.a. by 1993), and sustained relatively high levels of
petroleum prices, thus encouraging conservation and efficiency improvements.
It is also assumed that some of the anticipated growth in fuel oil demand will
be substituted for by coal and electricity. Under this scenario most of the
growth in petroleum products demand is in the transport and industrial
sectore, with natural gas and electricity satisfying most incremental demand
in agriculture, commercial, and domestic use. Perhaps the most critical
assumptions relate to the demand for fuel oil use in power generation. These
conservativ4 projections suppose that much of the growth in electricity demand
is satisfied by increased hydro and coal-fired thermal capacity, thus limiting
the increase in fuel oil demand to about 11% p.a. over the next 8-9 years,
declining thereafter as new hydro capacity comes on stream. Under the higher
projections there are substantial delays in adding new hydro capacity, and
fuel oil demand is expected to double in the next five years, and double again
by the end of the century.
2.07     The low scenario assumptions result in total growth in demand of 6%
p.a., as outlined in the following table.
Table 2.3 - Projected Petroleum Product Demand
(million tpa)
Average Annual
Growth Rate
= _______________   = 1987/88    1992/93   2002/03   1984/85-1992/93
Light Dlstillates     1,1       1.3       1.6           5%
(mostly gasolines)
Middle Distillates
- Kerosene           0.8        1,0      1.3           4%
- Avlation Fuels     0.4       0.5       0.6           1%
- Diesels            3.7       4.6       6.8           7%
Heavy Ends
- Fuel 01            2,2       3,6       2.9            8%
- Others             0.4       0.5       0.5           1%
Total !'            8.7       11,4     13.6            6%
/a  Totals may not add due to rounding.
Although the lowest of the PPIS demand scenarios, these projections still
represent a substantial level of demand growth, with total requirements
increasing by 45% over the next five years. Under the higher demand
projections, total demand grows to 12.6 million tpa by 1992/93, and then to
18.9 million tpa by 2002/03. Under any reasonable assumptions regarding
supply, Pakistan will have to import increasing amounts of products to satisfy
this new demand.
2.08     The relative mix of crude and product imports will depend on the
strategy that GOP adopts to supply petroleum products over the next decade.



- 9 -
Assuming the low demand scenario, and a conservative approach to refinery
expansion, as recommended by the PPIS (para. 2.13), this will result in a net
deficit of at least 4.7 million tpa by 1993/94, with the greatest shortages in
high speed diesel and fuel oil, as illustrated below.
Table 2,4 - Projected Petroleum Products Supply/Demand Balances
(million tons)
1987/88                    1992/93
| Production Demand   Balance   Preduction Demand    Balance
Light Distillates
(mostly gasoline    0.92      1.08    (0.16)       1.16     1.34    (0,18)
Middle Distillates
- Kerosene         n.36      0.84    (0.48)       0.61     0.98    (0.37)
- Aviation F'els   0.47      0.38    0.09         0.47     0.45    0,02
- Diesels          1.67      3.73    (2.06)       2.09     4.59    (2.50)
Heavy Ends
- Fuel Oil         1.57      2.22    (0.65)       1.97      3.57    (1.60)
- Others           0.38      0.42    (0.04)       0.38     0.45    (0.07)
Total            5.36     8.67    (3.31)       6.68     11.38    (4.70)
Under the higher fuel oil demand scenario, the total deficit would further
increase to almost 6 million tpa by 1992/93. The projected domestic supplies
of refined products in Table 2.4 assume only limited investments to upgrade
existing facilities, and no construction of new refineries, as discussed in
the following section.
C. Subsector Development Strategy
2.09     The Pakistan refineries are old and of simple design, having been
built to minimize capital costs with little consideration to the high energy
consumption of the facilities. With the rapid escalation of oil prices in the
1970's, international oil companies rationalized their refinery and marketing
network, added energy conservation facilities and modified titeir processing
confiaurations as appropriate. Such measures were not implemented in the
Pakistan refineries, due in part to the cost-plus ex-refinery pricing system
(discussed in Section D, below), and the result has been inappropriate
configurations and relatively energy-inefficient operations not suited to
current and foreseeable demand patterns. The net results are processing costs
which are higher than necessary, despite a relatively high capacity
utilization, and an inadequate products slate, at the same time that the
products distribution system is facing serious bottlenecks. This had led GOP
over the past two years to consider the installation of additional refinery
capacity including a hydrocracker, at substantial cost, to achieve a better
match between supply and demand.
2.10     In the short run, there is scope for improving the output mix at the
existing Karachi refineries to better match demand, and to increase efficiency



- 10 -
th ough relatively minor investments which will reduce energy consumption.
Some such improvements have already been made at the NRL refinery, and further
improvements are supported under the current project. A plan has been drawn
up for efficiency improvements at the PRL refinery, and these are expected to
be implemented once the shareholders have agreed on an investment program (see
para. 2.25).
2.11     In the longer run, Pakistan is faced with various optioiis for
supplving its future petroleum product requirements. The most basic choice is
whether to concentrate on creating the capacity to produce larger quantities
of deficit products using imported crude, or to rely on increased imports of
refined products. The costs, benefits, and trade offs between various
strategies are complex end not immediately clear. In particular the
difficulties in formulating a rational and coherent investment strategy for
the refinery subsector have been apparent for some time. A hydrocracker
project has been under consideration for several years, until narrowing
refinery margins and constraints in mobilizing the large capital requirements
caused the government in 1984 to shelve plans to proceed with thin investment;
the possibility of a mid-country refining facility has also been discussed for
almost a decade, stimulated in part by the oil discovery at Dhodak, the
worsening condition of the country's product distribution network, and the
grov-ing requirements for products in this region of the country. Commitments
to such large refinery investments need careful review at present given the
volatility of petroleum prices in the world market, as well as the constraints
to mobilizing financing from both public and private sources.
2.12     The total investment requirements in the sector are potentially very
large (of the order of US$1.5 billion), wnile linkages between alternative
investments are not intuitively obvious. With this in mind the Bank supported
GOP in undertaking a Petroleum Products Supply Options and Infrastructure
Study (PPIS), under the recent Energy Sector Loan. The objective of the PPIS
was to examine the options and identify an optimum development strategy for
supplying petroleum products through the end of the century. The study has
now been completed by consultants following periodic reviews with GOP, the
Bank, and the refining and distribution companies, and its recommendations are
with the interdepartmental Energy Review Working Group for final review. After
analysis and discussion of the report, GOP will decide which recommendations
to incorporate into its subsector development strategy, and these will form
the basis of a core investment program for the next five to ten years.
2.13     The PPIS concludes that, in general, it will be more economically
attractive for Pakistan to improve the efficiency and output of e-isting
facilities and to import the balance of refined product requirements in the
foreseeable future than to construct new refinery capacity. Bank staff have
reviewed the progress of the study, and generally concur with the consultant's
conclusions. The study recommends, in particular, that Pakistan adopt a
strategy involving the following elements:
Aa)   immediate improvements to realize potential efficiency gains
at the existing refineries;
(b)   investments in improving the transportation and distribution
systems for petroleum products;



- 11 -
(c)   construction of the proposed hydrocracker complex; and,
(d)   major new grassl:oots refineries should not be constructed,
although some additional capacity to process excess naphtha
and additional imported crude in Karachi may be viable.
The study recognizes that the feasibility of the investments in hydrocracking
and refining is very sensitive to variations in petroleum prices and capital
costs, and these projects need to be examined in more detail before a final
decision can be made on their viability.
2.14      The decision to base a strategy on imports of products is clearly
dependent on the expected relative levels of international prices for crude
and products. The PPIS analysis assumed a set of ratios of product-to-crude
prices under various scenarios with respect to the path of crude price
recovery - but in all cases with products (except fuel oil) maintaining values
above crude prices. The margins assumed, however, are not large enough to
justify investments in a new refinery in Pakistan, even under the highest
price projections. Bank staff, in their broader analysis of the refinery
sector worldwide, have concluded that: (i) margins will be determined by
demand and the ability of the industry to supply this demand with existing
facilities; (ii) the demand for distillate products in the medium term (3 to 7
years) will exceed the production capacity of existing facilities as long as
fuel oil demand and its price remain depressed relative to crude oil, and that
the industry will need to make investments to increase output and the relative
proportion of distillate to fuel oil, as well as attempt to recover these
costs by maintaining margins; (iii) with the closure of substantial uneconomic
refir  y capacity over the last five years and installation of secondary
processing facilities in refineries where none existed, the export oriented
refineries in Western Europe and the USA have become more efficient and
sophisticated; these refineries will endeavour to operate on a full cost
recovery basis and will be the margin setters as the supply-demand balance
tightens. As a result of all of these considerations, it is expected that
while margins will be protected to some extent, product prices will remain
sufficiently low vis-a-vis crude oil prices that, as a general rule, the
justification for investments in new refinery capacity sill have to be proved
on a case-by-case basis, while relatively cheap investments in upgrading
existing refineries and adjusting output mix to better match demand will
continue to make sense. The proposed Pakistan investment strategy, and the
proposed project, is thus consistent with this broader analysis.
2.15      The PPIS also examined transportation and distribution arrangements
for petroleum products in Pakistan. Currently most prodycts are transported by
road (44X), followed by rail (29X), and pipeline (28%).-/ Basically products
are transported ex-Karachi by rail and pipeline to regional demand centers in
the north-east, and local distribution then takes place by road. The PPIS
identified the following problems:
-     severe congestion at the Karachi port, such that without
remedial action the facilities would be inadequate to handle
the required volume of imports within a few years;
1/ Expressed in total tons moved annually, without consideration of distance.



- 12 -
-     inefficiencies in the rail distribution system, arising from a
lack of wagons and poor line utilization, leading to
significant breakdowns in reliability of supply; and
-    emerging congestion in the pipeline system, and the
desirability of expanding pipeline capacity as the most cost-
effective means of transporting products inland.
The study recommended investments in port upgrading (an additional 5 million
tpa berth immediately, and further expansion in the mid-1990's), expanding and
extending the product pipeline system, and additional investments in
locomotives and rail wagons. The consultants also believe that substantial
improvements are possible with better scheduling of trains - although GOP
officials indicated that there are wider railway efficiency problems, and that
improvements may be difficult to achieve quickly.
2.16      The proposed investment program identified by the PPIS consists of
11 major projects phased over the next ten years at a cost of about $880
million, as outlined below:
Appropriate       Estimated
Project(s)                         Timing        Cost (US$ million)
NRL Upgrading /a                       1987-90              15
PRL Expansion & Platformer Upgrade     1989-91              15
NPL Hydrocracker                       1989-92             340
Ports Expansion                        1988-91             65
Storage & Distribution Facilities      '988-93             20
Pipeline Expansion and Extension       1988-89             200
Railway Locomotives and Wagons         1987-89            225
Total                                                 88l
a/ Included In proposed project,
At negotiations it was agreed that following further review of the PPIS
proposals, GOP will, in consultation with the Bank, formulate a core
investment program for the petroleum products sector. The proposed program
will be reviewed with the Bank in draft by October 31, 1987, and presented to
the Bank in final form by March 31, 1988. GOP will incorpora.e the major
approved projects into the upcoming 7th Plan, covering the period FYs 89-93.
High priority projects which yield immediate benefits will be implemented even
before the start of the 7th Plan. This includes the propcsed project, which
was identified prior to the PPIS, and which was sanctioned by the study. The
proposed project, in fact, has been demonstrated to be justified at all
reasonably expected levels of prices (See Chapter 6), and since it involves
upgrading of output at marginal cost to meet existing demand, is largely
independent of tne supply strategy adopted.
2.17      A number of the investments identified under the PPIS will need to
be implemented by the private sector, and while GOP is committed to private
participation in the sector, there will be a continuing need to ensure that
sufficient co-ordination takes place, and that appropriate signals are given
to encourage these investments. In particular, COP will need to make sure that
private partners come to a concensus on investment plans in the joint sector,



- 13 -
and that there are not undue bureaucratic hurdles to investment clearances for
private companies. Most importantly, the refinery pricing system will need to
be re-aligned to provide an incentive to refineries to make investments in
upgrading, as discussed in the following section.
D. Petroleum Products Pricing
(i) Ex-Refinery Pricing
2.18      Until 1973 ex-refinery prices were at import parity levels.  Since
then, GOP has closely regulated ex-refinery prices to permit the refiners to
earn a guaranteed after tax return on their paid-up capital (currently 18%
annually of historical cost). The refineries work in partnership with the
Government in securing crude supplies appropriate to their configurations,
although the negotiation of prices is generally done on a government-to-
government basis. This results in crude input prices which are generally at
international levels. Any deviation in actual performance from the guaranteed
18% return has been compensated by ad hoc payments from (or to) GOP in lieu of
a revision of ex-refinery prices. In practice, this pricing formula is a
cost-plus system and it has led to a distortion of refinery prices, which now
have little or no relationship with corresponding border prices (see table
below).
Table 2.5 - Refined Product Prices
(November 1986, in USS/ton) a/
Ex-Refinery Prices           Estimated
Border Price
Products        NRL/PRL          ARL        (CIF Karachi)
HOBC             274            /b             226
Gasoline         188            215             183
Kerosene         119             62             190
HSD               118           177             163
LDO               84            159            153
Fuel Oil          71             63             86
/a  Exchange rate used: Rs. 17.00/USDS1,OO.
/b  No production,
/c  Pakistan imports only HOBC, kerosene, HSD and fuel oil,
2.19     The current refinery pricing formula does not provide the refiners
with adequate incentives to improve product mix and operating efficiency. Nor
does it provide a basis for monitoring financial performance or encourage
investments in energy saving and efficiency improvements. These inadequacies
were recognized by GOP during the preparation of the hydrocracker project, and
a pricing study specifically for the hydrocracker was undertaken by GOP in
1982. The resulting report recommended linking ex-refinery prices to border
prices for the output of the hydrocracker project, and indicated that this
pricing formula could be applied to the existing refiners as well, although no



- 14 -
detailed analysis of the implications of such a formula for existing
refineries was undertaken, and no further action to revise the pricing system
was taken at that time.
2.20     During the preparation of the proposed project, the dialogue on
refinery pricing between the Bank and GOP was resumed and the need to revise
the current pricing formula was recognized. GOP and the Bank have agreed that
the general objectives of a new pricing formula should be to provide adeql1ate
incentives for, inter alia: maximization of the economic value of products
sold by shifting the yield fractions from lower- to higher- value products
whenever possible; procurement of crude oil which is technically suited to
each refinery configuration at the lowest price; investments that are
economically justified; and financial accountability for the refinery
management.
2.21     The Bank has provided GOP with examples of pricing formulas from
other countries and estimates of the impact of different formulas on the
refineries in Pakistan. Various alternatives were also discussed with GOP and
the refiners. At the Bank's request GOP formed a working group in November
1986, to identify a suitable pricing formula, under the chairmanship of the
Director General (Oil), MPNR, with the following members: Managing Director,
Enar Petrotech Services ..td.; Managing Directors of NRL, PRL, and ARL; and,
Financial Advisor (Petroleum), MOF. The refineries have also been requested
to submit relevant information to the working group. GOP has invited the Bank
to meet with the working group and to provide information and advice on the
basis of the Bank's experience with refinery pricing systems in other
countries.
2.22     In revising the existing system there are a number of factors to take
into account. Firstly, the refineries will require time to make the necessary
investments to adjust their output mix to operate profitably without the
guaranteed return; and secondly, GOP will need to ensure that necessary
i.frastructure investments are made to al'low the free import/export of
products which may need to take place under a revised pricing system.
Finally, the move to more liberal pricing only makes sense if GOP lifts
controls on refinery production slates, and the process of decontrol may take
some time. As a co.nsequence of these consideration, it possible that the move
to a new refinery pricing system may be phased - involving an interim system
over the first few years, which does away with the guaranteed return without
moving directly to border pricing. The working group's deliberations are
expected to take about 9-12 months. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with GOP that it will: (a) not later than December 31, 1987, review
with the Bank the Working Group's report and recommendations on refining
pricing; and (b) within three months of this review, prepare and review with
the Bank the Government's proposed new refinery pricing system including plans
for its implementation.
(ii)     Retail Prices
2.23     Retail product prices are set administratively by the Government, and
are related to the international prices of products which are imported. The
difference between retail prices (net of distribution margins) and ex-refinery
prices accrues to the government as a development surcharge. Exceptions to
border pricing have historically been made in the cases of fuel oil, which has



- 15 -
been subsidized as an input to the railway and power sectors, and of gasoline,
which has been sold at about twice the import price, as a means of
discouraging excessive consumption. This has probably led to excessive demand
for diesel relative to gasoline, and to other minor distortions, e.g. the
relatively low domestic price of kerosene has led to its blending with
gasoline and diesel oils; and the low maximum price for lube oil has led to
the production of lower quality lube oils than prescribed by international
standards. In early 1987, administered prices were all above border prices as
shown below in Table 2.6.
Table 2.6 - Petroleum Product Retail Prices
(USS/ton)
Average Price 1983-85        _        March 1987 Prices
Domestic Border  Ratio Domestic/   Domestic    Border   Ratio Domestic/
Price  Price   Border Price     Price      Price    Border Price
GasolIne (Regular)  670    330      2.03           583        183          3.19
Kerosene          280    280         1.00           226        190          1.19
HS Dlesel         350    260         1.35           275       163           1.69
Fuel Oil          130    180         0.72            97        86           1.13
2.24     Following the recent drop in world oil prices, domestic prices are
high relative to the border prices of imports; however, GOP has made a
conscious decision not to realign domestic prices immediately, on the grounds
that (a) given Pakistan's net deficit of products GOP does not want to give
signals to consumers which may discourage conservation measures, or encourage
investment in petroleum intensive technologies which may be expensive to
supply in the longer run; and (b) it wishes to take advantage of the resource
mobilization opportunity presented by the present gap between low
international prices and domestic prices. Pakistan's pricing regime is
reasonable in light of these legitimate concerns.
E. Structure of the Industry and Subsector Institutions
2.25     The three refineries are operated by three separate companies, as
shown below:
Crude Processing    Current
Refinery Company               Ownership       Design Ca acity       Production
(million tpa)   (million tpa)
Attock Refinery Ltd. (ARL)    Private (65%)              1.5             1.0
Pakistan Refinery Ltd.(PRL)   Private (822)              2.5            2.2
National Refinery Ltd.(NRL)   Public  (75%)              2.1            2.2
The Attock refinery is the oldest, established in 1922 to process domestic
crude, and expanded in 1978 when new oil finds created expectations of
increases in production in northern Pakistan.  These only partially
materialized and the refinery has been urnderutilized, although with the recent
increase in crude production throughput could reach capacity by 1988. ARL is



- 16 -
owned 52.5% by Attock Oil Co. (with Saudi and Kuwaiti shareholding), 35% by
GOP, and the balance by local private investors. The PRL refinery was built
in 1961 by a consortium of foreign oil companies and GOP, with each of the oil
companies having proportional offtake rights for their marketing operations.
The present ownership is Shell 15%, Burmah Oil 15%, Caltex 12%, Pakistan State
Oil Company (owned by GOP) 18%, local institutional and private investors 40%
(including GOP controlled financial institutions). PRL is a simple
hydroskimming refinery with no secondary processing facilities. There is a
recognized need to upgrade the refinery to improve the output mix, but to date
the partners have not been able to agree on an investment program. NRL is the
most complex refinery in Pakistan, producing a full range of fuel products,
lube base oils, asphalt, and aromatics. NRL is owned by the State Petroleum
Refining and Petrochemical Corporation (PERAC) and a combination of other GOP
entities, along with some private investors. The structure and operations of
NRL are described in Chapter III.
2.26     At the time of independence distribution of petroleum products was
controlled by three international oil companies (Burmah Shell, Esso, and
Caltex). In 1976 Esso offered to sell its refining and marketing operations
to GOP, and these were acquired by the Pakistan State Oil Company (PSO), a GOP
undertaking originally established to expand storage capacity. PSO is owned
by a combination of GOP, government financial institutions, and private
shareholders.  In 1985/86 the market shares of the various distribution
companies was: PSO 63%, Pakistan Burmah-Shell 25%, and Caltex 11%. -/  The
Pak-Arab Refining Co. (PARCO), a joint venture between the governments of
Pakistan and Abu Dhabi, also operates a pipeline which transports products
from Karachi to Multan, upcountry. This pipeline was originally to supply
crude to a proposed PARCO refinery at Multan, but plans for this refinery have
been shelved for the last ten years due to unattractive project economics.
2.27     The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR) has primary
jurisdiction over the refinery sub-sector. The Directorate of Oil Operations
ithin MPNR is responsible for petroleum pricing policy (both retail and ex-
refinery), monitoring and supervision of refineries, co-ordinating crude
purchases, and scheduling tanker movements to meet estimated requirements.
The Ministry of Finance is involved in issues of pricing and taxation, and the
Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) and the Planning
Commission are responsible for reviewing and approving investment proposals.
The system appears to work fairly smoothly, although there is an anomaly in
that while MPNR is responsible for all other petroleum matters, the management
of NRL rests with PERAC, which reports to the Ministry of Production (MOP).
This is because MOP manages all other industries in the public sector. The
split in responsibilities does not appear to cause any substantial problems,
as MPNR sets policy parameters for NRL in the same manner as it does for the
rest of the petroleum sector, and MOP concerns itself only with the
operational, financial, and administrative functions of NRL.
2.28     All investments in the refinery sector require government clearances,
and this can be a time consuming process which delays high priority
1/ The remaining 1% was sold directly to the military and railways by the
refineries.



- 17 -
investments. The NRL efficiency improvements incorporated in the propGsed
project have been held up due to slowness in both preparing and approving
project documentation. In addition to facilitating clearances, there is zoom
for the Government to play an active role, as a shareholder and as a
regulator, in encouraging proper investments to take place, and this should to
some extent be achieved by the requirement to frame a core investment program.
2.29     GOP exercises administrative controls over production, distribution,
and pricing, on the grounds of concern over strategic considerations, and the
potential negative effects on economic development and social welfare of
disruptions in petroleum product supply.  This is also the reason for GOP's
active financial participation in PSO, PERAC, and the refineries. GOP's
intervention dates from 1973, when international oil companies were unable to
provide Pakistan's crude requirements, with the result that there were
shortages of petroleum products. While these are legitimate concerns, there
is a danger of excessive control, and although it is difficult to measure the
effects of these interventions, it is clear that at least the refinery pricing
system is having detrimental effects. There are signs that GOP recognizes
this, and is starting to reevaluate the form and degree of controls - as
discussed above. GOP has also initiated a process of disinvestment of holdings
in selected companies, including PSO, and floating the shares for subscription
by the private sector.
F. Role of the Bank
2.30     Following progress on a number of major sector issues as a result of
th^ Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) process in 1981/82, the Bank's lending
program in energy has been expanding rapidly. The overall thrust has been to
expand domestic energy supply from all subsectors, while simultaneously
increasing the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing,
conservation, and other demand management measures. In parallel the Bank has
been supporting efforts to strengthen key institutions in the sector. In
power the Bank has assisted both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
(KESC) and the Water and Power Development .,uthority (WAPDA) in power
generation and transmission; the sector has also been assisted by the
construction under the Indus Basin Development Program of the Mangla and
Tarbela dams. In oil and gas, the Bank has financed operations which support
a sound exploration and development program, and has assisted in the
development of an extensive gas transmission system through six lending
operations. Smaller operations, mostly of an engineering and technical
assistance nature, have supported coal exploration, energy audits, and oil
refining. Most recently the Bank has financed an Energy Sector Loan (ESL)
which cuts across the power, petroleum, and coal subsectors.
2.31     The ESL (loan number 2552-PAK) expanded the scope of the Bank's
dialogue with GOP in the energy sector by integrating progress on a number of
different policy issues with a program of support for investments in each of
the sub-sectors. The loan itself supported core investments in power,
petroleum, coal, and energy conservation during the period 1985-87, and
incorporated steps to improve electricity tariffs and natural gas pricing, as
well as the development of longer-term investment plans for each of the sub-
sectors. It is through the implementation and supervision of the Energy
Sector Loan as well as preparation of a possible second ESL, that the Bank is
continuing its support for GOP's program of reforms in the energy sector.



- 18 -
2.32     The Bank's strategy in the petroleum products subsector has been to
encourage rationalization of the investment program, and to support
improvements in efficiency and the product output mix at existing refineries.
Under the Refinery Engineering and Efficiency Improvement project (Loan 2218-
PAK, 1982), studies were undertaken to identify short term measures to
debottleneck refinery operations, increase efficiencyt reduce energy
consumptiong and optimize the product mix for a given crude throughput. The
main recommendations of these studies with respect to NRL constitute the
physical components of the proposed project. In addition, the proposed
project will continue the Bank's support for longer-term subsector investment
planningp and the establishment of a suitable refinery pricing framework. The
previous loan also financed engineering studies for the hydrocracker, which
GOP planned to construct to reduce growing product deficits. As mentioned
earlier, GOP has postponed a decision on this investment pending a review of
its economic feasibility.
2.33     Under the ESL the Bank financed the Petroleum Products Supply Option
and Infrastructure Study to determine the best strategy to be followed in
supplying products in the longer run, and thus to identify an optimal
ivvestment program for refineries and distribution infrastructure. The present
project will carry this process forward, by incorporating agreement on the
framing of a core investment program over the 7th Plan period (FYs 89-93). It
will also lay the groundwork for improvements to the pricing system, and,
through feasibility studies, assist in the assessment of major project
proposals, uhich may then be supported under future loans.
2.34     The Bank's specific role under this project will be to:
(i)    enceurage GOP to move towards the establishment of a nei
refinery pricing system;
(ii)   support the development of a core investment program;
(iii)  strengthen technical skills within NRL by supporting training,
technology transfer, and the purchase of equipment.
In particular, GOP has already established a working group (para. 2.21) to
examine refinery pricing, and in connection with this project, has invited
Bank staff to provide technical advice to this group on the ramifications of
various pricing regimes. The Bank would also review with GOP its proposed new
refinery pricing system and plans for its implementation. Furthermoret the
Bank will seek agreement on the formulation of a core investment program, and
during the course of this project will continue its advice to GOP on
rationalization of the investment program in refineries, by assisting in the
economic appraisal of projects identified under the PPIS, including the
proposed hydrocracker and refinery expansion schemes.
III. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Background and Operations
The beneficiary of the proposed loan will be the National Refinery
Limited (NRL), and the borrower will be its parent company, the State



- 19 -
Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Corporation (PERAC), which acts as a
holding company for various government interests in refining, petrochemicals
and oil tankers. PERAC also acts as a planning unit generating new projects
in these sectors which, when ready for implementation, can be spun off to
other companies for execution and operation. About $1.8 million of the loan
will be used for feasibility studies on projects proposed under the PPIS and
for other small subprojects, for which PERAC is responsible.
PERAC
3.02     PERAC is wholly owned by the government, with a paid-up capital of
Rs. 75.5 million. It has two operating units--National Refinery Ltd. (NRL)
and National Petrocarbon Ltd., one service unit--ENAR Petrotech Services Ltd,
and a new company--National Petroi,um Ltd--formed to implement and eventually
operate the planned hydrocracker project. National Petrocarbon Ltd.
manufactures a range of specialty products from the residue products of NRL.
ENAR Petrotech Se.rvices provides engineering, consultancy, design and
teclnical services to NRL and the energy sector in general; it has also
established training facilities and provides technical and management
development programs to the industry. In addition, PERAC owns 50X of the
equity in the National Tanker Company, which owns and operates an oil tanker
for transportation of crude oil from the Arabian Gulf. PERA.C's staff is
relatively small (about 50) but is well qualified, and senior staff have
considerable experience in the refinery sector. The Corporation is managed by
a Board of Directors appointed by GOP. The organization of PERAC is shown in
Annex 3.1.
National Refinery Limited (NRL)
3.03     NRL was incorporated as a private sector public limited company in
Adgust 1963 and operated in conjunction with a private petroleum distribution
company until 1972, when GOP took over most large industrial entities having
no foreign ownership. Under the Economic Reforms Order GOP entrusted
management of NRL to the Ministry of Production; subsequently PERAC took over
the management of NRL in 1974. The current ownership of NRL is as follows:
direct GOP ownership (through PERAC)--16%, various investment, insurance, and
financial institutions (wholly or partially state-owned)--59%, the Islamic
Development Bank--15%, and local private investors--1OZ.
3.04     The original NRL refinery (Lube Unit I) was brought on stream in June
1966. The annual crude throughput capacity of this unit is about 0.6 million
tons, and it produced a simple mix of lube base oils, asphalts, and other
petroleum fuels. In 1975 a fuel refinery of 1.5 million tons capacity was
constructed under Romanian technical assistance, and the original Lube Unit I
was integrated with the new fuel refinery. This increased the total capacity
of NRL to 2.1 million tons annually and expanded the range of products the
refinery could produce. NRL added an aromatics extraction unit in 1979 with a
view to establishing a foothold in the field of petrochemicals. Subsequently,
NRL decided to set up another lube refinery (Lube Unit II) using the feedstock
(reduced crude) available from the existing fuel refinery to produce more lube
base oils and asphalts. Lube Unit II started production in mid 1985, and has
made the country self-sufficient in lube base oils and asphalt.



- 20 -
3.05     NRL is now Pakistan's biggest and most integrated refining complex in
terms of the range of petroleum products. The blend of products is summarized
in the following table, and presented in detail in Annex 3.3.
Table 3.1 - NRL Production Mix
'.85/86                  Expected
Production             Following Project
(000 tons?   (%)      (000 tons)     (S)
Gasolines                    190         9            215         8
Naphtha                      140         6            225         8
Kerosene/Aviation Fuel       280        13            415        15
Diesels                      770        35            945        33
Fuel Oil                     435        20            655        23
Heavy Ends & Miscellaneous   370        17            370        13
TOTAL                       2,185      100          2,825       100
3.06     In 1985-86 the refinery processed 2.4 million tons of crude oil to
produce 2.2 million tons of products.  Although NRL is operating efficiently
(at over 100% of capacity), the existing systK"ns and equipment are outmoded,
and could be improved to increase both the throughput and the proportion of
high value products produced. In particular, debottlenecking the crude unit
will allow processing of about 30% more crude, largely into diesel, iuel oil,
and kerosene, and revamping of the hydrotreater and platformer would allow
more processing of naphtha into HODC. In addition the energy intensity of
operations can be reduced by modifying systems and processes - all of these
measures are incorporated in the proposed project.
B. Organization, Management and Staffing
3.07     NRL is managed through a Board of Directors, consisting of the
Chairman of PERAC as its Chairman, and ten directors, including
representatives from the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources, Ministry
of Production, and PSO. The Managing Director of NRL is Chief Executive
Officer, and is also a member of the Board. He is assisted by a senior
management team of three General Managers heading the three divisions -
manufacturing, accounting and finance, and personnel and administration - and
three senior managers heading the three sections - commercial, purchase, and
engineering and maintenance. The organization of NRL is shown in Annex 3.2.
NRL is considered to be a well managed public sector company and is included
in the Public Enterprise Signalling and Monitoring Project under the Ministry
of Production. It has been consistently rated above average and has exceeded
the productivity targets for the last three years.
3.08     NRL has about 1,000 employees, of which about 375 are managerial and
professional level. The senior managers as well as mid-rung managers and
senior technical staff are appropriately qualified and have adequate
experience. The shift supervisors and key operating technical personnel are
also well experien.ed. The turn-over of personnel is relatively small
compared to refineries in other developing countries. The refining facilities
are well maintained. Even though staff overall are competent, there is
nevertheless a need for regular updating of skills by attending technical



- 21 -
seminars, as well as more formal academically oriented courses of study. The
project provides for such training assistance.
C. Accounts and Audit
3.09     PERAC (the borrower) and NRL (the beneficiary) keep commercial
accounts according to generally accepted accounting principles, as required by
the Companies Ordinance of 1984. NRL's cost accounting and budget control is
detailed and based on over 150 cost centers. Fixed assets are valued at cost
plus capitalized exchange losses for loans to finance the acquisition of these
assets; no estimates of the replacement cost of fixed assets has been made.
However, except for land, which in the case of NRL may be undervalued, the
accounts of the companies reflect their current financial position reasonably
well.
3.10     NRL has no separate internal audit department.  Verification of
payments and inventory control is carried out by staff within the accounts
department with assistance from other departments as necessary. Costs and
comparison with budgets for each cost center is supervised by a budgetary
committee consisting of the General Managers for manufacturing, finance and
accounts. These arrangements are satisfactory.
3.11     The external audit is carried out by independent auditors under
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports are finalized within six
months of the end of the FY. During negotiations, it was agreed that NRL will
submit its audited annual accounts to the Bank within six months of the end of
its fiscal year, and unaudited accounts as of December 31 and June 30 of each
year within two months of the end of these six months periods.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Rationale
4.01     The broad objectives of the project are:
(i)    to improve refinery efficiency;
(ii)   to reduce energy consumption;
(iii) to increase crude oil processing capacity, and modify the
output mix to better match demand; and
(iv)   to strengthen production optimization and control systems and
train staff.
In addition, the proposed project will support sector-wide policy objectives,
namely to promote a refinery pricing system that will provide adequate
incentives for efficiency improvements, as well as investments by the private
sector; and to assist the government in formulating an optimal investment
program for the refinery sector.
4.02     Under the recently completed refinery engineering project a
substantial number of systems improvements and potential energy savings were



- 22 -
identified at the NRL refinery. Some of the recommendations arising from that
study have been implemented, and the reiw.inder will be implemented under the
proposed project. The specific objectives will be to:
-    debottleneck refining capacity, allowing the refinery to process
30% more crude, and to produce more naphtha, kerosene, diesel
and fuel oil;
-    increase the capacity to reform naphtha (which exists in
surplus) to produce more HOBC (of which Pakistan is a net
importer);
-    reduce the consumption of fuel oil and losses in refinery
processes;
take advantage of excess steam in the refinery system for
captive power generation; and,
-    improve general refinery operations, by providing adequate
computer facilities, training services, and R&D facilities.
These objectives will be achieved by modifying processes, and replacing
selected equipment at modest incremental costs. The improvements proposed have
already been made at the vast majority of similar refineries in the world.
B. Project Description
4.03     The project consists of six components:  (i) balancing and
modernization of the crude processing unit; (ii) addition of a captive power
plant; (iii) debottlenecking of the naphtha hydrotreater and platformer; (iv)
process modifications in the original lube refinery (Unit 1) which will result
in energy conservation; (v) efficiency improvements including a process
operations simulator; and (vi) studies, training and technical assistance.
The last item includes initial feasibility studies which GOP may wish to
undertake for investments identified under the PPIS, as well as minor
subprojects at other PERAC subsiduaries which would result in efficiency
improvements; PERAC would commission these studies and subprojects, which
would be agreed upon with the Bank.
(i)      Balancing and Modernization of the Crude Processing Unit
4.04     This project component will improve the furnace efficiency in the
fuel refinery through optimization of the heat recovery system, which will in
turn reduce energy consumption and losses. At the same time crude processing
capacity of the unit will to increased by about 670,000 tons per year (tpy)
which will yield 5,000 tpy of LPG, 111,000 tpy of naphtha, 135,900 tpy of
kerosene, 171,600 tpy of HSD, and 219,600 tpy of fuel oil. The reduction in
the refinery energy consumption and losses of fuel oil is estimated at about
20,000 tpy, which will result in a net improvement of about 20% in refinery
efficiency - reducing fuel use and losses in process from about 0.56 bbl per
mT of crude oil processed to 0.46 bbl/mT.



- 23 -
(ii) Addition of a Captive Power Plant
4.05     This component provides for meeting the power requirements of Lube
Unit II by utilizing the surplus energy available from an existing steam
boiler. When the unit was commissioned in 1985, it was the intention that the
lube oil facilities would generate their own power. The steam generation
facilities were accordingly designed to drive a back-pressure steam turbine
(through generation of steam, required for normal process requirements, at a
pressure higher than needed, and driving a turbine when the high pressure
steam is released to process conditions). The project envisages installation
of one 7.5 1W steam turbo-generator along with two 4.0 MW each standby furnace
oil operated engines. The addition of this captive power plant will: (a)
enable the completion of the lube unit as originally designed with better
utilization of available energy; (b) result in financial savings to the
refinery; and (c) provide greater reliability of power supply to NRL.
Essential power requirements of the rest of the refinery can also be supplied
by this power plant during an emergency; the total power demand of NRL is
about 21 MW of which 7 MW will be miet through this project, and the balance
will continue to be purchased from KESC.
(iii) Debottlenecking of Naphtha Hydrotreater and Platformer
4.06     Pakistan currently imports about 140,000 tpy of high octane gasoline
blending component (HOBC), while exporting about 150,000 tpy of naphtha,
partially due to capacity limitations in the naphtha reforming units at NRL
and PRL. However with modifications and optimization of the heat recovery
system the capacity of the platformer unit at NRL can be increased by about
302. This project component will upgrade surplus low value naphtha to the
higher value deficit product HOBC, producing an additional 25,000 tpy of
HOBC. In additiont the existing domestic crudes processed by NRL are waxy and
highly naphthenic in nature. Although the naphthenic crude is desirable, the
original platformer unit was not designed to process this kind of feedstock.
The throughput of the unit is, therefore, constrained unless the proposed
modifications are made.
(iv) Process Modifications to the Lube Unit I
4.07     The Lube Unit I, which was designed in early 1960s, minimized capital
expenditures at the expense of increased utility costs. This project
component will modify the lube oil refining processes to make them more energy
efficient and in line with modern technology. This component consists of a
number of subcomponents which will modify individual processes within the lube
unit. Foster Wheeler, who were the original designers of the units, have
undertaken feasibility and process studies for implementing the project; the
detailed engineering and design will be undertaken by ENAR Petrotech.
(v) Efficiency Improvement Items
4.08     This component provides for:  (a) a process simulator to assist in
the training of newly recruited staff as well as for periodic retraining of
experienced personnel; (b) floating decks for existing tanks to reduce
evaporation/storage losses; and (c) subprojects at PERAC's subsidiaries, to be
approved by the Bank, which will lead to efficiency improvements and/or the
upgrading of their outpult.



- 24 -
(vi) Studies, Teaining and Technical Assistance
4.09     This project component comprises:  (a) studies and/or consultancy
services under PERAC that may be required to establish the feasibility or
advance the preparation of projects identified under PPIS which GOP may wish
to implement; and (b) technical and management training of NRL staff in the
refinery operations and planning; and (c) purchase of equipment required by
NRL's research and development program. Engineering and technical services
required by NRL in design and implementation of the project components will
also be financed, although the costs of these are included in the cost
estimates for each component (see Annex 4.2).
C. Project Implementation Arrangements and Status of Project Preparation
4.10     The project will be implemented by NRL, except for the feasibility
studies for new projects which would be commissioned by PERAC, and any
subprojects to be implemented by PERAC's other subsiduaries. The project
components are of a simple nature and easy to implement. NRL has established
a project unit in the Technical Services Department to coordinate execution of
the project. ENAR-Petrotech have been appointed as Project Managers to assist
NRL in the preparation and evaluation of bid documents and detailed
engineering and design for certain components of the project. Procurement of
equipment will be by international and limited competitive bidding; equipment
have been well defined to facilitate procurement. Detailed specification of
the Lube Unit modifications will be completed in the next six months.
Installation will be largely by refinery staff and local contractors. A
training program has been formulated, and is attached as Annex 4.4.
4.11     The project scope is well defined and initial government clearances
have been obtained for the major physical components. The scope of further
studies arising from the PPIS, and of subprojects to be executed by PERAC's
subsiduaries, will be subject to Bank review and approval before they are
executed. Approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council (ECNEC) of PC-l's for the project will be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
D. Project Costs
4.12     The total financing requirements of the project are estimated at
US$51.0 million equivalent, of which US$27.4 million (54%) is expected to be
in foreign exchange, as shown below:



- 25 -
Table 4.1
Project Cost Estimates
Rs (million)                    US$ (million)
Local     Foreign   Total        Local     Foreign   Total
I.  Balancing and Modernization
of Crude Unit                    87.3      53.6      140.9        5.0       3.1        8.1
It.  Captive Power Plant                35.0     103.1      138.1        2.0       6.0        8.0
IIl. Platformer and Hydro-treater
Debottlenecking                  55.7      45.2      100.9        3.2       2.6        5.8
IV. Process Modification of Lube
Unit                             56.1      62.8      118.9        3.3       3.6        6.9
V.   Other Improvement Programs          2.1      29.4       31.5        0.1        1.7       1.8
VI. Studies, Training and Technical
Assistance                        7.8      34.6      42.4         0.5       2.0        2.5
Base Cost a/                   244.0     328.7     572.7        14.1      19.0       33.1
Physical Contingencies                  24.4      32.8       57.2        1.4        1.9       3.3
Price Contingencies  b/                 70.4      36.5      106.9        4,1       2.1        6.2
Total Project Cost             388.8     398.0     736.8        19.6      23.0       42.6
Interest during Construction            68.3      76.1     144.4         4.0       4.4       8.4
Total Financial Required       407.1     474.1     881.2        23.6      27.4       51.0
/a lncludes taxes and duties of about USS5.3 million equivalent.
/b For local costs: In FY87-5.5%, FY88-10%, FYP2-8%, FY90-7%, FY91-5%, and 3.5% annually thereafter;
For foreign costs: In FY87-7.3%, FY88-2%, FY89-90-1%, FY91-2.2%, and 3.5% annually thereafter.
4.13       The base cost estimates are based on end-PY86 price levels.   Physical
contingencies are 10% of the base cost. Price contingencies are based on the
projected price increases given in the table, and average 152 of total project
costs. Import duties and taxes have been calculated at an average rate of 40%
for imported goods and equipment.



- 26 -
E. Pinancing Plan and Items for Bank Financing
4.14     The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Source                                   Local      Foreign    Total
USS million----------
NRL Internal Cash Generation             22.0          -        22.0
IBRD loan                                  -         21.0       21.0
Supplier credits and other foreign sources  1.6       6.4        8.0
Total Financing          23.6       27.4       51.0
4.15     The proposed Bank loan of US$21.0 million will cover the foreign
exchange requirements of the balancing and modernization of crude unit,
captive power plant, platformer and hydro-treater debottlenecking, process
modification of the lube unit, and a portion of the studies/training and
technical assistance components and other efficiency improvements program.
This will represent 77% of the foreign exchange cost of the project and 41% of
total cost. The remaining expenditures will be financed by commercial loans,
suppliers credits, through NRL's net internal cash generation and possibly by
some bilateral aid. It is assumed that some proportion of the foreign
exchange requiremen;s should be available in the form of supplier's credits
for proprietary and other equipment and materials, and the possibility of
mobilizing such finance is being investigated by NRL. However, NRL has
sufficient foreign exchange credit lines from commercial banks to cover the
full financing of the project in the event that neither bilateral aid nor
suppliers' credits can be mobilized.
4.16     The Bank loan would be made to PERAC with the guarantee of GOP.  The
loan would carry the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus a 0.5%
guarantee fee payable to GOP. USS1.8 million will be retained by PERAC for
feasibility studies and pilot projects, and the remaining proceeds (US$19.2
million) of the proposed Bank loan will be onlent by PERAC (the borrower) to
NRL (9ve beneficiary) under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Bank.    In the- possible event that NRL or PERAC avail themselves of foreign
exchange cover made available by GOP, such coverage will be on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. The loan will have a maturity of 15 years,
including a grace period of 5 years. A condition of effectiveness will be
that a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank between PERAC and NRL
has been executed.
P. Procurement
4.17     Out of an estimated US36 million worth of equipment and materials
required by the project, items valued at about US$11.7 million will be
procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, of which
1/ The onlending terms will include a 0.5% guarantee fee for payable to GOP
plus a 0.25X administrative fee paid by NRL to PERAC. This would approxi-
mately equal 10% of the Bank interest rate and is acceptable to the Bank.



- 27 -
about US$9.3 million will be financed from the proposed Bank loan. Limited
International Bidding (LIB) procedures, involving at least three qualified
bidders, will be used for equipment and materials costing an aggregate of
about US$15.8 million of which up to US$9.1 million will be financed by the
Bank. LIB procurement for Bank financing will be limited to: (i) packages
costing US$200,000 or less; (ii) time critical items; or (iii) items with a
limited number of qualified suppliers. The nature of refinery rehabilitation
projects is such that LIB or direct contracting needs to be used more than is
usually the case, since such projects involve proprietary equipment or
specialized items with a limited number of suppliers. In this case, it is
expected that LIB will apply to parts of the crude unit, platformer and the
lube unit components. Direct contracting f-r foreign proprietary items is
estimated to total about US$4 million, and is being proposed for co-financing.
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) will be used for items that are not suitable
for international competition, such as civil works and other minor equipment
and materials costing in the aggregate about US$6.8 million. The Bank will
not finance any LCB procurement. Foreign consultancy, engineering and
training services (US$3.6 million) will be procured using Bank guidelines and
will all be financed from the proposed Bank loan. The following table
summarized procurement arrangements for the project.
Table 4.2 - Procurement Arrangements a/
(USS million)
Procurement Method
ice                 LIB        LCB c/    Other b/   Total
Civil Works                   -         -         1.4           -         1.4
Material and Equipment
- Crude Processing Unit       -        7.3        0.6          0.5       8.4
(2.9)                            (2.9)
- Captive Power Plant        7e9        -         0.2          0.8       8.9
(6.5)                                                 (4.5)
- Naphtha Hydrotreater        -        4.0        2.3          0.5       6.8
and Platformer            -       (2.5)       -                     (2.5)
- Lube Unit I                 -        4.5        2.0          1.8       8.3
(3.7)                            (3.7)
- Efficiency Improvement     2.3                  0.3           -        2.6
O 1.8)                                                (1.8)
Engineering and Design        -         -          -           3.0       3.0
(1.2)        (1.2)
Studies, Training and
Technical Assistance        1.5       -          -           1.7        3.2
(1.0)                 -         -        (1.4)        (2.4)
Total                  11.7     15.8       6.8           8.3      42.6
(9.3)                (9,1)               (2.6)       (21.0)
/a Figures In parenthesis are the respective amounts which would be financed by the Bank.
/b Includes direct contracting, procurement of technical services for which Bank guidelines
will apply. procurement under arrdngements of cofinanciers, and taxes and duties.
/c Includes local costs only.



- 28 -
4.18     All items for Bank financing will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. The Bank's standard domestic preferenc may be applied, at
NRL's option, for the evaluation and comparison of bids submitted under ICB
procedures. All essential procurement documents relating to tenders valued
over US$200,000 will be subject to prior Bank review. Other contracts will be
subject to post-award review. The project timetable is such that it may
involve some expenditure between appraisal and loan signature; such
retroactive financing will be limited in total to not more than $2 million.
C. Disbursements
4.19     The Bank will advance US$2.0 million equivalent for NRL, representing
about four months of the Bank-financed expenditures, into a special account to
be established by NRL in a commercial bank. The Bank loan will be disbursed
against: (a) 100% of foreign exchange or local ex-factory costs of imported
equipment and materials, or 70% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; (b) 100% of expenditures for training; and (c) 100% of foreign
expenditures for engineering and consulting services. Statements of
expenditures will not be used under this project. Audited accounts for the
project special account will be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the
close of each fiscal year.
4.20     The implementation period for the period is estimated at five
years. The disbursement schedule is assumed to follow the Bank's standard
disbursement profile for energy projects, (as no profile is available for
refineries as such) which indicates a six-year disbursement period (Annex
4.5). Disbursements in the sixth year would be payments of contract retention
fees.
H. Monitoring and Reporting
4.21     NRL will submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports, within 45
days of the preceding quarter, covering the physical progress of each
component of the project, the updated project costs, status of procurement and
disbursements and of the special account, the work of consultants, and the
staff training aspects. NRL will prepare a Project CompLetion Report in a
format agreed with the Bank promptly after project completion but not later
than six months of the loan closing date.
I. Ecology and Safety
4.22     NRL maintains strict control on effluents discharged to the sea.  All
waste water streams going to the sewerage system are received in an API
Separator. The water from the API Separator is processed through an Effluent
Treatment Plant. As such, water to the sea from the refinery is well within
the international standards for emission of effluents from refineries. The
installation of floating decks in storage tanks will reduce hydrocarbon vapor
escape to the atmosphere. The rehabilitation of process heaters will improve
their combustion and heat recovery efficiency, and will reduce thermal
pollution and the discharge of uncombusted or partially combusted
hydrocarbons.



- 29 -
J. Insurance
4.23     IRL has extensive insurance coverage of fixed assets - projects under
execution as well as assets in operation - through the Government owned
National Insurance Corporation. NRL has had no major accidents or insurance
claims, except for the damages caused by severe flooding in 1977/78. These
insurance arrangements are adequate and in line with practices in the
industry.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Introduction
5.01     The current ex-refinery product pricing formula with its guaranteed
return on paid-up capital (see para 2.18) was established in late 1973
following the sharp increase in crude oil prices, and was designed to protect
the refineries in Pakistan against financial losses during periods of unstable
refinery margins. Almost 15 years have passed since the pricing formula was
established during which time the shortcomings of the formula have become
apparent. The current pricing formula is based on the historical value of
actually paid-up capital, excluding re-evaluation adjustments, retained
earnings, etc., as a result of which the real value of the guaranteed return
has diminished substantially since the inception of this pricing system.
Specifically, the real value of the guaranteed return and the capital it is
based on has eroded by over 701 since 1973 due to inflation and devaluation of
the rupee, which has affected the private refiners, PRL and ARL, in
particular, since their original capital investments were in US dollars. The
current pricing formula, while providing security to the refining industry
during periods of low refinery margins has removed any financial incentive for
private refiners to make new investments or injections of equity capital in
fact the only major investments in the sector refinery sector in Pakistan
during the last decade have been made by the public sector refinery, NIL.
5.02     The current pricing formula also fails to provide adequate incentives
for efficiency improvements and energy saving programs, as any savings from
such programs would effectively accrue to GOP and all actual operating costs
would be effectively reimbursed by GOP. The pricing system may also have
encouraged the use of debt rather than equity, since interest payments are
deducted as costs when calculating the guaranteed return to paid-up capital.
Even though the current pricing system has not encouraged economically
justified investments and operational improvements, the cost per ton of the
hydroskimming operations of the refineries in Pakistan are nevertheless in
line with the cost of refineries elsewhere of similar size, age and
configuration.
B. National Refinery Limited (NRL)
Past Performance
5.03     NRL's revenues and gross margins, u.t presented in the financial
statements, do not provide an adequate picture of 'inancial performance, since
the current refinery product prices are set by COP with the intention of
producing a guaranteed return of 18X on paid-up capital, and ex post payments



- 30 -
ara made in lieu of frequent price adjustments to ensure this return. For
this reason NRL's net income mainly reflicts changes in paid-up capital, and
has remained fairly stable at Re 40-50 million in FYs 83-84, and at Rs 120
million in FYs 85-86. In FYs 83 and 85, GOP made substantial en post
payments, equivalent to 10-12X of total sales, to NRL to compensate for low
ex-refinery prices. On the other hand, in FY86 when the ex-refinery prices
set by GOP would have resulted in a net income of more than 182 of paid-up
capital, due to the substantial drop in the world crude oil prices, NRL
reimbursed GOP the equivalent of 4X of total sales. If tRL's financial
statements were adjusted to reflect past border prices for crude oil and
petroleum products, NRL would have incurred heavy losses in FYs 83-85 and a
profit during FY86 when refinery margins increased. This is in line with the
experience of refineries outside Pakistan.
5.04      tRL's financial statements for of FYs 83-86, with explanatory notes,
are given in Annex 5, and are summarized below:
NRL - Past Financial Performance /
(Rs million)
FY83        FY84       FY85       FY86
Crude Oil throughput
(millIon tons)                    2.25         2.31       2.34      2.35
Products Sales                       7179        7826       8113       8474
Ex post price adjustments            897          246        779      (366)
Cost of Crude Oil C/                 7713        7624       8314       7153
Gross margin                         363          448        578       955
Owerating Cost                       226          256        350        579
Operating Income                      137         192.       228        376
Interest/Taues/Others                 89          144       108        256
Not Income                            48           48        120       120
Ratios CS)
- Net IncomePaid-up Capital           18           18        18         18
- Rate of Return on Not
Fixed Assets In Operation d/      27          41         16         16
- Operating Cost per ton of
crude oil iUSS)                  7,1         7.8      9.9!/       15.3-A
/a NRL's fiscal year runs from July 1 to June 30.
/b Paid by (to) GOP to achlve the guaranteed 18% return on paid-up capital.
/c Including Inventory change, products bought, and drums, etc.
/d At historical cost.
/0  Increase due to the start-up of a lube oil unit,
5.05      In FY85, NRL completed a major investment in a lube oil unit at the
cost of Rs 1.7 billion (US$112 million), which led to an increase of Rs170
million (US$11 million) in annual depreciation and higher utility costs.
These cost increases were, however, largely offset by revenues from lube oil
products. UiL's average processing cost per ton of crude oil throughput



- 31 -
increased from US$7.8 in FY84 to US$15.3 in FY86, largely because of the
processing cost for the lube oil unit. The other two refineries in Pakistan,
which do not possess lube oil facilities, had average processing costs in FY85
of US$7.3/ton for PRL and US$13.7/ton for ARL (due to waxy local crude oil and
low capacity utilization). For comparison purposes it may be noted that
Eastern Refinery Limited in Bangladesh, a similar hydroskimaing refinery, had
a processing cost of about US$6.0/ton of crude oil throughput over the same
period. Any comparison of processing cost between NRL and other refineries is
somewhat distorted by the depreciation charges, which are based on the
historical cost value for assets of different ages. If depreciation charges
and lube oil operations are excluded from the comparison, NRL's average
processing cost per ton of crude oil would be similar to that of PRL, and of
other refineries with hydroskimming facilities outside Pakistan.
Present Financial Position
5.06     NRL's balance sheet as of Jwue 30, 1986 is sumarized belowS
Rs nill1ion      SSmillion   Percent
Not Fixed Assets in Operation  2364         146.8        63
Work In Progress and Others      37           2,3        1
Current Assets                  352          84.0        36
Total Assets           3753        233.1        100
Equity                          698          43.4        19
bong Term Liabilities 8/       1406          87.3       37
Current Liabilities bJ-        1649         102.4
Total Liabilities      3753        233.1        100
Ratios
Current Ratio                   0.8
Debt/Equity                   67/33
Debt Service Coverage           2.4
/a Including financial lease.
/b Including current portlon of long-term dobt.
5.07     Although NRL's liquidity position is weak, the company has been able
to operate for the past several years with a current ratio of between 0.8 and
0.9. This current ratio is slightly lower than those of other refineries in
Pakistan, partly because of NRL's ability as a public entity to roll over
short-term domestic loans with Government banks. In some cases these loans
could be classified as long-term debt. During project implementation, the
adequacy of the classification of short-term debt will be reviewed (para.
5.11). The debt/equity ratio now stands at 67/33, which is within the range
generally found in the industrial sector in Pakistan.



- 32 -
Financial Projections
5.08     NRL's projected financial statements (in current prices) for the
period of PY87-94, and notes and assumptions, are given in Annex 5.1 through
5.4. Some salient points are presented below:
NRL - Highlights of Financial Forecast
FY87    FY88   FY89    FY90    FY92   FY94
Crude OfI Throughput (ilIlIon tons)  2.35   2.35    2.35   3.04    3.04    3,04
Total Sales (Rs million)        5057    463    5903   8181    9159   10311
Ex post prico adjustments        362    650       568      0        0       0
Operating Income (Rs million)    369    363       368    S45      614    634
Net Income (Rs mIIIIon)          120    120       120    149      228    266
Ratlos
Net Income/Soles (%)             2.4    2.2       2.0    18      2.5    2.6
Net Income/Paid-up Caplta t()     18      18       18     22       34      40
Rate of Return on net
Fixed Assets In Operation (S)     16      18      20      31       37      46
Current Ratlo (times)           0.87   0,95    0.98   0.96    1.07    1.15
Debt/Equity Ratio              66/34  64/36   64/36   63/37    52/48   31/69
Debt Service Coverage (times)    1.8    1.8       1.8    2.4      3.2    4,0
5.09     These projections assume that the current pricing scheme will
continue until FY89, and that thereafter GOP will move to a less regulated
system.  Since the details of the new system will not be known for some time,
border pricing of petroleum products has been assumed for the purposes of
financial projections. Crude oil prices are based on the Bank's commodity
fo.ecasts, while margins between crude oil prices and petroleum product prices
are assumed to remain constant in real US dollar terms following the
assumptions used for economic analysis of the project (see para. 6.04).
5.10     With the above assumptions, NRL's financial performance would improve
under the project and NRL would contribute fiscally to GOP by paying income
taxes as from FY90. The crude oil throughput is expected to increase by about
302, operating income by 70X, and net income after taxes by about 120%, by the
end of the forecast period. NRL's higher projected earnings would improve the
company's liquidity position, and by FY91 the current ratio would reach 1.0.
The debt-equity ratio would not exceed 65/35 during the project period, and
would be 52148 in FY92, which is acceptable. These improvements are mainly
due to an increase in processing capacity and savings in fuel and power
consumption resulting from the project. If the project were not undertaken
the refinery margins assumed for the financial projections would result in
about the same net profit as the current pricing formula.
5.11     During negotiations assurances were obtained that NRL will maintain a
debt/equity ratio of not more than 70/30, and a current ratio of at least
1.0. The effectiveness of the current ratio covenant would be deferred until
one year after the new pricing system has been implemented. This deferral is



- 33 -
recommended since under the current pricing system shareholders would not earn
any return on earnings retained to improve the current ratio. At the moment
the private shareholders would be reluctant to put in additional equity
capital for the reasons given in para. 5.01, and therefore, it is not
advisable for the Bank to insist on earlier compliance with the current ratio
covenant. In addition, it was agreed that by June 30, 1988 NRL will review
the classification of short-term debt to ascertain whether any portion should
be reclassified as long term liabilities. The results of this review will be
discussed with the Bank.
5.12     NRL's financing plan for the period of FY88-92 is summarized as
follows:
Financing Plan FY88-92
Rs million    USS million   Percent
Internal Cash Generation                        3822           221         417
Less: Debt Service                              1640            95          179
Dividends                                      600             35          66
Increased Working Capital                      262             1S         28
Taxes & Others                                 868             50          95
AvaIlable for Capital Works                      452            26          49
Proposed ProJect                               773             45          85
Other Capital Works                             150             8          15
Total Capital Works                            923             53         100
RESOURCE GAP                                     471             27         51
Financed by:
Proposed IBRD Loan                             332             19          36
Supplier Credits and Other Foreign Sources      139             8          15
Tota l                                         471             27          51
According to these projections, 49X of NRL's capital works would be
financed from internal sources; 36X by IBRD; and 15% fr"- rimercial banks,
supplier credits and other foreign sources (para. 4.15).
C. State Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Corporation (PERAC)
5.13     PERAC's financial position is satisfactory, although its current
ratio is weak. Its financial and accounting systems are well maintained.
Since PERAC does not operate any productive assets directly, its income
consists of dividends, interest payments and management and consultancy fees
paid by its subsidiary companies. As a holding company of petroleum and
petrochemical entities, PERAC has kept its corporate size suitably lean.
PERAC's financial statements for the period of FY83-86 are given in
Annex 5.5.  Key financial data is summarized below:



- 34 -
PERAC - Sumary of Rwent Financial Perfomance
(R. miliIon)
FY83       FY84       FY85        FY86
Gross Revenue                36          39         27        35
Operating Costs               8          5           7         7
Operating Income             28          34         20        28
Interest Payment              7          9          9         11
Taxes and Others              7          7           1         1
Net Income                   14          18l        10         16
Current Assets               79         63          43        41
Net Fixed Assets              3          2           2         4
Investment                  18s        242         276       321
Current LiabilltIes          5%          59         54        61
Long-Term Debt               77         101        118        145
EquIty                      138         147        149        160
Ratios
Net Income/Gross Revenue (%)    39       46         37        46
Curront Ratio               1.4         1.1        0.8       0.7
Debt/Equity Ratio         36/64       41/59      44/56      48/52
PERAC would be a suitable borrower for the proposed Bank loan, and
for onlending of loan proceeds to NRL (para. 4.16), as was done under the Bank
Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project.
D. Financial Analysis of the Project
5.14     Incremental financial internal rate of ret-li  (IRR) calculations,
with detailed assumptions, are presented in Annex 5.6.  The benefits of the
project will consist of the increased output of higher valued petroleum
products (mostly diesel and kerosene), energy savings of fuel oil, and the
generation of electricity. The costs will consist of the capital expenditure,
incremental operating costs due to the project, and the increased purchase of
crude oil. The calculations assume that as from PY90, a pricing scheme based
on import parity prices will be applied (para. 5.09). Since NRL would start
paying income taxes as from FY90, incremental tax payments due to the project
have been deducted from the net benefits.
5.15     The resulting IRRs for the base case are satisfactory and above NIL's
current opportunity cost of capital, as indicated below:



- 35 -
Financial Internal Rate of Return - IRR {) !1
Capital Cost     Margins c      MaIgins
Perojct Component             Base Case       +20%            -20S
1.   Balancing and Moderni-
zation of crude unit      52              45              29            11
2.   Captive Power Plant         20              16              20             20
3.   Platformer and Hydro-
treater Debottlenecklng     30             25              23             20
4.   Process modification of
lube unit                 20             17              20             20
Whole Project 1                  33              27              22             is
/a The IRR Is defined as the discount rate at which the NPV of Incremental cash flows
(expressed In real terms) attributable to the project (excluding debt servico)
equals zero.
/b Projected expenditures on studies, training, technical assistance and other minor efficiency
Improvement project Items, totalling about USSS million, have been Included In the whole
project cost for IRR calculation, but not In IRR calculatlons for each project component.
,c Margins between potroleum product and crude oil prices (see Chapter VI),
5.16     A sensitivity analysis was undertaken for each component and the
project as a whole. This analysis indicates that the IRR of the project is
most sensitive to fluctuations in the margins between crude oil and petroleum
products. The InR is also sensitive to changes in the capital cost, while
changes in operating costs would affect the IRR only marginally. The project
and its individual components yield satisfactory rates of return under a wide
range of adverse conditions.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Introduction
6.01     The project will increase Pakistan's refinery capacity at a moderate
cost, thus reducing product imports and the consequent drain on foreign
exchange. In addition, efficiency improvements will reduce energy consumption
at the NRL refinery, freeing up fuel oil (which is imported), and electricity
(which will be in short supply in the Karachi region). The margin between the
price of petroleum products and that of crude oil determines the economics of
refinery operations. For Pakistan, the petroleum product prices in Singapore
will largely determine this margin. While the economics of a refinery as a
whole depend on the price margin between products and crude oil, the economic
viability of a modification project for processes which increase the output of
particular products is determined by the price difference among the products
involved, as well as between those products and crude. The current project is
expected to remain economically Justified under all reasonably expected
international levels of price margins, as described in the following sections.



- 36 -
6.02     The economic benefits of the project will consist of the production
of some 11.4 million tons of higher vatued petroleum products (mostly diesel
and kerosene) over the projecL life, at energy savings of 0.6 million tons of
fuel oil, and the generation of some 880 million kwh of electricity. Thb total
net present value of such benefits will amount to about US$46 million,_ with
net benefits of over $10 million per annum by 1991/92, made up as followss
Approximate Annual
COmponent        Not Benefits (1991/92)     Due To:
(USS mil lI on)
Crude Unft i4odernization    4,1            Increased crude throughput, plus
some energy savings
Captive Power Generation     2.4            Electricity generated.
Platfo-mr Debottlenecking    1,6            Conversion of naphtha to HO0C.
Lube Unit Modification      2.3             Fuel oil savings
Total                  10,4
The composition of these net benefits is described in detail in section C.
B. Valuation of Project Benefits
6.03     Petroleum products have been valued by projecting crude oil prices
over the project life, and then deriving relative values for petroleum
products in Pakistan.  World Bank projections were taken for international
crude oil prices, and adjusted by a set of fixed refinery margins to arrive at
expected international prices for petroleum products in the Sirgapore
market. These were then adjusted for international freight costs to arrive at
the appropriate economic value of the products in Karachi (either cif or
fob). The use of fixed product price margins (i.e., that prices of each
product are assumed to remain, on average, a fixed amount either above or
below crude prices), is justified on the grounds that overall there will be a
relatively tight balance between refining capacity and demand, and that
constant margins will thus remain in force, as discussed in Chapter II.
6.04     Crude prices are projected to rise to about US$20/bbl. by the mid-
1990's, and stabilize at about $27/bbl. thereafter.S/ Assuming fixed refinery
margins, this results in the following values for selected project outputs:
Table 5.1 - Economic Values of Selected Petroleum Products
Naphtha   Kerosene     HSD   Fuel Oil
(USS/metric ton)
Margin Over Crude:    530.50    S30,00      534.50  (S21.50)
Crude
Price       Corresponding Value of Products at Karachi
(USM/bbl.)                   (USS/mT)
1989/90     S17.10          S144      5163       5168    5112
1994/95      519,70         $162      5182      5186    5130
2000t01      $26.60         $212      5231       $236    518O
/a Estimated at 15 yesrs from the end of project implemntation,
/b All present values calculated at a discount rate of 100.
/c In constant 1986 USS,



- 37 -
The detailed assumptions with respect to prices, margins, and transport costs
are presented in Annex 6.1 The base case margins assumed above are
conservative, in thet they are already 252 below the average weighted margin
for a typical barrel of products over the last ten years. This reflects the
tightening of the market, and an assumption that the very high margins of
1979-80 (four times higher than average) will not be repeated. Given the
uncertainty surrounding future petroleum prices, sensitivity analyses were
also undertaken assuming a range of margins. A set of highest and lowest
expected margins were forecast following a review of all available price and
margin projections being used in recent refinery industry and consultants'
studies. The highest case is about 352 higher, on average, than the base
case, and the lowest margins about 50% lower on average. In addition, break-
even analysis was performed for each component to determine the level of
economic prices at which the component would cease to be viable.
6.05     Electricity, which constitutes the benefit of the captive power
generation component, has been valued at the current tariff, on the grounds
that this represents the lower bound estimate of the price that consumers are
willing to pay for power, and thus is a minimum measure of the social value of
power. To the extent that tariffs are lower than the economic value of power
this represents a conservative valuation of project benefits.
6.06     The project will also result in other, less readily quantifiable,
benefits in the form of an improved refinery pricing framework, which should
lead to investments to improve capacity and productivity in the sector. There
are also benefits from the formulation of a least-cost investment plan for the
petroleum products subsector, which will promote the cost-effective use of
public resources, and facilitate the assessment of new investment proposals in
the sector. The training and efficiency improvement program components should
result in reduced process losses and the reduction of inventory costs.
C. Project Costs
6.07     Project cost estimates are in constant 1986 dollars, net of taxes and
duties, but inclusive of the 10% physical contingencies. Operating costs are
based on estimates provided by NRL. The cost of additional crude to be
processed as a result of the crude unit modernization (the major element of
project costs) has been valued at the projected international crude prices
described above, adjusted for the cost of transport to Karachi. Additional
fuel oil used in captive power generation has been valued at the same cost of
fuel oil used to value project benefits. Sensitivity analysis has been
performed assuming all costs increased by 50.
D. Project Economic Analysis
(i)   Whole Project
6.08     Combining the costs and benefits of the four individual components,
the entire project yields an economic rate of return of 422, and a net present
value of US$46 million equivalent, at the expected crude-to-product price
margins. Almost half of the net benefits come from the crude unit
modernization, which permits the large increase in the throughput of crude.
The other components contribute less to the total net benefits, since both
their costs and benefits are relatively smaller.



- 38 -
6.09     The following summarizes the sensitivity of the economics of the
whole pro3ect to changeg in key factors:
Rate of Return             NPV
Base Case                                42%                $ 46 million
Capital & Operating Costs Up 50%         20X                $ 19 million
Lowest Projected Margins                  3X              - $  8 million
Highest Projected Margins                671                $ 83 million
The infeasibility of the project under the lowest case price scenario is a
result of losses on the crude unit component under that scenario, due to low
margins for fuel oil and naphtha, which totally overwhelm the benefits of
other components, -hich themselves remain valid even under the low margins
scenario (see discussion following). In reality# it is unlikely that the
refinery would continue to operate under these conditions as new investments
would be made to reduce the proportion of fuel oil output. In addition,
margins move up and down over time, and it is highly unlikely that they would
remain consistently depressed for such a protracted period.
(ii) Crude Unit Balancing and Modernization
6.10     Debottlenecking of the crude unit results in the processing of
670,000 tpy of additional crude, which, at the projected margins, yields a net
benefit of about $4 million annually on a capital cost of $7 million, to
achieve a rate of return of 55X. The principal cost is the cost of the
additional crude processed, while the principal benefits are the value of the
additional naphtha, kerosene, and HSD produced. The additional fuel oil
produced, which constitutes the largest proportion of the output in volume
terms, reduces the net benefits so long as fuel oil prices are assumed to
remain below crude prices. Balancing the crude unit results in energy savings
from improved efficiency for the whole refinery, valued at about $2.5 million
per year, as average fuel use and losses per ton of crude processed drop by
20X.
6.11     The benefits of this component are a direct function of the price
margins of naphtha, kerosene, HSD, and fuel oil, to crude, and thus are very
sensitive to the assumptions regarding margins. Under the highest expected
margins, the rate of return increases to over 1001, and under the lowest
expected margins it is negative, resulting in a net economic loss of about $35
million equivalent. It is estimated that margins would have to drop to the
following levels: naphtha and kerosene $20/ton, and HlD $22.50/ton, before
this component ceased to be viable. These compare with historical (average
1975-85) levels of $40/ton for naphtha, $55/ton for kerosene, and $45/ton for
HSD, and are well below both current and projected margins.
(iii) Captive Power Generation
6.12     At a cost of about $8 million, the installation of captive power
generation facilities yields net benefits of $2.4 million a year, not counting
the unquantified benefits of greater reliability of power supply. This
results in a rate of return of 34X, and an NPV of $8 million. These results
are not substantially affected by the assumed product margins, and under the



- 39 -
worst case (capital and operating costs up by 502), the rate of return does
not fall below 162, while the cost of fuel oil would have to increase to
almost $230/ton (from its current level of $100/ton) before the generation of
captive p;^.er ceased to be viable.
(iv) Platformer and Hydro-treater Debottlenecking
6.13     This component converts additional naphtha into HOBC (which is then
blended with lower value products to form premium gasoline), and also yields
additional propane and butane (which blends into the LPG stream), and methane
and ethane, which can be used as a fuel in the refinery. HOBC is worth, in
economic terms, at least as much as the highest octane gasoline, while the
propane antd butane have been valued at LPG equivalence, and the methane and
ethane at fuel oil equivalence. The naphtha input to the platformer would
otherwise be sold for export, and is thus valued at the same economic naphtha
price as the additional naphtha produced under the crude unit modernization
component. The result is net benefits of about $1.6 million per year at the
assumed margins, yielding an ERR of 302 (NPV of $5.6 million). This component
remains viable under all of the projections for price margins, since it
depends on the relative difference in value between naphtha (which is expected
to continue to exist in surplus), and HO0C, which is expected to continue to
coumand a premium under all scenarios.
(v) Process Modifications at Lube Unit I
6.14     The direct benefits this component consist of approximately 21,000
tons per annum of fuel oil which is expected to be saved as a result of
reduced energy requirements for the lube unit. Under the base case price
projections this should result in net savings of about $2.5 million equivalent
annually, to yield an economic rate of return of 392 (NPV of $12 million).
Even under the worst scenario, this falls to only 202. Given the energy
savings to be realized in the lube unit, oil prices in general would have to
fall to about $11/bbl (and remain at that level), before these investments
ceased to be viable. Purthermore, the energy efficiency improvements alone
understate the benefits of this component, since without the proposed
modification the whole unit would be unable to process the increasing
proportions of domestic crude, and this part of the refinery would eventually
have to shut down.
S. Project Risks
6.15     The principal risk is a substantial long term decrease in
international price margins between crude and products. The project yields a
42X rate of return based on the projected margins, which have conservatively
been assumed to be lower than current margins. However, even at margins
substantially below both those expected, and the averages over the last 10
years, the project would remain justified. The probability of substantially
lower margins over a prolonged period is considered minor, given the tighter
balance expected between refining capacity and demand expected during the
project's lifetime (see para. 2.14). There are no significant physical or
technical risks associated with the project,



- 40 -
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     At negotiations, agreement was reached with GOP to the effect that:
(i)   GOP will, in consultation with the Bank, formulate a core
investment program for the petroleum products subsector for the
period PYs 89-93, to be reviewed with the Bank in draft by
October 31, 1987, and presented to the Bank in final form by
March 31, 1988 (para. 2.16);
(ii) it will (a) not later than December 31, 1987, review with the
Bank the Working Group's report and recommendations on refinery
pricing; and (b) within three months of this review, prepare
and review with the Bank the Government's proposed revised
refinery pricing system and plans for its implementation (para.
2.22); and
(iii) in the event that PERAC or NRL make use of foreign exchange
coverage provided by GOP, such coverage shall be on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.16).
7.02     Also, agreement was reached with PERAC that NRL will:
(i)   submit audited financial statements for the company for each
fiscal year to the Bank within 6 months of the end of the year,
and unaudited reports semi-annually, within Z months of the end
of the period covered, (para. 3.11);
(ii) provide ,he Bank with audited accounts of the project special
account within si.X months of the close of each fiscal year
(para. 4.19);
(iii) submit quarterly progress reports on the project to the Bank in
accordance with the format agreed at negotiations, as well as a
Project Completion Report promptly after project completion but
not later than six months after the loar, closing date (para.
4.21);
(iv) maintain a debt/equity ratio of not more than 70/30 at all
times; and maintain a current ratio of at'least 1.0, from one
year after the implementation of a new refinery pricing system
by GOP (para. 5.11); and
(v)   undertake a review of short-term debt to identify any portions
which should be reclassified as long-term liabilities, by
June 30, 1988, and discuss the results of this review with the
Bank (para. 5.1.).
I



- 41 -
7.03     The following will be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i)   the formal approval by ECNEC of PC-l's for each of the four
main components (para. 4.11); and
(ii) the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between PERAC and
NRL, acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.16).
7.04     On the basis of the project justification and the agreements reached
on the items listed above, it is recommended that the Bank support the
proposed project with a loan of US$21 million to PERAC for a term of 15 years,
including a five-year grace period.
Energy Department
May, 1987



- 42 -
PATAN                                      1.
Energy Sectov Dat
Pakistan Conercial Er*gy blan
(billion too)
1980-81  1982-8   1984-5  198"5-u
DM~~-
CLIIRI.NEG  SWVLT:            II
I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Ivdro Electricitv           i         2.1      2.7     2.9      3.3     1
I                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Natwul Ga                             5 .5     6.0      6.0     6.3     1
I                                          l
Oil                         1         0.5      0.7     1.3      2.0     I
I 
coal                        I         0.7      0.7     1.0      1.0     I
I 
Wal Pont                    I         0.1     0.1      0.1      0,1     I
TOTAL                         I         8.9    10.2    11.3    12.7       1
COMIO       B :ENERGY TOPtl  I         13,3    15.4    17.0    17,9       1
BALAIEES                      I        -4X4    -5.2    -5.7    -5*2       1
(Nt by imwted petroleu)  I                                              I



- 43 -
PAKISTAN                           Anex 1.2
Ergy Swtor Date
Petrolm Reservs by Region
Crude Oil             Natural GU              Total
Billion                                         \a
uabbl.   aT.              tef    bk.                TOE
Pumjab             1      109.7    15.2      1        1.3    36.9     1        44.7    1
I                        I                         11I
Sind               1       29.6      4.1     I        5.1   146.3    1        121.1    1
I                        l                         l                l
Sluchitn           I        -         -      1        9,7   276.3    1        221.0    I
I                        I                         I                I
TOTAL           I      139.3    19.3      1       16.1   459,5     1       386.8     1
Rewrves to Prodution Ratio            10               43
(in vearsibased on 19851  production)
a/ a85ms 1.25 NM of Ps a 1 toe



- 44 -
Amex 1.3
PAKISTAN-
Petroleum Sectot Data
Crude Oil and Natural uas Production
(Forecast)
1980-81  192-83  1994-85  1985-86  (1989-90)
Crude Oil Produetion (mtpa)                     0.5     0.7      1.3      2.0      2.5
Ntural Gas Production (bee)
- Free Ca                                  8,2      9,4     9.9    10.1    12,5
- Associated Cas                           0.4      0.6     0.5      0.7      0.9
Totul  atural Gas in TOE                      6.56    7.49     7.78    8.15      10.0
Total Petroleu Production (TOE)               7t1      8.2      9.1    10.1    12.5
Domtic Petroleu Production as Prvpxrtion
ot Comrcial EnerSy Requirents:                 532     532      542      56X    572 (estJ)
Donstic Crude Prduction as a Proportion
of Total Petroleum Products Requirements?      102      11      192      27Z      251 (est.)
KEMI ITMS  Based on assumed total demnd of:
Commercial energy (TOE):                     13.3    15.4    17.0    17.9    22.0
Petroleu products (mtpa):                    4.3      5.5      7.2      7.6    10.0



- 45 -
Anex 1.4
PAKISTAN
Energy Sector Data
Crude Oil and Petroleum Product Balances - Historical
(million T.)
(Projected)
1980-81  1982-83  1984-85  1985-86            1M8Mn 0  1994/95
Pettoleum Product Demand                S.1      6.1      7t2       7.6               9.5     11.9
less: Refinery Output                   4.3      4,6      5.1      5.3                5.9      6.2
(Net of Exports)                (0.8)    (0.4)    (0,1)    (0.2)               (0.2)    (0.2)
Petroleum Product Imports (Net)      1.6      1.9      2.3      2.5                3.8      5.9
Refinery Crude Inputs                   4.4      48       5.3       5.5               6.1      6.5
less: Domestic Crude Prod'n             0.5      0.7      1.3       2.0               2,4      2.5
-  Crude Imports  \a             4.0      4.2      4.0      3.8                3.7      4.0
TOTAL IPRTS?                           5.6      6.1      6.3      6.3                7.5      9.9
a/ Totals do not add due to field user process losses, changes in stockst and re-exports
Volume and Costs of Imports
1980-81 1982-83 1984-85 1985-86
Crude Oil Consmption (million T.)        4.4      4.8      5,3      5.5
Crude Oil Production (million mT.)      0.5      0.7      1.3      2.0
Net Crude Imports (million aT.)         4.0      4.2      4.0      3.8
Value of Crude Imports ($b,)            1.0      1.0      0.8       0.6
Net Product Imports (million mT,        1.6      1.9      2.3      2.5
Value of Product Imports Msb.)          Os       06       0.5       1.0
Total Cost of Ioports ($ bilions)        1*5      1.6      1*3       1.6



- 46 -
Anuex 2.1
PevlM  SKct. DAta
fttoluu  P?ot  Supplv/aand blan  - Historical
aillio DT.)
101                       12-93                     165-96
PvoducUmn c.nsw$ton    Production ConsuaWti         Production  Com tion
Light Distillte      I                          I                         I                         I
LP6           1      0.04    0.04        I     0.05    0.05        1      0.07    0.07        1
uolw          I      0.51     0.59       I     0.5      0.69       1      0.71    0.82        1
N1MM           I     0.16    0.01        1     0.19    0.02        1      O.1S    0.02 
-          I~~~ .Ww                  I a.                      I       -        ---       I
Total            I      0.71    0.64              0.91    0.76        I       .9"    0.91        1
Middle Distillate    I                                                    II
-Z M*l               I                          I                         I                         I
ke"oune       I      0.17    0.53        1     0,24    0.60        1      0.30    0.81        I
Avtw/a        1      0.54    0.31        1     O.47    0.33        1      0.50    0.37        I
HID           I      0.94     1.9        I      1.17    2.52       1      1.41    2.73        I
LDO           I       .17    0.19        I     0.17    0.17        1      0,24    0.25        1
--            I         -    -             I               -    I           -    -    I
Totl             I      1.to     2.9        1     2.05    3.62        1      2.45    4.16        1
End            I                          I
full Oils     I      1.49    073         1      1.46    1.20       1      1.54    2,07        1
Otbecs        1      0.26    0.26        I     0.26    0.26        1      0.3t    0.36        1
-_            I         _      -e~                -       -         I       -        -        I
tal              1      1.75    0."         I     1.72     1.4        I      1.91    2.43       1
TOTAL                I      4.29    4.62        1     4.58    5.4         I     5.29    7.50        1
Wite:s Totls  " not ad dw to Peninge dlun   in stock,
Cmnsumptio tipo  tot nrpdha and          'p hu"   ad ae estiates snly.



*                                               I-      1"SPo oooXIo
OD      CP~~
et             la                              at1
E ~ ~~ I- -----  I-- -- - ---I- --- - -I                1
so~~~1 Jo X a;!               ba s
- - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -
B-
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
6~~~~~~~.~~~~~~4. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



- 48 -
Annex 2.3
PAKISTAN                                                 -ne 3
Petroleum Sector Data
Petroleum Product Supply/Demand Balanee - Projected
(million aT.)
1987/88                             192/93
Production   Oemand   Balamne        Production  Demand   Balance
Light Distillates     I                                    I                                    I
_    _          ~~~I                                 I                                    I
LPG            1      0.04     0.08    (0#04)       1      005     0.08    (0.03)      1
asoline        1      0.74     0.95    (0.22)       I      0.79     1.21    (0,42)      1
Naphtha        I      0,15     0.05     0.10        1      0.32     0.05     0.27       1
Total             1      0.92     1.08    (0l16)       1      1.16     1.34    (0,18)      I
Niddle Distillates    I                                    I                                   I
Kerosene       1      0.36     0.84    (0.48)       1      0.61     0.98    (0.37)      1
Avtur/Gas      1      0,47     0.38     0.09        1      0,47     0.45     0,02       1
HSD            I      1.43     3,59    (2*16)       1      1.84     4.54    (2.70)      1
LOO            1      0.24     0414     0.10        1      0.24     0.05     0.19       1
-_I    --    -    --                                I    -           -_    --_          I
Total             I      2.13     4,11    (1.98)       1      2.56     5.04    (2.48)      1
HeawyEnds                                                  I
Fuel Oils      I      1.57     2,22    (0,65)          1 ,197       3.57    (1,60)      I
Others         I      0.38     0,42    (0#04)       I     0,38      0.45    (0.07)      1
-      --  -  -   I  -  -                                                I
Total             1      1.95     2.64    (0.70)       1      2,35     4.02    (1.6)       I
I                                   I                                    I
TOTAL                 I      5.00     7.83    (2.83)       1      6.07    10.40    (4,34)      1
Notes: Totals may not add due to rounding



ANNEX 3.1
- 49-
;  t 
zH



c~~~~~-~~~~.u P~ODC"Pas
-l  -                         l    11  -         - -                          -   -1  - llsl
I ~                      
J33rVOd NOWVINUUOOM ai NO M A83N3 A2
NVISWD



-   -- - - - - - - - - - -
-   - -    - -   - -            -       - -   -                                       a
-   --- --- ---
Ibi



- 52 -
P A K I S  t A N                                     ANEX 4.1
Page 1 of 2
REFINERY ENER$Y CONSERVATION AND NODERNIZATION PROJECT
TOTAL PROJECT COST TABLE
Rs (million) c/          USt (million)          Foreign
_-_ ____            _--  as I of
Local d/ Foreign  Total   Local d/ Foreign  Total   Total
It   Balancing and Nodernization of Crude Unit         87.28   53.55   140.83      5.04    3.10     8.14       382
11   Captive Powr Plant                                34.95  103.11   138.05      2.02    5496     7.98       75S
M#, Platformer and Hydro-treater Debottlenecking       55.71   45.15   100.86      3.22    2.61     5.83       451
IV.  Process  odification of Lube Unit-I               56,05   62.80   118*85      3.24    3.63     6.87       532
V.   Efficiency Improvement Progra
1. Promess Operations Simulator                0.00   19.03    19.03     0.00    1.10      1.10     1002
2. Floatinr  Decks                             2.08   10.30    12.46     0.12    0.60      0.72      832
VI. Studies, Training. Tech Assistance and Others
1. NRL Training                                2.60    8.65    11.25     0.15    0.50      0.65      m
2. PERIC Studies and Sub-Projects              5.19   25.95    31.14     0.30    1.50      1.80      832
Base Cost (end of FY86 price)                         243,84  328.62   572#46    14.09   19.00    33.09       5JX
Pysical Contingencies  a/                              24.38   32.86    57.25      1.41    1.90     3.31      57Z
Price Contingencies  id                                70.43   36.57   107.00      4.07    2.11     6.18      342
Total Project Cost                                    338.65 398.05   736.70    19.58   23.01    42.58        542
Interest during Construction                           68.32   76.14   144.46      3.95    4.40     8.35      532
Total Financing Required                              406.97  474.19   881.16    23.52   27.41    50393       54X
a/  102 for all project elements
b/  For local expenditures 10% p.a. in FY88, 82 in FY89. 7% in FY90. 5% in FY91 3.5% thereafter
For foreign expenditures 22 p.a. in FY88. 1X ir FY89. 12 in FY90. 2,2% in FY91. and 3.5% thereafter
c/ Average exchange rate used for this calculation US9 1.0 = Rs 17.3
dV Identifiable taxes and duties are about Rs 92 million (US$ 5.3 million
equivalent) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is
Ri 789 million (08* 45.6 million equivalent).



P A K I S  T AZ  
IFIRUB EEIS T1011M III T1>UAT PROM
TOTAL PMT  CCST 1E Bt YER
4 US million)
Tol
t04-1 (FT1913)     1E0-2 iFTIT)        EW3 (PFYI")       W4 (FT1991)        1W-S (t1m9)   13 I-S(FT3-FT2)
Local Frip  ToWl Locd Foreig  Total Local Foruig  Totl Loetl oi9gn Totl Local Foeroi  Totl Loal FUipn  Total
1.  6aainb a fodernization of Crud. tIit        1.01  0,93  1.9   l.51  1.24  2.75  1.51  0.62  2.13  1.01  0.3   1.32                  0.00   5.04  3.10  3.14
u. cutw f unot                                              0.e0  0.20  17   1.9"  0.81  2.9   3.79  1.0   1.19  2.20                   0.00   202  5.%   7.98
m. Platfomw Sd  *ro-treat"  hottluvwclng                    0.00  0.64  0.73  1.43  1.29  1.3   2.5   1.29  0,52  1.61                  0.00    32   2.#61  5.33
19. Pres lUidicftion of L*d   it-l                          0.00  0,63  1,09  1,74  I.62  1.2  3.44  097  0.73  1.70                    0.00   3.24  3.63  6.37                            .
'.  Efftlicy Upwovmt Pup
1. Proton Owrion SiMlatr                            0.00  O.0  0.22  0.22  0.00  0.44  0.44  0.00  0.44  0.44                  o.oo   o.oo 01.10  I.1
2. Floating bes                                     0.00  0.04  0.12  0,1'  0.o0   0.24  0.29  0.04  0.24  0.23                 0      0.12  0.60  0.
VI. Skdies Trainig Tedh ssistac ad OUrs
t.  .L Traig                                        0,00  0e04  0.13  0.16  0.04  0.13  0,16  0.04  0.13  0.16  0.04  0.13  0.16   0.15  0.50  0.65
20 FM  Swie aNd  tb-Projets                         0.00  0.03  0.33  0.45  0.06  0,33  0,45  0.06  O.X  0.45  0,0.  0.33  0.45   0.30  1.50  1.80
U e o  fed of FYN ptice)                        1,01  0.93  I.    3.16  5.74  69  53S  7.90 13.29  4.43  3,93  8.36  O,t  0.50  0.61  14.09 19O  33.09
Pysircamnmies  a/                               0.10  0.09  0.19  0.32  0.D7  0.         t 0.54  0,79  1.33  0,44  0.39  0.84  0.01  0.05  0.06   1.41  1.90  3.31
Price Cmntlnpmcies b/                           0.11  0.e0  0.19  0.65  0.57  1.23  1.60  0*08  2.48  1.66  0.51  2.16  0.05  0.0   0.13   4.0   2.11  6.13
Tol Project Cost                                1,22  1.10  2.32  4.12  6*6  11.01  7,53  9.57 17.10  6.53  4*03 11.36  0.17  0.63  0.30  19.3  23.01 42.3
Iners tOwing Cuntvution                         0.09  0.08  0.16  0.45  0.57  1.01  1.23  1.41  2.64  2.19  2.35  4.54  0.00  0.0   0.o0    3.95  4.40  6.35
tal Fbincing hyAired                            1.30  1.13  2.48  4t57  7,45 12.02  8676 10,97 19.74  B.7l  7.16  15.39  0.17  0.63  0.0   23.52 2741 50.93
ot  la1 To  all Project alns
b      l    ea sn   ditun 101 p.a. in FY9 32a in Fn3  n in Fme, S in F9t 3.#5 theatter
er tuip  pmntwum 22 P.&. in FY3  It in FY9t. 12 in FY90 2.22 in fM9t A 3.5 therUafter
O0.



PAKISTAN
RB        ElltOr CtDDTI  M   _lOMATIl PffjiJ
OEtAILED CMST ESIOMES S  IlTK Nt MME IF EW ITE
t IS Gillian)}
Salteei  and fwiodartat                           MM e  and NO             Piioom     tictior ot   EfTiciv Irwmw4t    Sdrip TtaialW  Tch                tal Se  C
of Cnvb Itat          Captive PaUw Plat      tode Dt-l ottlemcdinS       Lk*lt-I                  p,u                 Asistut aA OtUR          t(ci of FtS price)
tocal  fhig    Total  Lcal  Focip   Total  Loal  Foip    Toal  Loal  Focip   Toal  Local  Focip   totld  Local  Foenip   Tol  Loca   Fip    Tdot
aildni ad civil br          0.70            o.70    0.42             0.42                    o.0o                     0.00                    o.oo                     0.00    1.12    0.00    112
EqIP^A_, S1torlals
ad  sVw                   1.40    2.10    4.00    0.42    5.56    5.93    0.62    2.21    3.03    0.20    3.43    3.63              1.70    1.70             1.25    1.25    2.94   16.75   19.9
E"riot                      0.70            0."0    0.19    0.27    0.46    0.75             0,75    1.47             1.47    0,12            0.12    0,30             0.30    3.53    0.27    3.3
Pt     A Fg. Ohsip          0.20    0.50    0.70    0.19    0.13    0.32    0.20    0.40    0.0    0.10    0.10    0.20                       o.0                      0.00    0.69    l.t3    1.82
Lieu... IfAu.Pes            O.0            0,10 0o.24               0.24                    0.00    0,10    0.10    0.20                     0.00                     0.00    0.44    0.10    0.54
Ta t IOUs   ad Tns          1.9              .94    0.56             0.56    1.45            1.45    1.37             1.37                    o.0o                     0.00    5,32    0.00    5.32
Rita   ad Ted     l Aastisao       .        0.00                     0.00                    0*.0000                                          0.o0            0.25    0.25    0.00    0.25    0*25
Iretialeg                                   0.0oo                    o.oo                    00.                      0.00                    0.00    0.15    0O.      0.65    0.15    0.50    0.65
Ttal ba Cot
taed o F6 price)        5.04    3.10    9.14    2.02    5.96    7.99    3.22    2.61    5.83    3.24    3.63    64V       O.1:    1.70    1.32    0,45    2.00    2.45   14.09   1.0   33.09
ms  m=   1=   UM=M   uma   = s   m=   a =   ammzo                         m m _     m    mm    _m                 mm _mm   _ m  _ m    mm



- 55 -
ANEX 4.3
PASTAN
-                              ~~~~~~~~pope I1of 3
REFIR MODIFATION PRECT                              -
INCEMAL PRUC0  MD ENE    SAIN
Crude Unit blaniing and Nodernizatian
(Thousands of   letric Tme)
Additionml Pduection
Additional                                                    Fuel Oil
Ctude                                                       Sd in
Yoe  Thtmo lt  LP   Naphtha Kewouw    HISD  Fuel Oil                PraSm
1987/U
198/      502.5      3.8    83.3   101.9   129.7   164.7                 20.1
M/90   670.0         5.0   111.1   135.?   171.6   219.6                 20.1
190o/     670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171,6   21946                 20.1
1991/92   670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171,6   219.6                 20.1
1992/93   670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171,6   219.6                 20.1
Y993/94   670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9    11.6   219.6                 20.1
1994/95    670.0     5.0   111.1   135.9   171.6   219.6                 20.1
19S/96   670U0       5.0   111.1   135.9    11.6   219.6                 20.1
1996/97   670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171.6   219.6                 20.1
1997/91   670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171.6   219.6                 20.1
1998/99   670.0    .50   111.1   135.9   171*6   219.6                   20.1
1999/2000  670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171.6   219.6                 20.1
2000/01   670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171.6   219.6                 20.1
2001/02   670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171,6   219.6                 20.1
2=00203   670.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171.6   219.6                 20.1
2003/04   670,       5.0   111.1   135.9   171.6   219.6                 20.1
2004/05   670.0    SO    111.1   1359    171.6   219.6                 20.1
2005/06   470.0      5.0   111.1   135.9   171.6   219.6                 20.1



-56 -                                 ARM  4.3
Page 2 of~~3
PAKISTAN
REFDERY NODIFICATION PROJECT
ICRENEAL PROUCTION AND ENEY SAVINS
Captive Power Generation
Power Generated           Fuel Oil Consumed
Poaer Generated           Using Fuel Oil             (0OOO tonmes)              Total
by Captive Sam                Stand-b                                            Power
6                         6                                        Generated
Year  Days/Year  10 kwh,         Days/Year  10 kuh.         Stand-by  Boilers   Total   (kwh)
:197/98                                                                              Q00
19/889                                                                               0.0
1989990      165    24.9                 17      2.6               0.6      6.0      6.6    27V5
190/91       330    49.9                 35      543              11      12.0    13.1    55.2
1991/92      330     49.9                35      5.3               1.1     12.0    13.1      55.2
9993        330    49,9                  35      5.3               1.1    12.0    13.1    55.2
1993/94      330     4.9                 35      5.3              1I1      12.0    13.1    55.2
1994/95      330    49.9                 35      5,3               1.1    12.0    13.1    55.2
1995/96      330    49.9                 35      5.3              11      1240    13.1    55*2
1996/97      330    49.9                 35      5.3               1.1    12.0      13*1    55.2
1m7/98       330    49.9                 35      5.3               1.1     12.0    13.1    55,2
1m/99       330    49,9                  35      5.3               1.1     12.0    13.1    55.2
199/2000      330     49.9                35      5.3               1.1     12.0    13.1    55.2
2000/01      330    49.9                 35      5.3               1.1     12.0    13.1    55.2
2001/02      330    49,9                 35      5.3               1.1     12.0    13.1    55.2
2002/03      330    49.9                 35      5.3              11      12.0    13.1    55.2
2003/04      330     49.9                35      5.3               1.1     12.0    13.1    5542
2004/05      330    49.9                 35      5.3               1.1     12.0    13.1      55.2
2005/06      330    49.9                 35      5.3               1.t    12.0    13.1    55.2
Assumes       7.5 6  NW installed capacity used continuouslv at 901,
7  NW maxima dema    90  average.
0.215 kg. fuel oil/ kwh.
50X of current fuel oil consumption to run boilers at full pressure.



PAKITAN
REFDERY NODIFICATION PROJECT
DTRENWAL PRUTION AN END       Y SINMS
Plattormer and Nvdro-Treater Debottlenckinq
(mtpal
Platformer Balance u/out Debottleneckinq  Platformer Balance vith Debottleneckinq
Incremental   Incremental Output
Naphtha       Products Output:     Naphtha      Products Output*             Naphtha        -            --
Year   Int        HOBC   C3/C4    C3-    Input    HOBC   C3/C4    C3-               Consumed     HOC   C3/C4    C3-
1987/8   90,000  76,090   7P200   6Y300  904000  76OO0   1200   6,300                    0           0       0       0
1988/89  907000  76,000    7O0    63    9000  76000   70              6W30                0           0       0       0
199/0  90P000  76,000   7,200   6P300  90,000  76.000   7M200   6,300                     0           0       0       0
1990/91  90,000  7600   7200   69300 1239035 104,000   8,950   9,585                  33,035     28,000   1,750   3,285
1m/92  909000  76,000   7,200   6,300  123.035 104?000  8950   9.585                 33f035     28,000   14750   3,285
199V93  90,000  76P000   7,200   6Y300 123.035 104,000   8.950   9M585                334035     28,000   1,750   3,285
1993/94  90,000  76,000   70    6300 123,035 104000   8t950   9,585                  33.035     2B,000   1,750   3.285
1994/95  90,000  76,000   7,200   64300 123,035 1049000   8,950   9,585              33035       28000   1?750   3285
I9/96  90000  76P000   7P200   64300 123,035 104,000   8,950   99585                  33,035     28,000   1,750   3,285
1996/97  90,000   76,000   7,200   6.'0  123,035 104,000   8,950   9.585              334035     78,000   1750   3WM5
19Y7/98  90000  760400   70    6,300 123.035 104,000   8,950   9,585                  33,035     28,000   1,750   3,295
1998/99  90.000  76,000   7,200   6W300 123.035 104,000   8,950   9,585               33,035     28,000   1,750   3,285
1999/2000  90000  76,000   7,200   6,300  123,035 104,000   8,950   9,585              33,035     28,000   10750   3,285
2000/01  90.000  76,000            6W300 123,035 104,000   8,950   99585              33,035     28,000   1,750   3,285
2001/02  90.000  76,000   7M200   6,300 1234035 104,000   89950   9,585               33.035     28,000   1750   3.285
2002/03  900J00  76,0   7200   6,30  123,035 104,000   8,950   9,585                  339035     28,000   1,750   3.285
2003/04  90.000  76,000    M200   6W30O 123.035  104Y0W0   8.950   9.585             33,035     28,000   1750   3,285
2004/05  909000  769000   7M200   6,300 1239035 104,000   8,950   9,585               33,035     28,000   19750   3M285
2005J06  909000  769000   79200   6.300 1234035 104.000   8,950   9,585               339035     28,000   1,750   3P285
s 
o 



- 58 -                        Annex 4.4
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENERGY CONSERVATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
The objectives of NRL's training program are to improve, broaden,
update and strengthen the management and operational skills of senior and
medium level refinery staff. The areas of training will include:
- training in refinery operations and management in Europe, USA,
UK and Japan;
- pursuing of structured refinery industry focussed technical
courses covering crude oil processing, refinery engineering and
processing economics;
- participation in research and development projects;
- refinery industry management.
Details of proposed refinery industry oriented training programs and
minimum qualifications of candidates for training are given below.
A. Practical Training
Training will include, among others, hand-on participation in the
operation and maintenance of the following types of process units:
- Platformers
- Nerox units
- MEK units
- Furfural Extraction units
- tydrocrackers
Training will focus on design engineering criteria, processing tecknologies
used and maintenance and operation of process units.
The participants are expected to have the following minimum
qualifications:
-  X.S./B.E./B.Sc. Chemical, Mechanical Engineering, with 10-15
years of refinery experience; or
- B.E./B.Sc. in Chemical, Nechanical Engineering, with 3-10 years
of refinery experience; or
-  Diploma in Chemical, Mechanical Technology, with 5-7 years of
experience in refinery operations and maintenance



Annex 4.4
5Page 2 of 2
B. Post-Graduate Industrr-Oriented Courses
Selected senior level staff will be required to follow structured
academic courses covering the following areas to upgrade their theoretical
knowledge:
- Planning of new process plants and expansion of existing
refineries, selection of appropriate technology to modify
refinery configurations, and economic evaluation of new
investments;
- Production of non-energy petroleum products such as lubricating
oils;
- Crude oil evaluation and selection; and
- Use of computer facilities in refinery operations and planning.
Candidates selected for the above will be required to have the
following qualifications:
- Ph.D./M.Sc. in Chemistry or B.Sc./B.E. degree in Chemical or
Mechanical Engineering with a minimum 5 years of experience in
Technical Services, Production, Distribution or Marketing of
Petroleum Products.
C. Quality Control and Safety
This training component will provide for upgrading the skills and
techniques for quality control of products, and inspection of refinery
processing units for safety; it will also provide an insight into safety
practices and precautions adopted in modern refineries.
Candidates will be required to have at minimum a B.E. or B.Sc degree
in Chemical or Mechanical Engineering with not less than 7 years experience.
D. Refinery Management
Refining management training will be provided for senior management
staff occupying positions at the level of a deputy division head (or deputy
manager) or above, currently or expected to assume such responsibility in
future. The training will include courses in personnel management,
operational research and application of modern management tools to administer
refinery operations. Nominees may not be able to obtain the training required
In a single course and may have to attend several seminars in different areas
of specialization. Minimum qualifications will be not less than a degree in
Chemical or Mechanical Engineering, or an MIA or equivalent degree.



_60 _
AND 4.5
PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENERGC' CONSERVATION AND NlODERIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
( USS billion )
Cuoulative
IIIR  Fiscal Year        Disbursements
and Semester Ending      during Seester           Amount        X
FY88
December 31. 1987                 0.4               0.4         2Z
June 30, 1988                     1.7               2.1       10%
FY89
December 31, 1988                 2.1               4.2       20X
Jun', 30, 1989                    2.5               6*7       32%
FY90
Deceber 31, 1989                  2.5               9.2       44Z
June 301990                       2.5              11.8       56%
FY91
December 31, 190                  2.3               14.1      67X
June 30  1991                     1.9              16.0       76%
FY92
December 31, 1991                 1.7              17.6       84%
June 30, 19                       1.5              19.1       91Z
FY93
December 31, 199                 11               20.2       96%
June 30 19M                       0.6              20.8       99X
FY94
December 31, 193                  0.2              21.0      100%
1/ This dibursement profile conforms uith the Energy
sector standard profile for all regions as of 9/11/85
(no standard profile is available for South Asis, and
specifically for retinery project)#



RERINEWY ENERGY CONSEWVATIO AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
-                           Wrkt~~~~~~~~~Mih 0 b 0f Ofl 000Sod POfmtaNOln
AthIIm                 MV.M  1 23 14516 78 9 1O1111213 14l5*151 1     19 20222 23 24 2528 27 2629 303132 33 34363637 3839 41 A4345A46 47  5496St S2554 5  S 5&9
I. BtLM4C AND MO08SAZAON
a) bai d ht3cion to
Bid Ooaxr lai
b) Atpr lon d plopwcb
C) Bid Rsc*t/U  OpwVrW
-WA  Cjc- TOMm 
*) ra*alo A,SwSP-m
DUBOMEEWfG
4L PPOCBU0OODOA1KN OF LISE
a) Paant co ad
b) %~we of teIOlOn to
Bid DScuwli
c) Pmpamt  d xm
a) Sd boU/id OP~
*) SdW*Cct *WO-lb
rto GIIoV     team
b) SUCtuSE
C) %***aSm~iidrE,fu
_  _   _   _   _   _   _ *uI



-62 -                               ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 3
PAKI}STAN
REFINERY ENERGY CONSERVATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
1.       The financial projections are based on:
(i)    financial statements for FY83-86 as prepared by NRL and audited
by A.P. Ferguson & Co6;
(ii)    FY87 budget;
(iii)    investment program for FY87-92; and
(iv)    past financial policies and planned changes in those policies as
indicated by NRL.
2.       the financial projections are expressed in current rupees, assuming
an annual inflation of: in FY87 7e3X PY88 2.0%, FY89 1.02, PY90 1.0%, FY41
2.2%, FY92 and thereafter 3.5% for international price levels; and in PY87
5.52, FY88 10.O2, FY89 8.0%, FY90 7.0S, FY91 5.0%, FY92 and thereafter 3.5%
for domestic price levels.
Income Statement
3.       The annual crude oil throughputs are expected to remain at 2.35
million MT until the end of FY89, and to increase u? to 3.04 million MT after
FY90, when the major part of the work on crude unit under the project is
expected to be completed.
4.       The annual petroleum product output is expected to remain at 2. 19
million MT until the end of FY89, and to increase up to 2.83 million MT after
FY90. The breakdown for various products is presented in Annex 3.3.
5.       The bank's commodity forecast for international crude oil prices (in
current US$) have been used for the analysis as follows:
(US$/bbl)
FY87    FM8      F9       FY0    FY91    FY92    FY93    F94
14.75   17.00    18.00    18.00    18.70    20 10   21.50   22.90
6.       The current petroleum product ex-refinery prices are expected to  be
maintained until FY89,  except for minor adjustments due to changes in crude
oil prices. As from PY90, projected import parity (border) price,(as
described in Chapter VI) as follove:
"current Rs/Mr)  FY87    F8    F9         FM9    FY91    FY92   FY93    FY94
HOJC            3910    450      4771    4805    5045    5335   5608    588
MoS./Gesolfr    3425    3948    418D    3306    3456    3678   3921    M111
Kerone          2145    2472    2618    3093    3231    3443   3651    3859
HBD             3076    2393    2533    3189    3332    3549   3760    3972
Fuel oil         228     1416    1499    2043    2130    2305   2479    2653



- 63 -                              ANu 5.1
Page 2 of 3
7.       Go purchases of petroleum products by NRL are expected, considering
completion of lube unit-2 in FY85.
S.       No inventory changes for crude oil have been assumed.
9.       Reimbursements from GOP to adjust for insufficient ex-refinery prices
are assumed to continue until FY89, in order to guarantee a net income
equivalent to 181 of paid-up capital.
10.      Salaries & benefits costs are expected to increase in line with the
forecasted domestic inflatior rates, in addition to an increase of Rs 4
million during FY9O-91 which is due to the project.
11.      Fuel & power costs are expected to increase by 7.51 per annum until
PY89 and to decrease in FY90 due to energy conservation measures and the
captive power plant provided under the project. As from FY91, fuel & power
costs are assumed to increase in line with domestic inflation.
12.      Repair and maintenance costs are expected to increase in line with
the forecasted domestic inflation rate, with an additional increase of Rs 10
million in FY90-91 due to the project.
13.      Sales and administration costs are expected to increase in line with
the forecasted domestic inflation rate.
14.      Depreciation charges have been calculated, according to the straight
line method, at an average rate of 7.52 per annum of net fixed assets in
operation in line with current practices.
15.      Other operating costs (including training expenses) are expected to
increase in line with the forecasted domestic inflation rates. In FY90 and
91, an additional one time increase of Rs34 million for miscellaneous
materials has been included due to the project.
16.      Interest has been calculated at an average rate of 101 per annum on
URL's outstanding debt.
17.      Income tax has been calculated at 50X.
18.      Other non-operating costs include financial lease payments under
current arrangements, which would terminate in FY91, and guarantee
comissions. '
19.      IRL is expected to pay dividends at 181 per annum on paid-up capital.
Balance Sheet
20.      Work in progress is assumed to equal capital expenditures for the
year and to be put into operation by the end of subsequent year. Interest
during construction has been capitalized. After commissioning of the assets,
interest on loans has been charged against income.
21.      MDL is expected to continue its miscellaneous investment programs,
outside the proposed project, at a rate of Rs 30 million per year until



AENNX 5.1
- 64-                                  Page 3 of 3
FY92. As from FY93, NRL is expected to undertake other investment programs at
a rate of Rs 200 million per year.
22.      Investments, other than capital works and long-term deposit etc., are
expected to remain stable at Rs 8 million as from FY87.
23.      Cash and bank balances are expected to  amount to Rs 80 million, or
0.8X to 1.6 % of total sales.
24.      Accounts receivables have been assumed to equal of 16 days of billing
in line with NiL's past experience.
25.      Receivables from GOP for ex refinery price adjustment payments are
assumed to equal Rs 30 million until FY89* and to be eliminated as from FY90.
26.      Advances, pre-payments, etc. are expected to increase in line with
domestic inflation.
27.      Inventories are expected to equal 33 days of sales, in line with
NRL's past experience.
28.      No increase in paid-up capital has been projected.
29.      In addition to the proposed IBRD loan, N*L is expected to arrange
long-term commercial loans from domestic banks as needed.
30.      Deferred and other liabilities are expected to be stable at Rs 17
million.
31.      Obligations under financial lease are calculated as per the current
contractual arrangements.
32.      Current accrual and other liabilities are expected to equal 38 days
of sales, as has been NRL's past experience.
33.      Short-term debt is assumed to be reduced under the project period.



65
PAKISTAN                                                                     M8EX5.2
REFDEY E lR  COMAION AM N             iE ATIN PROJCT
18 - Past and Foreeat Inam  Statnts
C h billion
kctual                     _o Fmcat-
FY83    F4    FY          FY86    FY87      F        FM8      F0    Ft    F92    F3    FY94
Sales                         7178.7  7826.7   8113.1  8474.3    505         563    5903    8181        8576    9159    9738   10311
less: Ctud Oilt dum  etc.  7540.2   7306.9   8140.2  7107.1       432    5099    540         6960    7233    mo        8306    8841
Produw   s but         215.0   213.0    167.6       0.0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0
Iretorv  da            -42.1    104.4      6.2    46,1         0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0
Gross Nargin                  -534.5   202.4  -200.9  1321.1         625      364      500    1221      1343    139       1432    1470
Cnttibution Itoa  Cov,         897.1   246.2   779.4  -365.9         362      6S0      568        0        0        0       0        0
Operating Costs:
Salaries a beiwits      33.3    37.0    47.7    59.9          63       69       75       83       91      95       98      101
Full a paw              92.0    106.0   132.8   205.7        221      238      256      168      176      182      189     195
Rpuirt  aint m          25.2     30.0    35.7    47,4         50       55       59       71       85      88       91       94
Sales a a.              20.1     20.7     2.1      28.8       31       34       3t       40       43      47       51       55
Owreeiation             49.2    54.0    98.3   225.5         239      241      246      261      284      299     310      322
Otrs                     6.1      8.6      9.9    12.2        13       14       26       53       63      65       67       69
Total op. cost        226.0   256.2   350,6   57994         617      651      699      677     743      775      805      836
Operating Inas                 136,6   192,4   227.9   375.8         369      363      368      545     600      614      627      634
lnss:  Intrst paid            81.0    73.0   101.4   168.7         180      172      176     173      162      135      108       77
Tos                     9.5    66.4       0.0      0.0        0        0        0      149     187      228      248      266
Othwr nanoratin         2.4      5.0      6.6    8.0         69       71       n        74      65       23       23       24
Net In                          43,7    48.0   120.0   120.0         120      120      120     14       187      228      248      266
-                 mum    mm          mm    am,,~~~~~823   mam  mum,    m            mamsmm                  m       m
App riation: Dividends         48,0    48.0   119.9   119.9         120      120      120      120     120      120      120      120
OUthes          -5.3      0.0      0.0      0.0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0
RE or vear       1.0      0.0      0.1      0.1        0        0        0       7.9      7       108     128      146
Rbte a Rituwn on   t FAF.Ad)      -        41?      162      162      16       18       202     312      352      372      411      462
ViaIt..
Cruhxb Uuout(millon NT)   2.25         2.31     2.34     2.35     2.35     2.35    2.35      3.04    3.04     3.04     3.04     3.04
Op. costR)/NT of CPud.       100.4   110.9   149,6   246,8   262.9    27.4   2978    2226    244.3   255.1    264.9   275.0
op. cost(USS)/T       s o Cd   7.1      7.8      9M9     15.3    15.2    16.0    17,2    12.9    14.1    14.7    15.3    15.9



- 66 -
PA tIStAN IAEX 5.3
REIW  EN           cUmRaTN mU I         TIO   PROJECT
Nt - Past Nd foewast   ance Shts
(B  billion)
-            Aktual     -                                   Foecat
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FYS8    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Fixed Asset
Gross fixed snts       9005   912.7  29.7  3153.8    3184    3214    3284    3485    3786    398M    4137    4287
AMA.   prnectitn       412.8   466.4   564,3   79.6    1028    1269    1516    1M             2061    2360    2670    2992
Not fixed aets in op.        487.7   446.3  2355.4  2364.2    2155    144    1768    1708    172S    1627    1467    1M
Work-in-roq"es                 637.3  1724.4       7.8    69.8       30       70      202     300      201      IS0      150     159
Iwestat, LT dqsit et,            4.0      4,6      7,6     7,3        8                 a 8     8        8        e        8        9
Curnt Assets
Ch t ban baln                22.3   116.4       2.3      2.7      80       80       80       0       so       80       80       80
A/C reeivable               2V11    362,2   406.3    325.8        217      235      254     352      369      394      419      443
Ou troo CNv                   77.1    36t2      37.3    12.2       30       30       30       0        0        0        0        0
Advanc  I prpyentS etc   247,0    71.8    63.6   288.5            304      335      362      387     406      421      435      450
nvntor                       697,5   685.3   761.9   722.6        455      492      531     736      m        824      876      928
Sub-Total            1315.0  1271.9  1271.4  13M1I8       1087    1171    1257    1555    1627        II9    1810    1902
Total Assets              2444.0  347,2  3642.3  3753.1    3280    3194    3234    3572    3561    3504    3435    3355
Equitv
Pei".p captal              266.6   601.0   666.4   666.4        666      666      666     666      666      666      666      666
Rervn a R/E                   31.5    31.5    31.6    31.6         32       32       32      60      127      235      363     509
bTtaU l               298.1   632.5   698.0   69M0    698          698      698      727     73       9"1     1029    1175
Long-Tort Liabilitie
Lt debt                      684.3  1088.4  1105.2  1158.1    1137    1105    1142    1161    1117            Q72      765      512
Advan  tM   GOv.               0.0    50.0    SO.O       0.0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0      .0
Dettered A ower liub          21,9    15,7    15*6    16.7         17       17       17      17       17       17       17      17
bition unde tin. la            0.0   194.6   223.5   231.2        184      137      90       43        0        0        0       0
Sub-Total             706.2  1348.6  1394.4  1406,1    1339    1260    1250    1222    1134            9        782      529
Current Liabilities
Creditots,acctothe  liab.    688.1   7719    79544   954.5        521      563     608      843      883      943    1003    1062
Current portion of LT liab.   46.5    66.9    79,1   163.8        163      163      169     1        154      232      162     162
ST debt                      671.6   527,2   603.9   45941        500      40      450      4Aj      350      ISO      150     1o0
Provision for taxation         9.5    76*0    11.6    11.6          0        0       0      A        187      228      248     266
Pro_s devidnd (halt)          24U0    24.0    60.0    60.0         60       60      60       60       60       60      60       60
SuTotal              1439.8  1466.0  154.9  1649.0    1244    1236    1287    1623    1634    t613    1623    1650
Total Liabilitift         2444.0  3647.2  3642*3  3753,1    3280    3194    3234    3572    3561    3504    3435    3355
X,SR2888MOSSm             33888   zarna         ,    22mm    mm    mm    mua           ama.   m             mm
Current Ratio                   0.91   o0,       0.82    0,82    0.87    0,95    0,98    0.96    1.00    1,07    1.12    1.15
t /tOdbt + Equity)              0.70    0.68    0,67    0.67    0,66    0.64    0.64    0.63    0.59    0.52    0.43    0.31
NMo ft:
Crmde throvgwiput(ollan NT)   2,25    2.31     2,34    2.35    2.35    2,35    2,35    3.04    3.04    3.04    3.04    3.04
F.A. in opfT of Crud         216.8   193.2  1004.8  1006*9   917.9   820    753,0   561,9   567,3   535.2   482.4   426.0
k2S



PAKISTAN
REFINERY ENERGY CCNSER'JTI  MD NODERNIZA NU PROJE(rT
NlL - Post and Focast Soures & Applications of FuWs Stitmunts
( Rs mIllion 
--    Actual                        -Forecast                                                                Total of
F3       FY4      FT5      FY96      FM87     F8       FM       FY0       FY91     F92      F3       FT94   F -2
Soces
Operating income                 192.4   227.9   375,8        369       363      368      545      600       614      62?      634      2490
Depreciation                      5410     98.3   225.5       239       241      246      261      284      2m        310      322      1332
N   LT Oebt Borovuiros           689.0    112.6     90.8       96        84      153      141       84         9       25      -91       471
Nw Equitv                        334,4     65.4      G.O        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
Adjustants                        50.0   -93.0  -226,5
Total Sorces                        1319.7   221*3    465.5       704         8      768      947       96       922      963      84       4m
2===n=== MU  ===  zmm=== z=C==
Aplications
Capital inwstnts                1149.6      7.9     29.8       30        70      202      3G0      201       150      1SO      150      923
ChDno  in bwLT Dep                 0.6      300    -0*4          1        0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0
Intest                            73.0    101.4    168.7      180       172      176      173       162      135      106       n        819
bowtizaticn ot LT  ebt            46.5     669      7.         164      163      163     1t6        I7n      154      232      162       l21
Chanme in v/capital              -69*4   -64.3    -18.7        141       92       35      -38        61      112       82       64       262
Tans & no-op. itm                 71n4      6.6     6.0        69        71       72      223      251       250      27       290      968
Dividends & oUts                  48.0    119.9    119.9       120      120      120      120       120      120      120      120       600
Total Applications                  1319.7   221*3    465*5       704       68       768      947       968      m        963      864      4m
==   e= == = -= == == = = =  =  = === =
Debt Service Covere                         2.1      1.9      2.4       1.6      1.8      1.8       2.4      2.6      3.2      2.8      4.0       2.3



- 68 -
me 5.5
PAKISTAN                                   Paqe I Of 2
REFDERY ENERGY COSE TvATION AND NODERNIZATION PROJECT
PERAC - Incose Statements
( Rs million ?
--- Actual
FY893    FY84     FY85     FY86
Revenues  (div/int/svc etc)       35.6     39.1     26.9     35.1
Operating Costs:
Salaries I benefits       3.1       1.5      2.1      2.9
Fuel   power              0.2       0.1      0.2      0.2
Repair I maintenance      0.3       0.1      0.1      0.1
Sal9nst ad .              1.5       1.8      1.9      1.7
Depreciation              0.5       0.3      0.4      0.4
Others                    2.0       1.4      2.0      2.0
Total op. cost           7.7      5.2       6.6      7.3
Operating Inca.                   27.9     33.8     20.2     27.9
less; Interest paid             7.3       9.6      9.5     10.5
Taxes                    5,7      6.2       0.6      1.4
Other non-operating      0.5       0.5      0.0      0X0
Net Income                        14.2     17.6     10.1     15.9
-mm                    Za==.-Z   =--       ===;=  ===
Appropriation' Dividends          4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5
Others            0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
R/E for year      9.7     13.1      5.7      11.4



- 69 -%
AIE  5.5
PAKISTAN                                 PopeIOf2
REFINERY  )IERCY COISERVATION AND lO DRUATI  PROJECT
PERAC - Balae Shets
Rs million !
Actual ----------
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY96
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets       4.3      3.0      3*5      6.2
Accue  depreciation      1.7      1,4      1.9      2.2
Net fixed assets in op.        2.5      1.6      1.6      4.0
Work-in-proress                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Inestent, LT deposit etc.      187.8   242.1   276.0   321.8
Current Assets
Cash I bank blances           50.7      0.2    2745    26.3
A/C receivables               18.8    56.6    13.0    12.6
Due from  ovo.                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Advances I prepaments etc.     9.4      6.2      3.1      1.8
Ientotv                        0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0
Sub-Total              79.1    63.0    43.6    40.7
Total Assets               269.5   306.8   321.2   366.5
~~~= =                          _    = __
Equity
Paid-W capital                75*4    75*4    75.4    75*4
Reserves t R/E                62.1    71,7    73.5    84,9
Sub-Total             137.6   147.2   1489    160.3
Long-Term Liabilities
LT debt                       52.3    76.7    89.8   116.5
Advance frou Gov.             24.3    24.3    24.3        43
Deftered t other liab.         0.0      0.0      3.9      4.4
Obligation under fin, lease    0.0      040      0.0      0,0
Sub-Total              76.6   101.0   118.0   145.2
Current Liabilities
Creditors,acertother liab.     2.0      2.2      2.6      4.4
Current portion of LT debt     0.0      2.5      5.0      5.0
ST debt                       47.7    43.3    41.6    461
Provision for taxation         5.6      6.1      0.6      0.9
Proposed devidend (half)       0.0      4.5      4*5      4.5
Sub-Total              55.2    58,6    54.2    60.9
Total Liabiiities          269.5   3068    321,2   366.5



1971V3 E118  CINIR9TIU MS NOERNKZATIOE PIRECT
FWI -
MIle Pro,ewt
(in cwrVn inal Ri millions)       value of hits
-                     ~~~~~~~Valu of
Cost of                               Adtianl Prodcion                   Ful Oil Value a Toutl                        t    eator  vat
Capital ait'1 llperating                                                         Saved in   P     Value of              BhWits (using  knofits
Yar    Csts Crud oil  Costs  Totl         in   %abU   Srsvre  ND  Fue O1i1  NK    Process  Ceert ntWits  Tas                     Im1nal)  l-in?I) (MI)
19873    4.1t    0.0        0.0    40.1     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0                    -0.1    1.40   40.1
19t8    t 0.        0.0     0.0   1905      0.0      0.0 000         0.0     0.0     0.0    o0o       0.0     0,0                  -1"0.5    0.93  -176.4
19/0   m2.   1502.1  *154.4  1952*4    16.1   m.5   42.3   W.2   448.6               0.0    41.1    42.0  1812,9                   -139.5    0.N     20.7
199011   196.5  150.4   130.0  191.0    22.7   217.9   439.1   571.8   474.7   141.3    S.2    6.4  2043.0            0.6           106.5    0.82    86.9
I M2    13.8  1677.7   167.6  1879.1    24.2   233.0   467.9   60.0   513.7   14.4    94.3    91.5  2183.1    93.6                 205.4    0.3   163.6                                            -
1929             179.3   195.4  198,       25.6   24.0   M92   645.2    02.5   157,0   101.5    4.7  2320.7   114.7                 2164    0.77   1.5 
19               1910.8   203.4  2114,2    27,1   262*9   524.4   61.6   59.3   164.9   108.6    9.0  2458.7   124.0                220.5    0.74   163.9
19995            202.0   211.5  2239.5    28.5       .o   =53.0   718.3   68.7   172.6   115.S  tOt14  259.0   13Z.6                224.0   o0.      109
199/9            2128.1   219.5  239.4    29.6    9.l   578.3  750.9   660.4   179,9    21.3   105.0  27.7   141.5                  227.7    0.69   18.0
19mm             2211.6   22.3  2438.9    309   302.3   600.3   7.5   686.5   186.5   126.1   108.J  2320.9  150.5                  231.5    0.67   150.2
19/98            2m9.0   235.4  253.4    32.1   313.6   622.    80.3   712.    193.3   130.9   112.5  2925.8   159.8                235.7    0.65   152.7
19981            2378.5   243,7  2622.2    33.2   325.0   645S0   837.4   739.6   200.2   135.6   116,4  3031.4   169.3             240.0    0.63   150.2
1920              2461.9   252.2  2t4.2    34.4   336,4   667*6   U6.3   764.5   207.2   140.4   120.5  3.           179.0           244.6    0.60   147.9
201              2503.7   260,2  276.3    35.2   363.0   681.9   058    7.4   212.6   142.6   124.7  3202.2   189.0                 2n.4    0.59   145.7
2001/02          2591.3   269.3  280.6    36.4   35550   706.8   9166    0.6   220.t   147.6    29.1  3.3   199.2                   254.5    0.56   143.7
20023            262.0   273.7  2760.7    37.7   367.4   730.5  948.9   831,J   227.8   152.7   133.6  3430.3   207,2              262.4    0.55   143.1
20/              2775.8   21.5  306.3    3t.0   30.2   756.1   921   860.9   255.    1581   136.2  3550,3   243.0                    43.0    0.S3   128.t
280/0            2673.0   298.6  371.6    40.4   393.6   782.S  1016.4   69MO   244.0   1634   143.1  3674.6   251.5                251.5    0.51   128.1
2006/06          2973.W   309.0  3282.6    41.8   407.3   86.9  1062.0   M.2   252.6   169.4   148.1  3803,2   260.3                260.3    0.47   128.1
IItESS Ut ineludn saitiol tC3   prU  d    a a sult of platforw dlottlemacking.
t*AM beWtits we nIt of vale of additi1l natAe ed a inwt to platforser after dhiottlenelq.
Fuel oil beiti incdel va. of eadti ol3-  t"io tfrm paoer.
Fwl oil sainp  eslt fm  reducd eSgy csumtion at crud wit and lde uwt.
Operating costs inclrud  aditiiol fuel oil cemnstion de to captive pour geration
Capital costs incllU studiif  traiming tadciial mist c    W aim     offitcienv irovont pora.
Inom  to   ae calculatd at 50 an icemental rens ls dprciation de"s nd financial Costs.
* WV   S 55 Rsm illioni 
*      2IL  32.95        a



uIiinv OMic  wisiMTM           iuuMEN=7i  PROJEC
F~~-
Crude Wait Na  iig I Nhdh,kiZatim
(in cwteonUMiml s uilliems)
Value of h_fits
Value of
Cost of                              ditional   tifuel Oil   Tol                                Nt      lt
Capital Addit'nl Operating                                                  Saed in Value of         _mtits hofits
Yea     Costs Crux Oil  Costs  Total       LPG  Naphha Keosena  NO   Fuel Oil Pross  hoof it  Taxes (noinal)  (real)
~~~~~~-  _   -         _     -                                  -_      -- .
lW/Ul    40.1                        40.1                                                                       -40.1   -40.1
1918/39    58.9                      58.9                                                                       -Sh9   -54.6
1989/90    78.4  1502.1   131.8  1712.4    16.1   m.5   420.3   547.2   448.6    41.1  1771*0    16.4    42.2    36.5
1990/91           1560.4   138.4  1698.8    16.8   310.1   439,1   S71.8   467.7    4269  194984    61.9    87.7    72.2
1991/92           1677*7   143.2  1820.9    17.9   331.6   467.9   609.0   506.2    46.4  1979*0    66.1    91.3    72.7                                       a
1992/93           1794.3   148.2  1942.5    19.0   353*0   496.2   645.2   544.4    49.9  2107*6    70.9    94.2    72.5
19M9Y94           1910.8   153.4  2064.3    20.1   374.2   524*4   681.6   582.6    53.4  2236.3    75.0    97.0    72.1
1994/95           2028.0   158.8  2186.7    21.1   35.6   553.0   718.3   619.5    56.8  2364.3    78.4    99.1    71,2
t995/96           212861   164.3  2m.4    22.1   414*3   57813   750,9   650.7    59.6  2475.9    82.0   101.5    70.4
1996/97           22116   170.1  2381.7    22.9   430.3   600.3   7795   676.4    62.0  2571.4    85.7   104.0    69.7
1997/98           2295.0   176.0  2471.1    23.8   446.3   622.*6    08.3    02.1    64.3  2667.4    89.7   106.7    69.1
19591/9           2378.5   182.2  2560.7    24.6   462,5   645.0   137.4   727.7    66.7  2763.9    95.5   107.7    67.4
9/2000             2461.9   188.6  2650.5    25.5   479.7   667.6   866.8   753.2    69.0  2960.8    97.9   112.4    68.0
2000/01           2503*7   195.2  2698,8    26.1   488.1   681.9   885.8   765,0    70.1  2916.9   102.4   115.7    67.6
2001/02           2591.3   202.0  2793.3    27.0   505.2   705.8   916.8   718    72*6  3019.0   106.2   119.5    67.5
2002/03           2682.0   209.1  20.        27.9   522.9   730.5   948.8   819.5    75.1  3124.7   110.2    23.5    67.3
2O03064           2775n8    716.4  29923    28.9   541.2   756*.1   982,1    #8.2    77.7  3234.1   114.3   127I6    67.2
2004/05           2873.0   224.0  3097.0    29.9   560S1   782.5  1016.4   877.    80.4  3347.3   118.5   131.8    67.1
2005/06           2973.6   231.8  3205.4    30.9   579.7   809,9  1052.0   906M6    83.3  3464.4   122.9   136.2    67.0
She kmtux 4.3 tor incroemntal production and savingsp                                                                                                    to 
Soe Am  5.1 for assuqptions riaWding value of project ouwtuts.
I tPV  3W9Y Rsillion I
s It       51M.           a
__~~........



_ 72 _
NEX 5.6
PAKISTAN
Page 3 of 5
REFIDERY ENERGY CONSERVATION AND NODRNITZATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Captive Power Generation
(in current/nominal Rs oillions)
Power
Cost of                            Generated  Value of            Net      Net
Capital Addit'nl Operating                    6         Power           Benefits Benefits
Year    Costs Fuel Oil  Costs   Total               (10 kWh.)  6enerat   Taxes (nosinal)  (real)
19872/       0.0                        0.0               0.0       0.0               0.0      0.0
1998/89     42U6                       4%.6               0.0       0.0             -42.6    -39.5
1m/90       84.6     13.4      9.3    107.3               27.5    42.0              -65.3   -56.5
1990/1      51.7     28.0      9.7     89.4              55.2      88.4              -1.1     -0.9
1991/92              30.3     10.1     40.4              55.2      91.5     12.6     38.5     30.7
1992/93              32.6     10.4     43.0              55.2      94.7     13.5     38.2     29.4
9M3/94               34.9     10.8     45.7              55.2      98.0     14,5    37.9      28.2
19941M               37.1     11.2     48.2              55.2    101.4      15.5     37.7     27.1
1995/96              38.9     11.6     50.5              55.2    105.0      16.8     37.7     26.2
1996/97              40.5     12.0     52.4              55.2    108.7      18.3     D7.9    25.4
1997/98              42U.C    12.4     54.4              55.2    112.5      19.8    38.2      24.8
1998/99              43.5     12.8     56.4              55.2    116.4      21.4     38.6     24.2
199f/2000             45.1     13.3     58.3              55.2    120.5      23.1     39.0     23.6
2000/01              45.8     13.7     59.5               55.2    124.7     25.3     39.9     23,3
2001/02              47.4     14.2     61.6               55.2    129.1     27.0     40.4     22.8
2002V03              49.0     14.7     63.8              55.2    133.6      28.2     41.6     22.7
2003/04              50.7     15.2     66.0              55.2    138.2      29.4    42.8      22.6
2004/05              52.5     15.8     68.3              55.2    143.1      30.7     44,1     22.5
2005/06              54.4     16.3     70.7              552    148.1    32.0    45.4        22.3
Power is valued at 0#075/kAh#Rs    1.20 /kwh, the current KSEC tarrit level.
See Amnex 4.3 for incremental production and savings.
See Annex 5.1 for assumptions regarding value ot project outputs.
NPVH         60 Rs million I
'      a    20.1           I



- 73 -
ANEX 5.6
PAKISTAN                                          -
Page 4 of 5
REFINERY ENERY CONSERVATION WD IIODERNIZATION PROJECT
FDINCIAL NALYSIS
Platforuer and Hydro-Treater Debottlmucking
(in cutrent/nominal Rs illions)
Cost ot                          U41ue of Inremental Output                            Net      Net
Capital Addit'n15Operating               ---            -     -              Total           Benefits Benefits
Year    Costs Naphthe   Costs  Total                HOSC   C3/C4    C3-           Benefits   Taxes (nonmil)  (real)
1987/88     0.0                       040              0.0     0.0      0.0              0.0              0.0      0.0
1988/89    30.6                      30.6              0.0     0.0      00               0.0            -30.6   -28.4
1989/90    57.7                      57.7              0.0     0.0      0.0              0.0            -57.7   -49.9
19901    4.5    92.2         3.9   139.6             141.3     5.9      7.0            154.1             15S5    12.8
199/92             98.6      4.0   102.6             149.4     6.3      7.6            163.2    20.8    39.8    31.7
1992/93            105.0     4.2   109.1             157.0     6.6      8,1            171.8    22.3    40.4    31.1
1993/94            111.3     4.3   115.6             164,8     7.0      8.7            180.5    23.9    41.0    30.5
1994/95            117.6     4.5   122.1             172.6     7.4      9.3            189.3    25.5    41.7    29.9
1995/96            123.2     4.6   127.8             179.9     7.7      9.7            197.3    27.1    42.4    29.4
I996/97            127.9     4.8   132.7             186.5     8.0    10.1             204.7    28.8    43.2    28.9
1997/98            132,7     5.0   137.7             193.3     8.3    10.5             212.2    30.5    44.0    28.S
1998/99            137.5     5.1   142.7             200.2     8.6    10.9             219.7    32.3    44.8    28.1
199/2000           142U3      5.3   147.7             207.2     8.9    11.3             227.4    34.1    45.7    27.6
2000/01            145.1     5.5   150.6             212.6     9.1    11.4             233.2    35.9    46.7    27.3
2001/02            150.2     5.7   155.9             220.1     9.4    11.8             241.4    37.8    47.6    26.9
200V03             155.5     5.9   161.4             227.8     9.8    12.3             249.8    39.3    49.1    26.8
2003/04            160.9     6.1   167.0             235.8    10o1    12.7             258.6    40.9    50.7    26.7
2004/05            166.5     6.3   172.9             244.0    105    13.1             267.6    42.5    52.3    26.6
2005/06            172.4     6.5   178.9             252.6    10.8    13.6             277.0    44.1    53.9    26.5
See Annex 4.3 for incremental production and savings.
See Annex 5.1 for assumptions regarding value of project outputs.
z NPVa       99Rs million .
V IRR      29.61          u



- 74-
AlX5.6
PAKSTA
page 5 of 5
REIE   ERY CONSERTIN AND NRNZTIN PROJCT
FINANIAL ANALYSIS
Promes Nodification at Lube Unit n
(in current/nominal Rs sillions)
Volum ot
Fuel Oil         Value ot            Not     Not
Capital Operating               Savings          Fuel Oil          sneits  eetits
Year    costs   Costs  Total             (tpy)           Savings    Tme  (rdminal)  (real)
I7/88         0              0.0                0              0.0              0.0      0.0
1989/89    3V,3             37.3                0              0.0            -37.3   -34.5
1989/90    76.6             76,6                0              0.0            -76.6   -66.3
1990/1    40.0              40,0           20.810             44,3              4.4      3.6
1m/92                        0.0           20to10             48.0    12.8    35.1    28.0
1992/93                      0.0           20.810             51,6    15.2    36.4    28.0
1993/94                      0.0           20.910             55.2    17.5   3V.7    29.0
1994/95                      0.0           20.810             58.7    19.8    3.9    27.9
1995/96                      0.0           20810              61.7    21.8    39.8    27.6
1996M97                      0.0           20.810             64.1    23.6    40.5    27.2
17/98                       0o0            20.810             66*5    25.3    41.2    26.7
1998/99                      0.0           20f.10             69.0      7.1    41.9    26.2
199/2000                      0.0           20.810             71.4    28.8    42.5    25.7
2000101                      0.0           2O0910             72.5    29.9    42,6    24.9
2001/02                      0.0           20810              75.0    31.7    43.3    24.4
2002/03                      0.0           20.810             77.7    33.1    44.*6    24.3
2003/04                      0.0           20.810             80.4    34.4    46.0    24.2
2004/05                      0.0           2t0.v              83.2    35.8    47.4    24.1
2005/06                      0.0           2081O              96.1    37.3    48.8    24.0
SOe Annek 4.3 for increamentl production and savings.
See Annex 51 for uSsusptions regarding value of project outputs.
 WtVa       63 Rs  illion I
s Imt a   20.2Z           I



- 75 -
we  6.1
REFIERY NOOIFICATION PROJECT
ASSUMIPTONS UNlELYING ECOOMIC  IANLYSIS
The values ot petrolm  products at Karachi wre arrived at by saking the followig adJiutments to
the torecast internitial c rde pricest
(1) Assue mrgins of product pries to crud  oil ptim   (O$tons)
Crude    LP   Gasoline Naphtha Kerosere  HSD  Fuel Oil   NOMC
Base Case "arqins             -    $36.00   $40.00   $30.50  $30.00  $34.50  (121.50) $85.00
Highet Harmins                -    $60.00   $50.0    $30.50  $50.00  $3S.00  ($10.00)  O5.00
Lowst largtins                -    $20.00  $30.00  ($5.00) $30.00  $20.00  ($30.00) $60.00
ii) ssumed international transport costs
$7.50  t10.00   $10.00  ($10,00) $10.00   $10.00   $10.00  $10.00
(Eorted)
This results in the tolloving valus for crude and products (in contant 1986 US$)
assuming the base case margins?
Projected                 Correspoding Exptd  Value of Products at Karachi
International
Crude Oil Price
Year  (U$/bbl)            Crude    LG  Gasolire Naphtha Kerosene  HSD  Fuel Oil   NOUC
1987/88  $15.50           $119.10  $157.60 $161.60 $132.10 $151.60 $156.10   $W.00 $206.60
1988/8?  $17.20           $131.34  $169.84 $173.84 $144.34  $163.84 $168.34 $112.34 $218.84
1989/90   $17.10          $130.62  $16.12  $173.12 $143.62 $163.12  167.62  $111.62  $218.12
1990/91  $16.90           $129.18  $167.68  $171.68 $142.19  $161.68 $166.18 $110.18 $216.68
1994/95  $19.70           $149.34  $18.84  $191.84 $162.34 $11.84  $186.34  $130.34  $236.84
1999/2000  $26.60          $199.02 $237.52 $241.52 $212.02  $231.52  $236.02  $180.02 $286.52



EpUiUffi KT
Uwle Project
(US$ millions)                   Value of lolits
Value of
Cost of                                    Additiokal Production                   Fuel Oil Va1le ot   Total
Capital Addit'nl Operating-                                                                Savd in    Power   Value of               Net
Year    Costs crude Oil   COst   Total         LPG  Nlaphta  Kerosene   HSO   Fuel Oil   HOBC    Process  Generated Bn?its                 Ben.fits
*198/88       1.9      0.0      0.0       1.9      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0                 -1.9
1988/89      8.S      0.0      0.0       8.5      0.0      0.0      000       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0                 -9.5
1989/90     11.3     65.6      3.0     80.0       0.6     12.0     16.6      21.6     18.4      0.0      2.2      2.1      73.5                 -6.5
199091       3.9     96.6      4.9      95.3      1.1     11.1     22.0      29.5     24.6      6.1      4.5      4.1    102,0                   6.7
19919        o0o     86.6      4.9      91.4      1.1     11.1     22.0      28.5     24.6      6.1      4.5       4.1    102,0                 10.6
1992/93              86.6      4.9      914       1.1     11.1     22.0      28.5     24.6      6.1      4*5      4.1    102.0                  10.6
1993/94              86.6      4.9      91.4      1.1     11.1     22.0      28.5     24.6      6.1      4.5      4.1    102.0                  10.6
1994/95             100.1      5.2    105.2       1.3     12.7     24,7     32.0      29.1      6.6      5.3      4.1    115.8                  10.6
1995/96             100.1      5.2    105.2       1.3     12.7     24,7      32.0     29.1      6.6      5.3      4.1    115.8                  10.6
1996/97             100.1      5.2    105.2       1.3     12.7     24.7     32.0      29.1      6.6      5.3      4.1    115.8                  10.6
19719%              100.1      5.2    105.2       1.3     12.7     24.7     32.0      29VA      6.6      5.3      4.1    11S.8                  10.6
1999/99             100.1      5.2    105.2       1.3     12.7     24.7     32.0      29.1      6.6      5.3      4.1    115.8                  10.6
1992000              133.3      5.8    139.1       1.6     16.6     31.5      40.5     40.1      8.0      7.4      4*1   149.8                   10,6
2000/01             133.3      5,8    139.1       1.6     16.6     31.5      40.5     40.1      8.0      7.4      4.1    149.8                  10.6
2001/02             133.3      5.8    139.1       1.6     16.6     31.5      40.5     40.1      8.0      7.4      4.1    149.8                  10.6
2002/03             133.3      5.8    139.1       1.6     16.6     31.5      40.5     40.1      8.0      1.4       4.1    149.8                 10.6
2003104             133.3      5.8    139.1       1.6     16.6     31.5      40.5     40.1      8.0      7.4       4.1    149.8                 10.6
2004/05             133.3      5.8    139.1       1.6     16.6     31.5      40.5     40i      8s0      7*4      4.1    149.8                  10.6
2005/06             133.3      5.8    139.1       1.6     16.6     31.5     40,5      40.1      8.0      7.4      4.1    149.8                  10.6
NOTES: LPG includes additional C3/C4 produced as a result of platforner debottlenecking.
Naphtha benefits are net of value of additional naphtha used as input to platfomer after debottleneckingq#
Fuel oil benetits include ualue of additional C3- traction trom platforeer.
Fuel oil savings result from reduced energy consumption at crude unit and lube unit,
Operating costs include additional fuel oil consumption due to captive powar generation
I NWV a M49 billion a
a IR     41.92              1



- 77-
ANNEX 6.2
PoAIsTAN
------                                                Page 2 of 5
REFINERY NODIFICATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Crude Unit Balancing a Modernization
(USS milliors)
Value of Benefits
-lue of
cost of                               Additional Production              Fuel Oil  Total
Capital ddit 'nl Operating                    -- ---                              Saved in  Value of    Net
Year     Costs Crude Oil   Costs   Total       LPG   Naphtha  Kerosene   HSD   Fuel Oil Process   Benefits  Benefits
1987/88      1.9      0.0                1.9      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     -1.9
1988/89      2.8      0.0               2.8       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     -2.8
1989/90      2.1     65.6      2.2     69.9       0.6     12.0     16.6     21.6      18.4      2.2     71.4      1.5
190o/91              86.6      2.8     89.4       0.8     15.8     22.0     28.5      24,2      242    935        4.1
191/92               86.6      2.8     89.4       0.8     15.8     22.0     28.5      24.2      2.2     93,5      4.1
1992/93              86.6      2.8      89.4     08      15.8     22.0     28.5      24.2      2.2     93.5      4.1
1M/94                86.6      2.8     89.4       0.8     15.8     22.0     28.5      24.2      2.2     93.5      4.1
1994/95             100.1      2.8    102.9       0.9     18.0     24.7     32.0      28.6      2.6    106.9      4.0
1 M5/96             1001t      2.8    102.9       0.9     18.0     24.7     32.0      28.6      2,6    1069.      4.0
1996/97             100.1      2.8    102.9       0.9     18.0     24.7     32.0      28.6      2.6    106.9      4.0
1997/98             100.1      2.8    102.9       0.9     18.0     24J7    32.0       28.6      2.6    106.9      4.0
1998/99             100.1      2.8    102.9       0.9     18.0     24.7     32.0      28.6      2.6    106.9      4.0
1999/2000            133.3      2.8    136.2       1.2     23.6     31.5    40.5       39.5      3.6    139,9      3.7
2000/01             133.3      2.8    136.2       1.2     23.6     31.5     40.5      39.5      3.6    139.9      3.7
2001/02             133.3      2.8    136.2       1.2     23.6     31,5     40,5      39.5      3.6    139.9      3.7
2002/03             133.3      2.8    136.2       1.2     23.6     31.5     40.5      39.5      3.6    139.9      3.7
2003/04             133.3      2.8    136.2       1.2     23,6     31.5     40.5      39.5      3.6    139.9      3.7
2004/05             133.3      2.8    136.2       1.2     23.6     31.5      40.5     39.5      3.6    139.9      3.7
2005/06             133.3      2.8    136.2       1.2     23,6     31.5     40.5      39.5      3.6    139.9      3.7
Ske  nnex 4.3 for incresental production and savir.s.
See Annex 6.1 for assuaptions regarding value of project outputs.
smEXNUNR mml
N NPV u   *20.5  million   3
IRR :    55,3%              1
mmu mzx



- 78 -
ANNEX 6.2
PAKISTAN
_Page 3 of S
REFINERY NODIFICATION PROJECT
ECONONC ANALYSIS
Captive Power Generation
(USS Billions)
Power
Cost of                             Generated  Value of
Capital Addit'nl Operating                     6          Poer.             Net
Year     Costs  Fuel Oil   Costs   Total             (10 kwh,)  Generated        Benefits
1987/88                                  0.0                0.0      0.0                0.0
1988/89      2.1                         2.1                0.0      0.0               -2.1
19i9/90      4.0      0.7       0.1      4.8               27.5      2.1               -2.8
1990/91      2,0      1.4       0.2      3.6               55.2      4.!                0.5
1991/92                1.4      0.2      1.6               55.2      4.1                2.5
1992/93               1.4       0.2      1,6               55.2      4.1                2.5
993/94                1.4       0.2      1.6               55.2      4.1                2.5
1994/95               1.7       0.2      1.9               55.2      4.1                2.3
1995/96                1.7      0,2      1.9               55.2      4.1                2.3
1996/97               1.7       0.2      t.9               55.2      4.1                2.3
1MM7/98                1.7      0.2      1.9               55.2      4.1                2.3
1998/99               1.7       0.2      1.9               55.2      4.1                2.3
1999/2000              2.4       0.2      2.5               55.2      4.1                1.6
2000/01               2.4       0.2      2.5               55.2      4.1                1.6
2001/02               2.4       0.2      2.5               55.2      4.1                1.6
2002/03               2.4       0.2      2.5               55.2      4.1                1.6
2003/04                2.4      0,2      2.5               55.2      4.1                1.6
2004/05               2.4       0.2      2.5               55.2      4.1                1.6
20f,S/06              2.4       0.2      2.5               55.2      4.1                1.6
Pover is valued at Rs.1,2/AWh,    0.075 /kAh, the current KSEC tarrif level.
See Annex 4.3 for incremental production and savings.
See Annex 6.1 for assumptions regarding value of project outputs.
W NPU a      7.8  million   I
I  IR: 33.n? 
1 Dzuzau3t71ny



- 79 -
ANNEX 6.2
PAKISTAN
- - --                                              Paqe 4 of  S
REFINERY MODIFICATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC NLYSIS
Platformer and Hydra-Treater Debottlenckin4
(MS millions)
Cost of                           Value of Incremental Output
Capital Addit'nl Operatinq                 -      --              -     Total             Net
Year     Costs Naphtha    Costs  Total                HOBC   C3/C4    C3-   Benefits           Benefits
1987/88              0.0      00       0.0 0.0                    0.0      0.0      0.0               0.0
1968/89     2.1      0.0      0.0      2.1               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0              -2.1
19i9/90     2.1      0.0      0.0      2.1               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0              -2.1
1990/91     0.5      4.7      0.4      5.6               6.1      0.3      0.4      6,7               1.1
1991192              4.7      0.4      5.1               6.1      0.3      0.4      6.7                1.6
1992/93              4.7      0.4      5.1               6.1      0.3      0.4      6,7               1.6
19M9/94              4,7      0.4      5.1               6.1      0.3      0.4      6.7               1.6
1994/95              5.4      0.4      5.8               6.6      0.3      0.4      7.4               1.6
1995/96              5.4      0.4      5.8               6.6      0.3      0.4      7.4               1.6
1996/97              5A4      0.4      5.8               6.6      0.3      0.4      7A4               1.6
1997/98              5.4      0.4      5.8               6.6      0.3      0A4      7.4               1.6
1998/99              5.4      0A4      5.8               6.6      0.3      0A4      7.4               1.6
19m/2000              7.0      0.4      7.4              80       0.4      0.6      9.0               1.6
2000/01              7.0       0.4     7.4               8.0      0.4      0.6      9.0               1.6
2001/02              7.0       0.4     7.4               8.0      0.4      0.6      9.0                1.6
2002/03              7.0       0.4     7.4              8a0       0.4      0.6      9.0               1.6
2003/04              7,0      0.4       7.4              8.0      0.4      0.6      9.0               1.6
2004/05              7.0      0.4       7.4              8.0      0.4      0.6      9.0               1.6
2005/06              7.0      0.4       7.4              8.0      0.4      0.6      9.0                1.6
See Anex 4.3 for incremental production and savinqs.
See Amex 6.1 for assumptions regarding value of project outputs.
I NHV       5.7  million   I
x IRR      30.01           1
Mwx2xxUKS IUAU     In1



- 80 -
AE  6.2
P}KISTTY 
Pae 5 of S
REFINERY MODIFICATION PROJECT
ECONIC MALYSIS
Process Modification at Lube Unit I
(USt millions)
Volume of
Fuel Oil          Value of
Capital Operatinq                  Savings           Fuel Oil              Net
year     costs    Costs   Total             (tpy)            Savinqs            Benefits
1987/88                          0                  0               0.0                0.0
1998/89      1.5               1.5                  0               0.0               -1.5
1989/90      3.1               3.1                  0               0.0               -3.1
1990/91      1.4               1.4             20,810               2.3                0.9
1991/92                          0             20,810               2.3                2.3
1992/93                          0             20,810               2.3                2.3
1993/94                          0             204810               2.3                2.3
1994/95                          0             20,810               2.7                2.7
1995/96                          0             20,810               2.7                2.7
1996m7                           0             20,810               2.7                2.7
MY97/91                          0             20,810               2.7                2.7
19mM/9                           0             20,810               2.7                2.7
199/2000                          0             20,810               3.7                3.7
2000/01                          0             20O810               3.7                3.7
2001/02                          0             20,810               3.7                3.7
2002/03                          0             20,810               3.7                3.7
2003/04                          0             20,810               3.7                3,7
2004/05                          0             20,810               3.7                3.7
2005/06                          0             20.810               3.7                3.7
See Annex 4.3 for incremental production and savinrqs,
See Annex 6.1 for assuaptions regarding value of project outpAts.
N NV:   $12.0  million   I
IRR a    39.4Z             x
_ro m       m    ms_NNNI   11-1



- 81 -
ANNEX 6.3
PAKISTAN                                              -
REFR  MODFCATION PRECT
ECNMIC ANALYSIS
Sensitivity Analvsis
I 8ase        I      All        I    Highest      I      Horst      I   Break-Even
I Case        I     Costs       I    Expected    I       Case       I     Case
I             I     Up SOX      I    Margins      I                 I
Whole Project       IRR I   41.9Z    I             ZOX    I          67%    Il /        3% 1          -         I
ilPV  I  $45.9  a. I         $19  a,I         $83  a.I           ($8) . I                  I
crude Unit Blance   IRR  I   55.3X    I            25    I         113Z    I1/   -           I brgins about   I
I Modernization    NPV  I  $205 o  I              $9  at I         $57  . I         ($35) o. I 35% below base  I
Captive Power       IRR  I   33.        1          17i    I         29Z    I 2/        1      I Fuel oil over   I
Plant              NPV  I    W7. oi              $3 a  1           $6 a.s            $3  . I   $225/.1.       1
Platformer          IRR  I   30.0%    I           17Z    I         31Z    I 3/        16Z    I HIDC-Naphtha   I
Debottlenecking    NPV  I   $57  *# 1            $3 a# I          $6 s. 1           $2  a. I margin < $20/mT,I
Lube Unit Process   IRR  I   39.4%    I            27U    I         43%    I 4/       20M     I Fuel oil below  I
Modification      NPV  1  $12.0  b. I           $10 o. 1         $13  at I          $3 at I    $40/aTs        I
NOTES:  1/ At lowest ex ted    rgins (see Annex 6.1)
2/ High oil prices - crude up to $40/bblt fuel oil up to S190/oT.
3/ At lowest expected naphtha-UK  marqin. (Naphtha at 4$30,501 WO  at .$0)
4/ Low oil prices - crude at $10/bbl. fuel oil at $60.50/sT.



- 82-
ANNEX 7.1
PAKISTAN
REFINERY CONSERVATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Documents Available on Project Files
1.   Audited Financial Statements (Annual Reports) of NRL for
FY882/83/84/85/86.
2.   Audited Firancial Statements of PERAC for FYs83/84/85/86.
3.   Audited Financial Statements (Annual Reports) of PRL for FYs83/84/85.
4.   Audited Financial Statements (Annual Reports) of ARL for FYs83/84/85.
5.   Energy Year Book - 1985 prepared by MPNR.
6.   Memorandum and Articles of Association of NRL.
7.   Office Memorandum No. 1 (4) SO (DR)/82 by Ministry of Finance & Economic
Affairs; F.E. Circular nos. 76 and 38 by Slate Bank of Pakistan,
regarding Exchange Risk Coverage.
8.   Draft Final Reports on Petroleum Products Supply Option and
Infrastructure Study prepared by Foster Wheeler Inc., in five volumes,
August 1986.
Vol. 1      Executive Summary
Vol. 2      Demand Analysis
Vol. 3      Refining Technical Evaluation
Vol. 4      Transportation Technical Evaluation
Vol. 5      Evaluation of Strategies
9.   Refinery Subsector Review (unpublished) by Resident Mission in Pakistan -
World Bank, March 1986
10. PC-I Form for Balancing and Modernization of Crude Unit, prepared by NRL,
March 1985.
11. PC-I Form for Captive Power Plant, prepared by NRL, September 1986.
12. PC-II Form for Process Modification of Lube Unit, prepared by NRL, March
1986.
13. PC-II Form for Platformer and Hydrotreater Debottlenecking, prepared by
NRL, March 1986.



MAP SECTION



__           ,                           ,                                 , ,IBRD 19904
64                                                  72-    U SS R
PAKISTAN                                          \                        -i  NA
REFINERY ENERGY CONSERVATION AND                                       >, ,
MODERNIZATION PROJECT                                                
A   PROPOSED NRL PROJECT SITE
jA   EXISTING REFINERIES
jA   REFINERY / HYDROCRACKER
UNDER  CONSIDERATION
-      PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINE(KARACHI / GUJARAT)
0   MAIN INSTALLATIONS                                          horsodoAporo.rwoefe '
o   UPCOUNTRY DEPOTS                                            hero              JAMMU
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                CI dMA,                  D    AND
o   CITIES AND TOWNS                                                    R   c   KASHMIR
-      NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
4+  AIRPORTS                                    '  ob
-32    -  -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                           K
RIVERS                                            ,Io0e
f_ _    r    i w ;           t>dobod   Ay 'i A e. 
A~~~ ~~ F G Hl A                                     IJ I  .l T  tl N 
\                 / ~~~~~~~~~~~D      '   2 g~~~~~~~~~~~~  hin
28-           t                                                                                      8-
SLAAC   j  I C
REPUBL IC OF                                          D /he
IRAN                                                                 0 '  I  '0O    200  3Je    .00
C  5&  'CZ  IS..~15  2XC  ;51
(to    *,    4,\S>Noeobshol,                      '
obderobOd      N
Buleil Ps 0                                      wC.  f   s h  a
t , I  _.  v 
i64-                       6B'                        "1
FEBflUARY 1987



