Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2842 PAK
     (Refinery Energy Conservation and Modernization Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
            STATE PETROLEUM REFINING AND PETROCHEMICAL
                         CORPORATION LTD.
                     Dated September 10, 1987
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2842 PAK
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  10,  1987, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and STATE
PETROLEUM  REFINING  AND   PETROCHEMICAL   CORPORATION  LTD.  (the
Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Islamic  Republic of Pakistan (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  the Project will be largely  carried out by the National
Refinery Limited (NRL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower  will  make available to NRL part
of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     (D)  the  Borrower  intends   to   obtain  commercial  loans/
suppliers'  credits  and  other   funds  in  an  aggregate  amount
Page  2
equivalent to about $2,000,000 to  assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreements to
be entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  commercial and other
sources; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "NRL" means  the  National  Refinery  Limited, a company
established and operating under the Companies Ordinance of 1984;
     (c)  "ENAR-Petrotech" means ENAR  Petroctech Services Ltd., a
company established and operating under the Companies Ordinance of
1984;
     (d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NRL pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (e)  "ECNEC" means the  Executive  Committee  of the National
Economic Council of the Guarantor;
     (f)  "PPIS" means the  Petroleum  Products Supply Options and
Infrastructure Study  commissioned  under  the  Energy Sector Loan
(Loan No. 2552-PAK);
     (g)  "Rs" or "rupees"  means  the  currency of the Guarantor;
and
     (h)  "FY" or  "fiscal  year"  means  the  Borrower's or NRL's
fiscal year covering the period July 1 through June 30.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to twenty-one
million dollars ($21,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
Page  3
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
cause NRL to open and  maintain  in  dollars, a special account in
the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of, the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)    "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
       (ii)    "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
      (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry  out Part C.1 (b) of the
Project and shall cause NRL  to  carry  out the other parts of the
Project, all with due  diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with  appropriate   administrative,   financial   and  engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Bank  and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause NRL
to carry out, the  Project  in  accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall relend  $19,200,000 equivalent out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  NRL under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between  the  Borrower and NRL, under terms and
Page  4
conditions which shall have  been  approved  by the Bank and which
shall include an interest  rate  per  annum  equal to the interest
rate applicable to the Loan at any  given time, a fee equal to the
guarantee  fee  payable  by  the  Borrower  to  the  Guarantor,  a
repayment period of fifteen years including a grace period of five
years, and a provision  that  NRL  shall bear the foreign exchange
risk.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
purposes of the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of the
Project (other than Part C.1 (b)  thereof) shall be carried out by
NRL pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
         Management and Operations of the Borrower and NRL
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs,  and  shall  cause  NRL  to  carry  on  its
operations and conduct its  affairs,  all in accordance with sound
administrative,  financial  and  engineering  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property, and
shall cause NRL at all  times  to  operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other  property,  and  from time to time,
promptly as needed,  make  and  cause  NRL  to  make all necessary
repairs  and  renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound
engineering, financial and refinery practices.
     Section 4.03. The  Borrower  shall,  and  shall cause NRL to,
take out and  maintain  with  responsible  insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to  the  Bank  for,  insurance against such
risks and in such amounts  as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  its  and  NRL's operations and
financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have its and NRL's  records, accounts and financial
               statements (balance  sheets,  statements  of income
               and  expenses  and   related  statements)  and  the
               records and accounts  for  the  Special Account for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
Page  5
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
       (ii)    furnish and cause to  be  furnished  to the Bank as
               soon as available, but  in  any case not later than
               six months after  the  end  of  each such year, (A)
               certified  copies  of   its   and  NRL's  financial
               statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested;
      (iii)    furnish and cause to be  furnished to the Bank such
               other information concerning said records, accounts
               and  financial  statements  as  well  as  the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request; and
       (iv)    without limitation  to  the  foregoing, furnish and
               cause to be furnished  to  the Bank, not later than
               two  months  after   the   end  of  each  semester,
               unaudited accounts  of  the  nature  referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure  that  NRL  will  not incur any debt, if
after the incurrence of such  debt  NRL's  ratio of debt to equity
shall be greater than 70 to 30.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
     (i)     The term "debt" mean any indebtedness of NRL maturing
             by its terms more  than  one  year  after the date on
             which it is originally incurred.
     (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
             contract or agreement  or  other instrument providing
             for such debt or for the modification of its terms of
             payment on the  date  of  such contract, agreement or
             instrument; and (B)  under  a guarantee agreement, on
             the date the  agreement  providing for such guarantee
             has been entered into.
     (iii)   The  term  "equity"  means   the  sum  of  the  total
             unimpaired  paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings and
             reserves  of  NRL  not  allocated  to  cover specific
             liabilities.
      (iv)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
             necessary to value, in  terms  of the currency of the
             Guarantor, debt  payable  in  another  currency, such
             valuation  shall  be  made   on   the  basis  of  the
             prevailing lawful  rate  of  exchange  at  which such
             other currency is,  at  the  time  of such valuation,
             obtainable for the  purposes  of servicing such debt,
             or, in the absence of  such  rate,  on the basis of a
             rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause NRL to maintain a ratio of current assets
to current liabilities of not less than 1.0.
     (b)  Before December 31  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, the
Borrower shall cause NRL,  on  the  basis of forecasts prepared by
NRL and satisfactory to the Bank,  to review whether it would meet
the requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such
year and shall cause NRL  to  furnish  to  the Bank the results of
such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  NRL  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  NRL's fiscal year
Page  6
covered by such  review,  the  Borrower  shall  promptly take, and
shall cause NRL promptly to  take, all necessary measures in order
to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)    The term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts receivable,  marketable securities, inven-
               tories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
               operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
       (ii)    The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
       iii)    The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
       (iv)    Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.04. The Borrower shall cause NRL, by June 30, 1988,
to review  and  discuss  with  the  Bank,  NRL's classification of
short-term debt with a view  to determining whether any portion of
such debt should be reclassified as long-term debt.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  NRL shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that  NRL will be able to
perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NRL or for the suspension of its operations.
     (d)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                     Borrower for  the  financing  of  the Project
                     shall  have  been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                     terminated in whole  or  in part, pursuant to
                     the   terms   of   the   agreement  providing
                     therefor, or
                (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due and
Page  7
                     payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
        (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
                if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
                the Bank that:  (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                termination or prematuring  is  not  caused by the
                failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any of its
                obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
                funds  for  the  Project   are  available  to  the
                Borrower from other  sources  on  terms and condi-
                tions  consistent  with  the  obligations  of  the
                Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (c) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (d) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  ECNEC shall have  approved  the  PC-1 documents required
with respect to the Project; and
     (b)  the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  shall have been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and NRL.
     Section 7.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely,  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or  ratified  by the Borrower and NRL and
is legally binding upon  the  Borrower  and NRL in accordance with
its terms.
     Section 7.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The Chairman  of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          State Petroleum Refining and
            Petrochemical Corporation Ltd.
          P.O. Box 8913
          Merewether Road
          Karachi, Pakistan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               PERAC                             24546-PERAC PK
               Karachi
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ W. P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    STATE PETROLEUM REFINING AND PETROCHEMICAL
                       CORPORATION LTD.
                    By /s/ C. M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and                              100% of foreign
     materials (includ-                         expenditures,
     ing installation                           100% of local
     and related                                expenditures
     services) for:                             (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 70% of local
     (a)  NRL               14,500,000          expenditures for
Page  9
                                                other items pro-
     (b)  the Borrower       1,000,000          cured locally
(2)  Consultants'                               100% of foreign
     services for:                              expenditures
     (a)  NRL                1,000,000
     (b)  the Borrower         500,000
(3)  Training                  500,000          100%
(4)  Unallocated             3,500,000
                           ___________
          TOTAL            21,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$2,000,000,  may  be  made   on   account  of  payments  made  for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to  enable  NRL to: (i)
improve refinery efficiency,  increase  crude processing capacity,
modify the output mix  to  better  match demand, and reduce energy
consumption; and (ii)  strengthen refinery production optimization
and control systems and train staff. The Project will also support
sector-wide objectives, namely,  to  promote  a pricing policy for
refinery products which  would  provide  incentives for efficiency
improvements and economic  investments,  and  to help formulate an
optimal investment program for the  refinery sector for the period
FY88 through FY93.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   NRL Refinery System Modifications
     Carrying out of capacity expansion, operating efficiency, and
energy   conservation   improvements,   including   the  following
measures:
          (i)  balancing and modernization of the crude processing
               unit;
         (ii)  installation of a captive power plant in the second
               lube unit (Lube Unit II);
        (iii)  debottlenecking  of  the  naphtha  hydrotreater and
               platformer unit; and
         (iv)  modification  and  optimization  of  the  lube  oil
Page  10
               refining process to make  the first lube unit (Lube
               Unit I)  more  energy  efficient  and  in line with
               modern technology.
Part B:  Other Efficiency and Operating Improvements
     Carrying out of other  efficiency and operating improvements,
including the provision and installation of:
          (i)  a process simulator and  floating decks for storage
               tanks for the NRL Refinery; and
         (ii)  such facilities as may  be agreed for PERAC's other
               subsidiaries.
Part C:  Technical Assistance, Studies, Training and Research and
Development
1.   Provision of consultants' services to assist in: (a) carrying
out the  Project;  and  (b)  preparing  studies  to  establish the
feasibility and advance the preparation  of future projects in the
petroleum products sector.
2.   Provision of technical and management training for NRL staff.
3.   Provision of research and development facilities for NRL.
          *          *          *          *           *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning December 15, 1992
     through   June 15, 2002                          1,050,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
Page  11
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable: (a)  contracts shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost  the equivalent of $200,000 or more
each; and (b) contracts  for  identical  or similar items shall be
grouped together in the same bid package.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Pakistan may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups of items (i) which are estimated to cost less
than the  equivalent  of  $200,000  per  contract,  or  (ii) whose
delivery periods are  critical  to  the  timely  completion of the
Project, or (iii) whose  need  for compatibility with the existing
equipment would limit  the  availability  of  suppliers,  up to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  the equivalent of $7,500,000, may
be procured under contracts  awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the  basis  of  evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a  list  of  at  least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines,  in  accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Small items, up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not to exceed the
eqivalent of $200,000, may be  procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of  price quotations solicited from a list
of at least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract  referred to in Parts A.1
and C of this  Schedule  and  estimated  to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
Page  12
copies of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d)  shall  be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3,
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  and NRL in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, and shall cause NRL to employ,
consultants whose qualifications, experience  and terms and condi-
tions of  employment  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the  Bank  on  the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of  Consultants  by  World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
Implementation Arrangements
1.   The Project (except for  Parts  B  (ii)  and C.1 (b) thereof)
shall be carried out by  NRL.  The Project Unit of NRL's Technical
Services Department shall have  overall responsibility for project
coordination. ENAR-Petrotech  shall  act  as  Project Managers and
shall assist NRL in  the  preparation  of detailed engineering and
design and  bidding  documents  and  in  the  evaluation  of bids.
Installation shall be  carried  out  largely  by local contractors
under the supervision of NRL staff.
2.   The Borrower shall be  responsible  for  carrying out Parts B
(ii) and C.1 (b)  of  the  Project.  The  Borrower shall make such
arrangements for this  purpose  as  shall  be  satisfactory to the
Bank.
Reporting Requirements
3.   Within 45 days of the end  of each quarter, NRL shall prepare
and furnish  to  the  Bank  a  progress  report  for the preceding
quarter covering, inter  alia,  physical  progress of each project
component,  updated  project  costs,  status  of  procurement  and
disbursements (including from  the  Special  Account), the work of
consultants, and staff training aspects.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories" means Categories (1)(a),
(2) (a)  and  (3)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Page  13
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"  means,  an  amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible expen-
ditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
relevant  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to
replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis  of  a  request  by  NRL  for  a deposit or
deposits which add up  to  the  aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation, the Bank shall,  on  behalf  of NRL, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit  in  the  Special  Account such amount or
amounts as NRL shall have requested.
     (b)  NRL shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment
of the  Special  Account  at  such  intervals  as  the  Bank shall
specify. On the basis  of  such  requests, the Bank shall withdraw
from the Loan Account  and  deposit  into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding  the  amount  of  payments  made  out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by  NRL  out of the Special Account for
which NRL requests replenishment  pursuant  to  paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, NRL shall furnish to  the  Bank, prior to or at the
time of such request,  such  documents  and  other evidence as the
Bank shall reasonably request, showing  that such payment was made
for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by NRL directly from the
               Loan Account in  accordance  with the provisions of
               Article V of  the  General Conditions and paragraph
               (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible  Categories  for  the  parts of the
               Project,  to  which  the  Special  Account relates,
               minus  the  amount   of   any  outstanding  special
               commitment entered  into  by  the  Bank pursuant to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
               to such parts of the Project, shall be equal to the
               equivalent of  twice  the  amount  of  the relevant
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for the  parts  of  the  Project  to  which the Special
Account relates shall  follow  such  procedures  as the Bank shall
specify by notice to NRL.  Such  further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
Page  14
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the  Special  Account  (i)  was made for any expen-
diture or in any amount  not  eligible  pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, NRL shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until NRL has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover  further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures,  NRL shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  refund  to  the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
