Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                           LOAN NUMBER 2842 PAK
     (Refinery Energy Conservation and Modernization Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 10, 1987
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1987, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF  PAKISTAN,  acting  by   its   President  (the  Guarantor)  and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Guarantor  and  the State Petroleum Refinery
and Petrochemical  Corporation  Ltd.  (the  Borrower), having been
satisfied as  to  the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  the Loan Agreement, have requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  intends   to   obtain  commercial  loans/
suppliers'  credits  and  other   funds  in  an  aggregate  amount
equivalent to about $2,000,000 to  assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreements to
be entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  commercial and other
sources; and
     (C)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan  in  various  currencies  equivalent to twenty-one
million dollars ($21,000,000),  on  the  terms  and conditions set
Page  2
forth in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee  the  obligations  of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modification set forth in Section  1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02
of the Loan  Agreement  have  the  respective meanings therein set
forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
the  Guarantor  hereby   unconditionally  guarantees,  as  primary
obligor and not as surety merely,  the due and punctual payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if  any,  on  the  prepayment  of  the  Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions  of  Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
specifically undertakes,  whenever  there  is  reasonable cause to
believe  that  the  funds  available   to  the  Borrower  will  be
inadequate to meet  the  estimated  expenditures  required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide  the  Borrower or cause the Borrower
to be  provided  with  such  funds  as  are  needed  to  meet such
expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. Following further review of the PPIS proposals,
the Guarantor shall, in  consultation  with  the Bank, formulate a
core investment  program  for  the  petroleum  products sub-sector
covering at least the period  FY89  through FY93. To this end, the
Guarantor shall:
     (a)  not later than October  31,  1987,  review with the Bank
the proposed program; and
     (b)  not later than March 31,  1988,  furnish to the Bank the
program as formulated.
     Section 3.02. The  Guarantor  shall  take  timely measures to
implement a  revised  system  of  pricing  refinery products which
would encourage efficiency  improvements  and economic investments
in the refinery sector. To this end, the Guarantor shall:
     (a)  not later than December  31,  1987, review with the Bank
Page  3
the report and recommendations of the Guarantor's Working Group on
Refinery Pricing; and
     (b)  within three  months  of  the  completion  of the review
under (a) above,  review  with  the  Bank the Guarantor's proposed
revised  refinery  pricing   system,   including   the  plans  for
implementation.
     Section 3.03. The Guarantor  shall  ensure that, in the event
that foreign  exchange  risk  coverage  shall  be  provided by the
Guarantor  to  the  Borrower  or  NRL,  the  arrangements  for the
provision  of  such  coverage,  including  the  level  of  premium
applicable to it, shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The  Secretary  to  the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs  Division,  or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or  Section Officer in that Division,
of the Guarantor is designated  as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               ECONOMIC                        ECDIV-05-634
               Islamabad
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                     By /s/ C. M. Afzal
                                       Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  4
                     By /s/ W. P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
