PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                   AWorld Froc of Povcrty
1nfoShop
11c W.4d lik
Report No AB82
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Na'ime             AFRICA-Reversing Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Niger River
Basin
Region                     Africa Regional Office
Sector                     Central government administration (80%); General agriculture; fishing and
forestry sector (10%); General water; sanitation and flood protection sector
(10%)
Project ID                 P0702556
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                NIGER BASIN AUTHORITY(NBA)
Implementing Agency        NRB GEF TASK FORCE
Address                    Address B P 729 Niamey, Niger
Contact Person Mohammad Bello Tuga
Tel (227) 72 29.62   Fax. (227) 72 42 08    Email abnsec@intnet ne
United Nations Development Program
Address UNDP-GEF One United Nations Plaza New York, New York
Contact Person Abdoulaye Ndiaye
Tel 011 221 849 17.78   Fax 1 212 906 6362      Email:
abdoulaye ndiaye@undp org
The World Bank
Address World Bank 1818 H St, NW Room J 11-113
Washington, DC 20433, U S A
Contact Person. Tracy Hart
Tel 1 202 458.7465    Fax 1 202 473 8249     Email
thart@worldbank.org
Environment Category       B
Date PID Prepared          May 14, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date        September 19, 2003
Bank Approval Date         May 6, 2004
1. Country and Sector Background



2
PID
Regional Context The economic, social, and environmental well being of the Basin countries depends
upon the vitality and productivity of the Basin. During the Project preparation process, a better
understanding of the Basin's hydrologic, environment, and socio-economic parameters, and the sectors
issues affecting the Basin, were identified. This understanding contributed to the formulation of the
Project design. In addition, by complementing and building on existing projects in the Basin, the GEF
Project focuses on the increment needed to integrate management of the Basin's land and water
resources. It forms part of the concurrent development of the Strategic Shared Vision and Sustainable
Development Action Plan (SDAP) for the Basin.
Hydrological Environmental Context. The Niger River is the 3rd longest river in Africa at 4,200 km with
2
an average annual flow of 180 km'. Its Basin covers 2.2 million km spread over nine countries - Benin,
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, C6te d'lvoire, Guinea, Mali, Niger, and Nigeria. The hydrologically
active part of the Basin is approximately 1.5 million lkm The Niger River rises in the Fouta Djallon
Highlands in Guinea, and before it enters the Inner Delta in Mali its average annual flow is 45 km3. Its
main tributary is the Benue, which rises in Cameroon, confluences in Nigeria. Though the Benue
contributes 50 percent of the Niger's flow, the hydrological significance across the Basin is lower as it
only flows through one country before joining the Niger River, Annex 13, the Project Map, illustrates tihe
physical characteristics of the Basin. The Basin encompasses several climatic zones, and can be divided
into four distinct hydro-geographic sub-systems the Upper Niger, the Inner Delta (in Mali), the Middle
Niger, and the Lower Niger.
Socio-Economic Context The Basin population is young and growing, with 44% under 15 years and
growth rates just less than 3%. The economic implications of this population composition are huge. The
population is concentrated along the Niger River and its tributaries for whom it is socio-economically,
environmentally, and therefore politically important. A circular relationship between poverty and
environmental degradation characterizes this region, particularly in the more arid Sahelian zones on the
northern margins of the Basin. Regional poverty is a severe limiting factor and compromises the ability
of the countries to invest in costly yet necessary state of the environment monitoring. The human
pressures on the resource base include deforestation, bush burning, and unsustainable agricultural
practices. This combination of increased human pressure and drought then exacerbates desertification
and the cycle continues.
Key Sector Issues. The NBA has been involved in a number of diagnostic studies, which formed the basis
for the Project design. During Project preparation a number of transboundary issues were identified that
contribute to the degradation of the Basin's resource baseThe preliminary transboundary analysis
included a review of the threats, root causes. Key sector issues include: (iiadequate land and
water management frameworks, institutional capacity and policies to manage resources, (ii) degradation
of renewable resources, (iii) inadequate information and data to support decisions, (iv) energy related
issues; and (v) impacts from dams. During the Project the Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TDA)
will be further detailed to be more inclusive, to include the remaining four countries, will then be used to
prepare the basin-wide Strategic Action Programme (SAP). The SAP will further identify basin-wide
priority concerns and actions, necessary for promote sustainable land and water management of the Niger
River Basin.
Strategic Shared Vision and Sustainable Development Action Plan (SDAYiRder the broader
international waters work being carried out by the World Bank in the Niger Basin, there is significant
emphasis on enhancing existing capacity at the national and regional level. The Niger Basin countries
are developing a SDAP for the Niger River Basin. Whereas the GEF Project's SAP will focus on



3
PID
managing the Basin's environment, the SDAP will deal with the broader issues of multi-sector
sustainable development in the Basin The SAP and the SDAP can be managed as complementary
processes, for which the SAP is a natural precursor, the GEF TDA/SAP is identifying, characterizing and
prioritizing water-related, environmental issues and sectors across the Niger River Basin member states,
as well as developing a framework for environmental management for all development in the Basin. The
SDAP will envelope all possible sector, both those with environmental externalities, as well as those not
before captured by the SAP process, and will build on the environmental management framework
developed for the SAP.
Key Policy and Institutional Reforms supported by the ProjecFhe Project will strengthen existilg
regional and national institutions in order to design and implement policies to sustainably develop the
Basin's resources. Part of the strengthening process will be to ensure activities happen at the most
appropriate level (subsidiarity). At the regional level, this will allow the Basin's regional institution, the
Niger Basin Authority (NBA), to better serve its member countries by facilitating the Basin's
development. This will be in line with its long-term objective "to promote cooperation among the
member countries and to ensure integrated development in all fields". At the local level, the principle of
subsidiarity will engage community-based organizations in the decision-making process, and in tackling
the Basin's priority issues.
2. Objectives
The GEF Project development objective is to develop and implement sustainable measures for reversing
trends in land and water degradation through collaborative decision-making in the Niger River Basin
The World Bank development objective, for the World Bank managed components, is to strengthen NBA
project execution and data management capacities as well as formalize consultative processes for
basin-level environmental planning to contribute to the reversal of land and water degradation in the
Niger River Basin.
The development objective supports the nine Basin countries in their efforts to work together to assure
the sustainable development and management of the Basin's land and water resources, including
protection of its unique dryland environment and associated biodiversity.  Identified through the
preliminary TDA, these elements are transboundary in nature and clearly transcend national capacities
and priorities, and require financial and technical resources beyond those that can be mobilized by each
riparian singly. The concurrent development of the SDAP with the SAP will help identify the linkages
with the national and transboundary priorities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Joint implementation by UNDP and the World Bank harnesses each agency's comparative advantage for
the benefit of the Basin countries, as has been the experience in other, GEF international waters Projects
in Sub-Saharan Africa, notably in Lake Chad, Nile and Senegal. UNDP brings its on-the-ground
presence, close partnership with governments, capacity building experience and working with
community-based organizations through the GEF Small Grants Program (SGP). The Bank brings
in-depth technical analysis, convening power and access to the international financial markets. In
addition, both organizations have ongoinlg GEF international waters and other programs and Projects in
the region, which form the baseline for the GEF Project. Their joint involvement will facilitate closer
coordination with these ongoing activities, especially the broader shared vision work supported by the
Bank.
4. Description



4
PID
The NBA's request for this Project builds on a number of donor-supported activities which have often
occurred in isolation of each other and the cumulative benefits undervalued. Project preparation
provided an opportunity to begin identifying the root causes of resource degradation while beginning to
identify coordination mechanisms for future development in the Basin amongst the nine riparian
countries, which have expressed their support for the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Project,
through letters of endorsement. Extensive consultations occurred during Project preparation at the
regional, national, and local level in five (Benin, Guinea, Mali, Niger and Nigeria) of the nine Basin
countries. The Project will extend these consultations to the remaining countries in completing the
preliminary TDA, and SAP to the remaining four countries. The Project is designed to address the Basin
priorities, addressing transboundary issues, improving land and water resources management and
strengthening capacity as identified in the preliminary TDA. The GEF Project will collaborate with other
initiatives internal and external to the in the Niger Basin. Intra-Basin the Project will complement the
broader international waters work the nine Basin countries are undertaking assisted by the World Bank.
Therefore, the GEF Project will focus on the environmental aspects of managing the Niger River Basin.
The Project is anticipated to be a single phased Project of GEF US$13 million spread over six
components. To present a full overview the PID identifies both the World Bank and United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) managed components in which the respective responsibilities have been
clearly differentiated:
*   Component I Project Management (US$1.5 million, World Bank).This component will augment
regional, national, and local institutional capacity in all nine-Basin countries to manage and
implement regional Projects. Existing institutions will be strengthened primarily at the local level to
implement the Project. To support regional and national Project implementation, core personnel in
existing institutions at the regional and national level will receive further training on Project
management (procurement, disbursement, project cycles and implementation process etc). It is
anticipated that a core group of specialists will be built within regional and national institutions that
are experienced in managing regional environmental Projects.
*   Component 2: Capacity Building (US$1 5 million, UNDP): Effective consultation and coordination
at the local, national and regional level is an essential precondition for the successful formulation and
implementation of an integrated Basin management plan. This presents a prime opportunity for GEF
support to help clarify policy and institutional liikages to achieve coordinated management of the
functions to be performed by the NBA. The GEF Project will augment the current capacity building
in two ways - by focusing primarily on the environmental aspects of Basin management, and by
including local organizations in the capacity building programme. It is anticipated that these local
organizations will also be involved in managing and implementing the TDA/SAP process and the
microgrants. The training courses will include: sharing best practices in land and water management
(especially on priority themes identified), involving stakeholders in decision-making, design and
implementation of microgrant supported interventions and raise awareness on the transboundary
environmental issues.
*   Component 3: Data management(US$2.0 million, World Bank):This component's objective is to
enable the riparians to build a robust partnership to manage water and environment data and thus
enhance knowledge of the Basin. It will also draw on the work being done in Guinea as part of the
GEF Project in the Senegal River Basin to establish an information system framework for improved
data collection and data exchange and monitoring mechanisms established in all nine countries.
Though good water management needs knowledge of existing water and environmental conditions,
collecting raw data by itself is insufficient to solving the Basin's problems. It is essential to use the



5
PID
data to inform decision-making, which is only possible if it is shared with policy decision-makers
across the Basin. Therefore, it is important to set up procedures and protocols that ensure data
compatibility, processing, and dissemination and promote a mutual understanding between the
riparian countries, and the decision-makers. The component activities will strengthen the technical
capacity of the Basin institutions.
*   Component 4: Regional Forun(US$0.5 million, UNDP). This component will facilitate the
exchange of lessons learned and Basin management best practices in regional Projects in
Sub-Saharan Africa. A Working Group will draw together lessons from other GEF River and Lake
basin projects in Africa (such as Senegal River, Lake Chad, Volta Basin, Okavango, Lake
Tanganyika, Lake Victoria, and Lake Malawi), and other projects in the region and prepare the
Forum's agenda and arrange for papers to be presented along agreed to priority themes. Following
on from the GEF project in the Senegal Basin, NBA will hold an Africa Regional Forum. The Forum
will serve to encourage the establishment of links to other regional Projects and networks. With
guidance from the two GEF Implementing Agencies and support from the regional Public
Participation and Information Expert, the Regional Program Coordinator will organize the Africa
Regional Forum hosted in Niamey by the NBA Executive Secretariat.
*   Component 5: Demonstrating Chiange in thte Niger Basin-Microgrant supported interventions
(US$5.0 million, UNDP) Component 5 is strategically designed to (i) provide a mechanism to
support community-based interventions and improve livelihood's at the local level, while also
providing opportunities to exchange, through training, know-how the lessons learned at the national
and local levels, (ii) continue to draw on the issues and actions identified through the TDA/SAP
process providing communities opportunities to assume control and authority over decisions and
resources, and (iii) promote ownership and care of local assets and resources. Most importantly,
however it will also provide a platform, for lessons learned, on good management practices in the
Basin, providing a valuable asset in the SAP resource management framework for future
interventions and investments in the Basin. Component 5 the microgrant-supported Demonstration
Program themes together with the community-based interventions will be based on the principles of
the GEF-Small Grants Program (GEF-SGP) which has local community based experience to a range
of applicants, and through the public information and outreach program hopes to target those
communities and stakeholders within the immediate context of the project design and project
objectives The GEF-SGP has been successful in successfully implementing projects and disbursing
funds, which this Project hopes to build-on and replicate.
*   Component 6: TDA and SAPPreparation (US$2.5 million, World Bank). This component will work
in complement to the broader international waters work which is developing a Basin-wide SDAP
through in-depth consultations that will lead to large multi-sector investments. Consequently, the
SAP being developed under the GEF Project will focus primarily on the environmental aspects. In
finalizing the TDA, the component activities will complete an in-depth identification and analysis of
environmental problems and issues throughout the Basin and their linkages with transboundary
dynamics. The sources of the problems, their impacts on the natural and human environments as
well as their root causes will be assessed and prioritized in order to highlight the most affected areas
in the Basin and the transboundary priorities which need to be addressed as a result. As noted
earlier, a preliminary TDA was done in the five main stem riparian countries of the Niger Basin
(Benin, Guinea, Mali, Niger and Nigeria), and this effort will be extended to the remaining four
riparian countries - Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad and Cote d'lvoire, to complete the TDA and
develop a comprehensive understanding of the priority transboundary issues, threats to the Basin, and
root causes, which then will be the basis for preparing the SAP. Both the TDA and SAP will serve as



6
PID
critical documents to improve environmental management in the Basin; introduce relevant
environmental protection policies; provide opportunities innovative community-based microgrant
funded investments; and inform the public on the issues in the Basin. The SAP, will be a strategic
document for decision makers for future actions and investments in the Basin.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT         $2.14
IBRD
IDA
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK $10.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY              $13.68
NETHERLANDS, GOV. OF THE (EXCEPT FOR MOFA/MIN.OF DEV.COOP.)                $3.94
NORWAY: NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEV. COOP. (NORAD) $0.16
UN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME $0.26
WORLD WILDLIFE FUND        $0.11
Total Project Cost         $30 28
6. Implementation
The Project is primarily a capacity building effort to strengthen the regional, national, and local
institutional and decision-making capacity. The Project's implementation arrangements are currently
being developed and will be finalized during the Project preparation process. The anticipated
implementation arrangements for the regional, national and local institutions are outlined below and the
institutional responsibilities will be further developed:
Regional Level Implementation
*   NRB-PTF. In assisting in the facilitation of Project's implementation the Niger River Basin Project
Task Force (NRB-PTF), will be the primary decision-making body and serve in a technical and
institutional advisory capacity, during the implementation and review of Project activities. Proposed
Task Force members would include the NBA Executive Secretariat as the Chair, high level
government representatives from participating countries, the Executing Agency, any other (major)
donors to the Project. The UNDP, WB will participate in an observer status.
*   NBA. Given the NBA's mandate "to promote cooperation among the member countries and to ensure
integrated development in all fields", it will undertake a more facilitative role as an executing agency
during this Full Project rather than serve as a traditional executing agency. The NBA Executive
Secretariat will be the lead counterpart agency on behalf of the member states that will host the
implementation of this Project. The NBA is responsible for ensuring that all GEF funded activities
are carried out in compliance with the Project's design, and the performance and monitoring
indicators outlined in the Project Logical Framework. The Project will comply with monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) procedures as based upon the lAs' institutional guidelines and ensure compliance
with social and environmental safeguards.
*   Executing Agency On behalf of the NBA Executive Secretariat, the Executing Agency will be
responsible for executing the Project and supporting NBA Executive Secretariat in ensuring that the
management and administrative elements of Project implementation are successfully achieved at the
regional, national and local levels.The Executing Agency will contract the Technical Services Unit
(TSU) for in the field management and project administration.
*   TSU. The TSU will be co-located at the NBA and work closely with the NBA Executive Secretariat
and Executing Agency.    The TSU will be responsible for the Project administration and



7
PID
management, reporting on Project progress, financial management, procurement and disbursement,
and managing Project budget and accounts.
*   Implementing Agencies. UNDP and the World Bank are the co-implementing agencies for this
Project.
*   SAC.   Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC), composed of technical specialists, institutional
specialists, and other relevant experts who will assure the scientific quality and standard of project
implementation and reporting.
* NBA Council of Ministers. The NBA Council of Ministers will provide guidance for issues related to
the River Basin, approve strategic actions by supporting the NRB-PTF, and discuss when needed
specific issues pertaining to Basin management. The NBA Council of Minister's members are
representatives from the water resources and related ministries. The NBA Council of Ministers
reports to the Heads of State in each country.
National Level Implementation
*   NPCU    The Project will support the establishment of the National Project Coordinating Units
(NPCU). The NPCU's will be established in each countries building on appropriate existilg
institutions or establishing new ones as needed.
*   NBA-NFPC. The NBA National Focal Point Committees (NBA-NFPC) already established in each
country will act in an advisory capacity for Project implementation at the national level, will provide
technical advise, and assist in facilitating as needed.
Local Level Implentetation
* Local community-based implementation unitsFollowing the principle of subsidiarity,
community-based organizations would be involved in the decision-making and implementation
process, and in tackling the Basin's priority issues. At the local level, working closely with the
NPCU and the Local Coordinating Committees, these local community-based implementation units
(NGOs community-based organizations) will be key in educating the local community on the
specifics of local level component activities, and the micro-grant supported demonstration programs.
*   Local Coordination Committees The Local Coordination Committees will serve in an advisory
capacity for Project implementation. The LCCs will coordinate with the NPCU, NBA-NFPC, and
the TSU during Project implementation.
7. Sustainability
Financial Sustainability. The Basin countries' financial commitment is largely reflected through their
NBA contributions, current donors, UNDP's and the World Bank's ongoing work in country projects,
which form the baseline for this intervention. Most importantly, national water policy reform work as
integrated into an overall regional policy development process, and as part of the SDAP, will further
consolidate and strengthen the long-term financial sustainability of the present intervention. In addition,
a number of donors are actively supporting work in the Niger River Basin either through the riparian
countries or the NBA.
Government Commitment. The Basin countries' commitment to cooperatively managing the Niger River
Basin is evidenced by their request to UNDP and the World Bank for assistance in strengthening their
joint management mechanisms. With specific regard to the GEF Project, the Basil countries that
participated explicitly in the design worked well together during the preparation process.  The
involvement of national officials' in organizing national and regional workshops, workgroups, and
steering committees has been extensive and consistent. The intent of the Project is to strengthen regional



8
PID
collaboration, which is essential for reduction of tensions, to foster exchange of knowledge, skills, and
know-how, and provide a conducive environment for donor support.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learnt from other GEF International Waters Projects and non-GEF Projects were included in the
Project's design. The principal lessons are:
6      Project design lessonsUnrealistic project planning, schedules, and assumptions are
commonplace. Top down planning occurs without accounting for the beneficiaries' needs. The use of
inappropriate technologies, lack of markets or access to markets, competition from abroad, lack of local
capacity, lack of training in necessary techniques etc. Supervision, monitoring, and evaluation have at
times been inadequate. National activities have not always taken into account the potential impacts on
their neighbors. Activities such as establishing wildlife reserves of global significance have not always
involved or been adequately understood by the local communities; more effort is needed to ensure there
are local benefits as well as global benefits from any further developments.
a      Sustainability and participation. Though community-based development can be time-consuming;
it can be very successful in directly addressing priority issues. Therefore, engage local communities
through access to micro-finance whether as grants or credit and evidence of local ownership would be
cost recovery and retention for sustainability. In other words, to involve the beneficiaries in design,
implementation and evaluation of Projects on the ground.
a      Demonstration of best practices for integrated land and water managemeQuccessful water
resources management depends on good land management practices since a watershed's elements are
inter-related. Hence, to optimize management of the Basin, actions need to be coordinated basin-wide
and in concert with the skills and culture of the different peoples living throughout the Basin.
Demonstration of innovative, locally-appropriate and cost-effective best practices are an effective way to
disseminate best practices for community adoption and replication through micro-finance.
*      Institutional capacity. The challenge is to bring about effective implementation, to ensure
sustainability and to achieve benefits for the most needy. It is particularly difficult, but even more
necessary when dealing with regional-scale issues and a regional organization. Without improved
capacity for management, additional interventions are at risk and are unlikely to achieve the desired
benefits. Hence, the Project includes strengthening regional, national, and local institutional capacity
building.
a      Monitoring and evaluation. The GEF International Waters conference in 2002 was attended by
team members and several important lessons were highlighted including the importance of ensuring a
stronger and more participatory monitoring and evaluation component, including the collection of
baseline data within that monitoring and collection component; and the inclusion of the local scientific
academic and research community into the Project so as to close the 'loop' on scientific data underpinning
of environmental and hydrological decision-making.
a      Partnership. Building broad partnerships among and within the riparian countries and with
NGOs, international agencies and donors is essential for a coordinated process and to support the
long-term sustainability of the shared resource base. The challenge, therefore, becomes to help foster an
environment of trust, equity, and dialogue within which all stakeholders can jointly pursue their common
and cooperative development aspirations.



9
PID
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
The proposed GEF Project is primarily an institutional capacity building effort to support sustainable
environmental management of the Niger River Basin's environmental resources. In terms of issues the
preliminary TDA identified the environmental issues ranging from deforestation and land degradation in
the upper Basin, to water quality and health issues from the proliferation of invasive species in the lower
Basin. Implementing the Project's component activities will strengthen regional, national, and local
institutional capacities and provide a better understanding the benefits of good management practices,
enabling the range of stakeholders from regional decision-makers to rural communities address targeted
priority issues.
The Environmental Management Plan is in the form of an Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF). The ESMF identifies a coherent, logical, understandable process, within the
principles of community drive development, for sustainable environmental management at the local level,
and nationally it provides a mechanism for a cumulative assessment of micro- activities in a broader
scale.  The ESMF together with the Microgrant Program Operational Manual will be the tools for
environmental and social screening.
10. List of factual technical documents:
- Reversing Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Niger River Basin, GEF Project Brief, UNDP
World Bank
- Reversing Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Niger River Basin, Project Concept Document,
World Bank
- Reversing Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Niger River Basin, Integrated Safeguards Data
Sheet (Initial submission)
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Tracy Hart, Senior Economist and Co-Task Team Leader (with UNDP)
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone 202-458-7465
Fax: 202-473-8249
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax.   (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank org/rnfoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



10
PID
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending    03/26/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SLAC        =    FEDUACK    =      r M           SHOWCASE       go



