                                 GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053233




        Global Environment Facility
        Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Reversing Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Niger River Basin Project)

                            between
                    MGER BASIN AUTHORITY
                              and
            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                      AND DEVELOPMENT
     acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility




                    Dated :5aL.y      I(.4	         , 2004
                                            GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053233


                           GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
                           TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT, dated	                             / I/ 1
INTERNATIONAL BANK FO CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
                                                                 ))	                2004, between

acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (hereinafter referred to as
the GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the
Bank as participants of the GEF and NIGER BASIN AUTHORITY (the Recipient), an
international body created by the Convention referred to in Section 1.02(d) of this Agreement.

       WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic
development;

        (B)      following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in place on
the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the
Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);

         (C)     the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis set
forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution
No. 98-2);

         (D)    the countries signatories to the Convention Creating the Niger Basin Authority
executed by Republics of Benin, Cameroon, Chad, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Mali, Niger, the
Federal Republic of Nigeria, and Burkina Faso of the 21st day of November 1980 (the Member
Countries), having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested assistance from the resources of
the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said request having been approved in
accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured
Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from
contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds
carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;

        (E)      each of the Member Countries has addressed a letter to the Bank, confirming
their commitment to the objectives of the Project and to its implementation, and that the GEF
funds available for financing the Project may be allocated directly to the Recipient, in accordance
with the terms and conditions of this Agreement;

        (F)	    the Recipient intends to contract from the United Nations Development
Programme, the African Development Bank, the Government of the French Republic, and
various other donors (hereinafter referred to as the Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an aggregate
amount equivalent to the amount of approximately twenty-nine million Dollars to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (hereinafter referred to
as the Cofinancing Agreements) entered into between the Recipient and the Cofinanciers; and
                                                 -2-




      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

       NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                             ARTICLE I

                                 General Conditions; Definitions

        Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank for Currency Pool Loans, dated January 1, 1985, (as
amended through October 6, 1999) with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

               (i)       Article I;

               (ii)      Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (16), (17)
                         and (19), 2.02 and 2.03;

               (iii)     Section 3.01;

               (iv)      Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;

               (v)       Article V;

               (vi)      Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;

                (vii)    Section 8.01 (b);

                (viii)   Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;

                (ix)     Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;

                (x)      Article XI; and

                (xi)     Sections 12.01 (a) and (c), 12.03 and 12.04.

        (b)	    The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:

                (i)      the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in
                         Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in
                         Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing agency
                         of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also
                         include the Bank acting in its own capacity;

                (ii)     the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means
                         the Recipient;
                                              -3-


                (iii)   the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General Conditions,
                        means this Agreement;

                (iv)    the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General Conditions,
                        means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;

                (v)     the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions,
                        means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and

                (vi)    a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (k) in Section 6.02 of
                        the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation shall
                        have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund
                        Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the
                        GEF."

        Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

        (a)     "Basin" means the Niger River Basin;

        (b)     "Convention" means the Convention of the 21 51 day of November 1980 creating
the Niger Basin Authority executed by the Member Countries, as amended;

         (c)     "Environmental and Social Management Framework" means the Environmental
Management Plan dated March 3, 2004, for guidance and mitigation of environmental and social
impacts of the Niger River Basin Project, setting out mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and
institutional measures to eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or
reduce them to acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts;

        (d)      "Financial Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

        (e)     "Fiscal Year" means the Recipient's fiscal year commencing on January 1 and
ending the following December 31;

       (f)      "Local Coordination and Monitoring Committee", or "CLCS" Cornite Local de
Coordination et de Suivi means the Committee to be established at local level in each Member
Country under the project and as appropriate for the needs and requirements of the project;

        (g)      "Manual of Procedures" means the manual of operational and administrative
procedures including financial, accounting and auditing procedures to be adhered to in carrying
out the project, the project implementation plan (as hereafter defined) setting forth reporting
mechanisms at regional, national and local levels as the same may be amended from time to time
with the approval of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules and amendments to said
Manual of Procedures;

        (h)     "Monitoring and Evaluation Plan" means the plan defining monitoring and
evaluation procedures using Bank and UNDP guidelines, as the same may be amended from time
                                             -4-


to time with the approval of the Bank, and such term includes any schedules and amendments to
said Plan;

         (i)    "Microgrant Operational Manual" means the manual providing guidance for the
carrying out of the projects to be financed by microgrants through UNDP exclusively, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules and amendment
to said manual;

        (j)     "National Project Team" or "ENP" means the Equipe Nationale de Projet or
National Project Team to be established in each Member Country under the project;

        (k)	     "National Steering Committee" or "CNP" means the Comite National de
Pilotage to be established in each Member Country;

                "NBA" means the Niger Basin Authority, established by the Convention;

        (m)     "Programs" Management and Coordination Unit, PMCU (Unite de gestion et de
coordination des prograrnmes, UGCP) means the unit in the Secretariat of the Recipient to be
maintained in accordance with paragraph 2 in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

        (n)     "Project Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the Project Implementation
Manual to be adopted by the Recipient, pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement
containing detailed arrangements regarding the implementation of the Project, operational
procedures, setting forth reporting mechanisms at the regional and national levels, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank, and such term includes any
schedules and amendments to the Project Implementation Manual;

        (o)      "Regional Steering Committee" or "RSC" (Comite regional de pilotage, CRP)
means the committee chaired by the Executive Secretary of the Recipient, including two
representatives from each of the Member Countries and two staff of the Recipient;

        (p)     "Strategic Action Program" means the strategic program that defines priority
environmental actions identified from the transboundary diagnostic analysis to be implemented
by the Recipient and its Member Countries;

      (q)       "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this
Agreement;

        (r)     "UNDP" means the United Nations Development Programme; and

      (s)	  "UNOPS" means the United Nations Office for Project Services, executing the
UNDP components on behalf on UNDP.

                                        ARTICLE II

                                 The GEF Trust Fund Grant

        Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to six million United States Dollars (US$6,000,000.00).
                                                -5-


        Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.

        (b)	    The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in United
States Dollars a separate special deposit account in the Central Bank of West African States
based in the Republic of Niger on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

         Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2009 or such later date as the Bank
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.

                                           ARTICLE III

                                     Execution of the Project

         Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and
environmental practices and with due regard to ecological and biodiversity protection factors,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

        (b)	   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and
except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                 Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall carry out all actions required under the
Environmental and Social Management Framework to mitigate and compensate for the impacts
that have been identified therein in accordance with the timetable set forth.

         (b)	     The Recipient shall ensure that microgrants will not be included in the Project if
they would either: (i) cause the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of
livelihood, whether or not the affectedpersons must move to another location; (ii) cause the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in
adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons; or (iii) adversely affect other
riparians' possible water use or adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to the
other riparians.
                                                -6-


         Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:

       (a)       prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and

        (b)     afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient
on said plan.

                                           ARTICLE IV

                                       Financial Covenants

        Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a form
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to
the Project.

        (b)	    The Recipient shall:

                (i)       have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in
                          paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special Account for
                          each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                          principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                          Bank;

                 (ii)     furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
                          months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the
                          financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) above for such year as
                          so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts,
                          and which is included in the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                          such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                          requested; and

                 (iii)	   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records,
                          accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
                          from time to time reasonably request.

       (c)	    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:

                 (i)      maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                          this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

                 (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report
                          for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund
                          Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                          receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
                                                -7-


                (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and

                (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit
                         referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.

        Section 4.02. (a) The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which:

                (i)      sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively
                         and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds
                         provided under the Trust Fund Grant, and explains variances between
                         the actual and planned uses of such funds;

                (ii)     describes physical progress in Project implementation, both
                         cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains
                         variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and

                (iii)	   sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the
                         period covered by said report.

        (b)	     The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end
of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.

                                           ARTICLE V

                                      Remedies of the Bank

        Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:

         (a)      a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Convention
or a significant part thereof shall be respected;

        (b)     (i)	     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the Recipient
                         to withdraw the proceeds of the Cofinancing shall have been suspended,
                         canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of any
                         of the Cofinancing Agreements.

                (ii)	    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient
                         establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:

                         (A)     such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                                 caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its
                                 obligations under such agreement; and

                         (B)     adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient
                                 from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
                                 obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.
                                              -8-


                                        ARTICLE VI

                                 Effectiveness; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

        (a)    the Recipient has recruited key staff for the Programs' Management and
Coordination Unit, PMCU (Unite de gestion et de coordination des programmes, UGCP),
including the Regional Coordinator, Project Financial Officer, and Procurement Specialist, and
for the nine National Project Teams, including the National Coordinators and national
Accountant Assistants; pursuant to Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;

        (b)     the Recipient has adopted a Manual of Procedures and PIM, in form and
substance acceptable to the Bank;

          (c)    the Recipient has appointed independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01(b)
(i) of this Agreement, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;

        (d)     the administrative and financial system for the Project is satisfactory to the
Bank;

        (e)     the Recipient has appointed an internal auditor; and

        (f)     the Recipient's Council of Ministers has approved the Project.

        Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

       Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations
hereunder.
                                                -9-


                                          ARTICLE VII

                             Representative of the Recipient; Addresses

        Section 7.01. The Executive Secretary is designated as representative of the Recipient for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

       Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of
the General Conditions:



        For the Recipient:

                NIGER BASIN AUTHORITY
                Post Office Box 729
                NIAMEY, NIGER

                Telephone:	               (227) 72 31 02

                Facsimile:	               (227) 72 42 08



        For the Bank:

                International Bank for
                Reconstruction and Development
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable address:	                  Telex:	                  Facsimile:



                INDEVAS	                          248423 (MCI)	           (202) 477-6391
                Washington, D.C.	                 64145 (MCI)
                                          - to -

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, as of the day and year first above written.




                    NIGER BASIN AUTHORITY




                    By

                                                                 Authorized Representati




                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility



                   FecR c1Lc
                    By



                                                                 Authorized Representative
                                             -11-


                                        SCHEDULE 1

                                        Disbursement

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant

1.	    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                     Amount of the GEF	          % of
Categories 	Trust Fund Grant	                    Expenditures to be
                     Allocated (Expressed in 	Financed
                              US$ Equivalent

1. Goods	                              710,000	                   100%
(including vehicles)

2. Consulting services                1,500,000	                  100%

3. Training                           1,750,000	                  100%

4.Operating                           1,590,000	                  100%
Costs

5.Unallocated                           450,000	            -




TOTAL                                 6,000,000



2.      For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Costs" means incremental costs
incurred under the Project on account of office rental, fuel and maintenance for vehicles,
equipment operation and maintenance, utilities, office supplies, communication expenses, staff
travel and associated subsistence allowances, salaries for contractual and temporary staff,
management fees, but excluding salaries of the civil servants of Niger River Basin Countries.

3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $600,000 (six hundred thousand dollars),
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 30,
2003.

4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding
$250,000; (b) consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent;
(c) consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (d)
training and Operating Costs under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Recipient.
                                             -12-


5.	      If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for
deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the
portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
                                             - 13 -


                                        SCHEDULE 2

                                  Description of the Project

        The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the capacity of the Recipient to
promote and improve coordinated and sustainable land and water management in the Basin; (b)
to strengthen institutional mechanisms in Member Countries for management of transboundary
land and water issues; (c) to develop a Strategic Action Program to improve the conservation and
management of land and water resources in the Basin; and (d) to assist the Recipient in
coordinating donor support for implementation of the Strategic Action Program and effective
transboundary management.

       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.

Part A: Institution Building

1.     Establishment of regional and national level institution for the management and
implementation of regional projects.

2.       Provision of training in project management for strengthening of regional and national
institutional capacity.

Part B: Data and Knowledge Management
                                 ment

I.	      (a) Data and Information Management to evaluate the Basin's hydrologic,
environmental, and socioeconomic data, (b) identify the institutional requirements for data
collection and sharing; (c) analyze requirements for environmental and socio-economic data and
information collection, management, sharing, and dissemination; and (d) disseminate data and
information for decision-makers and users.

2.      Exchange of information and provision of training at local, national and regional levels
for basin-wide environmental management.

3.      Development of an Environmental Information System for standardized procedures, data
analysis, data sharing, dissemination, and decision-making.

Part C: Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis and Strategic Action Program

1.      Development and validation of a Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis of Member
Countries.

2.      Development and validation of a Strategic Action Program.



                   The Project is expected to be completed by August 1, 2009.
                                                -14-


                                           SCHEDULE 3

                                Procurement and Consultants' Services

Section I.	       Procurement of Goods

Part A:	          General

        Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.

Part B:	          International Competitive Bidding

1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.

2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.

           Grouping of contracts

       To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, office and field equipment,
communication equipment and computers shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
$250,000 equivalent or more each.

Part C:	          Other Procurement Procedures

           National Competitive Bidding

        Goods estimated to cost less than US$250,00 equivalent per contract, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.

2.	        Shopping

        Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6.

           Direct Contracting

        Goods such as spare parts, minor off-the-shelf items, and other specialized equipment
and proprietary items costing less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of $200,000, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
                                                 - 15 -


Part D:	           Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

 1.         Procurement Planning

          The proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished biannually to the Bank
 for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix 1 to
 the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
 procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
 paragraph 1.

 2.         Prior Review

          With respect to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000
 or more; and (b) each contract for goods to be procured under direct contracting, the procedures
 set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

 3.	        Post Review

          With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set
 forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

 Section II.	       Emolovment of Consultants

 Part A:	           General

          Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I
 and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
 Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999
 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix I thereto, Appendix 2
 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section.

 Part B:	           Quality- and Cost-based Selection

 1.       Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall be
 procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
 Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to
 quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

 2.      The following provision shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under
 contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of
 consultants for each contract under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent,
 may comprise entirely national consultants from the Niger River Basin Countries in accordance
 with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines.

 Part C:	           Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

 1.	        Least-cost Selection

         Services for auditing under Part D of the Project may be procured under contracts
 awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant
 Guidelines.
                                                -16-


2.         Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications

       Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract equivalent may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines.

3.         Individual Consultants

       Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

4.	        Single Source Selection

         Services for the purposes of training related activities of the Project may, with the
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 through
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:	           Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.         Selection Planning

        A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates,
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the
Bank, for its review and approval. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such
selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.         Prior Review

         (a)    With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

        (b)    With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2,
3and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to such contracts.

        (c)      With respect to any contract for the employment of a consulting firm or an
individual consultant under the Project, the draft terms of reference and terms of employment of
the consultants shall be submitted to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The provision of
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.

        (d) A plan for training programs, which shall include the institutions benefiting from
and objective of such training program, shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the execution of the Project, and
each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.
                                              -17-


        Post Review

         With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
                                               -18-


                                          SCHEDULE 4

                                    Implementation Program

1.      Overall Project Coordination:

        The Recipient shall maintain the Steering Committee as the entity responsible for overall
Project coordination and supervision throughout the Project implementation period. The Steering
Committee shall have the responsibility to review proposed work plans and budgets, monitor
implementation performance and foster inter-ministerial and regional cooperation in the
management of the Basin.

2.      Project Administration and Management:

         The Recipient shall maintain the Project Management and Coordination Unit throughout
the Project implementation period. The PMCU shall have overall responsibility for Project
supervision, management and coordination, including the preparation of the annual work plans,
budgeting and finance, maintenance of a proper financial management and accounting system for
the Project, preparation of bidding documents and monitoring of the overall procurement
process, management of technical assistance activities and the preparation of a Project
completion report. The Recipient shall maintain the Regional Project Coordinator who shall be
responsible for day-to-day management of the Project with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank.

The Recipient shall:

        (a)      maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

         (b)      prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank, about January 2, 2007, or such later dates as the Bank shall agree, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date, which report shall coincide with the second annual review prepared pursuant to Paragraph 5
of this Schedule; and

         (c)	    review with the Bank, by February 2, 2007, or such later date as the Bank shall
request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank's views
on the matter.

3.	    The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth in the
PIM and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend or waive any provision thereof if
such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Bank, materially or adversely affect the
implementation of the Project.
	




                                                 -19-


    The Recipient shall:

            (a) not later than October 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank for review and comments
    a draft annual work program and supporting budget for the succeeding calendar year;
            (b) not later than November 30 in each year: (i) review with the Bank the documents
    referred to in paragraph (a) above; (ii) identify implementation issues and propose appropriate
    solutions; and (iii) update Project timetables and performance indicators; and

             (c) not later than December 31 in each year, furnish to the Bank for its comments and
    final approval the work program and budget referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, as such program
    and budget shall have been revised to the satisfaction of the Bank in the course of the review
    referred to in paragraph (b) hereof and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, carry out the
    Project in the year in question on the basis of the said work program and budget as so revised.

    4.	           and
            Safeguard policies

    The Recipient shall ensure that:

          (a)    the Project is implemented in compliance with the Environmental and Social
    Management Framework; and

            (b)      subprojects are carried out pursuant to the UNDP Project Document and the
    provisions set forth in the Microgrants Operational Manual.

    5.	     Annual Reviews and Reports:

            The Recipient shall:

            (a)      through the Project Management and Coordination Unit prepare and furnish to
    the Bank, the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement notwithstanding, Project progress and
    supervision reports on the achievements of the Project as monitored pursuant to the indicators set
    forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, including inter alia: monthly narrative reports by
    electronic mail; quarterly progress reports; annual progress reports in preparation of the Annual
    Reviews; work programs; and evaluation forms of GEF project implementation, in form and
    substance satisfactory to the Bank;

            (b) cause the Project Management and Coordination Unit to draft Terms of Reference
    for the mid-term review report and annual audits and cause such reports and audit to be timely
    prepared, cause the PMCU to ensure repartition for the drafting of ad hoc fund reports; and
    submit said reports to the Bank and other recipients;

             (c)      following the submission of each Annual Report, act promptly and diligently
    to take any corrective action agreed with the Bank to remedy any shortcomings identified in
    Project implementation, in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and

            (d)      PMCU shall submit to the Bank for its review and approval, annual
    procurement plans, including relevant information on goods and consulting services under the
    project and indicate the procurement method as well as the timing of each milestone in the
    procurement process.
                                              -20-


                                         SCHEDULE 5

                                        Special Account

        For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a)     the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, and 4, set forth in the
table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

         (b)     the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

         (c)	    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $540,000 to be
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $270,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$1,000,000.

2.      Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.      After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:

        (a)     For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.

        (b)     Each Member Country may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain
in United States Dollars or in the currency of the Member Country an Advance Account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. No Advance Account shall be opened in a
Member Country unless such Member Country is current in its contributions to the Recipient and
has no arrears.

         (c)	    The Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund
Grant Account and deposit into each Advance Account funds to assist the beneficiary of such
account to pay for works, goods and services under the Project. Such withdrawals and deposits
shall be in amounts sufficient to assist each beneficiary to pay for such goods, works and services
in due course, provided that at no time shall the Recipient cause the amount held in any Advance
Account to exceed: (i) the equivalent of $ 60,000 for each Member Country, provided, however,
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Advance Accounts for such Member Countries
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $30,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
                                               -21-


commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.

        (d)    Payments out of Advance Accounts shall only be made for eligible expenditures
in respect of Categories (1) to (4) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this
Agreement.

        (e)     Any withdrawal from any Advance Account must be justified to the Recipient by
the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures provided for under
paragraph 3 of this Schedule.

        (f)     If the Bank or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in any Advance Accounts will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the beneficiary of such Advance Account shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association or the Borrower, refund to the Special Account such outstanding amount.

        (g)     (i)	     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to
                         the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
                         as the Bank shall specify.

                (ii)	    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to
                         the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                         paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                         which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                         Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust
                         Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
                         as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                         said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                         Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
                         by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the
                         respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
                         as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.       For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall,
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

        (a)     if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;

         (b)     if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts
for the Special Account;
                                              -22-


       (c)     if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust
Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

         (d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

         Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures, as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.	      (a)	     If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

        (b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

        (c)      The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

        (d)	    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                                               -23-


                                              SCHEDULE 6

                                          Performance Indicators

   Intermediate Results
                                               Results Indicators for Each Component
    One per Component

Component 1                    1(a)  Implementation institutions operating, in line with the
                                      -



                               Administrative and Financial Manual of Procedures, by PY1: 1
(WB managed)                   regional (PMCU), 9 national (NPTs), and consultation structures: 1
                               regional steering committee (RSC and STS), 9 national steering
1. An institutional and        committees (NSCs) and at least 9 local coordination committees
management system              (LCC) (corresponds to Activities 1.1-1.2).
established and operational
for the Project                1(b) A launch workshop successfully completed by PY1; and
                               NBA's regional and national staff increased capacities through
                               project management and financial training (1.3).

Component 3                    3(a) A national-level framework for land and water data and Basin
                               degradation indicators assessed by NBA and riparians; a network
(WB managed)                   for a communication and information protocol established (3.1-
                               3.2),
3. Improved regional
national, local data and       3(b) Increased number of local, national, and regional specialists
information management;        participating in Environmental Information System through data
increased dialogue and         exchange and coordinated basin-wide decision-making (3.3 -3.5).
exchange within and between
riparians                      3(c) Basin-wide land and water data generated for the proposed
                               SDAP economic model (3.6).

Component 6                    6(a) 9 country TDA are completed, validated and findings are
                               disseminated (6.1).
(WB managed)
                               6(b) SAP, based on TDA, is developed, disseminated, and
6. Transboundary Diagnostic    discussed by stakeholders and validated (6.2-6.3).
Analysis (TDA) and Strategic
Action Plan (SAP)              6(c) Donors make commitments to support the SAP (6.4).
completed, validated and
disseminated
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
