                                         Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00003326



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-48700)



                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF

                                 US$ 400 MILLION
                                  (LOAN 4870-IN)

                                          TO THE

                                         SJVN Ltd.

                                            FOR

                        RAMPUR HYDROPOWER PROJECT



                                    June 25, 2015




Energy and Extractives Global Practice
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       Fiscal Year              Annual Average Exchange Rate (Rs./US$)
         2008-09                                46.0
         2009-10                                47.4
         2010-11                                45.6
         2011-12                                47.9
         2012-13                                54.4
         2013-14                                60.5
         2014-15                                61.0

                       Currency Unit = India Rupees (Rs.)

                                FISCAL YEAR
                               April 1 – March 31



                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BP       Bank Procedures
CAT      Catchment Area Treatment
CEA      Central Electricity Authority
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FY       Financial Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GHG      Greenhouse Gases
GoHP     Government of Himachal Pradesh
GoI      Government of India
GW       Giga Watts
GWh      Giga Watt Hour
HP       Himachal Pradesh
HRT      Head Race Tunnel
IBRD     International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IEGC     India Electricity Grid Code
ISR      Implementation Status Report
kWh      Kilo Watt Hour
LADA     Local Area Development Authority
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR      Mid-Term Review
MW       Mega Watts
NEP      (Indian) National Electricity Policy
NJHP     Nathpa Jhakri Hydropower Project
OHS    Occupational Health and Safety
OP     Operational Policy
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PAF    Project Affected Families
PAP    Project Affected Persons
PDO    Project Development Objectives
RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
RHP    Rampur Hydropower Project
SCDP   Sustainable Community Development Program
SIL    Specific Investment Loan
SJVN   SJVN Limited, formerly known as Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited
TAP    Tunneling Acceleration Plan




                           Vice President: Annette Dixon
                        Country Director: Onno Ruhl
          Global Practice Senior Director: Anita Marangoly George
                        Practice Manager: Julia Bucknall
                    Project Team Leader: Rohit Mittal / Kwawu Mensan Gaba
                       ICR Team Leader: Rikard Liden
                                                INDIA
                                        Rampur Hydropower Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 17
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 29
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 30
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 38
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 41
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 43
  Annex 6. Environmental Management of the Rampur Hydropower Project ............... 54
  Annex 7. Technical Characteristics of the Rampur Hydropower Project..................... 59
  Annex 8. Lessons Learned from the Implementation of Nathpa Jhakri ....................... 66
  Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 70
  Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 78

  MAP
  IBRD 34258
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Rampur Hydropower
Country:                India                   Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P095114                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48700
ICR Date:               06/24/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          SATLUJ JAL
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 VIDYUT NIGAM
                                                                          LTD
Original Total
                        USD 400.00M             Disbursed Amount:         USD 400.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 400.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 SJVN Limited
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/30/2005     Effectiveness:             04/14/2008       04/14/2008
Appraisal:            02/20/2007     Restructuring(s):                           10/04/2011
Approval:             09/13/2007     Mid-term Review:           03/31/2010       11/14/2010
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2013       12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                               None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Hydropower                                                            100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                         33                  33
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Annette Dixon                        Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Onno Ruhl                            Isabel M. Guerrero
Practice
                           Julia Bucknall                       Salman Zaheer
Manager/Manager:
                           Rohit Mittal/ Kwawu Mensan           Sunil Kumar Khosla/ Judith K.
Project Team Leader:
                           Gaba                                 Plummer
ICR Team Leader:           Mats Johan Rikard Liden
ICR Primary Author:        Mats Johan Rikard Liden


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is (a) to improve the reliability of India's Northern
Electricity Grid through the addition of renewable, low carbon energy from the Rampur
hydropower project; and (b) to improve the effectiveness of Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam
Limited (SJVN) with respect to the preparation and safe implementation of economically,
environmentally, and socially sustainable hydropower projects.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years
                Increased power availability to Northern region off-takers (GWh equivalent per
Indicator 1 :
                annum)
Value
quantitative or 0                           1770                               1957
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2007                    09/30/2012                          06/21/2015
                Target has been met. RHP began commercial operation in Dec 2014. Above
Comments
                value refers to the total cumulative generation at writing of ICR. The value given
(incl. %
                for the final ISR only represented a partial annual generation since FY stretches
achievement)
                from April-March.
                % of time frequency in the Northern Electricity Grid is in the operating band of
Indicator 2 :
                Indian Electricity Grid Code
Value
quantitative or 78.83%                      90.30%                             98.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2007                    09/30/2012                          12/31/2014
                Target has been met. The operating band was changed by IEGC later on, which
Comments
                has been used for the observed value (86.2%) given in the final ISR. If the
(incl. %
                operating band valid at appraisal would be used for calculation, the value at
achievement)
                closing would be 98.9%.
Indicator 3 : Number of days of outage of NJHP in wet season
Value
quantitative or 32                          24                                 4.6
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2007                    03/31/2012                          12/29/2014
                The target has been met. The downward trend in outages is beyond what can be
Comments
                explained by changes in riverine sediment transport and is evidence that the
(incl. %
                deliberate measures employed by SJVN over the life of the project have been
achievement)
                successful.
Indicator 4 : Improvement in off-taker satisfaction with respect to SJVN service
Value
                No evidence of upward Strong evidence of                       Strong evidence of
quantitative or
                trend                       upward trend                       upward trend
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2007                    12/31/2012                          12/31/2014
Comments        Target has been met. By the Mid-term Review, SJVN had reported an increase in
(incl. %        satisfaction from 96.7% in 2007 to 99.9% in 2010. In 2013 and 2014, all
achievement) offtakers rated SJVN highly satisfactory in all survey dimensions (100%).
Indicator 5 :     Improvements demonstrated in social development surveys
Value
                  No evidence of upward     Strong evidence of                Strong evidence of
quantitative or
                  trend                     upward trend                      upward trend
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/31/2007                 12/31/2012                         12/31/2014
                  Target has been met. The independent survey conducted at the end of the project
Comments
                  show an increase in average incomes and other indicators of wellbeing, including
(incl. %
                  literacy, modern durables, house size, and share of people living in permanent
achievement)
                  housing.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                          Revised
                                              approval                     Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                             documents)                     Target Years
                  Component A: Construction of the 412 MW Rampur run-of-river hydroelectric
Indicator 1 :
                  scheme - Power House (% completion)
Value
(quantitative     0%                        100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/31/2007                12/31/2012                        12/29/2014
Comments
                  The main power house is completed, electro-mechanical equipment installed and
(incl. %
                  proven to run at full capacity in December 2014.
achievement)
                  Component A: Construction of the 412 MW Rampur run-of-river hydroelectric
Indicator 2 :
                  scheme - Head Race Tunnel (% completion)
Value
(quantitative     0%                        100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/31/2007                12/31/2012                        12/31/2014
Comments
                  The HRT was completed and functional (filled with acceptable seepage levels)
(incl. %
                  in March 2014.
achievement)
                Component A: Construction of the 412 MW Rampur run-of-river hydroelectric
                scheme - EMP implementation - (i) Muck disposal as per plan; (ii)
Indicator 3 :
                Compensatory afforestation - trees; (iii) Funds utilization on CAT plan activities
                (excluding maintenance)
                                                                               (i) 100%; (ii) 86%
                                                                               (120 ha out of 139
Value
                                          (i) 100%; (ii)                       ha); (iii) 82% (Rs.
(quantitative   (i) 0%; (ii)0%, (iii) 0%
                                          100%; (iii)90%                       185.19 million out
or Qualitative)
                                                                               of Rs. 226.15
                                                                               million)
Date achieved 03/31/2007                  12/31/2012                           12/31/2014
Comments        Leveling of all muck has been completed; vegetation has been planted in all
(incl. %        muck dumping sites. Implementation of Afforestation and CAT rests with
achievement) regulatory authorities and is pending full completion.
                Component A: RAP & Community Dev. Plan impln.: (a) Landowners receiving
                full entitlements; (b) Real increase in PAF's standard of living (measured by %
Indicator 4 :
                of PAFs with increased income or assets); (c) Amt spent on small infra & local
                contracts awarded
Value                                       (a) 100%; (b)
                                                                               (a) 100%; (b) 99%;
(quantitative   (a) 0%; (b) 0%; (c) 0       90%; (c) Rs. 200
                                                                               (c) Rs. 337 million
or Qualitative)                             million
Date achieved 03/31/2007                    12/31/2012                         12/31/2014
                All affected people resettled &/or fully compensated for loss of land by 2007
Comments
                before start of civil works; increased livelihood of PAFs has clearly been proven
(incl. %
                by End-Term Impact Evaluation; target for amount spent on local infrastructure
achievement)
                & contracts met
                Component B: Investment support to implement measures for ensuring higher
Indicator 5 : availability of the existing upstream NJHP: (i) Blanking panels and dredging
                pumps installed; (ii) Procurement of contingency spares
Value
                                            (i) 100%; (ii)
(quantitative   (i) 0%; (ii) 0%                                                (i) 100%; (ii) 100%
                                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2007                    12/31/2012                         12/31/2014
                Investments conducted by SJVN included blanking panels at intake, hard-coating
Comments
                of turbine components, and improved maintenance procedures of the runners,
(incl. %
                which successfully achieved a decrease in the number of days per year with
achievement)
                outage.
                Component C: TA for institutional reform & capacity building - implementation
Indicator 6 : of agreed action plan including: (i) Safety action plan (reduction in reported
                cases of non-compliance with safety procedures - % of prior year)
Value
(quantitative   -                           10%                                39% reduction
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2007                    12/31/2012                         12/31/2014
Comments        Improved OHS was reflected also in a reduction in accident reports from RHP
(incl. %        construction, showing a clear decrease of about 15% per year from 26 in 2007 to
achievement) 3 in 2014.
                Component C: (ii) Dam safety reviews carried out on time and follow up action
Indicator 7 : taken; (iii) Financial management action plan (timely and accurate preparation of
                quarterly accounts)
Value
                                            (ii) 100%; (iii)                   (ii) 100%; (iii)
(quantitative   (ii) 0%; (iii) 0%
                                            100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2007                    12/31/2012                         12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Dam safety and financial management procedures fully complied with.
achievement)
                Component C: (iv) Contract management action plan (variations confirmed
Indicator 8 :
                through issue of priced variation orders)
Value
(quantitative   (iv) 0%                     (iv) 85%                           (iv) 76%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2007                    12/31/2012                        12/31/2014
Comments
                74 out of total 98 claims issued as variation orders by January 2015, remaining
(incl. %
                claims with Dispute Resolution Board
achievement)
                Component C: (v) Environmental capacity (person days training); (vi) Other
Indicator 9 :
                training including organizational effectiveness (person days)
Value
(quantitative   (v) 0; (vi) 0               (v) 1000; (vi) 2000               (v) 630; (vi) 1884
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2007                    12/31/2012                        12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Number of training days reported less than target (84%)
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     03/30/2008           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     08/09/2008           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      18.34
  3     02/02/2009           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      61.04
  4     09/22/2009           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               92.63
                                                       Moderately
  5     04/09/2010     Moderately Satisfactory                                          108.18
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
  6     11/07/2010     Moderately Satisfactory                                          137.40
                                                     Unsatisfactory
  7     02/27/2011           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               152.73
  8     09/06/2011           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               196.41
  9     01/18/2012           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               231.06
                                                       Moderately
 10     08/26/2012     Moderately Satisfactory                                          270.96
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
 11     12/12/2012     Moderately Satisfactory                                          316.89
                                                     Unsatisfactory
 12     03/20/2013     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory               316.89
 13     10/09/2013     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory               379.96
 14     03/06/2014     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory               386.03
 15     04/20/2014         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      386.03
 16     09/15/2014         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      394.03
 17     01/08/2015         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      394.03
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The restructuring was based on
                                                     a request received from the
                                                     borrower (SJVNL) through the
                                                     Department of Economic
                                                     Affairs (DEA) letter dated
                                                     August 4, 2011. It was proposed
                                                     to extend loan closing from
                                                     March 31, 2012 to December
                                                     31, 2014 due to delays resulting
                                                     from poor geology. It also re-
 10/04/2011               S     MS          210.20   appropriated funds from
                                                     Component B to Component A
                                                     since the borrower implemented
                                                     Component B using its own
                                                     resources. Lastly, a change in
                                                     the implementation
                                                     responsibility for the
                                                     Sustainable Community
                                                     Development Program (SCDP)
                                                     was made to include the State of
                                                     Himachal Pradesh.


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.       Country Background. As noted in the Country Partnership Strategy1 for India for the
Period FY2013–2017, India’s economic and human development is one of the most significant
global achievements of recent times. Between 2005 and 2010, India’s share of global GDP
increased from 1.8 to 2.7 percent, and 53 million people were lifted out of poverty. Growth has
steadily accelerated over time, showing resilience even in the aftermath of the global crisis. In
the last decade, India’s economy expanded at an average annual rate of 7.6 percent, placing it
in the top 10 of the world’s fastest growing nations. Progress on human development has been
remarkable; life expectancy more than doubled from 31 years in 1947 to 65 years in 2012 and
adult literacy more than quadrupled, from 18 percent in 1951 to 74 percent in 2011.

2.       Power Sector Context. The power sector has to expand if India is to continue to grow
at their targets of 8-10 percent over the next two decades. An estimated more than 300 million
people in India do not have access to electricity. The average annual per capita consumption
of electricity of those who have access was 914.4 kWh in 2012-13, far below the world average
of 3,045 kWh. The system’s average peak time deficit of about 4.7 percent (2015) and average
energy deficit of about 3.6 percent (2015) have resulted in high coping costs for industry and
households. Insufficient power generation and inadequate electricity service delivery
mechanisms thus remain a critical constraint to India‘s sustained growth, its national economic
competitiveness; private investment in industry; and poverty alleviation efforts. The
Government of India (GoI) has embarked on an ambitious investment program to add
generation capacity, almost doubling it by the end of the 12th Five-Year Plan, i.e. 2017, from
132 Gigawatts (GW) at the beginning of 11th Five-Year Plan. It also plans to expand and
strengthen transmission and distribution networks and improve the technical and commercial
efficiency of power utilities.

3.      Hydropower Sector Context. India has almost 100 GW of undeveloped hydropower
potential. If developed in accordance with good practices, this untapped potential can provide
a clean energy source which is well-suited to the country’s energy needs, particularly its high
daily peak demand. Hydropower can also enhance energy and water security, contribute to a
lower-carbon economy, and bring development benefits to the more remote regions of the
country, where most of the undeveloped hydropower potential is located. During the 11th Plan
(2007-2012) GoI aimed to develop 16 GW of hydropower capacity. During the 12th Plan
(2012-17), it aims to add additional 20 GW and to increase hydro’s share in the country’s total
installed generation capacity to 40 percent.

4.      However, its significant potential notwithstanding, the hydropower sector in India
faces challenges. Despite its ambitious goal for hydropower expansion, only 5.5 GW were
added in the 11th plan, and in the 12th plan, about 1.9 GW have been added till February 2015.
Major challenges are:

          Technical: The Himalayas, where most of the potential exist, are young and
           geologically unstable mountains; this poses unique challenges for hydropower
           development in this region. The complexity of the Himalayas creates risks for


1   Report No. 76176-IN, Country Partnership Strategy for India for the Period FY2013-17, March 21, 2013


                                                          1
       construction and operation, specifically related to geology and sediment transport;
       developers are taking time to adjust to international innovations and contract
       management procedures to deal with such risks.

      Professional/managerial: The relative dearth of new hydropower projects in recent
       decades led to a contraction of the number of professionals active in the sector and to
       an under-representation of core skills in certain specialized areas of hydropower
       development.

      Legal/regulatory: The changing legal and regulatory framework for land acquisition
       and resettlement and the evolving socio-political dynamic of infrastructure
       development in India have raised the bar for all large infrastructure projects.
       Developers have been slow to build up the skills required to respond to the greater
       expectations of project-affected people, leading to delays in project preparation.
       Additionally, the process of obtaining relevant clearances and approvals, including
       environmental, land acquisition, and tariff agreements, requires a lot of time and
       resources, and has discouraged even some of the most highly skilled developers from
       going forward with their concessions.

      Financial: Hydropower projects are capital-intensive, risky and have long payback
       periods. Development has been constrained by limited availability of long-term
       financing and a slow emergence of tariff incentives to stimulate hydropower
       development. Furthermore, the added geological complexity of Himalayan
       hydropower often results in cost overruns and delays, which can impact the financial
       viability of hydropower projects.

5.      Overview of project. The Rampur Hydropower project (412 MW) was approved by
the Board of Directors on September 13, 2007. The project was designed as a specific
investment loan (SIL) to finance the development of the Rampur Hydropower Project. SJVN
Ltd. (SJVN), a joint venture between GoI and the Government of Himachal Pradesh (GoHP),
chose to denominate the loan in US dollars, considering the longer tenure available for such
loans.

6.      The project aimed not just to increase hydropower’s share in country’s power mix, as
defined by the five year plans, but also to address the key challenges in the hydropower sector
in India. The Bank’s main value addition was to advance good implementation models and
help create an enabling policy and institutional environment for sector development.
Component A (Rampur Hydropower Station) and Component B (support to Nathpa Jhakri
Hydropower Station), were thus accompanied with a broad capacity building component.

7.      The project became effective on April, 14, 2008 The Rampur power station was fully
commissioned, producing and selling power at its full capacity in December 2014. The project
was closed on December 31, 2014. On January 27, 2015 the disbursements reached US$400
million reflecting 100% disbursement of the loan.




                                              2
1.1 Context at Appraisal

8.      At the time of appraisal, the power sector was plagued with daunting challenges,
including low levels of connectivity, especially in rural areas; demand that far outstripped
supply; below market pricing of electricity; and high rates of loss in distribution. It was
estimated that about 25 percent of grid supply infrastructure was in need in rehabilitation, and
the cost to industry of coping with unreliable supply was exorbitant with some 60 percent of
Indian firms relying on captive or back-up generation.

9.      Furthermore, despite being recognized internationally as a low-intensity and low per
capita producer of CO2, India was producing 1.1 billion tons per annum of CO2 or 4 percent of
the world’s total and on track to producing 13 percent of the world’s total emissions. Achieving
a lower carbon development path with cleaner power generation options was seen as very
important to the Government of India.

10.     To address many of the issues in the power sector, India set out to implement the
National Electricity Policy (NEP) 2005, which identified the following goals for the year 2012:
(i) providing electricity access to all households; (ii) eliminating power shortages; (iii)
doubling per capita electricity consumption to 1000 kWh per annum; and (iv) achieving the
financial turnaround and commercial viability of the sector.

11.     Rationale for Bank Assistance. The government envisaged that the Bank’s re-
engagement in the hydropower sector in India, beginning with the Rampur hydropower project,
would provide experience of good practice for hydropower development, targeting support at
about 10 percent of the 16 GW of hydropower capacity it intended to develop during the 11th
Five Year Plan. Through a partnership with a few developers in specific states, it was seen
that the Bank could help institute international technical and sustainability practices in the
Himalayan region, the home of much of India’s untapped hydro resources. In parallel, the
Bank sought to strengthen the institutional foundation for the government’s plans of scaling up
development of 100-150 GW of India’s renewable power potential by 2030.

12.      The Bank’s broader engagement in the power sector sought to support the
government’s priorities of improving electricity services, expanding access and optimizing the
utilization of indigenous resources, while also helping to put the country on a lower carbon
emission path rather than continue under a “business-as-usual” scenario.

13.     The Bank’s support for the Rampur Hydropower Project (“Rampur”) was considered
to be the first step in a continuing engagement aimed at: (i) providing assistance to the long-
term sustainable development of hydropower as a renewable resource in India; (ii) assisting
the sector in consolidating recent improvements in sustainable hydropower development and
moving towards international good practices; (iii) strengthening the capacity of some of the
agencies involved; and (iv) providing support to a low carbon growth strategy.

14.     Rampur was also a significant milestone for the World Bank, based on careful strategic
discussions about the Bank’s re-entry into hydropower development in India and scaling up its
engagement globally.




                                               3
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

15.     The development objective of the project was: (i) to improve the reliability of India's
Northern Electricity Grid through the addition of renewable, low carbon energy from the
Rampur Hydropower Project; and (ii) to improve the effectiveness of SJVN with respect to the
preparation and safe implementation of economically, environmentally, and socially
sustainable hydropower projects.

16.     The prime indicator for measuring the improved reliability of India’s Northern
Electricity Grid was the proportion of the time over which the grid frequency is maintained
within the operating band of India’s Electricity Grid Code. It was expected that the project’s
capacity would be small compared to the size of the Northern Grid, so its impact would have
been marginal, but important2. The improvement in effectiveness of SJVN was measured by
the preparation and implementation of training plans and the adoption of good practices in
various areas, including safety, financial management, contract management, and
communications.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

17.     The project was restructured on October 4, 2011 in response to a request from the
borrower to extend loan closing, re-appropriate funds from Component B to Component A,
and include the State of Himachal Pradesh as an entity responsible for the implementation of
the Sustainable Community Development Program (SCDP) under Component A. There was
no change to the PDO, and only one change was made to the PDO-level results indicator
“Increased power availability to Northern region off-takers ([GWh] equivalent per annum)” to
more accurately reflect the outcome that was being monitored.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

18.     The main beneficiaries under the project were the Northern Regional Grid, which
benefitted from low-cost and reliable power supply; SJVN, which benefitted from increased
technical and management capacity; and the local population whose standards of living
improved through investments in infrastructure such as roads, creation of employment
opportunities, and various community development activities.

1.5 Original Components

19.      The project consisted of three components: Component A - construction of the 412
MW Rampur run-of-river hydroelectric scheme (US$ 365 million); Component B -
investment support for measures to ensure improved availability of the upstream Nathpa Jhakri
Hydropower Project (US$ 30 million); and Component C - technical assistance for
institutional reform and capacity building to assist the borrower, SJVN, in moving towards
international good practices in hydropower development and operations, and improving its
standards of project preparation for future projects (US$ 5 million).


2
    The RHP is part of the Government’s wider power development plans, which taken together, will have a significant
    impact on the reliability of power in the Northern Grid.


                                                           4
20.     Component A included the construction of the 412 MW Rampur hydropower station,
but also the associated local area development through the implementation of the Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) and the Sustainable Community Development Program (SCDP). It also
included the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP), which targeted
mitigation of both project-specific impacts as well as regional environmental development
programs through afforestation and watershed management (Catchment Area Treatment –
CAT – plan). Although a relatively small investment, compared to the physical infrastructure
investment, experience in India shows that these local development sub-components are crucial
for creating local ownership of infrastructure development, and ultimately the successful
development and operation of the hydropower plant with targeted outputs. See Annex 7 for a
detailed technical description of Rampur.

1.6 Revised Components

21.     During restructuring, Component A was increased from US$ 365 million to US$ 395
million to partly cover the increased costs due to construction delays and the changes to the
price index. This allocation was taken from Component B (US$ 30 million), which was
ultimately completed using counterpart funding.

22.      In case of Component B, the procurement of spares (bye pass needle valves, upper &
lower labyrinth seals, check plates, runners, guide vanes etc.) was undertaken by SJVN from
the original equipment manufacturers/suppliers based on the urgent requirement of NJHP.
Given that this procurement method is not consistent with World Bank recommendations,
SJVN decided to utilize its own funds. Additionally, the procurement of blanking plates and
dredging pump for intakes were initiated before the effective date of loan agreement with the
World Bank, and the Bank procurement process was not followed. Thus, the funds allocated
under Component B for this were not utilized. Lastly, an additional tunnel to divert silt laden
water was to be constructed using funds from Component B, but the model studies undertaken
after loan appraisal showed that the tunnel would not satisfactorily eliminate the silt and was,
thus, dropped.

1.7 Other significant changes

23.      Restructuring. During restructuring, the loan closing was extended from March 31,
2012 to December 31, 2014 due to implementation delays resulting from the underground
tunneling work, which was affected by poor geology. With the help of the Advisory Board and
of the World Bank, SJVN finalized and agreed to a revised project completion schedule with
all three main contractors. SJVN satisfactorily completed the Tunnel Acceleration Plan (TAP),
enabling them to complete construction of the project in line with the revised schedule.

24.     During restructuring the implementation responsibility for the Sustainable Community
Development Program (SCDP) was changed to include the State of Himachal Pradesh in
addition to SJVN. This change was triggered by the new Hydropower Policy in Himachal
Pradesh, which came into force in 2011. Under this new policy, hydropower developers should
deposit the funds for local area development with the Local Area Development Authority
(LADA) under the GoHP that will sanction, execute and monitor these schemes. The change
thus meant that there was a dual responsibility for implementation of the community




                                               5
development program, compared to the earlier arrangement of only the Borrower
implementing these works.

25.      Hydropower Policy. The new Hydropower Policy in Himachal Pradesh further
brought in significant changes for benefit sharing to local communities living in the affected
villages during the operational life of hydropower project. According to the policy, annual
revenue equivalent to 1 percent of power sales from the RHP will be distributed to households
in the project affected area. This will be in the form of annuity payments through cash transfers
made directly into bank accounts.

26.     Carbon Finance. In 2011, a separate Carbon Finance project (P101274) was approved.
It was registered as Clean Development Mechanism project on July 14, 2011 by the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The project will generate emission
reductions in amount of about 14 million tCO2 during the years 2014 – 2024. The World Bank
as Trustee of the Umbrella Carbon Facility signed Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement
with SJVN on October 6, 2011 to buy Certified Emission Reductions from the Clean
Development Mechanism project during its first several years of operation (2014-2018). The
expected additional carbon finance revenue will improve the financial performance of SJVN.
Upon closing of the Carbon Finance project, a separate ICR Report will be prepared.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

27.     Soundness of the Background Analysis. The preparation of Rampur was the result
of many years of work by the Bank in the energy sector of India, using lessons learned from
the Nathpa Jhakri Hydropower Project (NJHP) for which SJVN was also the client as well as
from the challenges of other recent hydropower projects that failed to be implemented. Rampur
was the first hydropower project to be prepared in India after almost a decade-long period in
which hydropower and large dams were considered very controversial. The PAD was very
extensive, showing that the team left no stone unturned while covering the various technical,
economic, institutional, social, environmental, and communication aspects.

28.     The preparation team included a significant number of staff with experience from the
NJHP and thus had a good understanding of SJVN’s challenges. This, combined with strong
commitment from SJVN to carry out the follow-up project and internalization of lessons
learned from NJHP (see Annex 8), provided an environment for the honest exchange necessary
to deal with issues that would arise during implementation.

29.     The preparation of technical, economic, social and environmental aspects aimed to
merge international good practice with Indian standards and procedure. A number of
internationally recognized technical experts were assigned to support the Client’s and the
Bank’s preparation work. Based on the challenges faced during the implementation of the
NJHP, major emphasis was put on Rampur’s implementation arrangements, and financial and
contract management.

30.    In combination, the extensive first-hand knowledge, experience, and lessons learned
from international hydropower development, the power sector in India and from previous


                                               6
hydropower projects in Himachal Pradesh by the preparation team, provided a sound
background and rationale for the Bank’s involvement. It helped not just to motivate and prepare
the project for implementation, but also to underscore the project’s role in the Bank’s larger
re-engagement in the hydropower sector in India.

31.     Assessment of the Project Design and Risks. The project components and
implementation arrangements were the result of the experience from previous sector work, and
the problems faced by the Client at the time of preparation. Component A was the
implementation of Rampur, and its design and associated social and environmental programs
were based on international good practice and the experience from NJHP. Component B was
answering an urgent need to address maintenance problems at NJHP related to higher than
expected silt levels in River Satluj. Given that Rampur is constructed as a cascade with NJHP,
and any shutdown of the upstream NJHP would negatively affect the Rampur power production.
Component C was designed to raise the capacity of SJVN to implement the project, focusing
on the areas highlighted from lessons learned from NJHP.

32.     The project was technically well prepared in accordance with international good
practice. The choice of Rampur as a prioritized hydropower project to invest in was based on
a thorough option assessment by the GoI. Six different design options for Rampur were studied
carefully as part of the preparatory studies, and the optimal design option was selected based
on geological, environmental, social and operational aspects.

33.     In hindsight, considering the need for restructuring because of delays in construction
time, an increase of construction cost, and the fact that Component B was in the end fully
covered by the counterpart’s funding, the realism of the project design and the risks can be
questioned. However, the RHP is a typical example of the inherent complexity of large
hydropower development and the difficulty of balancing Client expectations with realistic time
and cost estimates. Looking more carefully into the appraisal document and the actual outcome
of the project, it can be seen that the changes in time and cost of the RHP did not come as a
surprise.

        Risks were candidly and accurately described in preparation. The actual challenges
         faced during the implementation (the unexpected poor geological conditions and
         delays in parts of the implementation of environmental and social activities) were
         identified as high risks during preparation.

        The economic and financial analyses during appraisal included sensitivity
         assessments that covered the actual delay of 33 months for the construction period
         and actual increased construction costs of 15%, and proved that even with such
         alterations the project would be economically and financially viable.

        The studies during preparation on lessons learned on contract management from
         NJHP and focus on the capacity of the SJVN in contract management for the
         implementation arrangements for Rampur acknowledged the need for adaptive
         management of large hydropower, where some of the works will need to be modified
         during actual construction. Changes in the construction schedule were, therefore,
         transparently anticipated and prepared for already during preparation.



                                              7
         The full utilization of Component B, including construction of a tunnel to divert silt,
          was acknowledged to be contingent on model results conducted at the start of the
          project. These model results conducted during implementation in the end indicated
          that such tunnel would not be efficient.

34.      It could be viewed as a minor shortcoming of preparation that a larger cost and time
contingency was not provided for during the construction of the Rampur despite the early
identification of major risks. Given the context during preparation, however, it was difficult to
do so; SJVN faced challenges in pursuing an implementation schedule longer than five years
and a larger contingency because of strict standard thresholds used by GoI at that time.

35.     Assessment of the PDO and indicators. The Project Development Objective was
formulated in terms of the project’s impact on the ‘reliability of India's Northern Electricity
Grid’, which is sound because of hydropower’s essential role for grid stability. At
commissioning of RHP the northern grid had less than 25% installed capacity from hydropower.
The choice of a prime outcome indicator being the percentage of time which the grid frequency
is maintained within the operating band of India’s Electricity Grid Code (IEGC), however,
created an attribution challenge since the RHP only comprised about 10% of the hydropower
capacity addition in the northern grid since 2007. In addition, the choice of the target for this
indicator was made without considering the risk that the operating band of IEGC would change.
The operating band was tightened by IEGC during the project duration from an original 49.2-
50.3 Hz to 49.9-50.05 Hz.

36.     Adequacy of Government’s Commitment. The commitments from GoI and the
GoHP to support Rampur followed from the alignment of the project with the country’s plans
to develop hydropower at the time of preparation, and their joint ownership of the SJVN.

2.2 Implementation

37.      Factors that gave rise to problems and actions made to address these. During
construction, the poor geological conditions led to significant delays in the tunneling work.
The pace of excavation on the 15 km long headrace tunnel that would deliver de-silted water
to the powerhouse was severely affected by poor rock quality, which at the start of the project
was expected to be 65% good rock and 35% poor rock. Actual conditions turned out to be
15.7% good rock and 84.3% bad rock. To address these issues, the team brought in
international tunneling experts and formulated a Tunneling Acceleration Plan, which included
an additional adit as well as a change in methodology. These measures vastly improved the
rate of excavation from an average of 0.8 meters per day from each face in June 2010 to more
than 2 meters per day by that November. Even though the project closing date had to be
extended due to these delays, the response chosen by the team dramatically reduced the
additional time that was needed to complete the civil works.

38.    Successfully overcoming these major construction difficulties was possible because of
an open, innovative and honest collaboration between the SJVN and the Bank team.

         During implementation, the Bank team maintained a number of key experts, both
          locally based in Delhi and in DC, with experience from the NJHP project and the
          Rampur preparation. This enabled a trustful working relationship with SJVN. The


                                               8
          Bank also showed its added value by bringing in specific international expertise from
          staff members and from its extensive external network.

         SJVN showed a strong willingness to learn and deploy innovative solutions. Based
          on the advice from international experts, a number of measures were adopted for
          Rampur that were innovative for the Indian context. This was especially the case for
          the tunneling work, e.g. the replacement of conventional ribs with lattice girder, the use
          of bamboos instead of fiber rock bolts to stabilize the disturbed rock mass, the use of
          twin cutters, etc.

         The acceptance by SJVN to adopt proactive contract management and execute
          necessary variation orders, together with support from the Bank team to accomplish
          crucial variations, enabled the client to find solutions together with the main
          contractors instead of creating conflicts and further delays.

39.     The complexity of hydropower and the difficulty of changing behavior in a mature
sector created challenges during implementation and are transparently reported by the ISRs.
Technical problems were experienced not just with the tunneling; landslides and wall collapses
occurred in association with the construction of the power house. Unexpected challenges were
also experienced with the installation and commissioning of the electro-mechanical equipment,
and the transmission lines for evacuation of the power to be built by PowerGrid were delayed.
Implementation of the EMP, RAP and local community development programs experienced
some delays; the acceleration of the tunneling work generated additional muck that was not
planned for, which had implications for muck removal and re-vegetation. Compensation
payments for crop and house damages for affected people were delayed by cumbersome
administration and the need to go through State Government, and occupational health and
safety aspects for construction sites were difficult to enforce at international good practice level
with the local contractors.

40.     These challenges for Rampur were addressed through strong presence and local
knowledge by the Bank team, and a willingness by the Client to engage in tough discussion to
find solutions. Besides the bi-annual implementation support missions, the Bank team
conducted visits to the site on a monthly basis during the key construction and commissioning
periods. In addition, the Bank’s support for the Development Policy Loan (DPL) to Promote
Inclusive Green Growth and Sustainable Development in Himachal Pradesh, including the
implementation of the new State Policy on Hydropower, provided important communication
channels with policy makers at the state level.

41.      A contributing factor to the relatively smooth implementation of the RHP from a local
community perspective was the keen attention from both the SJVN and the GoHP to address
social issues and local development. Although minor incidents with public protests occurred
early in the project, and there were delays in compensation payments, these were all sorted out
through a constructive dialogue led by SJVN. Significant resources and time were invested by
SJVN to improve local livelihoods beyond the compensation to project affected people,
including: medical facilities, improved infrastructure and public buildings, merit scholarship,
business for local people linked to construction and operation of Rampur, training for income




                                                 9
generation activities among local people3. In addition, the new State Policy requires that 1% of
the power sales from the Rampur will be distributed to households in the project affected area,
which supports further local ownership of the project.

42.     The training programs under Component C raised the awareness of a broad group of
employees from SJVN and the main contractors on technical, environment, social,
occupational health and safety aspects. This was likely a positive factor in implementing the
solutions for challenges experienced during construction. The multi-year institutional
strengthening program for SJVN conducted in Component C to build capacity of the company
to effectively implement and develop hydropower projects in an economic, environmentally,
and socially sustainable manner, further increased awareness and understanding among the
Client’s management team of the broader spectrum of challenges linked to hydropower
development, which helped SJVN to accept the implementation of international good practice
for the RHP.

43.     Project components to be implemented by GoHP. A major change during project
implementation related to management of social aspects, specifically the Sustainable
Community Development Program (SCDP). With the implementation of the Hydropower
Policy for the State of Himachal Pradesh in 2011, SJVN was required to deposit the funds for
local area development with the Local Area Development Authority (LADA), which would
execute and monitor the activities under the program. This transfer of responsibilities for the
benefit sharing programs to the GoHP added to responsibilities of the state for project
implementation, including for the compensatory afforestation, CAT plan, wildlife conservation,
and a sewage treatment plant under the EMP. SJVN was still responsible for the funding
of these activities and have deposited the corresponding funds with the relevant GoHP
authorities.

44.      The commitment of the GoHP for sustainable hydropower development is anchored in
legislation, through its comprehensive hydropower policy. The state policies, together with
GoI policies, require hydropower developers to contribute to benefit sharing among local
populations and environmental programs, which go much further than compensation for direct
project impacts. The challenges experienced for the RHP was, however, that single project
obligations are easily overwhelmed by the large local development and environmental
management programs run by the State. The implementation capacity of the state was also
stretched by taking on the obligations from several hydropower projects at one time. The
available capacity with the state authorities is limited, and it is difficult to contravene already
agreed long-term implementation plans for state programs with specific project activities and
goals. As a result, parts of the CAT plan, the compensatory afforestation, and the SCDP still
remained to be implemented when the RHP closed.

45.    To address these short-comings in project implementation, the Bank team and SJVN
have had regular dialogue with State Government officials, the latest in December 2014. The
GoHP remains committed to implementing all outstanding local development and




3
  See Annex 5 for a more comprehensive description of the local development activities and the surveyed
livelihood results


                                                   10
environmental management activities related to the RHP, as part of their overall development
programs.

46.     Communications. The project took a very deliberate approach to communications in
order to 1) better engage with the range of stakeholders, including PAFs, local community
representatives, and NGOs; and 2) anticipate and manage potential reputational risks to the
Bank.

47.     At SJVN, this involved sharpening their attention to consultations with project affected
communities as well as enhancing disclosure and transparency mechanisms around the
project. An early assessment of SJVN’s compliance with the statutory Right to Information
(RTI) obligations helped SJVN streamline their internal processes. They also held training for
local communities on how to access the RTI mechanisms better. The Project Information
Center set up at site emerged as a vibrant one-stop window for project-affected communities
seeking more information about project impacts and later evolved as a conduit for grievances
as well as requests for accessing benefits (R&R, compensation, local area development, jobs
with contractors etc.) mandated under project policies. The SJVN site management also
maintained an open-door policy for project-affected people and in fact, some of the persisting
concerns of the community (around the impacts of blasting etc.) were managed effectively
through SJVN’s enhanced focus on stakeholder engagement. Relations with local media were
handled proactively, which also helped manage perceptions around the project.

48.     From the Bank’s end, the task team, from the time of project preparation, made sure
that there was adequate information out in the public domain about the project. . A
comprehensive website was created which sought to clarify all aspects of the project, its
impacts and proposed mitigation measures. Throughout the period of implementation, the task
team sought to push the boundaries of disclosure even further with regular status updates posted
about the project. This proved useful in making sure interested media and civil society was
consistently apprised of project progress. Timely meetings with civil society activists also
helped pre-empt and manage any emerging flashpoints.

49.      The mid-term review and restructuring. The mid-term review in 2010 came at a
crucial time, where the construction problems pointed to large delays and cost overruns for the
project. The mid-term report forced SJVN to take stock on the situation and come up with a
long-term plan to mitigate the problems encountered. Around the time of the mid-term report,
the Tunneling Acceleration Plan was agreed on, the implementation plan was revised, and the
contracts with the main contractors were negotiated and amended accordingly. The subsequent
level II restructuring in October 2011 sealed these revisions on paper and created a new
common plan for completion of the project. The restructuring also made it possible to reallocate
money from components where funding need turned out to be less than expected (Component
B) to other components where funding need had been underestimated (Component A).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

50.     M&E Design. The monitoring and evaluation framework, driven by the goal to
measure the Bank’s added value and ancillary services of hydropower, was partly unrealistic
to apply. The main example is the outcome indicator to measure Rampur’s contribution to
improved frequency control of the grid, which suffered from an attribution problem given the


                                              11
installed capacity of the Northern Grid compared to the size of the project. The frequency band
of the grid itself was also shifting throughout implementation due to matters beyond the control
of the project. While the assertion at the time of appraisal still holds and has been validated by
the statement of the Load Dispatch Center – that the contribution of Rampur would be marginal
but important – this has proven difficult to measure as an indicator.

51.      M&E Implementation and Utilization. Good quality and relevant data has been
collected for the indicators related to activities implemented by SJVN, including through off-
taker surveys and national safety advisor reports. The project has also surpassed the efforts of
most other Bank hydropower projects on the monitoring of social indicators by doing an impact
evaluation with separate data collected for project affected persons and a control group of
residents with similar socioeconomic characteristics. A baseline survey was conducted by
Himachal Pradesh University, which also conducted the final impact evaluation report,
showing changes in income, assets, housing conditions and other relevant socioeconomic
criteria. The Mid-Term evaluation was done in November 2010, and the End Term evaluation
was conducted in March 2015.

52.     Semi-annual project reporting and quarterly reports on implementation progress have
been implemented by SJVN. The indicators related to the construction of Rampur, the
improvement in reduced outages of NJHP, and the RAP and community development
implementation have been regularly updated in a clear way and reported in the ISRs and Aide
Memoires. For the construction of Rampur (tunneling, surge shaft, penstock and power house)
and for the social programs, additional detailed numeric indicators were developed and used
to follow up on progress. For these components the M&E data were clearly used on a
continuous basis to inform decisions on project implementation.

53.     For other outcome and output indicators the progress reports have tended to be about
general progress rather than reporting on the specific indicators as detailed in the Results
Framework. This has especially been the case for the EMP implementation and Component C,
as well as for the outcome indicators related to improved effectiveness of SJVN. The results
have been that the progress of these indicators, although implicitly in the SJVN progress reports,
has not been easily accessible during the project. Even in the completion reporting, it has been
challenging to make explicit judgment on some indicators since the monitoring has not been
measured and reported exactly as the indicator describes, see Annex 2.

54.     The progress reporting has been mainly supplied by SJVN as well as taken from GoHP
both by SJVN and the Bank. As a result, there were shortcomings regarding the monitoring
arrangements for the activities being carried out by agencies of GoHP. Detailed data on
indicators such as the compensatory afforestation and Catchment Area Treatment
implementation is, therefore, missing.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

55.     Safeguards. The project was classified as a Category “A” project, triggering the
following safeguards: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01); Cultural Property (OPN
11.03); Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12); Forests (OP/BP 4.36); Safety of Dams (OP/BP
4.37); and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50).




                                               12
56.     It should be noted that the designed social and environmental programs associated with
the RHP were a joint result of the Bank’s safeguards policies, the policies of GoI and GoHP,
and the experience of SJVN and the Bank team of the hydropower sector in India. The
awareness and community engagement with large public infrastructure development is very
strong in India. As a result the policies and public requirements on social and environmental
programs associated with large infrastructure go, in some aspects, further than the requirements
of the Bank safeguards.

        For Rampur the resettlement, compensation and improved livelihood programs for
         PAP were augmented by the Sustainable Community Development Plan (SCDP),
         which focused on building of small infrastructure in the surrounding villages and
         undertaking community development initiatives. As part of the new Hydropower
         Policy, the responsibility for the community development works was transferred to
         the State Government in 2009. Reports from the community, as expressed in the End-
         Term Impact Evaluation Report (See summary in Annex 5), were that execution of
         the works became slower after this transfer of responsibility. Ultimately, however,
         the program has generated significant benefits for the community and contributed to
         the overall social acceptability of the project.

        Forestry is the major land use in Himachal Pradesh and therefore, one of the primary
         environmental management issues for the RHP. Certain EMP activities such as CAT
         Plan, Wildlife Conservation and Fisheries Development, etc. for Rampur was, to a
         large extent, based on standardized offsets as guided by GoI and GoHP policies rather
         than the direct environmental impacts, which are low due to the project being a run-
         of-river scheme in a cascade with the upstream NJHP. Despite a direct affected area
         of only 0.865 km2, the compensatory afforestation and CAT plan were based on a
         standardized defined area of 154 km2 (7 km radius). In addition, SJVN agreed with
         the GoHP to support their state programs on fisheries development and wildlife
         conservation, as well as funding of a sewerage plant in Rampur village, as part of the
         EMP, although there is no direct link between these activities and environmental
         impacts of the RHP.

57.     Involuntary Resettlement. The land acquisition, resettlement and compensation for
damages caused by Rampur have been fully completed at the closure of the project in
accordance with the RAP. The End-Term Impact Evaluation, shows that the PAFs have an
overall improved living standard; proportion of workers in regular employment, average
income, earning capacity and diversification of income have increased, and housing standards
have improved.

58.     The magnitude of private land acquisition identified at the time of appraisal in June,
2007, was about 30 hectares and is remained same at the time of closure of the loan in
December, 2014. The final impacts includes 29.86 hectares of private land impacting 208
families (about 1000 persons) including 29 physically displaced families. The final amount of
expenditure involved towards land acquisition and resettlement implementation is Rs.286
million (about US$ 5 million), which is about 1% of the total cost of the project. In addition,
the project also incurred an additional amount of Rs. 480 million (US$ 8 million) towards
community development and other welfare activities in project affected villages.




                                              13
59.     PAFs have received full and adequate compensation. 99.5% of the compensation
amount has been paid. The reason for not reaching 100% at closure is that one (1) displaced
family has refused to accept the generally agreed cash compensation and filed a case in court
in the Shimla District. The money is set aside by SJVN and will be paid out in concurrence
with the decision of the court, which is still pending.

60.     Minor delays were experienced in the payment of compensation for crop and blasting
damages, which caused the project to be rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for Involuntary
Resettlement during a 1.5 year period. Although the funds had been deposited by SJVN, there
were some administration hurdles resulting in delayed payments by the District
Administrations in Shimla and Kullu. This matter was solved through repeated interactions
between the Bank team, SJVN and the State Government, resulting in the rating being raised
to Satisfactory at the end of the project.

61.     Environmental Assessment. The environmental concerns identified in preparation
has overall been addressed and mitigated as of April 2015 (see Annex 6), although the
implementation of the EMP suffered challenges throughout the project duration. The first years
where characterized by slow operationalization of the EMP components, including delay in
enhancing institutional capacity, setting up procedures for environmental monitoring,
executing training plans, and establishing a dialogue with state authorities for implementation
of their responsibilities. The main reason for the slow start was likely SJVN management’s
focus on the severe technical problems experienced with the tunneling during this period. The
Bank team’s regular supervision on this issue, which led to a rating of Moderately
Unsatisfactory, and the general re-thinking of the implementation plan around the mid-term
review assisted in improving the situation.

62.     The overall safeguards and OP4.01 ratings fell to Unsatisfactory in 2012 after a
combination of events. The first problem encountered was that the implementation of the
Tunneling Acceleration Plan produced large amount of muck from the additional adits and
increased work intensity, which the contractor had difficulties depositing in accordance with
the EMP measures. As an unfortunate effect of this, a fatal accident occurred when a child
climbed a muck deposit and got close to a live 66 kV transmission line, with both the contractor
and SJVN subsequently failing to take the appropriate follow up actions. This prompted SJVN
to undertake a series of corrective measures to solve the muck removal and reutilization and to
improve safety at constructions sites and camps together with the contractors. These measures
resulted in a steady improvement of the rating of the OP4.01 to Moderately Satisfactory by the
closure of the project.

63.     There were also challenges related to occupational health and safety (OHS). SJVN
hired a Construction Safety Advisor (International), invested in many days of staff training on
OHS issues, but despite observed improvements compared to OHS during the implementation
of NJHP, there were a number of tragic incidents – some preventable and others not. Accidents
during construction are recognized to be widespread in the infrastructure sector in India4. SJVN,
supported by the Bank team, put a lot of effort into improving the safety management,



4
 See An overview of Occupational Health and Safety in Indian Infrastructure Projects, prepared by
SARDE with support from SASDI, World Bank, 2013


                                                   14
especially after an incident in 2012 involving a child. Safety team at RHP was strengthened
and quarterly audits were conducted, overseen by a National Safety Advisor, and non-
compliances were closely monitored. A Safety Action Plan was developed including short,
medium and long term measures. Although the slow progress of the implementation of these
safety measures was constantly remarked on at the bi-annual Aide Memoires, and despite the
fact that OHS aspects were not included in the main contracts in a proactive way, limiting
SJVN’s leverage, the RHP showed a clear decreasing trend in accidents and fatalities5.

64.     Forests. The EMP required Compensatory Afforestation of 139 ha, despite the
estimate that only 49 ha of degraded forest was impacted by the project. The agreed
afforestation, which is conducted by the GoHP Forest Department, showed very slow progress
during the project, despite SJVN depositing funds for both the Net Present Value of forest and
the afforestation activities. Information from state authorities shows that 120 ha of the
Compensatory Afforestation had been undertaken by March 31, 2015. Further details are
unavailable as monitoring efforts did not generally include those activities for which the GoHP
authorities had responsibility.

65.     International Waterways. According to the World Bank Policy on International
Waterways, both the upstream and downstream riparian countries, China and Pakistan, were
notified and provided with relevant project details. No objection to the project was raised by
either of the riparian countries.

66.     Fiduciary Compliance. At appraisal, it was recognized that despite improvements
made by SJVN since its inception, there was still work required to reach the level of financial
accountability and corporate governance expected of a public limited company. An action plan
was developed and agreed with the Bank for strengthening financial accountability and
corporate governance. This action plan has been implemented over the course of the project,
resulting in significant improvements. In particular, the internal audit function was
strengthened and made more independent; a policy was developed for risk management; and
the company achieved compliance with the requirements of the Guidelines on Corporate
Governance for Public Sector Enterprises even before these became mandatory. The Bank’s
requirements on reporting and management of disbursements have been met. Accounts and
audit reports have been filed on a timely basis and disbursements recorded in accordance with
the Bank system.

67.     Under the action plan, it was also expected that a new financial management computer
system (ERP) would be implemented. In order to facilitate this, an ERP compliant financial
manual was developed by external consultants and training conducted for staff. However, due
to the delay in selection and implementation of an ERP system, these manuals are yet to be
fully adopted. SJVN is now taking further steps to implement an ERP and has appointed
consultants to assist them in this, but they run the risk of the previously prepared financial
manuals requiring review and update, given the delay in their implementation.




5
  Accident reports from construction show a clear decrease of about 15% per year from 26 in 2007 to 3 in
2014. Accident rates per year have drastically decreased (by 80%) between the construction of Nathpa
Jhakri (1994-2004) and Rampur (2007-14).


                                                   15
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

68.      Transition arrangement to post-completion operation. In December 2014, the
project synchronized all six units and began commercial operation. It demonstrated that it could
run at full capacity and even surpass its design capacity by almost 10%, which will enhance
the ability of the plant to provide additional power during peak times. Rampur will be managed
with the existing NJHP station as a tandem operation, whereby the water released by NJHP
will match the water utilized for power generation in Rampur.

69.     The NJHP has shown a clear increasing trend in power production for the period 2007
to 2014, linked to a decrease in days of outages because of high sediment loads in the River
Satluj. An analysis of the production and sediment data proves that this is a result of improved
operation and maintenance by SJVN as the number of outage days has decreased despite
continued high sediment load in the river. The investments conducted by SJVN for blanking
plates at intake, hard-coating of turbine components, and improved maintenance procedures of
the runners, have ensured high reliability of production at both NJHP and Rampur.

70.     It is expected that the Rampur will be requested to provide 1878 GWh per annum, 6%
in excess of the 1770 GWh of energy, specified at the time of appraisal, during the next fiscal
year, beginning April 2015. This increase is in line with the improved availability of NJHP
(related to the reduced problems with sediment) which has led to an increase in its design
energy for tariff purposes.

71.      The contribution of Rampur, as part of the Satluj River Cascade hydropower, is confirmed
as essential for frequency control of the Northern Grid by the Indian Power Load Dispatch Centre.
As GoI has narrowed the operating band (a stricter operating band) in recent years, the importance
of hydropower as a generation source in the system has become even more important. The request
for power from Rampur in the future, both for the normal load, and for frequency control, is
therefore likely to be high. The final tariff for Rampur power has yet to be determined, but estimates
place it within the range of the Northern Region merit order dispatch.

72.     The restoration of muck dumping sites, the construction and camp sites was not
complete at the closure of the project, as these sites were still being used for the residual
construction activities. However by April, 2015, vegetation had been planted in all muck
dumping sites, and all work sites had been decommissioned/ restored. Again, the experience
from NJHP indicates the commitment and capacity of the SJVN to manage this transition. Ten
years after the end of construction of the NJHP there is no visible sign of construction areas
and the power station area is environmentally well maintained.

73.      Given the stable financial situation for SJVN, due in part to revenues from NJHP
operation, as well as the successful resettlement and local area development activities, no major
risks to the sustainability of the project are foreseen.

74.     Follow-up by the Bank. The Bank has invested much in capacity development of
SJVN as a responsible hydropower developer, through NJHP and Rampur, and in the policy
improvement for hydropower development in Himachal Pradesh, through the DPL to Promote
Inclusive Green Growth and Sustainable Development with GoHP. The policies and results of
Rampur related to local community development and benefit sharing are ground-breaking in
India, and there are good reasons to follow-up on how this development continues in the


                                                 16
operation phase. The results are important to showcase that it is possible to develop large
hydropower projects without serious negative local impacts, which is a general view among
the public and policy makers in India.

75.      The performance indicators to focus on in such follow-up are the financial and
institutional capacity of the SJVN and the State authorities to continue to implement the local
development plans related to Rampur, and the livelihood of the affected people and local
community. It is recommended to conduct a post-project Impact Evaluation a few years into
operation, following up on the results of the baseline study and End-Term Impact Evaluation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

76.      The objectives of Rampur remain highly relevant to the Government of India’s
priorities to increase the availability and reliability of electricity through investments in clean
and renewable power generation. The RHP contributed to 412 MW (6%) of the added
hydropower expansion of 7,400 MW in India under the 11th and 12th Five-Year Plans. Together,
the added hydropower capacity to the Indian power system has resulted in significantly
improved reliability of the power grid during the last decade, and thereby reduced power
shortages. The added hydropower capacity, in line with GoI policies, contributes to a lower
carbon development path, and provides power sources enabling increased electricity access.

77.     The objectives of Rampur are highly relevant for the Bank’s country and sectoral
assistance strategies and corporate goals. The Project contributes to the current Country
Partnership Strategy (FY13-17) for India in a number of ways:

         Engagement area 1: Integration, though improved reliability of the Northern
          Electricity Grid (CPS outcome: Improved inter-regional power transmission),

         Engagement area 2: Transformation, through increased renewable energy production
          (CPS outcome: Reduced GHG emissions), and

         Engagement Area 3: Inclusion, through inferred electricity access created by the new
          generation (CPS outcome: Improved access to electricity). A theoretical calculation,
          following a global tool for inferred access developed by the World Bank in 2014,
          indicates that in the order of 270,000 households, or some 1.5 million people, would
          be likely to gain electricity access as a result of the new Rampur generation.

78.     The design and implementation of the project were highly relevant to address the GoI’s
goal to increase the investments in renewable power generation. The three components were
complementarily chosen to install new hydropower capacity (RHP), to invest in measures to
improve reliability of the upstream NJHP for which RHP relies on for its full utilization of the
new installed capacity, and to raise the institutional capacity of the SJVN to continue to operate
the NJHP and RHP sustainably.




                                                17
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

79.     At completion, the project has achieved its intended outcomes for improved reliability
of India’s Northern Electricity Grid, including a fully operational power plant at Rampur with
envisaged capacity. The project has been synchronized with the Northern Grid and proven to run
at its installed capacity of 412 MW on a commercial basis in December 2014. It has produced 1957
GWh at the time of the ICR, and the expected request for annual production from Rampur from the
load dispatch center for current fiscal year (April 2015-March 2016) is 1878 GWh, above the
indicator target of 1770 GWh.

80.      From a technical perspective, all large hydropower capacity clearly improves the
reliability of the power grid (the opposite is logically impossible) with its unique ability to
adjust its production in very short time to control frequency. Rampur’s capacity addition is
relatively small compared to the size of the grid, and the extent of other changes to the grid and
additional capacity added during the course of the project make it difficult to attribute a precise
measure of the improvement in reliability created by Rampur. However, the Indian grid
remains in severe need of supplies, which can be controlled according to the requirements of
short term grid stability and the value of the project in terms of reliability improvement has
been confirmed by the National Load Dispatch Centre.

81.      As GoI has increased the requirement for a stable grid (narrowing the operating band) in
recent years, the importance of hydropower as a generation source in the system has become even
more important. As an example, the sudden outage from another major power source would likely
cause a frequency drop in the Northern Grid outside today’s allowed band and force the dispatch
center to carry out load-shedding in northern India to avoid a grid failure. In such a situation, RHP
and NJHP would, on short notice, be able to adjust its production to avoid the frequency drop. In
this way, the RHP, together with other hydropower generation investments in India, has contributed
to increase the proportion of time over which the grid frequency is maintained within the operating
band of India’s Electricity Grid Code from 79% at time of appraisal, to 99% at time of completion
using the same requirement of operating band.

82.     At project completion, measures have been fully implemented to decrease the number
of days of outages at NJHP, which will contribute to the reliability of production and
sustainability of both the NJHP and RHP (the latter which can only be operated in conjunction
with the upstream NJHP since they are in a cascade). The outcome indicator of reduced number
of days of outage (no power production) at NJHP in the wet season was 32 days/year at
appraisal, reaching only 5 days/year at completion, by far exceeding the target of 24 days/year.
This outcome contributes to the prime indicator of the project (improved reliability of the grid)
through ensuring availability of NJHP and RHP for electricity grid frequency control.

83.      At project completion, resettlement and compensation to affected people, community
development, and environmental mitigation of direct impacts of the construction of RHP were
all satisfactorily completed. Livelihood improvement of affected people was indicated by the
independent impact assessment already in mid-term report, and confirmed by the final impact
assessment in April 2015. 87% of project affected families reported an increase in income while
the share of families with an increase in income and/or assets is 99%. The final evaluation also
demonstrates an increase in literacy rates, permanent housing, and size of houses.




                                                 18
84.     Although major steps have already been made, there remains uncertainty in the timing
of complete fulfilment of the social benefit sharing and regional environmental offsets for
Rampur (which both go beyond compensation to affected families and mitigation of direct
environmental impacts). The delayed components, however, only comprise less than 20% of
the total social and environmental cost of the project (less than 1% of the total project cost).
Considering that these funds are committed and earmarked for activities in the local area that
are likely to be implemented, and only comprise a small fraction to the total cost, the
shortcomings are considered minor.

85.     The effectiveness of the Client, SJVN, with respect to the preparation and safe
implementation of economically, environmentally, and socially sustainable hydropower
projects have been significantly improved through the project. All outcome targets and
component-specific outputs are substantially achieved; SJVN has shown an upward trend in
off-taker satisfaction surveys with respect to its service; an upward trend in improved livelihood
among project affected people has been demonstrated in independent social development
surveys; dam safety reviews have been conducted for NJHP and RHP with 100% compliance;
SJVN has an adequate financial management system and internal control framework in place;
contract management has been successfully applied during the construction of RHP; safety
action plans for construction work have been developed and reported cases of non-compliance
with safety procedures have decreased during the project.

86.     SJVN has taken the capacity building effort seriously. They have arranged a large
number of training courses for its personnel, have contracted national and international
expertise in key areas (such as safety, contract management and technical aspects) and have
created a corporate social responsibility program. SJVN has made efforts to meet varying
demands from project affected people and to take actions to reduce the number of accidents
during construction. This has resulted in a project that generally follows internationally good
practice (as proven by the Aide Memoires and final ISR). In addition, SJVN has been willing
to manage and solve legacy issues related to silt problems and contract claims, and expanded
community development activities, for the NJHP (as reported in the mid-term and final report
by SJVN).

87.     In summary, the project development objectives has substantially been met at the time
of the ICR. Minor shortcomings in 100% achievements of four out of the eleven outputs
(detailed evaluations of the outcomes and outputs are given in Annex 2), as well as difficulties
of numerically monitoring the contribution to improved reliability of India’s Northern
Electricity Grid, prevents it from having high efficacy rating.

3.3 Efficiency

88.     According to the project appraisal document, the economic rate of return was expected
to be 19.3%, assuming operation began in 2011. This compares with a rate of 14.1% calculated
on the final cost to completion (detailed economic analysis is given in Annex 3). The project
will achieve a 16.5% return on equity as prescribed by the regulator.

89.    If environmental benefits of avoided carbon are included, then the ERR at appraisal
was only 0.5% higher than the rate excluding such benefits as the assumption was that the
avoided generation was based on gas which is a lower carbon emission source than coal.


                                               19
Rampur has since been approved for carbon emission reduction credits (CERs of 740,000). If
this is included and valued in line with World Bank recommended norms – then the ERR
changes to 16.6%, and could be higher if the additional optional CERs are included taking the
ERR to 18.5%

90.      In summary, despite the finalization of the project having suffered a 21 months delay
and a 15% higher construction cost than estimated at appraisal, mainly due to greater than
expected geological challenges, the investment gives an adequate economic return. Efficiency
rating is therefore judged as substantial, achieving a robust economic return, although slightly
lower than expected at appraisal.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

91.     The overall rating for outcomes is satisfactory. The basis is its high relevance (as
discussed in Section 3.1); substantial achievement of the project development objectives (as
discussed in Section 3.2); and its substantial efficiency proven by a robust economic return
despite cost and time overruns (as discussed in Section 3.3).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

92.     The increased reliability of and possibility for increased access to electricity in India
through the RHP is an important contribution to poverty alleviation and increased prosperity
in the country.

93.     In addition, SJVN implemented locally a variety of measures aimed at poverty
reduction and social development, including the provision of infrastructure such as roads and
the creation of wage employment and small contracts for the local population. The project also
provided health services by way of a mobile health van, which began offering services in the
villages around the project site very early in project implementation. SJVN has also formulated
a Corporate Social Responsibility policy through which it has sponsored a number of
community activities. The community consultation process was carried out with care before
the project and, as a result, relations with the communities remained constructive throughout
the project.

94.     As described in the final impact evaluation undertaken by the Agro-Economic
Research Centre at Himachal Pradesh University, the project has led to improved income and
livelihood for project affected people. The literacy rate has increased from 83 to 88 percent,
and the share of workers in the total population increased from 60 to 77 percent. The average
annual household income increases over the baseline by 54 percent in real terms, and a
significant improvements in the overall housing situation have been reported, with 100% of
people living in pukka (permanent) houses compared to 95%. Results of the survey are further
discussed in Annex 5.




                                               20
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

95.     The institutional strengthening of the SJVN to showcase that hydropower can be made
successfully in India, was at the very core of the RHP, and is highlighted in the PDO. Despite
the challenges experienced causing the delays in completion, and partly because of the same
challenges, the capacity of SJVN to do responsible hydropower has significantly improved.
This is proven by the actions taken by SJVN during the project in the technical, social and
environmental fields (as described by the Aide Memoires and ISRs), which has resulted in a
project that generally follows internationally good practice.

96.     SJVN plans to use this increased capacity to expand its hydropower portfolio in India
and in the region, and was awarded, through a competitive process, the concession to develop
a large hydropower project in Nepal. SJVN has also been given a number of domestic awards
for good practice for hydropower development for its work with Rampur. The RHP is thus
already functioning as a showcase for good hydropower development in India. Furthermore,
the GoI has as an immediate result of the completion of Rampur requested SJVN and the Bank
to arrange a national workshop on the experiences and lessons learned from the project. This
workshop is currently being arranged and is planned for September 2015 in Delhi.

97.     Rampur has also played an essential part in the development of the progressive
Hydropower Policy of Himachal Pradesh. The RHP worked as a role model in regard to its
local community development activities for the discussions within GoHP leading up to the new
policy. It will also provide the first real test of the policy’s implementation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

98.     An unintended impact of the RHP was its technical innovations, forced by the
geological problems with tunneling. The necessary measures to solve these problems and to
accelerate the tunneling work inspired the invention and application of new technical solutions
that had never before been used in India.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

99.     The Risk to Development Outcome is rated as Low. The development outcomes of the
project, in essence, cover the continued operation of the NJHP and Rampur to provide
renewable power and grid stabilization in northern India, and SJVN’s continued capacity to
operate the plants responsibly and sustainably for which the risks are low.

100. Technical, financial, economic, environmental, political, and governance risks are all
low. There may be some moderate social risk related to the implementation of the final LADA
activities and the new cash benefit sharing programs, but the risk that this escalates to a level
where it affects the operation of the NJHP and RHP is low.

101. The hydropower schemes are located in an area prone to natural disasters, but this has
been mitigated in the technical design and the probability of extreme events that severely affect
the operation is low. SJVN has an emergency preparedness plan in place.




                                               21
102. SJVN has proven through the operation and maintenance of the upstream NJHP that it
has the capacity for operation and maintenance (O&M) of large hydropower. NJHP has
delivered power satisfactorily to the Indian Northern Grid since 2004. It has shown that it can
adapt the O&M when necessary, exemplified by the successful measures to significantly
reduce the number of shutdowns due to high silt load. Regular dam safety audits have shown
full compliance. Because of the tandem operation of the NJHP and RHP cascade, the same
SJVN team that has operated NJHP will also operate the joint cascade. The commissioning of
the Rampur hydropower station during 2014 has already indicated that this team has the
capacity to sustainably make the transition from construction to operation successful.

103. SJVN already has a stable financial situation with the income from power generation
at the larger NJHP as their main source of revenue. This will enable SJVN to provide the
necessary resources, financial and institutional, for the continued operation of the Rampur
power station.

104. The successful resettlement and local area development during the RHP, as well as the
annuity from 1 percent of the generated power to the affected people, create the basis for a
sustainable relation between SJVN and the local community. Many activities of the local
development activities during construction, will continue during the operation, such as the
support for medical and schooling facilities. Maintaining this good relationship, however, will
require that the expectations for the annuity payments are met without delays and with
transparency. The meeting between the Bank team, SJVN and the GoHP in December 18, 2014
highlighted the importance of proceeding rapidly with the implementation of the annuity
program, and it was agreed by the Directorate of Energy to complete the process of notification
of the beneficiary list by 2015.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

105. Rating: Satisfactory. The project was very well prepared by the Bank, taking into
account all the aspects related to responsible and sustainable hydropower development
according to international good practice, and taking into account the lessons learned from the
previous NJHP. The PAD is outstanding in quality for a hydropower project prepared by the
Bank in the last decade.

106. The reason for the project not receiving a highly satisfactory rating is that the
monitoring and evaluation framework was partly unrealistic to apply, and, in hindsight, more
contingencies could have been included to manage the technical problems that caused the delay
of the finalization and higher cost of construction.

(b) Quality of Supervision

107. Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank team’s had a strong focus on helping the Client to
achieve the expected outcomes, being attentive and supportive with constructive criticism and
proposed solutions to meet challenges that arose. The adequacy and quality of the


                                              22
implementation support is clearly indicated by the Client’s appreciation and acknowledgement
at completion that the Bank’s support probably saved several years of further delay in
finalization and further cost increases for construction.

108. The non-optimal M&E design in preparation was followed-up by an inadequate focus
on the monitoring during implementation. The shortfall in monitoring the indicators in
accordance with the M&E plan by GoHP and SJVN, especially in the areas of the EMP and
the capacity building, was never strongly pointed out by the Bank team during the
implementation support.

109. Understandably, the technical challenges, which directly threatened the outcome of the
project, were the major focus during implementation. Also, the focus on the resettlement and
local community development was strong, which is understandable from the experiences of
other hydropower developments in India. The monitoring of the technical construction
progress and the R&R was also well conducted throughout the project. The progress in
environmental and capacity building components were more generally described and less
frequently followed-up by recorded actions by the team. The Bank team had less leverage with
the State authorities compared with its leverage with SJVN; this was a limiting factor in terms
of mobilizing action on EMP implementation. However, this component has led to
improvements in the state agencies’ capacity to implement such programs, which is expected
to benefit future hydropower projects in the state.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

110. The overall Bank performance rating is satisfactory. The Bank’s preparation and
implementation support was generally of a very high standard as demonstrated by the PAD,
Aide Memoires and the Client’s expression of appreciation in its completion report. Minor
shortcomings during preparation and implementation, mainly on the design and application of
the monitoring and evaluation framework, prevent the rating from being highly satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

111. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. RHP forms part of India’s least cost generation
expansion plan, and has seen ownership and commitment from both Federal and State
Governments. The enabling environment has been in place since start of the project and
necessary permits have been granted. The commitment from the GoHP at the political level for
the development of responsible hydropower is large as shown by the recent legislation on
benefit sharing.

112. The State, however, has experienced capacity constraints, affecting the implementation
of several commitments for the project. The Aide Memoires repeatedly report delays in
Community Development activities, the Catchment Area Treatment Plan and the Afforestation
Program, mainly due to inaction from State authorities. The remaining outputs of the
environmental and social components of the project at closing of the project in December 2014
(corresponding to less than 20% of the total E&S budget) all cover activities to be implemented
by the State. The reasons for these delays are judged to be minor shortcomings in the readiness


                                              23
by the authorities and the lack of priority of RHP activities, since the project is only one small
part of the overall responsibility of the State authorities for local community development and
land management. Together, these minor shortcomings have resulted in some difficulties in the
timely implementation of the responsibilities of the State. In addition, the monitoring and
evaluation arrangements for activities to be implemented by the State authorities have been
weak.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

113. Rating: Satisfactory. SJVN has been fully committed to project implementation
throughout, including the environmental, social and capacity building components. They have
shown excellence in financial management and been rated highly satisfactory for counterpart
funding throughout the project. Stakeholder and PAF interaction has been excellent with an
open door policy. As shown by the results of the component C, SJVN has been committed, and
succeeded, to improve its capacity in many aspects of responsible hydropower development.

114. However, a lack of capacity and readiness to develop a second large project resulted in
decision-making and implementation of activities not always being efficient and timely. The
Aide Memoires report, especially in the beginning of the project, delays in a number of
activities, such as payment of compensation for damages due to construction, follow up
activities on muck disposal problems, and follow up activities to address safety aspects at
constructions sites. Particularly the handling of one case of a fatality in 2012 was not managed
properly.

115. The above shortcomings were, in part, caused by delays in appointing key management
staff in the early stages of the project. Another reason was the focus on the major technical
challenges that directly threatened the outcome of the project. Although this focus was
motivated to maintain the project as financially viable, it is not a reason to accept shortfalls in
the environmental, social and safety areas of the project.

116. The Aide Memoires also report shortcomings in the monitoring and evaluation work
by SJVN relating to the EMP, community development and capacity building activities at
varying points in the project implementation. Considering that the capacity trend for SJVN has
been upwards during the project, and all of the activities reported as delayed were eventually
completed, these shortcomings are, however, considered minor.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

117. The overall performance of the Borrower is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
Federal and State Governments, and SJVN all showed ownership and commitment for reaching
the outcomes, and managed to achieve these at satisfactory level. However, they all suffered
from lack of capacity and readiness to develop hydropower in its broadest aspects, which led
to delays mainly in the environmental and social components. Parts of these delayed activities
still remain to be completed at the closing of the project. These delays downgrade what would
otherwise be a satisfactory rating to moderately satisfactory.




                                                24
6. Lessons Learned

118. In considering the lessons learned from this project it is necessary to identify the
achievements against the backdrop of the known complexity of hydropower development.
There is rarely a hydropower project whose development and construction can be said to be
“straight-forward”. The nature of such infrastructure is that it tends to be site specific, remote
and multi-faceted. Rampur was less complex than some others since it did not require a dam,
but it had the added complication of the necessity to be operated in tandem with NJHP, together
with extensive tunneling in areas known to present geological challenges. In all, the project
was well implemented in that the problems which arose were not allowed to derail the progress
completely; in each case solutions were found and implemented such that construction
continued. The experience of Rampur demonstrates that Indian institutions can partner with
the World Bank, even when many other hydropower projects are stalled in the country, to build
responsible and sustainable hydropower facilities. In spite of worldwide experience that
hydropower projects are extremely difficult due to technical, social, environmental and
governance issues, Rampur is an example of what is possible with a willing client and the right
technical support. The following are the key lessons learned from the project’s execution for
future Bank funded projects: -

119. Trust and communication between the Bank team and the client are key to
managing challenging projects. The level of communication between the Bank team and the
Client on this project was exceptional with a strong mutual respect and understanding. This
was engendered by:
        - The locally based task team leader and staff
                Having a task team that was mostly locally-based was also an important success
                factor. The team was able to be responsive to critical needs of the project, which
                is evidenced by frequent visits to the project site, sometimes as often as every
                other month. This local team was combined with senior experts from
                headquarters and external consultants to ensure the right support could be
                provided at the appropriate time.
        ‐ The continuity of team composition
                Consistency of the World Bank task team during preparation and
                implementation played a major role in the project’s success. In addition to
                depth of knowledge of the project from its inception, keeping the same team
                increased the effectiveness of dialogue with the client. Further, the continuity
                of some team members from the previous engagement on the Nathpa Jhakri
                Power Project created an atmosphere of trust and enabled the team to bring the
                necessary expertise to the project when needed.
        ‐ Good communication as an objective
                The emphasis placed by the both sides on maintaining communication as a
                specific objective in all aspects of the project, leading to open and transparent
                discussion of issues, as and when they arose, in an atmosphere of mutual
                respect.

120. It is essential to build trust through early consultation, communication and
interaction with the local community. One of the reasons that the Rampur HEP gained
acceptance from the local community was the strong effort by SJVN to build a good
relationship with the affected community from very early on. Early in project preparation, for



                                               25
example, SJVN deployed a mobile health van to deliver health services to the community. This
was partly possible because of SJVN’s existing connection to the area and reputation from the
Nathpa Jhakri Hydropower Station. SJVN focused on communication from an early stage,
with close attention to consultations with project affected communities as well as enhanced
disclosure and transparency mechanisms around the project and an open-door policy for
affected families. Proactive strategies, such as holding training sessions for the local
communities, placed SJVN at the forefront of communication processes which have been
emulated in other projects in the state. The Project Information Center set up at site provided
a one-stop window for project-affected communities. Relations with local media were handled
proactively, which also helped manage perceptions around the project.

121. Plan as far as possible, but ensure that there is a structure in place to adapt as
issues arise during the project. Due to the geological conditions, implementing hydropower
projects in the Himalayas is extremely complex even with extensive preparation and
identification of risks. The project would have benefitted from additional geotechnical
investigations during preparation, but this would only have mitigated the risk, not removed it
entirely. Difficult decisions should always be taken upfront insofar as this is possible. For
example, before construction began, when an additional adit was being considered to help with
excavation of the Head Race Tunnel, it was decided that this adit should be avoided as it
necessitated a small number of additional families being relocated. Despite the difficulty of
taking such a decision, the project would have avoided some delays if this adit had been
included in the initial design instead of deciding to go ahead with it only when the rock
conditions were found to be very poor. Similarly, it would have been better to have a
contingency for further land to accommodate the additional muck generated by this extra adit
and other excavations. However, there will always be unknown eventualities to address and
the highlight of the RHP was the way in which these challenges were addressed using
adaptability without leading to complex contractual difficulties.

122. It takes time to build capacity even when the willingness to raise environmental
and social standards is there, but building this capacity through a project can have wider
benefits for the region. GoHP has demonstrated its commitment to good international
practices on social and environmental management through its policy on benefit sharing and
environmental offsets, which go beyond mitigation of direct impacts. It lacks the necessary
capacity, however, to implement, or cause the state government to implement these measures
in full and in a timely manner, which prevented these actions from being completed within the
intended time frame. Consequently, the impact of project is that the State Government has
started to build this capacity and is now applying this institutional development to all projects
in Himachal Pradesh, leading to a much wider impact. There is a trade-off between the instant
results for the current project and building long term capacity for future projects, which needs
careful balancing in set of circumstances. In this trade-off, it is necessary to ensure that the
monitoring and evaluation focusses on the essential elements of the EMP rather than the
elements which constitute capacity building for the region; or at least that the distinction is
clear.

123. Occupational Health and Safety practices should be included in the contracts with
main contractors, and contractor should be incentivized to hold their subcontractors to
these standards. The RHP showed how difficult it is to reach good international practice for
safety for all contractors, especially when subcontractors are local and may be accustomed to



                                               26
national practice. Effort should be made at bidding stage to include the OHS practices among
the requirements for the contactors, but this alone is not sufficient. There have to be incentives
and penalties in place to make it in the interest of the main contractor to manage the OHS
practices of subcontractors to achieve an acceptable standard. It should also be ensured that
the supervising engineers for the project have the skills to monitor and enforce such provisions.

124. Given the challenges which will occur, there need to be systems in place to ensure
that other project progress continues, especially in the soft components, even when
management is distracted by one area. The RHP highlighted how difficult it is to maintain
focus on all components of a hydropower projects when problems occur. The major challenges
with geology directly threatened the whole project. Understandably, the Client’s management,
as well as the Bank team, put an emphasis on solving these problems. The Bank team, through
the Aide Memoires continued in parallel to take up the implementation of soft components,
such as the EMP and capacity building program, which were delayed especially during the first
years when much of the geological problems emerged. The delayed response from the Client
on these remarks, however, shows the limited leverage the Bank has for pushing the soft
components of a hydropower when the technically and financially oriented Client has the main
construction as their focus. In the face of urgent technical problems, it is difficult as a Bank
team to insist on compliance for components, the benefits of which would only be realized in
the distant future, without eroding the trust between the Client and the Bank. Having a structure
of delegated responsibility and ‘strength in depth’ in the client management can help to ensure
that all aspects of the project continue to make progress.

125. Monitoring and evaluation is difficult but crucial for complex projects. Large
hydropower, like most large infrastructure projects, are multifaceted, generally include a range
of sub-components and are often controversial as they may have large footprints of impact.
The RHP has successfully shown that such impacts can be positive. The RHP also showed that
it is easy to overlook soft components when the technical construction takes additional focus.
For these reasons, monitoring and evaluation is crucial for a hydropower developer (and for
the Bank) to make sure that all components are progressing as planned, and for transparency
to affected people and other stakeholders. Without the baseline, mid-term and end-term impact
evaluations conducted by SJVN, it is likely that many question marks would have been raised
over the efficiency of the R&R program. The implementation of the environment program will,
as it continues, need greater emphasis on timely monitoring and evaluation at the state level as
part of their capacity development.

126. Project design can affect the level of importance attached to the softer components
of the project. Designing the project with two technical components and a separate
institutional strengthening component allowed the attention of the client, the government and
the Bank to be focused on this aspect. SJVN were keen to develop as an organization, but had
these elements been subsumed within the technical components then it would have been more
difficult to monitor these aspects and bring them to the attention of management.




                                               27
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

127. SJVN proposed a small number of clarifying and editorial changes to the draft ICR,
and they have all been implemented. No other comments or issues have been raised by the
SJVN, GoI, or GoHP.




                                          28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                                 Percentage of
           Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                                     Appraisal
                                                          millions)
Component A – Construction of
the 412 MW Rampur run-of-river             423              664.34                          157%
hydroelectric scheme
Component B – Investment
support to implement measures
for ensuring higher availability of         45                 *
the existing upstream Nathpa
Jhakri hydropower project
Component C – Technical
assistance for institutional reform
and capacity building to assist the
borrower, SJVN, in moving
towards international good                  10                10                            100%
practices in hydropower
development and operations, and
improving its standards of project
preparation for future projects.
             Total Baseline Cost           478.00           674.34                          141%
Physical Contingencies
                                                43.00                    0.00                 -
Price Contingencies
                                                75.00                   0.00                  -
              Total Project Costs              595.00                 674.34                113%
Front-end fee PPF                                0.00                   0.00                  -
Front-end fee IBRD                               1.00                   1.00                100%
Interest during construction                    74.00                  22.16                 30%
      Total Financing Required                 670.00                 697.50                104%

* - Works carried out by SJVN as part of internal project to improve availability of NJHP

(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing        (USD        (USD        Appraisal
                                                            millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                 297         297           100%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                          400             400               100%
and Development




                                                   29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Summary

PDO part 1: To improve the reliability of India's Northern Electricity Grid through the addition
of renewable, low carbon energy from the Rampur hydropower project
Indicators:                   Rating: Satisfactory

The prime indicator for            All major achievements reached already in December 2014. Most
measuring the improved             minor shortcomings are likely to be addressed within the next months.
reliability of India’s Northern    This will mean a situation in 2015 with a fully operational power plant
Electricity Grid will be the       at Rampur with envisaged capacity, completed resettlement,
proportion of the time over        environmental mitigation of direct impacts, and safety measures in
which the grid frequency is        place. In addition, measures have been fully achieved to decrease the
maintained within the              number of days with outages at NJHP, with proven results. In
operating band of India’s          combination the new Rampur power house and the now more reliable
Electricity Grid Code. The         NJHP contribute to improved reliability of India's Northern Electricity
project’s capacity is small        Grid.
compared to the size of the
northern grid so its impact will   The finalization of the project suffered a 21 months delay due to
be marginal, but important.        greater than expected geological challenges; this was one of the main
                                   reasons for the level 2 restructuring in 2011. But even with the delay
Specific Output indicators in      in project outcomes, the project gives an adequate return, proven by
PAD for components A and           the updated economic assessment at project finalization.
B: Timely and satisfactory
progress toward delivery of        Although major steps have already been made, there is further
outputs, as planned, including     uncertainty in the timing of complete fulfilment of the social benefit
progress in the following          sharing and regional environmental offsets for Rampur (which both go
specific items:                    beyond compensation to affected families and mitigation of direct
• Power house construction         environmental impacts). The delayed components, however, only
• HRT construction                 comprise less than 20% of the total social and environmental cost of
• EMP implementation               the project (less than 1% of the total project cost). Considering that
• RAP/SCDP implementation          these funds are committed and earmarked for activities in the local
• NJHP contingency spares          area that are likely to be implemented, and only comprise a small
• Blanking panels and pumps        fraction to the total cost, the shortcomings are considered minor.

                                   In summary, all three main outcomes for this part of the PDO will be
                                   achieved with no shortcomings in 2015. Four out of five component-
                                   specific outputs have been fully achieved. The achievements for the
                                   two remaining outputs have almost been reached, with the remaining
                                   activities paid for and likely to be achieved but with an uncertain time
                                   schedule.




                                                30
PDO part 2: To improve the effectiveness of SJVN with respect to the preparation and safe
implementation of economically, environmentally, and socially sustainable hydropower projects
Indicators:                   Rating: Satisfactory

The improvement in                The effectiveness of SJVN with respect to the preparation and safe
effectiveness of SJVN will be     implementation of economically, environmentally, and socially
measured by the preparation       sustainable hydropower projects can be judged to have been
and implementation of training    significantly improved. This is proved by the fact that the two outcome
plans and the adoption of good    targets and the six component-specific outputs are all judged to be
practices in various areas,       achieved, although the interpretation of the indicators and monitored
including safety, financial       results are not always straightforward.
management, contract
management, and                   SJVN has taken the capacity building effort seriously. They have
communications.                   arranged a large number of training courses for its personnel, have
                                  contracted national and international expertise in key areas (such as
Specific Output indicators in     safety, contract management and technical aspects) and have created a
PAD for component C:              corporate social responsibility program. They have (as reported by
Satisfactory progress toward      presentations during the ICR mission) acknowledged self-criticism for
delivery of outputs, as           things that were not optimal, and shown great enthusiasm to adopt
planned, including specific       technical innovations to accelerate civil works obstructed by
measures and milestones from      geotechnical difficulties. SJVN have made efforts to meet varying
the agreed institutional action   demands from project affected people and to take actions to reduce the
plans                             number of accidents during construction. This has resulted in a project
                                  that generally follows internationally good practice (as proven by the
                                  Aide Memoires and final ISR). In addition, SJVN has been willing to
                                  manage and solve legacy issues related to silt problems and contract
                                  claims, and expanded community development activities, for the
                                  NJHP (as reported in the mid-term and final report by SJVN).

                                  The comparison of many key aspects (cost overrun, construction
                                  delays, number of outstanding claims, number of accidents, etc.)
                                  between Nathpa Jhakri (1994-2004) and Rampur (2007-14) show
                                  improvements in the latter project. As a sign of this improvement
                                  SJVN has been given a number of domestic awards for good practice
                                  (mainly in environmental and safety aspects).

                                  The capacity improvement of SJVN to conduct responsible and
                                  sustainable hydropower is further proven by the fact that the company
                                  was selected, by international competition, to develop a major
                                  hydropower scheme in Nepal.




                                              31
Achievement of outcomes and outputs per component

 COMPONENT 1
 Target No. Target                  Achievement        Comment
            description
 Outcome 1  Increased power         No shortcomings.   The project has been synchronized with the
            availability to                            Northern Grid and proven to run at its
            Northern region                            installed capacity of 412 MW on a
            off-takers: 1770                           commercial basis in December 2014.
            GWh/year
                                                       Total cumulative production up to 06/21/15
                                                       was 1957 GWh (the observed value in
                                                       December 2014 refers to only a partial year’s
                                                       production, with only partial number of units
                                                       installed)

                                                       The agreed delivery with GoI from RHP for
                                                       the current FY (April 2015-March 2016) is
                                                       1878 GWh, exceeding the target of 1770
                                                       GWh/year.

 Outcome 2    % of time             No shortcomings.   From a technical perspective all large
              frequency in the                         hydropower capacity clearly improves the
              Northern                                 reliability of the power grid (the opposite is
              Electricity Grid is                      logically impossible) with its unique ability
              in the operating                         to adjust its production in very short time to
              band of Indian                           control frequency. The project indicator is,
              Electricity Grid                         however, not valid for direct causal attribution
              Code: 72.25% to                          since both the criteria (operating band) and
              90.3% at ICR                             indicator measure are dynamically changing
                                                       because of other developments in the large
                                                       generation and transmission system of India.
                                                       The acceptable frequency band has been
                                                       changed from 49.2-50.3 Hz at appraisal, to
                                                       49.90 -50.05 Hz at completion. The observed
                                                       value given in final ISR (86.2%) refers to the
                                                       narrower band and cannot be compared to the
                                                       target of 90.3%. If the 49.2-50.3 Hz is used,
                                                       the proportion of time that was recorded
                                                       within the operating band in April-December
                                                       2014 was 98.9%, exceeding the target.

                                                       The contribution of Rampur, as part of the
                                                       Satluj River Cascade hydropower, is
                                                       confirmed as essential for frequency control
                                                       of the Northern Grid by the National Load
                                                       Dispatch Centre.




                                            32
Output 1   Works contracts      No shortcomings   The HRT was completed and functional
           completed                              (filled with acceptable seepage levels) in
           • Power house (%                       March 2014. The main power house is
           completion) –                          completed, electro-mechanical equipment
           Civil –                                installed and proven to run at full capacity in
           Electrical : 100%                      December 2014.
           at ICR
           • Head Race
           Tunnel (%
           completion) :
           100% at ICR

Output 2   EMP                  Minor             - Muck disposal almost complete by
           implementation       shortcomings      December 2014. By April 2015, plants were
            Muck disposal                        planted in all muck dumping sites, as part of
             as per plan:                         the restoration plan. Successful re-vegetation
             100% at ICR                          tests conducted confirm re-growth within one
            Compensatory                         year.
             afforestation –
             trees: 100% at                       - As of December 2014, compensatory
             ICR                                  afforestation covering an area of 120 ha had
            Funds                                been implemented by the H.P. State Forest
             utilization on                       Department, which comprises 86% of EMP
             CAT plan                             target. All funds deposited by SJVN with the
             activities: 90%                      State Forest Department. Will be conducted as
             at ICR                               part of overall State afforestation program.
           (excluding
           maintenance)                           - Rs. 185 million (82%) of 226 million
                                                  utilized for CAT plan. All funds deposited by
                                                  SJVN with the GoHP. Will be conducted as
                                                  part of overall State programs.

Output 3   RAP and              No shortcomings   - Affected people resettled and/or fully
           community                              compensated for loss of land by 2007 before
           development plan                       commencement of civil works. The process
           implementation                         was conducted according to international
            Landowners                           good practice using market values for land
             receiving full                       acquisition and giving multiple options for
             entitlements:                        PAP for resettlement and rehabilitation.
             100% at ICR
            Real increase in                     - Livelihood improvement of PAP indicated
             Project                              by independent impact assessment already in
             Affected                             mid-term report, and confirmed by final
             Families                             impact assessment in April 2015. 87% of
             standard of                          PAFs reported an increase in income while
             living                               the share of PAFs with an increase in income
             (measured                            and/or assets is 99%. The final evaluation also
             by % of PAP                          demonstrates an increase in literacy rates,
             with increased                       permanent housing, and size of houses.
             income and or



                                        33
               assets): 90% at                           - SJVN has spent Rs. 482 million on area
               ICR.                                      development fund and local welfare activities
              Amount spent                              as of December 2014. More than Rs. 300
               on small                                  million of these have been committed for
               infrastructure in                         public infrastructure and buildings (water
               project affected                          supply, transport, schools) – and Rs. 289
               villages and                              million is confirmed as complete.
               local contracts                           Approximately Rs. 100 million, mainly for
               awarded to the                            local water supply improvements, deposited
               PAPs and local                            by SJVN with the governmental Local Area
               villagers: Rs.                            Development Fund (LADF), is still to be
               200 million at                            implemented.
               ICR
                                                         - A total of 119 contracts were awarded to
                                                         local contractors for Rs. 337 million for the
                                                         area development and welfare works. In
                                                         addition the main civil works contractors for
                                                         RHP assigned local sub-contracts for a value
                                                         of more than Rs. 1 billion.


COMPONENT 2
Target No. Target                  Achievement           Comment
           description
Outcome 1  Significant             No shortcomings       The number of days of outage of the NJHP
           reduction in the                              has been significantly reduced to 4.6 days per
           number of days                                annum (3-year average), thus exceeding the
           of outage of                                  target by far.
           NJHP in wet
           season: 32 to 24                              The achievement of reduction in outages due
           at ICR                                        to the project is proven by the evidence that
                                                         the downward trend in outages is over and
                                                         above that which could be expected from the
                                                         trend in riverine sediment transport. This
                                                         shows that the measures applied by SJVN
                                                         during the last few years have allowed the
                                                         plant to function with a lower number of
                                                         outages due to silt.

Output 1     Blanking panels       Indicator only        Not all the outputs anticipated in the PAD
             and dredging          partly applicable     were directly achieved, but instead
             pumps installed       since type of         corresponding improved measures have been
             at NJHP: 100%         equipment has         installed and applied. During preparation and
             at ICR                changed.              early implementation of the project, SJVN
                                   Corresponding         conducted a number of studies and assigned
                                   alternative outputs   international expertise to find the optimal
                                   to address the        solution for reaching the outcome (Outcome
                                   outcome are fully     Target 3 above – reduced number of days of
                                   achieved.             outage at NJHP). The final improved solution
                                                         was an adaptive approach comprising a mix of



                                            34
                                                   new ideas combined with some equipment
                                                   anticipated during project preparation (e.g.
                                                   blanking panels). The SJVN has implemented
                                                   this optimal solution and the result is that the
                                                   number of days with outage at NJHP has
                                                   decreased significantly, as seen by the
                                                   outcome indicator above.


Output 2     Procurement of      No shortcomings   Approximately Rs. 555 million was invested
             contingency                           by SJVN in spares for NJHP up to 2010 (mid-
             spares for NJHP:                      term) to improve the regular maintenance of
             100% at ICR                           turbines. Annual refurbishment (hard-coating)
                                                   is now conducted for all six units during the
                                                   dry season with minimum interruption of the
                                                   power production. Annual scheduled
                                                   maintenance outage has been reduced to 6
                                                   days for each turbine.


COMPONENT 3
Target No. Target                Achievement       Comment
           description
Outcome 1  Improvement in        No shortcomings   SJVN reports an increase from 96.7% to
           off-taker                               99.9% satisfaction level from 2007 to 2010 by
           satisfaction with                       mid-term, and an increase to 100% by 2014.
           respect to SJVN                         For two straight years, all of SJVNs offtakers
           service: Strong                         rated them as excellent on all 8 dimensions
           evidence of an                          listed in their satisfaction survey.
           upward trend

Outcome 2    Improvements        No shortcomings   The independent social surveys show that the
             demonstrated in                       project contributed to significant increases in
             social                                incomes, assets and other social metrics for
             development                           project affected families. The literacy rate has
             surveys: Strong                       increased from 83 to 88 percent compared to
             evidence of an                        baseline and compared to the control group,
             upward trend                          which stands at 77 percent. The number of
                                                   residential rooms per house has increased
                                                   from 3.7 to 6.85 compared to baseline. The
                                                   value productivity of land (Rs/ha) has also
                                                   increased.

Output 1     Safety action       Minor             SJVN has deployed safety officers to ensure
             plan - reduction    shortcomings      safety norms of the construction work, and
             in reported cases                     assigned international Occupational, Health
             of non-                               and Safety expertise to improve safety.
             compliance with
             safety procedures                     According to reports of the National Safety
             (% of prior year                      Advisor, the number of non-compliances fell



                                         35
           value): 10% at                        by 39% in 2013 compared to the previous
           ICR                                   year. For 2014, only data for the first two
                                                 quarters was available at the time of writing,
                                                 but these figures show a continued downward
                                                 trend in non-compliances.

                                                 In the absence of the non-compliance
                                                 statistics for earlier years, accidents rates are
                                                 being used as a proxy to preliminary evaluate
                                                 this output. Accident reports from
                                                 construction show a clear decrease of about
                                                 15% per year from 26 in 2007 to 3 in 2014.
                                                 Accident rates per year have drastically
                                                 decreased (by 80%) between the construction
                                                 of Nathpa Jhakri (1994-2004) and Rampur
                                                 (2007-14) HPs.

Output 2   Dam safety          No shortcomings   Dam safety reviews have been conducted
           reviews carried                       according to Indian standards, and appropriate
           out to time and                       actions taken. The Mid-term report in 2010
           follow up actions                     reported and information received at ICR
           taken: 100% at                        mission show 100% compliance.
           ICR

Output 3   Financial           No shortcomings   SJVN has an adequate financial management
           management                            system and internal control framework in
           action plan -                         place. The project has filed all quarterly
           timely and                            reports on time.
           accurate
           preparation of
           quarterly
           accounts: 100%
           at ICR

Output 4   Contract            Minor             With the experience from NJHP, SJVN has
           management          shortcomings      put in considerable effort to improve its
           action plan –                         contract management. The result has been that
           variations                            variation orders (VOs) have been dealt with
           confirmed                             on a timely basis during construction. At mid-
           through issue of                      term a total of 74 variation orders were
           priced variation                      verified to have been issued on time and
           orders: 85% at                        appropriately for the two main works
           ICR                                   packages in contrast to NJHP where VOs
                                                 were delayed for years. A Dispute Resolution
                                                 Board (DRB) was established in 2008 and
                                                 meets on a regular basis. In January 2015 a
                                                 total of 24 claims were with the DRB, which
                                                 makes the percentage of confirmed variations
                                                 76%.




                                       36
Outputs 5   Environmental      Minor          The Client’s report on training included 610
and 6       capacity -         shortcomings   person days of environmental management
            training (person                  training and 1884 person days of OHS
            days training):                   training. Earlier reports on training show
            1000 days at ICR                  partial overlap with the aforementioned report
                                              and includes at least another 64 person days
            Other training                    of training on environmental management and
            including                         160 person days on OHS. The client has also
            organizational                    conducted hundreds of additional person days
            effectiveness                     of other training, including leadership and
            (person training                  skills development training. Based on the
            days): 2000 days                  available documentation, however, it cannot
            at ICR                            be clearly shown that SJVN met the full target
                                              of 1000 person days of environmental
                                              management training.




                                       37
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Financial analysis

SJVN is a stronger company, financially, than when the project was appraised. It has been
listed on the stock exchange and has a wide portfolio of projects to develop (having started as
a one project organization with the construction of NJHP). The company’s financial forecasts
show strong performance, with an average 56% profit after tax on sales income over the next
ten years. Cash flow is secure, although the extent of the company’s investment program
causes a temporary negative cash flow for three years, but preceding cash reserves are
sufficient to cover this loss. This cash flow difficulty is caused by the timing of the investment
program; it is likely that some projects will proceed at different rates smoothing the company’s
cash flow. The forecast corporate cash flow envisages some Rs. 5000 Cr6 of additional equity
being contributed by the shareholders over the ten year period, particularly to finance the Luhri
project. However, in the event that these injections of capital were delayed, the financial
situation of the company would remain secure with positive cash flow. The company also
expects to raise some Rs. 9000 Cr of debt, which, given the otherwise healthy state of its
finances, should be achievable.

The specific financial performance of the Rampur hydropower scheme is uncertain until the
final tariff determination is reached by the Central Electricity Regulator. However, the basis
of tariff determination is “cost plus” and as a result SJVN should achieve a reasonable return
on its investment depending only on how much of the cost overrun, incurred because of the
geological conditions, the regulator is prepared to accept. At the mid-term review of the project
(2010) it was already expected that there would be a cost increase of 30% in Rupee terms from
Rs. 2047 Cr (originally agreed with GoI) to Rs. 2652 Cr. In January 2015, SJVN filed a
submission to CERC, for interim approval of a tariff, showing the cost incurred as Rs. 3658 Cr
(which was accepted by CERC as the basis for an interim tariff order for 85% of this amount
in accordance with their rules for interim orders). Hence Rs. 3658 Cr has been used as the
capital cost in the following analysis.

Rs. 3658 Cr as compared to the appraisal estimate of Rs. 2552 Cr represents an increase of
43%. In US$ terms the cost is approx. US$ 687 m; 15% higher than the appraisal estimate of
US$ 596 m. These estimates are in the process of finalization and are expected to be submitted
to the regulator by June 2015.

In addition, since NJHP design energy has been revised upwards by CEA, Rampur’s design
energy was also changed from the 1770 MU assumed at appraisal to 1878 MU.




6
    Cr stands for crore; 1 cr = 10 million



                                               38
Comparison with tariff estimates at appraisal and completion

                                         Rupees/kWh                      US cents/kWh
 Estimated at project appraisal              2.4                              5.8
 Estimated at completion                     3.4                              5.4

A cost to completion of Rs. 3658 Cr – would imply a tariff of Rs. 3.4 which would provide a
financial profit after tax of 30% on sales income or Return on Equity of 16.5% (as per the
CERC norm). This price would be within the range of merit order dispatch for the Northern
Region. Uttar Pradesh, for example, has an average cost of power purchase of Rs. 3.49 /kWh
for 2014-15 including power purchases from NJHP at Rs. 2.76/kWh, Karcham Wangtoo
(another Satluj river hydro) at Rs. 3.77/KWh and other thermal and hydro plants ranging up to
almost Rs. 6/kWh. Similarly Haryana state has an average cost of power purchase of Rs. 3.6
/kWh. CERC’s annual report on the power market for 2013/14 also shows that bilateral trade
contracts were conducted at an average peak price of power of Rs. 4.41/kWh and at an average
off-peak price of power of Rs. 3.85/kWh. Thus it is clear that Rampur will fall with the merit
order dispatch.

However, it is important also to consider the combination with Nathpa Jhakri as Rampur cannot
operate independently. If both stations are considered as one joint operation, then the profit on
sales from their combined operation is expected to be 40%. Nathpa Jhakri has a current price
per unit of Rs. 2.76/kWh – thus the blended price for all units from the combined plant would
be Rs. 2.9/kWh which underscores the fact that there is no risk of the cascade not being
dispatched.

The prevailing CERC norms for tariff calculation are as follows – and these have been used in
calculating the estimates above: -
     Debt-Equity ratio of 70:30;
     Interest on debt as per actual costs incurred;
     Return on Equity at 16.5 percent p.a. (adjusted for the current tax rate to 20.4%);
     Initial operations and maintenance expenses at 2.5 percent of the project cost , escalated
        at 6.44 percent p.a.;
     Depreciation on straight line basis (as per rates prescribed by CERC), up to 90 percent
        of project cost (excluding land). After 12 years of operation the rate of depreciation
        adjusts to the remaining useful life of the project;
     Working capital requirement calculated from operations and maintenance expenses for
        one month, maintenance spares and receivables for two months
     Working capital and short-term loans interest rate at 12 percent p.a.;
     operations and maintenance expenses calculated at 2.5% of project costs, escalated at
        6.64% pa;
     Design energy for RHP at 1878 million units;
     Effective tax rate 20.96% as per NJHP current rate
     13% free power to the state.




                                               39
Economic analysis

According to the project appraisal document, the economic rate of return was expected to be
19.3%, assuming operation began in 2011. This compares with a rate of 14.1% calculated on
the final cost to completion (the calculation of which is described below).

The economic analysis carried out at appraisal (which was exhaustive) was recalculated in line
with the revised cost to completion and the additional time taken for the project. At appraisal
it was expected that Rampur would reduce peak power shortages and thus obviate the need for
additional gas stations. Similarly, it was assumed that during the wet season when Rampur
can provide base load, it would displace the need for additional gas fired generation.

In the Northern region to which Rampur contributes, in 2013/14 there was a 5% shortage of
power based on average daily consumption and a 7% shortage for peak power. This implies
that at some points of the year, in off peak, there may be times when there is sufficient power
supply available and consequently the use of Rampur’s power will imply backing down an
alternative power station (rather than obviating the need to build an additional station). There
are a range of power trading possibilities now available in India, which were only just
beginning to be established when this project was appraised. Thus the avoided cost of power
purchase as set by the market can be used to value the new generation provided by Rampur.

According to the CERC, in 2013/14 more than 10% of power was purchased through short
term contracts including bilateral trades, exchange markets and unscheduled interchange and
of this more than 30% was by bilateral trade. The average price for off-peak power traded
bilaterally was Rs. 3.845 which compares favorably with the variable cost of electricity at the
limit of the merit order in Uttar Pradesh, for example, which was Rs. 4.62/kWh and the
approved cost at which the state is permitted to buy power in an emergency using the trading
markets or unscheduled interchange is Rs. 5 /kWh (according to the latest UPERC tariff order).
The equivalent price of bilateral trade for peak power is Rs. 4.41/kWh and for off peak power
is Rs3.85/kWh. The ERR of 14.1% valued at this bilateral trade price for the project is 17.1%
if recalculated at an avoided cost of Rs. 5/kWh. The use of the price of power generation
avoided (bilateral trade price) is a conservative one, since there remain times of shortage even
during off-peak times when Rampur could be said to be replacing more expensive diesel back
up supply or even un-served energy.

If environmental benefits of avoided carbon are included, then the ERR at appraisal was only
0.5% higher than the rate excluding such benefits as the assumption was that the avoided
generation was based on gas which is a lower carbon emission source than coal. Rampur has
since been approved for carbon emission reduction credits (guaranteed 740,000 pa). If this is
included valued in line with World Bank recommended norms – then the ERR changes to
16.6%. The ERR could be higher if the additional optional CERs (up to 1,400,000 pa) are
included taking the return to 18.5%.




                                              40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                  Names                             Title                     Unit
Lending
Sunil Kumar Khosla               Team Leader / Sr. Energy Specialist         SASSD
Judith K. Plummer                Co – team leader/ Sr. Financial Analyst     SASSD
Alessandro Palmieri              Lead Dam Specialist                         ESDQC
I.U.B. Reddy                     Sr. Social Development Specialist           SASSD
Tapas Paul                       Sr. Environmental Specialist                SASSD
Manmohan Singh Bajaj             Sr. Procurement Specialist                  SARPS
Sushil Bahl                      Sr. Procurement Specialist                  SARPS
Manoj Jain                       Sr. Financial Management Specialist         SARFM
Sumir Lal                        Sr. External Affairs Officer                SAREX
Sudip Mozumder                   Sr. Communication Officer                   SAREX
Rohit Mittal                     Financial Analyst                           SASSD
Joseph Daniel Wright             Economist                                   SASSD
Boonsri Prasertwaree Kim         Program Assistant                           SASSD
Deepali Uppal                    Program Assistant                           SASSD
Ritu Sharma                      Program Assistant                           SASSD
Anthony E. Sparkes               Consultant                                  SASSD
Ashok Malik                      Consultant                                  SAREX
Ramola Bhuyan                    Consultant                                  SAREX
Sona Thakur                      Consultant                                  SAREX
Peter S. Copplestone             Consultant                                  SASSD
Naseer A Rana                    Adviser                                     SARSQ
Supervision/ICR
Rohit Mittal                     Team leader/ Senior Energy Specialist       GEEDR
Kwawu Mensan Gaba                Co-team leader / Lead Energy Specialist     GEEDR
Harinath Sesha Appalarajugari    Senior Environmental Specialist             GENDR
Sushil Kumar Bahl                Senior Procurement Specialist             SARPS - HIS
Manmohan Singh Bajaj             Senior Procurement Specialist             SARPS - HIS
Shanker Lal                      Senior Procurement Specialist               GGODR
Sheela Bajaj                     Consultant                                  GEEDR
Luiz Augosto Nobrega Barroso     Consultant                                  GEEDR
Ramola Bhuyan                    Consultant                                  CCLSI
Peter S. Copplestone             Consultant                                SASSD-HIS
Jean Michel Devernay             Chief Technical Specialist                TWIWA-HIS
Pyush Dogra                      Sr. Environmental Spec.                     GENDR
Daryl Fields                     Sr. Water Resources Spec.                  GWADR
Surbhi Goyal                     Energy Specialist                           GEEDR
Anupam Joshi                     Sr. Environmental Spec.                     GENDR
Manoj Jain                       Lead Financial Management Spec              GGODR
Pravin Karki                     Senior Hydropower Specialist                GEEDR
Ashish Khanna                    Lead Energy Specialist                      GEEDR



                                    41
Sunil Kumar Khosla                     Lead Energy Specialist                         GEEDR
Rikard Liden                           Senior Hydropower Specialist                   GWADR
Kimberly Nicole Lyon                   Consultant                                     GWADR
Boonsri Prasertwaree Kim               Program Assistant                              GEEDR
Oeyvind Espeseth Lier                  Senior Hydropower Specialist                 TWIWA - HIS
Alessandro Palmieri                    Consultant                                     GWADR
Tapas Paul                             Senior Environmental Specialist                GENDR
Judith K. Plummer                      Consultant                                     GEEDR
I. U. B. Reddy                         Senior Social Development Spec                 GSURR
Vaideeswaran Sankaran                  Consultant                                     GENDR
Peeyush Ramawtar Sekhsaria             Consultant                                     GSURR
Varun Singh                            Senior Social Development Spec                 GFADR
Anthony E. Sparkes                     Consultant                                   SASDE - HIS
Sona Thakur                            Senior Communications Officer                  SAREC
Deepali Uppal                          Program Assistant                               SACIN


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including travel
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                    and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                      9.96                           39.53
  FY06                                     78.09                          260.87
  FY07                                     61.68                          204.59
  FY08                                     14.31                           79.53
                             Total:        164.04                         584.52
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                     36.53                           208.11
  FY09                                     51.77                           203.70
  FY10                                     47.21                           178.14
  FY11                                     56.11                           167.64
  FY12                                     39.72                           125.66
  FY13                                     30.64                           129.64
  FY14                                     25.53                           139.67
  FY15                                     14.99                            81.22
                             Total:        302.50                        1,233.78




                                          42
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Introduction
The Rampur Hydropower Project (RHP) has been constructed on the right bank of river Satluj
in district Kullu near to Rampur town. The land has been acquired from the four revenue
villages of Bayal, Koyal, Averi and Duttnagar for the construction of project infrastructure and
other activities. A total of 100 ha of land were acquired/diverted from forest land for project
activities, including 29 ha privately owned by 167 landowners. A total of 19 PAFs were
displaced due to acquisition of houses; 10 PAFs were affected by acquisition of their houses
but had second houses; and 57 PAFs were rendered landless.
In order to mitigate any adverse impacts on the livelihoods and other aspects of the social and
economic fabric of these villages, SJVN implemented a Resettlement & Rehabilitation plan
for project affected families (PAFs) along with various community development initiatives.
The main provisions envisaged in the R&R Plan for the PAFs are house plots for houseless
families, rehabilitation grants for landless families, support for income generation, health care
services, education facilities, technical education for capacity building, drinking water, and
infrastructure works in the area etc.
A study examining the efficacy of these measures was carried out post-completion by the Agro-
Economic Research Centre, Himachal Pradesh University. This summary highlights the main
findings from their report, which was finalized in March 2015. This follows a baseline survey
conducted in 2005 and a mid-term impact evaluation in 2010.
Objectives and Methodology
The main objective of the study is to evaluate the final impact of R&R activities on PAFs. This
has been done by comparing the current values of relevant parameters with results from the
base line study (2005) and also with the control sample. The 92 PAFs residing in the four
villages affected by land acquisition were surveyed along with a control sample of 80
households located in the same four villages as well as the villages Brow and Randal. In
addition to household survey, the study also relies on focused group discussions with village
leaders, Panchayat officials and other key stakeholders. The data was collected during the
period December 29, 2014 to January 4, 2015 by team of seven experienced field investigators.
The main areas of impact analysis are:

        i.      Occupational pattern of the PAFs.
        ii.     Residential pattern of the PAFs.
        iii.    Agricultural/commercial assets of the PAFs.
        iv.     Possession of house hold’s durables by the PAFs.
        v.      Livestock assets of the PAFs.
        vi.     Farm yield of the PAFs.
        vii.    Consumption pattern of the PAFs.
        viii.   Investment pattern of the PAFs.
        ix.     Socio- political and religious institution in the project area.
        x.      Cultural Practices in the project area.
        xi.     Infrastructural development in the project area.




                                                43
The scope of the study also includes identification of the key outstanding implementation
actions and proposes any remedial measures that are necessary to achieve the intended
objectives of R&R and community development activities.

                Table- 1: Classification of sampled households

             Village           PAFs        Control Sample               Total
             Bayal              62                3                      65
             Koyal              22               18                      40
             Averi               1               11                      12
             Duttnagar           6               17                      23
             Brow                -                1                       1
             Randal              1               30                      31
             Total              92               80                      172


Socio-Economic Impact of R&R Interventions
Demographics
There are no significant changes in the demographic profile of the sample, the percentage of
male being about 51 per cent during current evaluation as compare to about 49 per cent during
base period. Family size and sex ratio declined in the current period when compared to base
year (Fig-1 and 2). The dependency ratio increased marginally to 0.67 from 0.66, but this
compares favorably to the control sample, which has a dependency ratio of 1.16.

Fig-1: Changes in family size in project    Fig-2: Changes in sex ratio in project
        area (persons/family)                    area (females/1000 males)



                                                                 1037
                   4.55     4.5                        1013
         4.21                                                              922




Education
There is an appreciable increase in the percentage of persons with qualification of Senior
Secondary level and above. As such, the literacy level among males has increased from 91 per
cent to 92.14 per cent and that of females has increased from 76 in the base period to 83 per
cent (Fig-3).




                                             44
                 Fig- 3: Changes in literacy in project area (%)

                                     2014        2005         Control
                 92    91                   83                      88
                            85                                               83
                                                 76                               77
                                                        69




                  Male                      Female                      Total


Occupations
Agriculture is the main occupation of workers. The percentage of male workers engaged in
agriculture declined by about 3 per cent whereas the percentage of female workers increased
from about 71 percent to 92 percent. This scenario is the result of alternate and comparatively
higher paying job opportunities made available, mainly by the RHP. Women had to
compensate the labor requirements by working on farms. About 3 percent of workers were
working as agriculture labor, but now this occupation is completely absent. The percentage of
workers engaged in non-agriculture labor, service, business and rural artisans witnessed an
increase during the evaluation period (Fig- 4).

Fig- 4: Changes in Occupation pattern of workers in project area (% of workers)


                                     2014        2005         Control

            66
                 60
                      48
                                                              26
                                         20           19 16
                                 5   4                                   9    6   6


          Agriculture        Non-agril                Service           Business
                              labour



Changes in income Patterns
Agriculture still remained main source of income for majority of households but the percentage
of such households declined from about 90 percent to 63 percent. The percentage of
households deriving income from wage labor decline significantly from about 41 percent to 10
percent.

Level of Income
The per-household income from service witnessed an increase of about 229 per cent whereas
this increase was 163 percent for agriculture and 596 percent for business. The income from
wage labor declined by about 422 percent during this period. In real terms, annual income was



                                                      45
2.5 lakh per household in base period, which has increased to 3.9 lakh in 2014 (Fig-5). The
current income in absolute terms has gone up from Rs. 120648 per HH/year during base period.
This figure for control group was Rs 207257 per household per year. This, in absolute terms,
is 222.61 per cent higher as compared with base line period and 87.80 per cent in comparison
to control group. However, if base line household income is inflated to current prices, the
increase in income, in real terms, is about 55 per cent.

       Fig- 5: Changes in Level of annual income in project area (Rs/hh)

                          389218

                                            251472
                                                               207257




                        2014               2005              Control


Changes in Housing conditions
All the sampled households had houses during the current survey but during the base period
only 95 percent households owned the houses. There is significant improvement in the type of
houses as the percentage of households having pukka houses was about 98 percent during
current period in comparison to only about 35 percent households having pukka houses during
base period. All the sampled households now had separate kitchen and toilet, during base
period only about 79 and 68 percent households had these amenities. About 80 percent of the
households now had separate animal shed whereas about 71 percent households had separate
animal sheds during the year 2005. The average number of residential rooms per household
has increased during the period under study.

Changes land ownership and cropping patterns

Land ownership. Per household land with sampled households during current survey average
at 0.45 hectare which declined from 0.83 hectare during the year 2005. The per-household land
holding with control sampled was still smaller at 0.30 hectare. This indicated that the average
land holding declined by about 46 percent over the year 2005. This decline was about 48
percent in case of agriculture land and 43 per cent in case of horticultural land.

Cropping Patten: There has been a change in number of households cultivating different crops.
The table 3.19 indicates that percentage of households cultivating maize declined from about
29 percent during the year 2005 to 15 percent during current survey. Similar declined was
observed in case of wheat also the respective figures being about 72 and 64 percent. The
percentage of households cultivating paddy remained almost constant at about 64 percent.
There was significant declined in percentage of households cultivating different vegetables. It
is also indicated that larger number of households have opted cultivation of apples and pears
instead of almonds.




                                              46
The total cropped area, per household, was 0.63 hectare a decline of about 47 per cent in
comparison to base year. There was significant decline in areas under crops like maize, paddy,
wheat and barley. The area under pulses and vegetables formed a negligible proportion in
aggregate cropping pattern during current survey. The analysis reveals that the yield of wheat
and paddy on PAFs has increased while it was stagnant in case of maize. The level of yield of
major crops is presented in Fig-6.

Fig- 6: Changes in productivity of major crops in project area (kg/ ha)

                            2014     2005      Control
                                                     3495
                                                            3137 3150
            2632
                   1792          1900 1900 1750
                       1460



          Yield of wheat      Yield of maize       Yield of paddy



Crop Production pattern. The value of crops output has increased from 1.21 lakh per hectare
in base year to 2.42 lakh per hectares in current period.

Table 2: Changes in Socio Economic Key indicators
 No                       Indicator                              Baseline   Current    Controlled
                                                                 ( 2005)    ( 2014)     ( 2014)
                                                                  N=143      N=92        N= 80

 1     Literacy Level (%)                                         83.00       88.00      77.00
 2     Proportion of Wage labor (%)                                4.32       4.65       20.22
 3     Proportion of those in business %                           5.60       8.96        6.01
 4     Proportion of those in service %                           15.52       19.35      26.32
 5     Average annual Income at current levels (Rs.)             2,51,472   3,87,204    2,07,257
 6     % of families earning more income than baseline at          NA        87.00*        NA
       current level (%)
 7     Average house size ( is sq.ft)                              578        985         358
 8     % of household living in Pukka houses                      35.00     98.00        69.00
 9     % of families having separate Kitchens                     79.00     100.00       73.00
 10    % of families having separate toilet                       68.00     100.0        62.00
 11    % families having TV                                       72.00     100.00       81.00
 12    % families owning Refrigerator                             46.00     100.00       54.00
 13    % families using LPG                                       82.00      95.00       80.00
 14    % families own four wheeler                                12.03      42.00       12.50
 15    Average Land holding ( ha)                                  0.83       0.45        0.30
 16    Average number of livestock                                 2.37       1.46        1.43
 17    Consumption of food item in Rs/year (at current prices)    5,302     6,116        5,150
 18    Consumption of non-food items in Rs/year (at current       2,473      3,572       2,575
       prices)



                                              47
Women’s Empowerment

Mainstreaming of women is an important aspect in community development activities for
ensuring their participation in socioeconomic upliftment of project affected population. RHP
has focused on this aspect and tried to include as many women in the training and other
programs.
The analysis indicates that about 16 percent of the persons sponsored for technical education
courses were women and of the persons who completed these courses about 14 percent were
women. The position of women in respect of number of persons given apprentice training
though was not very good as they were only about 14 percent of the total persons receiving
such training, it is a significant beginning. Women were able to corner 29 percent of the
scholarships. No registered women contractor were available and hence no work could be
awarded to them under petty contracts indicating a need of concerted efforts in enabling women
to venture in this field. The contractors were not very fair in hiring the women work force as
only about 9 percent of their total work force was of women. The main reason forwarded in
defense was that the nature of work (working in tunnels and works requiring heavy physical
efforts) discouraged the women to take up these assignments. This is also reflected in the
number of days of employment under contractors; of the total work days, about 14 percent
were contributed by women. It is apparent from the analysis that women could not avail the
benefits of various schemes of RHP to desired level; present initiative is a welcome
intervention in women empowerment. The detailed trade wise analysis indicates that women
have made a desired beginning in availing the benefits. The women were sponsored for two
trades: COPA and cutting & sewing. Thus, 31 women were sponsored under technical
education of which 25 completed their trainings and 11 were also successful in getting
employment. This, of course, is a healthy beginning.
Two out of four professional staff (50%) working on community development and resettlement
and rehabilitation aspects are females and the head of the public information center (PIC) is
also a female. In addition, the project provided a regular employment to a female pharmacist
at Bayal dispensary under the resettlement and rehabilitation scheme.

Post Commissioning support
During the post commissioning stage, the project affected families will receive 100 units of
electricity per month for 10 years and the long term residents in the affected villagers will
receive annuity payment out of revenue generated out of sale of 1% free power provided to the
State Government by project entity during life of the project. The RHP is finalizing the
modalities for extending the electricity supply and the State Government in the process of
finalizing the list of eligible people for annuity payments. Thus, there is a sustainable efforts
from the project entity and State Government to support the project affected and local people
beyond the project implementation.

Impact of Community Development Activities
Various developmental activities aimed at socioeconomic development of the project affected
area and population, have been carried out by RHP. The focus of these activities is the
infrastructural development and have been initiated depending upon the relevance, demand and
requirements. These have been presented in following text.




                                               48
Status of community development works
A total number of 28 community development works were taken up by RHP which have been
completed. In order to execute these works a total expenditure of Rs.204.77 lakhs have been
spent. Before the commencement of LADA, various community development works were
undertaken by RHP. A total sum of Rs. 142.77 lacs were spent on 27 such works pertaining
to construction of pukka paths, kuhls, street lighting, playground and footbridge etc. Another
sum of Rs. 2149.27 lacs were spent by RHP on five other works of construction of steel bridges
in Jhakri and Bayal panchayats, boxing ring at Rampur College, road and hospital at Bayal.

After the formation of LADA, 32 works of pukka paths were completed at the total cost of Rs.
113.03 lacs in district Kullu. Other works completed in district Kullu include three works of
kuhl construction in Gadej panchayat at the cost of Rs. 13.42 lacs, four works of retaining &
boundary wall at Bari, Tunan and Gadej panchayats at a cost of Rs. 9.89 lacs. Five works of
playground and fencing etc. were completed at a cost of Rs. 16.0 lacs at Bari, Bahawa, Kharga
and Tunan panchayats. Road work was constructed at Bahawa panchayats at a cost of Rs. 5.0
lacs. Rs. 7.0 lacs were spent on three works of drinking water lines and tanks in panchayat
Bahawa and Tunan. Twelve works of construction and repair of buildings and temples were
completed in district Kullu at the cost of Rs. 52.30 lacs and three foot bridges were constructed
in Gadej, Kushwa and Tunan panchayats at an aggregate cost of Rs. 89.71 lacs. In total 64
such community development works were completed at a total cost of Rs. 312.97 lacs in district
Kullu.

In district Shimla, after the formation of LADA, 22 development works were completed at a
total cost of Rs.63.00 lacs. These include 8 works of construction of pukka path, 6 works of
construction of fencing and playground two works each of repair of temple and construction
of roads. In addition, one works each of construction of rooms, drainage, breast wall and
community bhawan were also completed.

Impact of community development works
The basic objective of undertaking the community development works is to provide various
amenities/facilities to the project affected population, which is bound to have positive social
and economic benefits. The present analysis has been carried out in order to evaluate this
impact and to document the problems reported by the end users and suggestions made by them
for further streamlining these efforts and to increase their efficacy. As the community
development works are of different types they have been evaluated separately and present
below.

Health Impact: The main work under this activity was construction of hospital aimed at
providing health facilities almost at the doorstep of project affected population with perceived
benefits of easy consultations and free medicines etc. The social impact of this activity, as
reported by the respondents was in the form of better health, low illness periods and generating
a sense of overall wellbeing. On the economic side of it, it was reported that the work
efficiency of workers has improved. No problem in this regard was reported.

Drinking water: Improvement in existing and provision of new pipe lines and storage tanks
were the main activities aimed at improving the existing water supply for improving the water
availability. The social impact of this activity has been some improvement in living standards
and on economic side benefits like time saving, reduction in incidence of water borne diseases
and most importantly, reduction in drudgery faced by women have been reported.


                                               49
Sanitation: The distribution of toilet seats and other materials were the activity components
aimed at improving the sanitary conditions and to inculcate the habit of cleanliness with the
perceived benefits of clean surroundings and there by bringing about improvement in the health
conditions. As a result of this activity there has been some improvement in the habit of
cleanliness and there has also been some improvement in the sanitary conditions. This has also
been able to save the time and to some extent reduce the incidence of diseases.

Street lighting: Street lighting has been provided in village Bayal with a purpose of ensuring
easy and safe movement during night hours and to have some protection against crime. This
has also made possible to have longer working hour.

Connectivity: In order to ensure easy and safe movement of persons and goods, foot paths
and foot bridges have been constructed. This has resulted in efficient transportation of goods
and farm produce lowering the transportation cost. Though, no problems were reported.

Community Centre: Community centers were constructed to facilitate the public meetings
and provide platform for community interactions. This could also be used for public functions
and family celebrations. This has not only improved the status of village but has facilitated the
social interactions leading to formulation of strategies for taking care of development issues
and providing useful hints about latest farm production technologies.

Mahila and Yuvak Mandal buildings: The purpose of constructing these building was
overall development of women and youth of the area. It was perceived that this institution will
make possible the introduction of various income generation activities and they will be able to
have constructive use of their free time. This has been able to develop as meeting point where
exchange of ideas and information has been possible and the trainings and demonstrations are
also facilitated. But for all these, lack of funds was reported to be a bottleneck.

Irrigation: Irrigation is an important input for improving the crop productivity and hence the
activity of construction and repair of kuhls was undertaken to reduce irrigation water losses.
This has not only been able to shift the cropping pattern towards high pay off cash crops but
ensured the crop productivity also. This has led to some improvement in living standards of
beneficiary farmers. It was suggested that new water sources should be tapped to improve the
irrigation water supply to                                                            existing
areas and to make it possible to include other un-irrigated areas.

Temples: Respecting the religious sentiments of villagers, construction/ repair/improvement
of temples was undertaken. This activity resulted in better aesthetics and long life of temples.
This greatly satisfied the religious sentiments, people wanted more temples to be covered under
this scheme.

Playgrounds: This activity included construction, improvements and/or fencing. This was
aimed at promotion of sports in the area and villagers were greatly satisfied with this activity
which would result in healthy and efficient workers, better equipped schools and hence better
performance in tournaments. People had no problems with creation of this infrastructure but
wanted simultaneous provision of sport kits and other equipment.




                                               50
Conclusions
The data collected from the sample PAFs clearly shows that the overall living standard of the
families has improved due to RHP project implementation. Following changes are noteworthy.

a) There is improvement in level of education and literacy rate among PAFs. The literacy
   level among males has increased from 91 per cent to 92.14 per cent whereas in case of
   females it has increased from 76 to 83 per cent from base period, the technical educational
   schemes implemented by RHP have attracted PAFs and number of technical educated
   persons increased in current year. Merit scholarship was provided to nine persons
   belonging to PAF and 79 of PAA.
b) There has been increase in full-time employment in the villages due to RHP activities.
   Encouraged by RHP, the contractors working with it also employ local workers as much
   as possible. Permanent employment was provided to one member of project affected family
   and in addition to that employment has been provided 425 persons through contractors of
   RHP.
c) There is significant increase in the proportion of workers in the regular employment, with
   public and private sector. About 19 per cent persons were working as private and
   government servants, an increase of about 25 per cent over 2005 and 26 per cent higher in
   comparison to control group.
d) Diversification of income and employment avenues through various technical education,
   training, income generation schemes, towards business and other self-employment
   activities, is taking place.

e) There have been positive impacts on income and employment pattern of project affected
   families. During the base line period, main occupation was agriculture with 59.80 per cent
   workers reporting it, which figure increased to 66.31 per cent during the current survey, an
   increase of about 11 per cent. The increase in number of persons reporting agriculture as
   main occupation is the fact that more stress is now given on fruit and vegetable cultivation
   which are labor intensive ventures.
f) The current income in absolute terms has gone up from Rs. 120648 per HH/year during
   base period to Rs. 389218 currently. This figure for control group was Rs 207257 per
   household per year. This, in absolute terms, is 222.61 per cent higher as compared with
   base line period and 87.80 per cent in comparison to control group. However, if base line
   household income is inflated to current level, the increase in income, in real terms, is about
   55 per cent.
g) There is improvement in the residential facilities of the affected families as compared to
   their own earlier situation and as compared to the condition of non-affected families in the
   project area. The number of pukka houses increased by 180 percent over the base period
   and the percentage of houses having separate kitchen and toilet increased by about 27 and
   47 per cent respectively over base period and 89 and 61 per cent respectively in comparison
   to control sample.
h) There has been improvement in living of standards of PAFs and number of households
   having modern durables such as TV, refrigerator, LPG connection by about 17, 50 and 19
   per cent in comparison to control sample households having these durables.




                                               51
i) There has been improvement in consumption pattern (towards more nutrition, protein,
   fruits & vegetables) of the project affected families. The consumption expenditure of food
   items is 15.35 per cent over base year and there is simultaneous increase of about 44 per
   cent in the consumption of non-food items.
j) The land holding has declined but the yield of major crops on PAFs farms increased and
   value productivity of land was significantly (100%) higher in current year as compared to
   base year.

k) Compensation rates given to the PAFs were adequate. PAFs received full compensation
   from RHP. During final evaluation 18 percent of households had invested in land purchase,
   62 per cent households making investments in the form of fixed deposits in banks and
   Mutual funds.
l) The RHP has taken measures to strengthen the existing infrastructure facilities, including
   health facilities and education, irrigation, drinking water, sanitation, street lights and roads
   which are providing immense benefits to the PAFs in the project area. RHP has undertaken
   and completed seven different works of distribution of toilet seats and essential materials
   to the residents of Project affected panchayats. There were 79 works completed by LADA
   and 47 road/pukka path related works. A total expenditure of Rs. 3071 lakh was made on
   these works.

People’s Perceptions. The project affected population has been exposed to variety of people
due to influx of workers, significantly impacting their social, cultural and economic life. The
people have become greatly aware of the development scenario and now have a positive
outlook towards development interventions like R&R activities. The people now understand
the importance of education for securing the future of their wards. More and more people now
have commercial considerations in agricultural production which in future will help them in
providing secure and sustainable livelihoods. Political awareness has significantly increased
and political forum are increasingly taken as a platform of grievances redressal. The public
opinion was quite favorable in respect of facilities like provision of merit scholarships,
improvement in conditions of schools, assistance to yuvak and mahila mandals etc. The
training and awareness camps have been an effective tool for capacity building of PAP and
also to make them aware about new opportunities in income generation or to improve upon the
existing livelihood strategies.

Impact of R&R and community Development Works. The implementation of majority of
R&R components have largely progressed as per laid down time schedule. However, some of
the development works were delayed after the transfer of works to LADC. The SCDP activities
like foot bridges, village paths, provision of drinking water etc. have made PAFs life better.
The support services like farmers’ training camps have been appreciated and demanded for
income generation activities. The dissent to decisions and policies of R&R, often are not
genuine and are due to political influence and raised aspirations of PAF. In the light of above
it is indicated that R&R and LADC have been able to fulfill their objectives to a large extent.
Despite this, a few suggestions have emerged for making the LADC more effective. It was
suggested that the frequency of LADC meeting should be increased so that all the agenda items
are discussed in depth and there should be review of actions taken and progressed achieved.
Many people wanted that they should be a fixed time limit for execution of LADC decisions.
This will help in avoiding cost overruns and achieving the PAPs satisfaction. It was also


                                                52
suggested that LADC should have greater focus on income generation activities including
introduction of new activities and sharpening the skills for ongoing activities.




                                          53
Annex 6. Environmental Management of the Rampur Hydropower Project

Environmental Context
The Rampur hydropower project is located on the River Satluj, near the town of Rampur in the
Shimla and Kullu districts of Himachal Pradesh. The catchment area of the River Satluj at
Rampur is approximately 50,800 km2 (49,800 km2 at Nathpa Dam), of which about 30 percent
falls in India and the remaining in China. The project area and the project’s influence area are
located in the lower Himalayas, and is characterized by rugged topography with steep hills
(altitude varying from 850m to 2000m). The area experiences subtropical to sub-Himalayan
climate and is sparsely vegetated. The immediate vicinity of the project supports patches of
dense forests, but has a long history of deforestation. The hill slopes are steep, and are generally
covered with sparse vegetation, over burden and outwash material. Most of the human
population in the project’s influence area is concentrated in the villages along the highway and
the connecting district roads.
Owing to historical reasons combined with the natural setting, areas around the Rampur project
have relatively poor forest cover or biodiversity. The project is located by the side of a major
transportation route (National Highway 22A), and in the midst of a number of traditional
settlements including the major town of Rampur. The steep rocky slopes by the deep gorges
of the River Satluj and its tributaries do not support good forests. There is no reserve forest
and only 12 patches of protected forests within the project’s influence area (defined as an area
7 km around the project). The protected forests (about 20 km2) overall occupy about 8 percent
of the project’s influence area. The closest of the protected forest patches, the Baruni Protected
Forest is located about 750 m away from the project; all others are more than 2-3 km away. Of
all the protected areas of the state (national parks and wildlife sanctuaries) none is located
within the project’s influence area, and the closest one – the Rupi-Bhava Wildlife Sanctuary –
is located 13 km away from the project.

Consultation and clearance
The project engaged with stakeholders including the project-affected people to discuss
different aspects of the project. SJVN organized community meetings, meetings with village
elders and elected leaders of the villages. During the preparation of EA and social assessments,
a number of informal but significant meetings were organized. As part of the regulatory
clearance process, a formal public hearing was organized. At Bael village, a public information
center (PIC) was set up in December 2005, where the local community and any other
stakeholders have full access, and this PIC has been helpful for the local public in recording
their views about the project. A final round of meetings to disseminate the final versions of
these safeguard documents was held at PIC in Bael village on March 30, 2007 and was attended
was more than 200 people.
The Rampur hydropower project was classified as a Category A operation under the World
Bank environmental screening procedures specified in operational policy 4.01. The project
triggered six of the ten World Bank safeguard policies 7 / and required comprehensive



7/
     These six World Bank Safeguard Policies are those on - Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Forests (OP/BP
     4.36), Cultural Property (OPN 11.03), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37), and
     Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50).




                                                       54
environmental assessments. The initial EIA, background studies and plans were integrated
into a consolidated environmental assessment and environmental management plan (EA/EMP).
The project obtained the three-stage environmental clearance from the Ministry of
Environment and Forests, GoI (MoE&F) and did not require any regulatory clearance under
the GoI Ancient Sites and Remains Act, as it does not impact, directly or indirectly any known
or notified cultural heritage resource. The State Department of Culture had also provided no-
objection to the project on the basis that no cultural property is impacted by the project.

Environmental impacts and management plan
The impact of the project on the existing landscape, at the basin or even a district level is very
small, owing to the environmental setting of the projects and the fact that it is a run-of-river
scheme in a cascade with the upstream NJHP and requires no dam.
   Impacts on land and forests: The project acquired 48.9 hectares of degraded forest land
    (with very little forest or tree cover), and notionally acquires (but does not disturb – as the
    works are deep underground) another 20.47 hectares of similar degraded forest land over
    the tunnels. Together these represent 0.07 percent of the total forest area of Rampur and
    Anni forest divisions (which together have 90,596 hectares of legally defined forests). The
    diversity of the land parcels was also low.
    The EMP for Rampur related to impacts on land and forests was therefore, to a large extent,
    based on standardized offsets as guided by GoI and GoHP policies rather than the direct
    environmental impacts. Despite a direct affected area of only 0.865 km2, the compensatory
    afforestation and CAT plans were based on a standardized defined area of 154 km2 (7 km
    radius). A compensatory afforestation (CA) plan was designed to be implemented by the
    State Forest Department. The CA was planned on 139 hectares as per the Forests
    (Conservation) Act 1980 in Arsu and Nichar ranges of Ani forest division. In addition, a
    catchment area treatment (CAT) plan was formulated with the objective to mitigate
    sediment load into rivers and to protect the watersheds in the region and, as per the
    directives of the GoHP. It covers measures regarding area treatment, soil conservation, and
    improvement of degraded forest areas within the project catchment. The measures by the
    project included payment of net present value of forests of about US$10 million (to
    generate forests of equivalent area elsewhere in the project’s influence area), and a
    catchment area treatment plan, costing US$ 5.3 million.
   Construction impacts: There were expected to be indirect impacts of the various
    construction activities such as: (i) generation of dust due to earthwork, excavation,
    transportation of construction materials (sand, aggregate, cement etc.), quarry, crusher and
    blasting operations; (ii) air pollution due to movement of construction vehicles, equipment
    and machinery; (iii) influx of laborers; and (iv) pollution generated through provision of
    labor camps established temporarily at construction sites etc. The identified impacts of the
    construction also included potential disturbance to forests and wildlife by construction
    laborers, and generation of muck and debris from underground work.
    The EMP included action plans to minimize these effects. The management of
    construction-related impacts was the responsibility of SJVN (through its contractors, as
    and where relevant, and as described in the EMP). The plans for managing the construction
    site impacts included: (i) plans and guidelines for managing and restoring the muck
    disposal sites; (ii) management and reinstatement of the quarries; (iii) management of



                                                55
    effluent discharge; (iv) management of safety and health issues; and (v) a chance find
    procedures for the conservation of cultural properties.
   Impacts on river flows: As Rampur reuses water from NJHP, the only change in the river
    flow occurs between the intake works at Jhakri (where the Nathpa Jhakri tailrace water
    enters the River Satluj), and the tailrace outlet at Bael village. At Jhakri, the current flow
    of the river is constituted by (i) the water from Nathpa Jhakri tailrace, and (ii) the combined
    flow of all tributaries joining the River Satluj between the Nathpa dam and Jhakri (except
    a stream called Sholding, where six cumec of water is diverted to augment the Nathpa
    Jhakri lean season peaking power generation). The project uses all the water coming from
    the Nathpa Jhakri tailrace, but does not use any of the water coming through the tributaries.
    The instream flow provided at NJHP (release from dam) together with the additional water
    coming from tributaries it more than sufficient to meet the GoHP regulatory guidelines for
    in-stream flow requirements.
   Impacts on fish and wildlife: No fish were reported in the River Satluj in the project area
    during the surveys of 1998, 2004 and 2006. However, fish were monitored in the side
    streams particularly Nogli Khad, Sumej Khad and Kajo Khad, near their confluences with
    River Satluj. These side streams have less flow instability, favorable temperature and less
    turbidity than the main River Satluj. Since the Rampur project only affects the river flow
    in Satluj between the NJHP and Rampur power stations, it thus has no direct impact on
    fish. Only four species of wildlife were reported from the project’s influence area in the
    ESIA. No endangered, rare or protected species was found from the project’s immediate
    influenced area or the directly affected area.
    Similar to the forest components, the EMP related to fish and wildlife was therefore not
    linked to the project’s direct impacts, but was guided by the GoHP policies. The project
    EMP included the support (Rs.10 million) to the GoHP program for development of
    fisheries in the state; a supplementary stocking program for snow trout done annually by
    the fisheries department. Similarly, for the wildlife enhancement in the region, the EMP
    included (Rs. 6.25 million) to the GoHP program for conservation of wildlife.
   Impacts on water quality: The high dissolved oxygen (DO) levels in the river before the
    project indicated high water quality in the project area. The level of biochemical and
    chemical oxygen demand (BOD and COD) were very low, which indicates the absence of
    organic pollution loading. This is mainly due to low population density, low agro-chemical
    dosing and the absence of industries in the area. Water quality in terms of pathogenic
    bacteria appears to be good except immediately downstream of Rampur town during the
    lean flow season. Rampur, which is the only town in the project area, has a sewerage
    scheme that at the time of preparation was only partially operating, and being repaired.
    In light of the above, it was concluded during preparation that the parameter on which the
    medium and long term adequacy of the river flow will depend is mainly the desired dilution
    to the sewage from Rampur and small villages. It was estimated that for maintaining water
    quality in the river stretch at the project area, 5 cumec would be necessary. As part of the
    already agreed release from the Nathpa dam, per the regulatory requirement of GoHP, 7
    cumec is released that will therefore maintain acceptable water quality.
    In addition, as part of the EMP, SJVN included to fund the establishing of a sewerage
    treatment plant in order to treat the sewage flowing into the River Satluj from the
    Jagatkhana and Brow villages located opposite Rampur town, to further improve the water
    quality. The EMP also included water quality monitoring by SJVN of residual impacts due


                                                56
    to managed river flow, as part of the project’s overall adaptive monitoring program and all
    relevant actions including further augmentation of lean season managed flow will be taken
    up if warranted by such monitoring.
   Impacts on physical cultural resources: The project area does not have known
    archaeological or historical sites or remains. This was confirmed by a field-based
    archaeological study of the project area. There is only a small possibility of impact on
    cultural properties (such as community religious properties, sacred groves, and chance
    finds). The EMP included procedures to identify such properties, and mitigate and manage
    impacts in case such properties are affected.
   Other Induced Impacts and Cumulative Effects: The impact assessment identified the
    potential induced impacts of increasing urbanization of the area around the project,
    particularly Rampur town, which could result in demand for water, effect on water quality
    due to increased sewage load, possible drying up of small water sources, and perceived
    damage to built properties.
    To address this, the project, jointly with the villagers, collected baseline data (complete
    with photographs and video). The water sources was to be monitored as part of the adaptive
    monitoring program, the project included augmentation of water supply to the villages as
    part of the SCDP. On the perceived damage to built properties the baseline determined
    jointly with the villagers would serve as a basis for compensation in the event of damages.
    The project did not construct any new power transmission lines. Power would be evacuated
    through a short loop-in loop-out arrangement by connecting it to the existing high voltage
    transmission line at Duttnagar.

Implementation and Outcomes
The implementation of the EMP suffered challenges throughout the project duration. The first
years where characterized by slow operationalization of the EMP components, including delay
in augmenting human resources for the environmental units at the project and at the corporate
levels, thereby delaying setting up procedures for environmental monitoring, executing
training plans, and establishing a dialogue with state authorities for implementation of their
responsibilities. Problems were also encountered since the tunneling work produced larger than
expected amount of muck, which the contractor had difficulties depositing in accordance with
the EMP rules. SJVN, in dialogue with the GoHP and the Bank team, took corrected measures
to deal with these challenges and in April 2015, after the completion of the Rampur project,
the results show overall that environmental concerns have been addressed and mitigated.
SJVN has during the project maintained an environmental team headed by a General
Manager/Senior Manager to oversee the environment management in the project, and
monitored contractor’s works to ensure that the EMP aspects implemented as per the agreed
EMP for the project. The company has obtained and implemented the Environment
management Systems ISO 14000 and ISO 18000. The project has also received national
recognition from 2006 – 09 and 2012-14 (Green Tech Awards) for its management of
environment and OHS issues. SJVN has provided the necessary financial contribution for the
implementation of the Catchment Area Treatment Plan, Compensatory Afforestation, Fishery
Development Activities, Cultural Properties Development/enhancement and other local area
enhancement measures being implemented in the project influence area by the other state
government agencies.



                                              57
By March 31, 2015, 120 ha of the Compensatory Afforestation had been undertaken (86% of
the targeted 139 ha). Rs. 185 million (82%) of Rs. 226 million deposited with the HP State
Forest Department has been utilized for the CAT plan. Rs. 7.16 million (72%) of the Rs. 10
million deposited with the Fisheries Department has been utilized for the fishery program. The
state programs for wildlife conservation has commenced. Although, the exact information of
physical actions taken for those programs is not available from the GoHP at the writing of this
report, the utilization of the funds for the envisaged programs have been documented. And
although the plans are not yet fully implemented to 100%, the state departments are, as stated
in meetings with the SJVN and the Bank team in December 2014, committed to do so as part
of their running annual environmental management programs. Related to land, forest, fish and
wildlife management, the Rampur Project, has therefore contributed additional actions than
was warranted by the direct impacts of the project, and has overall enhanced the environmental
management in the area of the project.
The impacts of construction have all been addressed. Disposal and management of muck
generated from the construction activities of the project was carried out by the contractor, as
per the ‘Muck Management Plan’ developed in the EMP for the project and monitored by
SJVN. The protection measures, included construction of retaining walls and regular maintenance
to ensure that no muck is spilled into the river. Three pilot projects were also implemented by
SJVN to test the efficacy of various techniques of restoration of muck dumping sites and ‘Geo
Green Blanket Technique’ was demonstrated to be successful in the project area. In April 2015,
the restoration and landscaping of construction sites, and the remediation of muck dumping sites,
were completed.
Temporary construction impact mitigations were managed by the contractors and monitored by
SJVN. Dust prevention was combined with local community development programs through
awarding petty contracts to local residents for sprinkling of water.
An environmental laboratory was developed (August 2011 at a cost of Rs. 5.25 million), and an
environmental monitoring program was conducted during the Rampur project. Components of the
program included water analysis, wastewater analysis, air quality monitoring, noise monitoring,
meteorological monitoring, soil/sludge/sediment and solid waste testing. A total of 692 samples
had been taken by December 2014. The monitoring program will be continued during operation.
The monitoring and analyses have showed no problems related to the water quality concerns
expressed at preparation, despite that the new sewage plant for Jagatkhana and Brow towns has
been delayed. The Local Area Development Authority (LADA) is yet to decide on the modalities
of the implementing the sewage treatment facilities in these villages. SJVN is still committed to
support this activity as and when decided by LADA.
The potential negative induced and cumulative effects for the Rampur Town and local
communities have not been a reality, as proven by the end-term impact evaluation (see Annex
5). Damages to built properties occurred, but was fully compensated by SJVN. The community
development program included improvement in existing and provision of new water pipe lines and
storage tanks that has improved water supply, and distribution of toilet seats and other materials
that has improved sanitary conditions.




                                               58
Annex 7. Technical Characteristics of the Rampur Hydropower Project

1.       The Rampur hydropower project is situated downstream of the Nathpa Jhakri
Hydropower Project (NJHP) on the River Satluj in the state of Himachal Pradesh. The scheme
is located about 140 km northeast of Shimla, the state capital, on national highway NH-22. In
the project area, the national highway runs parallel to the River Satluj at a distance of
approximately one km. The upstream 1,500 MW NJHP, which was also constructed with the
help of an IBRD loan, has been in operation for more than ten years: The first of its six 250
MW units was commissioned in October 2003, and its sixth unit in May 2004.

2.       The Rampur hydropower project uses the water exiting from the NJHP tailrace, and
thus did not require a dam or de-silting chambers. It is a run-of-river project operated as a
cascade station to NJHP. The Rampur hydropower project intake, which in effect is the NJHP
tailrace, was partially excavated and built during the construction of the NJHP as it was always
planned that there would be an additional downstream station. The NJHP tailrace, thus, acts
as a breaking cistern in the water conduction between the two stations, which will operate in
tandem. The project elements are detailed in Figure 1 below.


                   Figure 1: Illustrative Arrangement for Rampur Hydroelectric Project
                                                                                                                     INTAKE
                                                                                        NATHPA DAM                     AND
                                                                                                                    DE-SILTING
                                                                                                                    CHAMBER

                                                                            NATHPA JHAKRI
                                                                          OUTFALL STRUCTURE

                                                                                                                 NATHPA JHAKRI
                                                    RAMPUR CUT & COVER (TUNNEL)                                    HEAD RACE
                                                          RIVER CROSSING                                            TUNNEL
                                                                                                                     (27 km)

                                                                                                             NATHPA JHAKRI
                                                                                                              POWER HOUSE
                                                                                                            1500 MW (6x250MW)
                                                                                    JHAKRI
                                                                                              NATHPA JHAKRI TAIL RACE TUNNEL
                                                           SUTLEJ RIVER
                                                                                      RAMPUR INTAKE – Already Constructed

                                                                    RIVER DIVERSION TUNNEL
                                                                    TO CONSTRUCT RAMPUR
                                                                      TUNNELLED CROSSING
                                                                   RAMPUR TOWN



   RAMPUR POWER                                                     NATIONAL HIGHWAY (NH-22)
       HOUSE                     RAMPUR HEAD RACE TUNNEL
 412 MW (6 x 68.67 MW)                    15 km


                         RAMPUR OUTFALL                              NOGLI KHAD

                             SUTLEJ RIVER


      VILLAGE
        BAEL


                                                                                                        Diagram not to scale
                     DUTTNAGAR




3.      From the Rampur intake, a 15.177 km, 10.5 meter diameter headrace tunnel, transfers
the de-silted water exiting from Nathpa Jhakri power house, at the rate of about 384 cubic


                                                              59
meters per second to the head of three above-ground, surface-mounted steel penstocks, with
diameters of 5.4 meters, which branch to six penstocks measuring about 3.8 meters in diameter.
These penstocks deliver the water to drive the six turbines in the surface powerhouse on the
left bank of the River Satluj near the village of Bael.

4.      The Rampur hydropower project has a gross head of 139 meters. The powerhouse (138
m long x 26 m wide x 48 m high) houses six 68.7 MW Francis turbine generators, which are
designed to operate with a net head (gross head less headrace tunnel and penstock friction
effects at full water flow) of 119 meters. The volume of water flowing into the Rampur
hydropower project is the same as that for which NJHP was designed and operates. The 412
MW power output of the RHP is a direct product of the 139-meter pressure head and this flow
of water. The powerhouse structure also houses the six generator transformers, which step up
the 11 kV generation voltage to the 400 kV ground-surface gas insulated switchgear yard, for
transmission into the northern electricity grid.

5.      The RHP was designed with a rated capacity of 412 MW to be capable of generating
some 1,770 million units (in a 90 percent hydrological dependable year with a 49 percent
annual load factor). However, since Rampur’s design, and following improvements in the silt
management at NJHP, the annual load factor and thus the design energy of the upstream station
has been amended upwards and as a result, Rampur design energy is now considered to be
1,878 million units with an annual load factor of 52%.

6.       The energy generated by the RHP is used in the states of the northern electrical region
of India. The project contributes to the development of Himachal Pradesh, which receives a
royalty of 12 percent of the power generated in return for the use of its water resources. In
addition, in recognition of its investment in the project, the state of Himachal Pradesh also
receives an additional allocation of around 109 MW of power together with dividends from the
project.

7.       Hydrology: The River Satluj originates near Rakas Tal in Tibet and is fed by Lake
Mansarovar, which lies at an altitude of 4,550 m. It flows through the states of Himachal
Pradesh and Punjab in India and joins the River Indus in Pakistan before draining into the
Arabian Sea. The total catchment area upstream of Rampur and Nathpa Jhakri is 51,000 km2,
of which 37,000 km2 lies in Tibet and the remaining 14,000 km2 is in India. The snow line in
this region is approximately 3,000 m above sea level. The Tibetan plateau lies at an altitude
of about 4,570 m with no vegetation. Precipitation occurs mainly in the form of snowfall. The
river is heavily silted for much of the year. Successive deposits of boulders, gravel, clay and
mud have formed the plateau. The deposits lie in beds that are nearly horizontal. The River
Satluj has cut a channel several hundred meters deep through the plateau. The channels of
most of the tributaries in this region present similar features with deep, narrow vertical-walled
canyons. Downstream of the Tibetan plateau to Nathpa, the river is confined by 1,500 m high
hills, and generally flows within a 300 m deep un-populated canyon.

8.      Between April and June, the river is fed almost exclusively by snowmelt. Rainfall in
this section of the river, averaging 780 mm per annum, is mostly concentrated between June
and September and is determined by the onset of the southwest monsoon. The peak flows of
the river occur during this period, while the lean period occurs between October and April.




                                               60
9.      Tandem operation of the Nathpa Jhakri and Rampur hydropower projects:                As
noted above, the NJHP tailrace acts as a breaking cistern in the conduction of water through to
the Rampur headrace tunnel. The cistern’s volume is limited in size. As a result, the two
stations have to be tightly controlled in order to avoid the possibility of air entering the Rampur
head race tunnel. This has been achieved by installing a modern control system using ultra
sonic flow measurement devices and cameras. It is possible to control the entire Rampur
station from the NJHP control room and consequently for Rampur’s units to be tripped
immediately to match any shut down in NJHP’s units. This control system is the first of its
type in India.




                                                                            Systems display
                                                                             showing both
                                                                              stations for
                                                                              monitoring
                                                                           tandem operation




10.      Sedimentation and silt erosion: The natural regime of the River Satluj is to carry a
considerable volume of sediments particularly during the high-flow season. Sediment and
erosion control measures upstream of NJHP, by soil management and afforestation, can offer
very limited possibilities of reducing the sedimentation load, because of the natural
physiography and soil morphology of the region; and the impracticability of introducing
vegetation at the high altitudes around the upper reaches of the river, from where much of the
silt originates. Recognizing this, the design of NJHP; (i) provided for gates in the dam to
facilitate the periodic flushing of the fore-bay pond in its intake area; (ii) specified turbines
materials to minimize equipment wear and tear and down-time for maintenance; and (iii)
included, at the head of the power tunnel, wide underground de-silting chambers, where the
water flow reduces, and heavy sediments above 0.15 - 0.2 mm in diameter settle into troughs
and the resulting slurry is returned to the river.

11.     However, silt erosion of the turbine runners (impellors) and the associated equipment
encountered was far more deleterious than was expected when the NJHP was planned. This
was mainly because the silt load content of hard quartz was higher than was expected when the
river content was analyzed and the project designed in the 1980s. Consequently, SJVN has
been using modern ceramic coating for some components and very hard tungsten carbide
layering for other components. The design of the RHP runners and other related equipment



                                                61
took into account the considerable experience gained at the NJHP. The amount of silt damage
is directly related to the pressure head on the equipment, and the velocity of impact. In the
case of the NJHP, the pressure head is about 428 meters, and the speed of the units is 300 rpm,
while the head at the Rampur hydropower project is 119 meters and the speed is 214 rpm. Thus,
given the actions taken on silt management at NJHP the siltation damage at Rampur in the
future is expected to be less than that inflicted on the NJHP equipment.

12.     Contracting: The project consisted of three main contracts, two civil works and one
electro-mechanical package. These contracts were let by SJVN using international competitive
bidding for a standard bill of quantities style construction contract. SJVN used their own staff
of engineers for construction supervision and contract management. The project also benefited
from the assistance of an Advisory Board (composed of international experts) for technical
issues, specifically tunneling; such as the use of lattice girders. There were separate Dispute
Resolution Boards to deal with each major contract and these functioned effectively in
minimizing the number of disputes to be escalated to arbitration.

 13.     Various parts of the site are depicted in the photographs below; provided by SJVN.




                                        Power house




                                              62
Power house and penstocks




      Power house




           63
    Surge Shaft




Rampur control room




        64
Rampur intake
(Nathpa Jhakri tail race)




                65
Annex 8. Lessons Learned from the Implementation of Nathpa Jhakri
Hydropower Project (NJHP)

These lessons are summarized from the World Bank Implementation Completion Report –
showing how these lesson were incorporated in the implementation of Rampur as SJVN has
grown and developed.

        Lesson learned from Nathpa Jhakri                         How was this lesson used at Rampur

 Environmental and social impacts:

 Run-of-the-river projects, where displacements are          Rampur was not only a run-of-the-river but
 limited and sympathetically dealt with and negative         required no dam. As a result its environmental
 environmental impacts are mitigated to minimum              and social impacts were moderate and
 levels, can have positive environmental benefits by         manageable. However, its lack of a reservoir
 obviating the need for construction of additional           means that, unlike NJHP, it is unable to provide
 thermal power stations.                                     any flood attenuation and is tied to NJHP’s
                                                             generation schedule.


 World Bank implementation support is effective in           World Bank support from Environmental and
 ensuring the affected population receives the               Social specialists continued throughout the RHP
 specified benefits, especially where it is conducted        and these frequent visits from staff based locally
 by specialists.                                             were a key feature of the successful
                                                             environmental and social achievements.


 However, supervision by Bank staff is not enough            Rampur management have appreciated the
 in itself. It needs to be fully supported with              importance of good environmental and social
 effective management by the project owner, and              implementation from the very start as evidenced
 this support needs to be engendered early in the            by the early implementation of such interventions
 project cycle. For NJHP it was missing for a                as the mobile health van even before the project
 decade - until 2001, when new managers were                 was approved by GoI and subsequently, design
 finally appointed, who realized the importance of           and implementation of a community development
 the various goals, and helped ensure their                  program to provide benefits to the local
 achievement                                                 population in terms of infrastructure
                                                             improvements.

 Pre-conditions for project appraisal should include         This was one of the areas, where based on the
 commitment to the project by other agencies and             lessons learnt, Bank engaged in a policy reform
 the establishment of a framework for the resolution         dialogue with the State Government and two
 of inter-agency issues.                                     Development policy lending engagements with
       The Forest Department took three years to            the state have been undertaken and in both the
           prepare a draft catchments area treatment         engagements, a key pillar has been the sustainable
           plan, and even after this lengthy period of       development of hydropower, including following
           preparation, the draft is not of a high           a Basin management approach. This has resulted
           quality.                                          in the following changes and improvements: (i)
       The Fisheries Department submitted a                 Basin level CIA studies are planned for all river
           fisheries development plan in 1999, and           basins, with a study for the Satluj and the Chenab
           NJPC deliberated over the plan for more           basin already underway; (ii) Basin level
           than two years.                                   integrated CAT plans prepared for four river
       The road agencies constructed poorly                 basins and implementation commenced. If the
           designed roads, which have resulted in            progress of CAT plan implementation for NJHP
           frequent stoppages of the work at the             and Rampur is compared: Rampur CAT plan was


                                                        66
         project and thus contributed to costly           almost 80% completed (in terms of expenditure)
         delays.                                          by December 2014 while NJHP CAT plan was
Better co-ordination and commitment from the line         only 4% complete by the time the station reached
agencies, as well as proactive initiatives from NJPC      commercial operation.
would have resulted in minimizing the
environmental impacts as well as reducing the             While this shows that significant progress has
delays.                                                   been made, more is required given the limited
                                                          institutional capacity amongst other agencies
                                                          responsible for implementation of certain aspects
                                                          of the project continues to hamper the timely
                                                          implementation of environmental and social
                                                          management plan objectives.


It is now recognized that the quality of EAs and          The current project, having been prepared under
EMPs are major determinants for successful                the Bank’s most recent safeguard standards
implementation of environment management                  placed early emphasis on the need for a high
actions. Even if the EA/EMP for the NJHP was              standard of documentation. A number of studies,
not part of Bank loan conditions (at the time the         in addition to the EIA, were undertaken prior to
project was prepared), the Bank should have               the project implementation to ensure that all the
reviewed these early in the project cycle. The            environmental aspects were comprehensively
Bank’s current safeguard policies, now in place,          considered. These included: a study of the
would have done much to bring earlier attention to        managed river flow in the project area of the
these social and environmental considerations had         River Satluj; an assessment of the terrestrial
they been in place when the project was appraised.        biodiversity impacts; an analysis of the induced
                                                          impacts of the RHP and cumulative impacts of
                                                          hydropower development in the Satluj river; a
                                                          safety assurance plan; an emergency preparedness
                                                          plan; and an archeological study. These helped
                                                          avoidance of a few impacts, and early
                                                          implementation of mitigation measures (such as
                                                          preparation and protection of muck dumping
                                                          areas, prior to actual start of tunnel excavations).

Project preparation and implementation:

Anticipatory project preparation pays high
dividends. Indeed such preparation is essential if a      Procurement was well advanced by the time the
project, especially of the magnitude of NJHP, is to       project was appraised and consequently moved
get off to a reasonable start. Procurement, whether       ahead swiftly once financial closure was reached.
funded by the Bank or not, needs to be well in hand       In fact, the two main civil works contract (out of
by loan approval. Estimates of the project costs can      the three main contract packages) were awarded
be quite accurate if bids have been received for the      in February 2007 and work commenced before
larger packages, and thus surprises are kept to a         WB appraisal was completed and several months
minimum, and financing can be arranged                    before the loan was approved in September 2007.
accordingly.


Where risks are identified, they should be carefully      Rampur learnt this lesson and carried out
analyzed by experts knowledgeable in the local            extensive pre-project surveys and investigations
(underground/geological) conditions. In the               and, while there were still unexpected conditions
appraisal exercise risks must not be downplayed,          encountered, the management were quick to
and their impacts should be understood and if             involve expert opinion (putting in place an
possible anticipated.                                     international panel of experts, as advised by the
                                                          Bank) and open to implementing the changes in



                                                     67
                                                          practice which were recommended. As a result,
                                                          although problems were experienced the
                                                          consequent cost and delay impacts were not as
                                                          substantial as they might have been.

                                                          However, the additional adit, could have been
                                                          considered earlier and the decision to avoid use of
                                                          this adit taken during early preparation was taken
                                                          to avoid risk of complaint of unnecessary
                                                          relocation, but in retrospect it would have been
                                                          better if this decision had been taken earlier.


Good preparation should also anticipate the need          Communication between SJVN and the
for proper communication with the site of the             contractors was considerably enhanced from the
works, including adequate roads and                       time of NJPC, with daily meetings on the major
telecommunications links, as well as site supplies        contracts. Site services were also better prepared.
of water and power.
                                                          Communication between SJVN and the local
                                                          community was a focus area for the project team
                                                          at site well before construction began and regular
                                                          (formal and informal) meetings took place. SJVN
                                                          took steps to set up a Public Information Centre
                                                          (PIC) and started community initiatives (such as
                                                          the mobile health van) in the early stages of
                                                          project preparation.


Enthusiastic project ownership is essential. Despite      Decision making was clearly a lesson learned
NJHP being owned by GoI and GHP, it had no                between the two projects. Close contact between
permanent or even semi-permanent representative           SJVN and the contractors, which documented all
in either organization, who was sufficiently              issues as they arose, made claims less contentious
empowered to get decisions made. And there is an          and led to faster and more effective decision
underlying reason why delays in decision-making           making.
were so prevalent. Decision-making involves risks.
Speedy decision-making often involves greater             Decisions were also delegated effectively and
risks. In many cases during NJHP's                        staff were supported to take necessary decisions
implementation, decisions makers were vilified,           to keep the project progress to time as far as
despite proving to have been correct and in the           possible. Decisions were also taken which
process saving enormous expenditure and speeding          allowed some acceleration of works so that some
up implementation. The lesson is that ownership,          of the delay could be recovered.
speedy decision-making and risk-taking need to be
engendered by central and State Governments.              Under the RHP, 74 variations orders have been
                                                          issued to date whereas in the case of NJHP, no
                                                          variation orders were issued until after the project
                                                          was complete.


A unique and positive lesson to be learned from the       DRBs have also been a useful feature of
NJHP experience is how useful the Disputes                Rampur’s contract management. Of the 26 cases
Review Boards (DRBs) became, in quickly                   referred to DRB, 16 have already been settled.
resolving disputes, which in turn helped accelerate       The improved communication with contractors
implementation progress.                                  has led to fewer claims and fewer disputes on the
                                                          contacts.




                                                     68
And finally, a financial and economic model of the     While SJVN now have a financial model for each
project should have been in place prior to thievery    project and the company as a whole, it is still not
start-up of the project, so that the "true cost" of    kept regularly up to date and is not the crucial aid
implementation delays could be calculated as each      to decision making which was envisaged in this
decision was faced. This model would have              comment. Training was undertaken in the best
factored in the cost of failure to generate on time    practice development of excel based financial
and thus placed into context the expense or actions    models, but staff have moved on and the training
needed to produce huge economic gains for the          has not filtered down to a more general
country. Despite repeated reminders from the Bank,     understanding of the advanced use of
such a model was not developed until the last few      spreadsheets.
months of project implementation.
                                                       The absence of a model which can illustrate the
                                                       cost of inaction or delay can sometimes made it
                                                       difficult for the management to take the
                                                       economically optimal decision in the interests of
                                                       the country or the financially optimal decision in
                                                       the interests of SJVN. This seems to be part of a
                                                       common view in the public sector in India where
                                                       the system does not encourage the use of such an
                                                       approach, preferring a more direct comparison of
                                                       cost of different alternatives. Without considering
                                                       the impact of lost time, a direct comparison of
                                                       cost may lead to sub-optimal decisions. However,
                                                       this was less of a problem than it was in the NJHP
                                                       and shows an improved attitude to management
                                                       decision making.




                                                  69
Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                 SJVN Limited
            (A Joint Venture of Govt. of India & Govt. of H.P)
                     (A Mini Ratna Schedule 'A' PSU)


                  Borrower’s Evaluation Report
                                   of
       412 MW Rampur Hydro Electric Project (RHEP)




                              May 2015

                                   70
                     Table of Contents


Chapter No.                    Topic                     Page No.

    1         Background & Project Outcomes and           72-73
              impact

    2         Costs and benefits derived/to be derived    73-74

    3         Lessons learnt and found useful for         74-75
              future operations

    4         Bank’s and Borrowers performance in         75-76
              implementing the project data and
              analysis

    5         Banks role from SJVN’s point of view        76-77




                          71
                                 Project Outcomes and impact

SJVN’s key objectives in developing of Rampur HEP are i) addition of 412 MW renewable,
low carbon energy from the project to Northern Electricity Grid; (ii) To improve the
effectiveness of SJVN Limited with respect to safe implementation of economically,
environmentally and socially sustainable hydropower projects; iii) To increase the stakeholders
value in the corporation. iv) To gain economic benefit from the desilted tail waters of Nathpa
Jhakri Hydro Power Station (NJHPS); v) to improve/deliver socio economic benefits to the
project area/zone.

In India an estimated 30 crore people do not have access to electricity and GDP growth could
not reach the targets. In this scenario it is essential to boost the power sector with the renewable,
environmentally friendly, low cost power with inflation free fuel. In the recent past the
desirable thermal to hydro ratio (60:40) in the country has deteriorated to an all time low. The
other factor that comes into picture apart from power is reliability of the same in terms of
frequency in the operating band.

One of the most important project outcome indicators for measuring the improved reliability
of India’s Northern Electricity Grid (a project objective) will be the proportion of the time over
which the grid frequency is maintained within the operating band of India’s Electricity Grid
Code. However this Project indicator is not valid due to the changes, which occurred in the
recent past such as grid failures and subsequent changes made to it. Thus the criteria is
dynamically changing because of other developments in the larger perspective of the
generation and transmission system.

The power from RHEP in combination with other projects in the grid, however, shall improve
significantly the stabilization of the electricity grid, which will lead to a decrease in the number
of power outages for consumers. As GoI has increased the requirement for a stable grid by
narrowing the operating band in recent years, the importance of hydropower as a generation
source in the system has become even more important. Rampur HEP, since it started
commercial operation of all six units in 2014, has provided 1444.7 MUs of valuable energy till
April 30, 2015 including infirm power of 70.67 MU in the grid with frequency in the operating
band.

As far as the effectiveness of SJVN with respect to the preparation and safe implementation of
the Rampur Hydro Electric Project economically, environmentally, and socially sustainable is
concerned, it may be concluded that the same is more than satisfactory. Although SJVN faced
several problems while executing the project such as unexpected poor to very poor geology,
heavy ingress of water at high temperature, agitation by workers and local public etc., the
project was completed successfully. The project was synchronized with the Grid and proven
to run at its installed capacity on commercial basis (tested even for 10% overloading above
412 MW). CEA (Central Electricity Authority) has revised Rampur HEP design energy from
1770 MU to 1878 MU.

Rampur HEP, a tail race development of NJHPS, utilises the desilted waters of NJHPS for
generation of 412 MW power. This eliminates the requirement for a dam and desilting facility,
normally an essential requirement of all hydroelectric projects. Thus Rampur HEP has an
advantage gained on the cost of construction of dam and desilting components.




                                                 72
All major civil works and electro mechanical works were fully completed. Minor works on
construction sites such as decommissioning of work sites, interior finish of power house and
restoration of roads have also been completed. Complete re-vegetation of all the dumping yards
will be completed by the end of July 2015. SJVN deposited CAT plan funds with the state
Govt. and Rs 18.5 Cr (82%) of Rs 22.6 Cr total. State forest dept., covered 120 ha (86% of
EMP) of afforestation by December 2014 and SJVN deposited full amount for EMP
programme.

Project affected people (PAP) were resettled and fully compensated for loss of land/house
before commencement of the civil works. Livelihood improvement of PAPs was recorded by
an independent final impact assessment agency. About 87% of PAFs reported an increase in
income. The final evaluation also demonstrates an increase in literacy rate, pukka houses and
increase in area/size of houses. SJVN has spent Rs 48.2 Cr on local area development activities
and local welfare activities up until December 2014. The funds deposited exclusively for water
supply improvement with the LADF (Local Area Development Fund) remain to be
implemented. Almost all the small contracts worth Rs 33.7 Cr in total were awarded to local
contractors (119 contracts) and the main civil contractors assigned petty contracts worth more
than Rs 100 Cr to local sub-contractors.

The data collected from the sample PAFs clearly shows that the overall living standard of the
families has improved due to the Rampur HEP implementation. There is improvement in the
level of education and literacy rate. There has been an increase in full-time employment in the
villages due to RHEP activities. Diversification of income and employment avenues has been
achieved through various forms of technical education, training, income generation schemes,
towards business and other self-employment activities. There have been positive impacts on
income and employment pattern of project affected families. The income in absolute terms has
gone up from Rs. 120648 per house hold/year during base period to Rs. 389218 per house
hold/year currently. The number of pukka houses increased by 180 percent over the base
period. There has been improvement in living of standards of PAFs. All these factors shows
socio economic benefits to the project area/zone has been increase certainly.

                         Costs and Benefits Derived/ to be derived

Cost-Benefit derived/ to be derived gives an idea of the equivalent money value of the benefits
and costs to the community of a project to establish whether they are worthwhile. Economic
and Financial rate of return is the best measure of understanding Costs and benefits derived
from the project. At the time of project appraisal by the Bank, the economic rate of return was
expected to be 19.3%. Due to delay in project commissioning and cost escalation the same has
come down. According to estimation by the Bank the same may be around 14% based on the
final cost to completion. The project will achieve a 16.5% return on equity as per CERC 2014-
19 guide lines. Rampur HEP has been approved for carbon emission reduction credits. If
environmental benefits of avoided carbon are included, then the ERR changes to about16.6%
as per the Bank.

Socioeconomic development activities of the project affected area have been carried out by
SJVN. The focus of these activities is the infrastructural development depending upon the
relevance, demand and requirements of the local populace. A total number of 28 community
development works costing Rs 2.04 Cr were completed. Before the commencement of LADF,
various community development works were undertaken costing Rs. 1.42 Cr pertaining to the


                                              73
construction of pukka paths, kuhls, street lighting, playground and footbridge etc. For
construction of steel bridges in Jhakri and Bayal panchayats, boxing ring at Rampur College,
road and hospital at Bayal Rs 21.49 Cr was spent. After the formation of LADF, 32 works of
pukka paths were completed by incurring Rs1.13 Cr in the district of Kullu.

In the district of Kullu, works of kuhl construction in Gadej panchayat, retaining and boundary
wall at Bari, Tunan and Gadej panchayats, playground, fencing, road, drinking water lines and
tanks were constructed incurring Rs 0.51 Cr. Twelve works of construction and repair of
buildings and temples were completed in district Kullu at the cost of Rs. 0.52 Cr and three foot
bridges were constructed in Gadej, Kushwa and Tunan panchayats at an aggregate cost of Rs.
0.89 Cr. In total 64 such community development works were completed at a total cost of Rs.
3.12 Cr in the district of Kullu. In the district of Shimla, after the formation of LADA, 22
development works were completed at a cost of Rs. 0.63 Cr. These include 8 works of
construction of pukka path, 6 works of construction of fencing and playground, two works each
of repair of temple and construction of roads. In addition, construction of a room, drainage,
breast wall and community bhawan were also completed.

One of the main benefits accrued from the project is delivering valuable low carbon 412 MW
to the Northern Grid during peak demand. The other works, which come under direct benefits
are concerned with catchment area development by compensatory afforestation, check dams
and retaining walls to prevent soil erosion, R&R and community development works, health
benefits through hospitals and mobile health vans, schools, scholarships, fisheries development
etc.

Apart from tangible benefits several intangible benefits can be attributed to the project such as
overall development of the remote areas, increase in per capita income, increase in living
standards of the local populace, increase in literacy rate etc. Rampur HEP is a complete
package of development for the state of Himachal Pradesh and country at large.

                  Lessons learned and found useful for future operations

Kasholi adit was not considered during planning/ award stage between Kasholi and Kunni due
to close proximity of village Brow, Jagatkhana and Rampur. This was to avoid additional R&R
problems that may have occurred due to the dense population in these villages. Had it been
initially envisaged in the scope of the contractor, delay in completion of this adit and HRT
could have been saved to a great extent as time taken for diversion of forest land/ private land
for Kasholi adit works could have been avoided.

For future operations more sophisticated and modern methods must be used for realistic
assessment of geological features so that we can assess the progress of tunnel excavation rate
more accurately. The expenditure in these exploration works shall always be compensated
adequately in terms of time and cost.

While excavating HRT in Kasholi D/S, very near to the adit a big cavity occurred, which held
further progress of excavation on the heading. Considering the time loss that could take place
in treatment and handling the cavity, a bye-pass tunnel from the Kasholi adit to the downstream
of cavity was excavated and proceeded accordingly with HRT excavation. The cavity along
with a small stretch of HRT downstream of cavity was tackled separately.



                                               74
Although advance core drilling from the face may take a little extra time, in such type of rock
conditions it is always advisable to explore the rock in advance at least for 10 to 12 m to avoid
surprises and cavities.

Carbonaceous phyllites on the southern wall of Surge shaft with strata dipping inside the Surge
shaft posed a serious problem in the excavation of gate shafts and communication shaft. To
counter this problem, a decision was taken to carry out the excavation with the same diameter
to the bottom without communication shaft. This was the only viable and feasible solution to
handle the situation.

During excavation of the HRT from Kajo downstream, heavy seepage of water with high
temperature in the HRT occurred causing flooding of the HRT and stoppage of heading
excavation. Additional dewatering pipe lines were laid and dewatering was done with heavy
duty pumps, but in vain. In order to tackle the seepage, after exhausting other methods of
grouting, finally chemical grouting with Polyurethane was resorted to.

 Provision for chemical grouting and dewatering may be kept in such big projects in the
planning stage itself in particular in the unpredictable geological conditions in the young
Himalayan region.

As suggested by Bank experts, Lattice girders with shotcrete was adopted which acts as
reinforced arch as supporting system in HRT to improve the cycle time in poor rock class in
place of heavier steel ribs and RCC/ PCC lagging which require a lot of time for installation
and contact with rock surface is often less than adequate. This system not only reduced the
cycle time but also acted as monolithic concrete arch to give enough strength in the poor rock
conditions.

In future projects, probability of provision for lattice girders may be explored as rock support
system with a little more research work in this direction for more judicial use of the same.

                             Banks and Borrowers performance

The first project in which SJVN has commenced association with World Bank was the 1500
MW Nathpa Jhakri Hydro Electric Project during 1990s. Immediately after completion of the
project and its commercial operation of all its units in May 2004, a MoU was signed in October,
2004 for implementation of Rampur HEP with Govt. of Himachal Pradesh (HP). The funding
arrangements were initiated by SJVN for 70% of the loan component of Rampur HEP
thereafter. In reference to the Department of Economic Affairs, Govt. of India’s letter World
Bank communicated its willingness to provide loans to SJVN for its Rampur HEP, vide its
letter dated April 8, 2005. The final tripartite loan agreement for RHEP was signed on January
15, 2008 for USD 400 Million between World Bank, Govt. of HP and SJVN.

SJVN’s and GoI’s idea behind the engagement at that time was more strategic as the financing
from World Bank will bring in the latest expertise world-over in various fields such as contract
management practices, latest technological solutions for various problems that may crop up
during project execution, over all development of the project area on the fronts of
environmental and rehabilitation activities and bringing in the latest practices in various fields.
World Bank funding means a complete package of developmental opportunities for any
organization that is why SJVN opted for funding the loan component of Rampur HEP (412


                                                75
MW) from World Bank. Bank helped SJVN to keep abreast of the latest techniques and
practices in several fields.

Contract management in contract life cycle is the process of systematically and efficiently
managing contract procurement, execution and analysis for maximizing operational and
financial performance and minimizing risks of claims from the contractor. The Bank assisted
SJVN in all phases of contract from procurement to completion. Variation orders were issued
timely so that the contractor should not suffer from cash flow shortages and thus continue to
make progress. In Rampur HEP, 74 variation orders were issued in total and extension of time
to both the major civil contact packages were issued. DRB’s were constituted beforehand so
as to resolve any disputes with the contractor timely. Out of the 26 cases referred to DRB, 16
have already been settled.

SJVN has started implementation of Risk management policy which is a pre-requisite of
corporate governance on which the Bank insists. Project specific Risk management plans
(RMPs) were also developed by SJVN within the ambit of overall Risk Management Policy of
SJVN taking into consideration the requirement of various projects. The project specific RMPs
incorporated various lessons learnt during the implementation of Rampur HEP.

From the very beginning, Bank played a key role in implementation of institutional
strengthening and organizational development in SJVN. SJVN, with objectives to maintain the
knowledge base of its employees and learn about various new innovations and techniques in
various fields including environmental management, sent its employees to different training
programs. The training imparted has raised the awareness of employees of SJVN and main
contractors on technical, environment, social, occupational health and safety aspects which has
benefitted SJVN in terms of better performance. An expert external agency M/s. KPMG was
hired for this purpose and its recommendations are being implemented to the extent of
immediate requirements.

Financial management is another important field where in SJVN has developed its expertise
over the years. The Bank always insisted for best financial management practices in SJVN.
Fund forecasting along with timely and accurate preparation of quarterly accounts is rated at
100%. SJVN also started preparing 10 year fund flow statements to assess its revenues and
expenditure from its operations.

SJVN is in an advanced stage for implementing ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning)
management system. In the first phase, the plan is to implement financial management,
Material management and Payroll (HR) modules.

                            Bank’s Role from SJVN point of view

Over the years SJVN established itself as an international organization, from a single hydro
project in Himachal Pradesh to pan India presence and then as a multinational company, in all
its glory the Bank always remained with SJVN. The Bank always pushed SJVN beyond its
limits to achieve the best in the industry. In the fields of Institutional strengthening, Financial
management and fund forecasting, Contracts management, Operations management,
Procurement management through E-Tendering, Environmental Management, Rehabilitation
and Resettlement policies, Carbon financing, vender development, Safety norms



                                                76
implementation, Web site development and now in Enterprise Resource planning, the
assistance of the Bank is appreciable.

As far as intangible benefits are concerned the Bank is helping SJVN in its endeavour to
establish its brand name world over as an expert in Hydro Field from concept to
commissioning, mediating between various Govt. and non Govt. agencies in the interest of the
works to resolve deadlocks/issues, help bringing in innovative ideas adopted in other Bank
funded projects from the world over to SJVN such as lattice girders for tunnel supports,
techniques to improve cycle time etc. It has been really a magnificent and splendid journey
working with a team full of energy and dynamism. SJVN has been immensely benefited with
their constructive attitude shown towards the whole matter of project development.

SJVN has received 6th CIDC – Vishwakarma Award 2013 & 2014 for Achievement in the
field of Construction Health, Safety and Environment, Greentech Environmental Excellence
Gold Award-2013, Greentech Environmental Excellence Silver Award-2009 & 2012,
Greentech Environmental Excellence Bronze Award-2006 & 2007, Golden Peacock
Environment Management Award 2009 for the best practices of Environment Management.
This achievement could not have been possible without the valuable guidance and best
practices suggested by the World Bank team.

World Bank team’s progress review missions are particularly helpful in reviewing the total
progress achieved, critical issues hampering the progress, in providing more focused attention
on critical issues, a well-organized approach towards attainment of objectives and also making
an in-depth analysis of situations. Several solutions to the problems such as introduction of
new Adit at Kasholi between critical reach of Kunni-Goshai to cut down time for HRT
excavation, bypassing the HRT downstream cavity/roof collapse by constructing by pass adit,
replacement of cut & cover section with underground low cover tunneling in river crossing
reach, introduction of NATM technology to enhance progress rate, tackling of hot and heavy
seepage of water at Kajo HRT, re-organizing the power -house excavation methodology,
Change in the construction methodology for widening of Surge shaft are some of the outcomes
of discussions with the World Bank and panel of experts team constituted with the assistance
of the World Bank.

The untiring efforts of World Bank in improving the cycle time during excavation and
pushing activities of the project has been gainfully utilized by SJVN in early
commissioning of the project. Unit-5 of Rampur Hydro Electric Project of SJVN
Limited has been selected for the 'Gold Shield' while Unit-2 has been selected for 'Silver
Shield' for the year 2013-14 by the Central Electricity Authority, Government of India
in the category of "Early Completion of Hydro Power Projects".




                                             77
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

Besides the Bank’s Project Appraisal Documents, Implementation Status Reports, and Aide
Memoirs, the following list of documents were consulted for this report:

      Rampur Hydro Electric Project, Himachal Pradesh, Detailed Project Report,
       WAPCOS, August 2006

      Mid Term Review Report of Rampur Hydro Electric Project, SJVN, November 2010

      Mid Term Impact Evaluation of Resettlement Action Plan and Community
       Development Activities of Rampur Hydro Electric Project, SMEC, November 2010

      India & The World Bank Group in a Time of Transformation, The Country
       Partnership Strategy 2013-2017, A Summary, World Bank 2013

      An overview of Occupational Health and Safety in Indian Infrastructure Projects,
       prepared by SARDE with support from SASDI, World Bank, 2013.

      Rampur Hydropower Project – Land Acquisition, resettlement, Community
       Development Practices, The World Bank, August 2014

      Final Review Report of Rampur Hydro Electric Project, SJVN, January 2015

      Data on production, discharge and silt rates for at Nathpa Jhakri, SJVN, February
       2015

      End Term Impact Evaluation of Resettlement Action Plan and Community
       Development Activities of Rampur Hydro Electric Project, Agro-Economic Research
       Centre Himachal Pradesh university, March 2015




                                            78
                                                                                                                  INDIA

                                                          RA MPU R HYDRO PO WER PRO JECT
                                                     N A THPA JHA K RI HYDRO PO WER PROJECT
                                                                                         H IM A C H A L PR A DES H

                                                                                                                                                         SELECTED TOWNS
                                                                      RAMPUR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT SITE
                                                                                                                                                         STATE CAPITAL
                                                                      NATHPA JHAKRI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT SITE
                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                      DAMS
                                                                                                                                                         STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                         Za
                                                                                         ska
                                                                                          r
                                                                                               ve




                                                                                              Ri
                                                                                                    r




                                                                     Ch
                                                                          en
                                                                           ab




                                                                                River


                                        CHAMBA

                                                                                                                   LAHUL AND SPITI



                            Pong
                          Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                        Sp iti            Rive r
                                             KANGRA                                                                 Par
                                                                                                                        va        Riv er
                                                                                                        Beas




                                                                                                                          ti
                                 Beas
                                                Be




                                 Dam
                                                  as




                                                                                                                    KULLU
                                                                                                         R iv e
                                                       Ri
                                                          ve




                                                                                                                         Sainj Khad
                                                          r




                                                                                                           r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ve
                                                               HAMIRPUR                 MANDI                                                                                                               Ri

                                          UNA                                                                                                                                           tle
                                                                                                                                                                                              j
                                                                                                                                                                                   Su
                                                So




                                                                                                                                                                          Wangtu
                                                 an




                                                                                                                                                                                   KINNAUR
                                                   Riv




                                                                                                                       RAMPUR                        r           Nichar
                                                                                                                                                ve
                                                                                                                                           Ri
                                                                                                                                                                          Kilba
                                                     er




                                                                                                                     HYDROPOWER
                                                          Bhakra                                                                                  NATHPA JHAKRI
                                                           Dam                                                         PROJECT                    HYDROPOWER                            Ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                  spa
                                                                                                                                           RAMPUR
                                                                                                                         Sutlej                     PROJECT                                              R iv e
                                                                   BILASPUR                                                                                                                                       r




                                                                                                                               SHIMLA
                                                                                                               SHIMLA
                          Sutlej Riv er
                                                                                  SOLAN




                                                                                                                   SIRMAUR




             This map was produced by the
             Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                              0     10               20                30 Kilometers
             The boundaries, colors, denominations and
             any other information shown on this map do
             not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                        0                10                          20          30 Miles
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of                                                                                                                                                                                           




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¡




             any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¢
APRIL 2006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 £




             acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¤




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¥




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¦




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 §




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¨
