Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,kA/. pvA- CA'
Report No. P-4131-CH
REPORT AMD ECOENIATIOIN
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF T
NIITIRA!IONAL BAN  FOR RECONvSTIRUCTION AND DEVELO1DEIT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRETRS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSIM    LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQ1IVAMENT TO US$250.0 NILION
TO
THE REPULIC OF CHILE
October 4, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on:y in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch$))
Calendar 1984
Currency Unit             Average            Sept. 1, 1985
US$1                    Cb$98.478            Ch$177.0
Ch$1                   US$ 0.010             US$  0.006
Cb$1,000               US$10.127             US$  5.650
FISCAL YhRA
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CODELCO          - Corporacion del Cobre
(Chilean State Copper Company)
CORFO            - Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion
(Chilean Development Corporation)
EEP              - Emergency Employment Programs
EFF              - Extended Fund Facility
ENAP             - Empresa Nacional del Petroleo
(National Petroleum Company)
LIBOR            - London Interbank Offered Rate
OEPLAN          - Oficina Nacional de Planificacion
(National Planning Office)
PEN              - Programa de Empleo Minimo
(Minimum Employment Program)
POJH             - Programa Ocupacional para Jefes del Hogar
(Employment Program for Heads of Families)
PROCHILE         - Chile's Export Promotion Agency
UF               - Unidad de Fomento
(Financial Unit of Account which reflects the
movements in the Country's Consumer Price Index)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTN  LOAN
wnof sosr
Borrower:            Republic of Chile
Amount:              US$250.0 million equivalent
Tenrs:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Description:         The proposed loan would support the Government' s
Structural Adjustment Program, a program designed to ac-
celerate exports and domestic savings so as to permit a
recovery of economic growth and employment while the
countly services its external debt. The main areas
covered by the Government's medium- term program include:
(i) measures to strengthen incentives for noncopper ex-
ports; tii) steps to increase public savings and the ef-
ficiency of the public investment program; and (iii)
measures to improve the condition of banking and corpo-
rate finances. The loan would finance all imports, with
the exception of luxury items and military goods. Com-
plementary studies designed to improve public sector
management, state enterprise divestment, employment gen-
eration, export assistance programs, and a forestry de-
velopment program will be partially financed by a prior
Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan CLn.
2504-CH) approved in March 1985.
Project Benefits:    The Structural Adjustment Program is expected to result
in higher levels of economic growth, employment and ex-
port earnings while also enhancing the country's ability
to service its external debt. The projected growth and
improved balance-of-payments performance will also
strengthen Chile's creditworthiness and facilitate con-
tinuation of external financial flows.
Project Risks:       The principal risks -- and they are not minor -- center
on the Government's ability to generate the required
domestic savings from both the public and private
sectors, on Chile's terms of trade, and on access to
foreign capital. If external developments adversely af-
fect copper prices or interest rates, or if foreign cap-
ital inflows are less than projected, domestic savings
may be insufficient to permit satisfactory growth and
prompt debt service payments.
Estimated            The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in two
Disbtursements:      tranches: US$125 million equivalent upon effectiveness,
and the remaining US$125 million equivalent after a per-
formance review to be held within six months of effec-
tiveness.
Appraisal Report:   None
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.I NRNATIONAL BAN  FO                 An DEVELOPNT
REPORT AND          hTIO OF THE PERSIDENT OF TI IEND
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN ANOUNT EQUIALENT TO US$250.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation an a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent
of US$250.0 million. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three
years of grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE BCOONON
2.        An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CH) was circu-
lated to the Executive Directors on September 24, 1984. In November 1984, an
economic mission visited Chile to review the public investment program. The
conclusions of that mission - as well as of subsequent SAL preparation mis-
sions -- are reflected in this report. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Prelude
3.        For the past century, Chile's economic development has been charac-
terized by high dependence on one or two mineral exports. Buoyant copper and
nitrate revenues, and their considerable export taxes, accustomed Chileans to
high levels of government outlays and sophisticated benefit systems without a
corresponding savings effort. This dependence continued even after the dev-
astating drop in export revenues during the Great Depression. By 1932, the
real value of Chile's exports had fallen 82 percent since 1929, the real
value of imports by 87 percent, and real per capita GDP 50 percent. Post-
Depression Governments expanded state ownership and followed import-substitu-
tion policies which often led to overvalued exchange rates supported by high
levels of tariff and nontariff protection. Negative real interest rates, low
administered prices for food and other wage goods, and legally mandated wage
adjustments were combined with high and groving levels of social benefits.
These policies were overlaid by tax exemptions, tariffs, controls, and sub-
sidies in pursuit of special distributional or allocative objectives. All
these activities required a substantial shift of resources to the public
sector, a shift accomplished to a significant degree by inflationary monetary
expansion and foreign borrowing. In spite of this, in the post-Depression
decades, Chile experienced slow growth, rapid inflation, frequent balance of
payments crises, a growing foreign debt burden, a highly protected and inef-
ficient manufacturing sector, and continued dependence on a single primary
export, copper.
4.        The Popular Unity Government of 1971-73 continued these policies;
indeed, it took many to extreme lengths. In early 1971, it raised real wages
considerably in an effort to boost growth and change income distribution and
followed highly expansionary fiscal and monetary policies as well. The ex-
change rate and interest rates greatly lagged behind the increasing infla-
tion, an inflation that accelerated in spite of massive price controls and



- 2 -
direct state allocation of many consumer goods. The pressure on the balance
of payments from these activities became unsustainable; by end-1971 Chile
was unable to service its foreign debt and the economy began encountering
severe financial and economic constraints. By 1973 real per capita GDP and
real wages had fallen far below the levels of 1970, agricultural output had
dropped to the level of the early 1960s, inflation had reached an annuliszed
rate above 1,000 percent, the deficit of the Central Government alone ex-
ceeded 20 percent of GDP, the black market exchange rate had risen to over
ten times the official rate, and net international reserves were negative.
The 1974-1981 Adjustment Progrn
5.       After a one-year hiatus, the next Government undertook a major ad-
justment program. Its development strategy included the phased introduction
of low and even import tariffs, state enterprise pricing based on opportunity
and/or actual costs, decentralized social programs, positive and flexible
real interest rates, reduction of wage taxes, virtual freeing of most product
and factor prices, innovative nutrition and education programs with benefits
and subsidies targeted to the poor, and a major social security reform. The
immediate effect of these policies, as well as a strong deterioration in
Chile's terms of trade, led to a recession in 1975. Nevertheless, the
longer-term effect of these policies and programs was highly positive.
During 1976-81, exports, GDP, and incomes boomed. Social indices improved,
and Chile seemed to have conquered its chronic problems of slow growth and
high inflation.
6.       One of the Government's major successes was in public finances, par-
ticularly its stronger control of the budget and public enterprises. Chile s
highly complex personal and corporate income taxes were simplified and made
more enforceable. Indexing of income, land and other taxes reduced support
for inflation. Chile's perverse 'cascading" sales tax was replaced by a
value-added tax, and import tariffs were reduced and unified. The result was
one of the most economically neutral tax systems in the developing world.
From chronic deficits, the consolidated public sector attained an overall
surplus by 1977; and the surpluses continued through 1981. Even today, with
the economy substantially below full capacity, the overall public sector de-
ficit is only three to four percent of GDP, a very low level for the Western
Hemisphere.
7.       Another major success was in the trade regime. In 1973 Chile had a
multitude of exchange rates, widespread trade prohibitions and quotas, an
average nominal tariff of 105 percent - with a maximum of 750 percent - and
prior import deposit requirements up to 10,000 percent of import value. By
1979, Chile's exchange rate had been unified for five years and maintained
through a crawling peg at a real rate both attractive to noncopper exporters
and consistent with prudent demand management. With one exception, because
of prior investment agreements with international automobile companies, the
import tariff was ten percent,and there were no other trade barriers. From
one of the most distorted trade regimes, Chile had moved to one of the
freest.
8.      The results of this rapid and massive reduction in Chile's anti-ex-
port bias were impressive. Between 1974 and 1980 the value of agricultural
exports (including processed foodstuffs and fishmeal) more than quintupled;
so did industrial exports. Copper fell from 77 percent of total export value
to 46 percent, although the volume of copper production was almost 50 percent



higher than during rhe early 1970s. Export diversification was accompanied
by market diversification; by 1980 almost a quarter of Chile's exports were
going to Latin America -- compared to 17 percent in 1974 -- as temperate cli-
mate fruits and manufactured exports found regional markets. Imports fell
during 1975-76, but then expanded rapidly; during 1976-80 they grew more
than three times faster than GDP, and the latter was growing by 7.5 percent
yearly. Inflation dropped, from 500 percent in 1973 to only 30 percent in
1978. Constant debt reschedulings during the t960s and early 1970s had re-
duced Chile's creditworthiness, but it was rapidly restored as its exports
boomed and attractive domestic interest rates brought in foreign capital. As
a result, Chile's use of foreign savings rose slowly to US$1.2 billion by
1979: about five percent of GDP. International reserves also rose; by 1979
they had passed US$2 billion, almost half the annual import level.
9.        The Government also achieved substantial social progress during
1975-81. The decline in the relatively high mortality rates which started in
the early 1960s accelerated after 1973. By 1983, Chile's infant mortality
rate -- once almost twice Argentina's -- was among the lowest of the Southern
Cone, and Chileans' life expectancy was almost eight years longer than in
1970. By 1983, there was a two-thirds reduction of death rates from respira-
tory disel3es, a halving of the rate from digestive disorders, and a 50 per-
cent drop in the infant mortality rate. These declines were caused by many
factors -- including the extraordinary commitment of Chilean health workers
-- but much of the drop came from the increased efficiency of health serv-
ices. Less was spent on wages, more on medicines and food for benefici-
aries. The number of public health doctors stayed constant after 1970, but
the number of paramedical staff and consultations rose rapidly. A more even
spatial distribution of public health services led to rapid reductions in
death rates in poorer areas. Furthermore, the Government concentrated its
improved nutrition programs on pregnant and nursing mothers as well as on
children in poor neighborhoods. These reforms, combined with a major sewer-
age expansion, much of it to poor urban areas, have placed Chilean health in-
dices among the best in the hemisphere.
10.       To make school services more responsive to local needs and the in-
structional process more efficient, the Government shifted the administration
of the system to the municipalities. It also expanded the free breakfast
program into one providing three meals a day for all schools in poor areas,
and reallocated its budget to provide better elementary and secondary educa-
tion. In 1970 Chile's Ministry of Education was spending almost half of its
budget on university subsidies. This created obvious inequities. In 1976,
to encourage quality, the Government allocated part of this subsidy to uni-
versities based on their share of the top 20,000 secondary graduates. The
second part of the subsidy was then slowly reduced in real terms. This en-
couraged State universities to raise tuition, from virtually nil to about
US$700-800 today, a cost that was then ameliorated by a program of student
loans. The relative share of education outlays spent on universities -- in-
cluding the loan program - is now only 25 percent.
11.      Chile's rapid economic growth stemmed from equally rapid increases
in the productivity of labor and capital. Private managers, shorn of major
restrictive labor, credit, and production practices, raised factor productiv-
ity rapidly. Companies that had earlier seemed unviable without massive pro-
tection -- e.g., in textiles and consumer durables -- survived and even
expanded by concentrating on quality and efficiency. Indeed, following an
eight percent drop in per capita productivity between 1970-1975, productivity



- 4 -
per worker increased 16 percent between 1976-1980. Thus, although during
1976-78 Chile's gross domestic investment averaged under 15 percent of GDP,
the economy boomed. By 1981, 19 percent of GDP stemmed from the reform-in-
duced productivity gains since 1975. This was reflected in a dramatic reduc-
tion in Chile's incremental capital-output ratio.
12.       These reforms, however, did not resolve all of Chile's problems.
The reciprocal of the productivity gains was slow employment growth.
It took only one year during 1974-75 for the unemployment rate to double to
14 percent. It took five years, until 1980, to reduce the rate to 10.4 per-
cent -- still almost twice as high as the 1960s average. Increased labor ef-
ficiency partially explains why unemployment declined slowly during the
1976-81 boom. In the public sector there was a substantial reduction of
overstaffing, especially in the State enterprises. In the private sector,
legal constraints on the release of workers and the power of trade unions
were both weakened. Perhaps partly because they were not sure this situation
would long endure, enterprises maintained or shifted to capital intensive
technologies. This tendency was encouraged by linking wages to past
inflation, which raised real wages as inflation decelerated. It was even
more strongly encouraged after mid-1979 when the fixing of the exchange rate
reduced the relative price of capital imports.
13.       The sharp rise in unemployment in 1974-75 probably led to a deteri-
oration in the country's relatively even income distribution (for Latin
America). However, the deterioration of income distribution was being slowly
reversed by the more effective social programs and the gradual recovery of
employment until the 1982-83 recession.
14.      Despite tax reforms, the country' s chronically low savings propens-
ity continued. During the 1970s, Chile's gross national savings averaged
only 13 percent of GDP. The managerial and financial autonomy given to State
enterprises ended their deficits, but their divestiture was slow. These en-
tities, therefore, often acted as natural monopolies. The innovative social
security reform left the fisc with transitional responsibility for much of
Chile's pensions while workers accrued savings in private pension schemes.
The decline in personal and corporate income tax rates and the increased con-
centration of governmental expenditures on social programs has reduced public
receipts at a time when key social programs are either expanding (e.g., unem-
ployment insurance, emergency employment programs, pensions) or are difficult
to compress (e.g, health/nutrition programs, education). This combination
has reduced public savings when the economy vitally needs them.
15.       Chile's low investment ratio may be even more strongly linked to
government policies. Liberal foreign investment policies, a reduced role for
public-investment, and the negative domestic borrowing of the public sector
failed to elicit a strong investment response from foreign or Chilean private
investors. Fixed investment was slow to recover; it was not until 1978 that
it recovered its real 1970 level; and the revised price signals after 1979
discouraged investment for the production of tradeable goods. The public
sector surpluses were partly achieved by deferring some highly productive
public investments. The unexploited ore bodies of the State Copper Company
(CODELCO) are among the richest in the world, but the Government stopped
CODELCO from developing them. Public infrastructure -- roads, irrigation
canals, utilities -- which had deteriorated during 1970-75, was rehabilitated
only slowly. Some public services were not expanded because the Authorities
expected the private sector would step in. Foreign direct investment proved



- 5 -
coy. Between 1975 and 1984 the Government authorized almost US$7.3 billion
in foreign investment; but only US$2 billion was made. The great majority of
the unrealized projects were in mining, where depressed prices and low inter-
national demand as well as rising costs during 1979-1981 reduced incentives.
The 1982-1983 Depression
16.       The June 1979 fixing of the exchange rate against the US dollar,
combined with an accelerated liberalization of Chile's capital account, was
expected to produce quick and painless adjustment between foreign and do-
mestic price changes and interest rates. The Government not only underesti-
mated the lag in the price adjustment, the external environment was adverse
as well. A complex economy requires time for relative price adjustments to
work their way through markets, and in Chile's case the legal linking of
wages to past inflation increased the adjustment lag. Between December 1978
and December 1981, Chile's real effective exchange rate appreciated by 28
percent. The rise of the US dollar and the world recession of 1980-82 -- and
the associated drop in copper prices - then turned a risky policy into a
disaster.
17.       During 1979-81, the open capital account and greatly lagged con-
vergence of domestic and foreign inflation and interest rates encouraged an
unsustainable boom. As the peso appreciated and copper prices began falling,
Chile found itself increasingly dependent on foreign borrowing; this borrow-
ing was encouraged by the great difference between foreign and domestic in-
terest rates, which did not vanish until the end of 1981. The external debt
of Chile's private sector rose from US$1.6 billion at end-1978 to US$8.1 bil-
lion by 1982; and all of the exchange risk was passed on to the final borrow-
er. Because domestic banks (and their stockholders) had preferential access
to these cheaper foreign funds, they were able to buy up companies and rapid-
ly form conglomerates. Indeed some of Chile's banks had up to one-half of
their loans to associated companies. By the end of 1981 a recession had be-
gun as both export and import substitution sectors slumped. The next year,
when voluntary private lending to Latin America ended and real international
interest rates reached record heights, Chile was forced to devalue its
currency and real GDP dropped over 14 percent.
18.       By late 1982 it became apparent to the Government that the "flag-
ship" banks of Chile's major business groups were greatly weakened. There
were widespread corporate bankruptcies, but the true extent of financial dis-
tress was disguised by continued bank lending to insolvent -- especially as-
sociated -- clients. The Authorities had liquidated or intervened 1/ some
banks during 1982, but by 1983 the problem required stronger action. In
January, the Government intervened five private banks, all controlled by
major groups, liquidated three more, and extended massive Central Bank credit
to provide the banking system with short-term liquidity. During the next six
weeks Chile lost over US$1 billion in reserves as the increased Central Bank
credit fled the country. At the request of Chile's foreign creditors, the
Authorities froze most capital flows. They then developed with the IMF an
emergency program which permitted them to meet most of the targets estab-
lished in a prior 1983 Stand-By, while the commercial banks extended new
credits to Chile.
1/   In the Chilean context "intervention" means only the assumption of
management; no change in ownership is implied or expected.



-6-
19.       The recession of 1982-83 raised Chile's open and disguised unem-
ployment rates to record heights. By end-1982, open unemployment peaked at
24 percent of the work force. The Government had already created one emer-
gency employment program (PEK); in 1982, it created another (POJH) for heads
of households. Notwithstanding their low salaries (around US$25 per month in
PEN and US$40 in POJH), these programs played a substantial role in reducing
open unemployment, with a peak of 500,000 people or 14 percent of the work
force on their rolls at the end of 1983.
Recent Develoyments and Prospects
20.       The depression bottomed out in late 1983.  A growing public invest-
ment program and Central Bank financing of domestic debt reschedulings sup-
ported strong increases in demand and production in the first semester of
1984.  A March agreement with its international creditors provided Chile
with US$780 million in new medium-term loans and a major increase in short-
term debt followed. As a result, GDP grew 6.3 percent; industrial, agricul-
tural and fishing output grew even faster. Employment increased sharply;
200,000 more productive jobs were created -- a 6.3 percent increase -- allow-
ing the Government to reduce its emergency-work programs by 137,000 jobs,
while open unemployment dropped by late 1984 to a 13 percent rate - its
lowest since 1981. However, as a result of this expansion, the current
account deficit of the balance of payments reached ten percent of GDP; an
umsustainable level.
21.       During 1984, Chile's copper export volume reached a record level,
while the volume of agricultural and industrial export products increased by
31 and 8 percent, respectively. Unfortunately, the value of Chile's export
earnings -- denominated in US dollars -- dropped five percent. Copper prices
fell 12 percent to the lowest real level since the 1930s and noncopper ex-
ports also suffered price drops averaging 4.5 percent. After two years of
heavy import compression, the 1984 recovery led to an 18 percent increase in
the value of imports over 1983. Capital goods imports grew fastest; 44
percent. To cope with the growing foreign trade imbalance and to help offset
the reduction in copper tax revenues, import tariffs -- which in 1983 had
been increased from ten to 20 percent -- were increased further. In March,
235 import items were made subject to a 15 percent surtax. In September,
along with a 23 percent devaluation, import tariffs were leveled off by rais-
ing all rates to 35 percent.
22.       By following an austere monetary and fiscal program, the Government
complied with most of the targets agreed in the IMF Stand-by program. These
were complemented by a major income tax reform designed to stimulate private
corporate and individual savings, and by general financial relief programs
for the distressed banking system. In addition, the Government provided re-
lief to corporate borrowers, most importantly in the form of a preferential
exchange rate for their debt service.
23.       Chile's situation, however, remains very difficult.  In spite of
the past major export diversification, copper still accounts for almost half
of export earnings and its price prospects are not buoyant. At US$19.5 bil-
lion by the end of 1984, Chile's foreign debt (including short-term debt) is
about US$1,645 per capita; five times merchandise exports and about equal to
GDP. Chile paid in 1984 one-tenth of its GDP and almost half its merchandise
export receipts to foreign creditors, mostly commercial banks, just in inter-
est payments. While these ratios will decline, they will remain substantial
throughout the 1980s.



24.       Severe financial problems continue to affect Chile's private corpo-
rate and banking sectors. In 1981, before the onset of the financial crisis,
loans with overdue payments were only four percent of Chilean private banks'
commercial loans. During 1983-84, the Central Bank not only provided emer-
gency loans, but also "purchased" non-performing loans from the nonintervened
banks (up to 2.5 times their capital), and assisted all banks in rescheduling
with lower real interest rates many other loans. In spite of these actions,
by 1984 loans with overdue payments had risen to ten percent of commercial
loans, and 27 percent of bank loans had been "sold" to the Central Bank.
When rescheduled loans are taken into account, perhaps only half of private
bank loans are performing normally. The disarray of Chile's financial and
corporate sectors has clearly retarded the recovery of private savings and
economic activity.
25.       Performance during the first half of 1985 has been mixed. During
the first five months, low prices for Chile's principal exports reduced the
expected increase in the trade surplus. Nevertheless, lower-than-expected
interest rates have led to a reduced interest burden about equal to the ex-
port earnings drops. To cope with the export price reduction, the Govern-
ment, following strong devaluations in 1984, twice devalued the Chilean peso
during 1985 and reduced import tariffs from 35 to an even 20 percent rate.
These actions are likely to stimulate exports but, after a six month lag, the
1984 devaluations increased the pace of inflation in the first half of the
year    the consumqr price index reached an annunlized 35 percent rate in
June -- and put strong upward pressure in short-term interest rates. Prelim-
inary data for the second quarter of 1985 indicate a weakening of economic
activity relative to the first quarter, and GDP growth for the year is
expected to be slight.
PAR! II - -  STBU            ADJUSTU  P10M1
26.       The Government's immediate response to the 1982-83 crisis was ad
hoc and based on the expectation that the country was facing only short-4;erm
liquidity problems. By mid-1983, both in and out of Government, there was
increasing acknowledgement that a coherent longer-term program was necessary
to assist consistency in decision making and to resolve longer-term prob-
lems. In early 1984, an initial three-year public investment program was
produced. The Government has revised and improved on this first effort. It
has recently developed a 1985-87 structural adjustment program that combines
a series of consistent projections of the aggregate economy, balance of pay-
ments, public investment, and the required public finances. Equally impor-
tant, the policy measures the Government expects to apply to reach its go-7
are now specified. These measures address the three immediate structural
problems: the need to accelerate and diversify exports, the saving/invest-
ment disequilibrium, and the financial distress that permeates the economy.
A fourth problem -- productive employment generation -- is also addressed,
but the scope for ameliorating this problem in the short-term is limited.
Export Promotion Program
27.       Chile made important adjustments to its export incentive system
during 1983-84. Poor price prospects for Chile's major primary exports have
convinced the Government that highest. priority must be given to the expansion
of noncopper exports. As part of Chile's effort to reduce its foreign ex-
change constraint, the structural adjustment program, therefore, includes a
reduction in import tariffs, a real exchange rate attractive for export-



oriented investment, better coordination between private and public invest-
ments in the forestry and energy sectors, and a more positive role for the
Government's export promotion agency, PROCHILE, in the coordination and pro-
motion of exports from small producers. If successful, the program would re-
duce the external current account deficit from US$2 billion in 1984 to US$1
billion by 1987, while a modest economic recovery takes place, mainly through
a six percent annual rate of expansion in the volume of nontraditional
exports.
28.       Trade Policies.  Fiscal considerations played an important role in
the Government's 1983-84 import tariff increases. Unfortunately, they under-
mined some of the export incentive created by a 25 percent devaluation in
real terms and brought a temporary return to a differential tariff system,
thereby generating an uncertain environment for investment in export-oriented
activities. To provide coherent export-investment incentives, the Government
has stated that free trade and low and uniform import tariffs will be the
basis of its trade policy. Following this pledge, the Government reduced the
import tariff rate to 30 percent on March 1, and to 20 percent on July 1,
1985. Moreover, anti-dumping surcharges such as those imposed on milk and
sugar imports will only be applied when unfair trade practices are confirmed.
29.       Export Incentives.  The success of an export-oriented growth strat-
egy is critically dependent on attractive and stable price incentives for ex-
porters. The Government is committed to a realistic export incentive system
encouraging labor-intensive, export-oriented investments which will lead to
strong export and economic growth. The 25 percent real devaluation in the
peso and the reduction of tariffs to an even 20 percent mentioned above are
positive steps in this direction.
30.       Considering Chile's debt burden, restricted access to foreign sav-
ings, and export prospects, the current real effective exchange rate is con-
sistent with the three-year growth and balance of payments targets of the
structural program, and the Government has undertaken to maintain this real
exchange rate throughout the execution of the program. However, prior admin-
istrations have found it difficult to resist pressures to spend windfall
gains from abrupt copper price rises. Upward movements of volatile copper
prices, if allowed to result in a real appreciation of the peso, could quick-
ly suppress noncopper export-oriented investment. Moderation of the effect
of copper price swings, therefore, will be one of the essential features of
the Government's structural adjustment program. To break the link between
cop?er prices and domestic demand, a copper stabilization fund will be
created as a mechanism to ensure, through budget adjustments, that some of
CODELCO's copper revenues from higher than budgeted copper prices will be
sterilized in a reserve fund created for this specific purpose by the Govern-
ment. The funds deposited would, in turn, be utilized to smooth out copper
revenue short-falls if the copper price is lower than budgeted.
31.       Direct export incentives are difficult in Chile as fiscal resources
for export subsidies are limited. Nevertheless, on July 1, 1985, the Govern-
ment announced some strengthening of export incentives. The stamp and
value-added taxes paid by exporters on imported inputs were abolished, and
the list to reimburse import duties on investment goods purchased by export-
ers has been increased. An insurance program is also under preparation to
reduce the risk of exporters opening new markets and an easing in bank re-
serve requirements needed for export lending has been implemented. Legisla-
tion to encourage the development of export insurance firms is being



prepared. To ensure better public/private sector collaboration in the
important forestry sector, a high-level public/private task force has been
appointed to develop and implement a forestry program to better plan the
necessary private and public investments required for the rapid expansion of
forestry exports.
32.       In 1978, the Ministry of External Relations created an export de-
velopment agency, PROCHILE, to assist Chilean producers in dealing with
foreign markets and new technologies. To increase its role in supporting new
exports, PROCHILE was recently transformed into an independent agency. Now
with an expanded role and budget, it is also being reorganized. PROCHILr's
reorientation is designed to: Ci) undertake the organization of small- and
medium-size exporters; (ii) provide marketing support in reaching new
markets; (iii) promote and coordinate Chilean participation in international
trade fairs; Civ) analyze and define incentives to increase nontraditional
exports; and (v) supervise quality improvements for Chile's major nontradi-
tional exports. Technical assistance has been provided to small- and medium-
sized agricultural producers to market their products in foreign markets. A
study to identify potential export products is being conducted by PROCHILE
and it is hoped that when added to PROCHILE's new flexibility and increased
budget, this study should result in a growing number of new exports. The
Bank's recent Public Sector Management Loan will be used to assist some of
these activities.
33.       Export Potential.  Chile's export potential in forestry products is
impressive. The successful expansion of pine plantations during the last
twenty years has created an abundant and increasing source of raw material.
By the end of the century, there will be sufficient stands to produce between
four to six times present output levels. Forestry exports, which reached
their peak in 1980 when USS470 million in forest products were exported,
could well become second only to copper. No major technical difficulties are
envisaged in reaching the full potential of the plantations, but only a co-
ordinated private/public development strategy and investment program can
bring about the full export potential of the sector, since the investment in
processing plants and complementary infrastructure to absorb the increasing
timber supply is estimated at US$3-4 billion over the next 15 years.  Attain-
ment of the full export potential will depend on a stable, supportive en-
vironment, and on the availability of private capital. The mixed public/
private commission and the forestry program it will develop will help achieve
these objectives.
34.       A worldwide imbalance between the supply of and the demand for cop-
per in the early 1980s has caused a sharp decline in copper prices.  The un-
derlying supply-demand imbalance has begun to correct itself with demand
picking up slowly, and supply decreasing, albeit at a slower rate. Thus,
only a moderate upward trend in real prices is expected for the rest of the
decade. Besides being extensive and high grade, Chile's copper reserves are
well-located for low-cost exploitation. The Government's long-term copper
development strategy calls for a moderate increase in CODELCO's production
and the opening of some potential high ore bodies to private investment. The
Government will invest during 1985-87 about U$300-350 million per year to
upgrade the facilities of the State Copper Company (CODELCO) and increase
copper exports by about 20 to 22 percent by 1990.
35.       Chile now imports half its oil and has a low reserve to production
ratio, less than six years. The Magellan Strait, the chief production area,
has a limited petroleum future; future production must occur from development
in the nearby Precordillera Region. The Government recently evaluated the



- 10 -
country's hydrocarbon potential and recommended a US$170 million five-year
program of investments in exploration and development of new oil fields. The
investment program of ENAP, the State Petroleum Company, however, only in-
cludes US$71 million for exploratory wells, and virtually all in the Magellan
Strait. The Government, therefore, proposes to entice private investors to
undertake the exploration works required through package deals which would
link concession rights in the Magellan Region to exploration obligations in
the Precordillera Region.
36.       Currently, coal and natural gas play a relatively minor role in the
economy. The Government has supported two private projects, one in coal, an-
other in gas; both have also received IFC support. The coal project will ex-
ploit a new open-pit mine in the Magellan area with a production capacity of
1.1 million metric tons per year. This coal would be utilized by thermo-
electrical plants to substitute about 26 percent of Chile's current oil im-
ports. The Government has also reached an agreement with private foreign and
domestic investors to set up a metbanol processing plant. The plant will
generate net exports of about US$60 million annually by 1988. Moreover, this
is expected to be only the first step for a major gas-using complex that
could generate exports of over $200 million by the early 1990s.
37.       The Government established reference price bands for wheat, oil-
seeds and sugar in 1983 to alleviate producers' uncertainties derived from
highly volatile international prices for these products. However, to avoid
excessive price distortions that could lead to investment in less productive
crops, the Government has undertaken to reduce the reference prices along
with the general import tariff decreases mentioned before. Moreover, given
its implications for crop rotation, in the case of sugar this pricing policy
will be accompanied by a partial reduction of the price received by sugar
beet growers.  Since world sugar prices do not reflect world production
costs, the Government will base its ultimate sugar pricing policy, including
import tariffs, on a sector study which will use Caribbean sugar production
costs as a proxy for world prices. This study will be carried out during
the last quarter of 1985 and its recommendations implemented starting in
1986.
Savings Nobiistion
38.       Substantial new investment will be needed to support Chile's eco-
nomic growth. Moreover, interest on the external debt will be absorbing much
of domestic savings for the rest of the 1980s. Both factors underline the
urgent need to increase Chile's domestic savings.
39.       Chile's initial, major resource mobilization effort must be through
the public sector. Many of Chile's banks and corporations already find it
difficult to service their foreign debt; and this difficulty will increase
as the present subsidies provided for private debt payments by the Central
Bank are phased out. Since the Government has now guaranteed virtually all
of the previously unguaranteed foreign debt of the banking system (about 40
percent of Chile's total debt before the crisis), this means the public
sector will eventually have to service much of this debt. As a result, in-
creasing public savings becomes imperative.
40.        Public Savings. The projections of the structural adjustment pro-
gram indicate the nonfinancial public sector deficit (corresponding to 4.8
percent of GDP in 1984) will be changed into a surplus in the course of three
years. The program contemplates an increase in public savings from their



- 11 -
0.6 percent GDP level in 1984 to over five percent by 1987. To increase
public savings this rapidly will not be an easy task. Moreover, the Govern-
ment will attempt to generate the increased public savings through current
expenditure restraint rather than initial tax increases so as not to dampen
private savings.   The Government will also adjust the prices of public en-
terprises to reflect changes in their opportunity cost or help finance their
own investments.
41.       Four major challenges will affect the Government's savings strat-
egy: (i) the short-term impact of the social security reform; (ii) the high
share of social expenditures in the budget; (iii) the income tax reform of
1984; and (iv) the need to absorb some of the costs of the Central Bank's
program of financial relief to the country's banking system.
42.       The 1980 social security reform transformed the prior publicly-sup-
ported social security system into one based on the private investment of in-
dividual savings. After December 1980, workers' reduced social security con-
tributions went directly to private pension funds. This reform reduced labor
costs and created new financial intermediaries which will be soon investing
up to four percent of GDP in savings yearly. The transition, however, repre-
sents a burden on the public sector. The Government continues to pay vested
pension rights while the bulk of pension contributions are now channeled to
the newly-created private pension funds. During the transition period --
likely to take up to ten years -- government pension outlays could peak at a
level as much as two percentage points of GDP higher than the 1984 level
while workers' contributions will fall.
43.       As part of its reduced role in the economy, the Government shifted
a substantial share of public outlays into transfers for social purposes.
Social programs directed at assisting Chile's poor, such as family income
supplements, free-meal programs, emergency employment programs, and education
subsidies, are only a few of the programs now supported by the Government.
Consequently, excluding social security obligations, the share of social ex-
penditures in the budget rose from 20 percent in 1973 to nearly 30 percent by
1984. To increase public savings, the Government has implemented since 1984
an austere expenditure program. Salary adjustments for public employees bave
been kept well below inflation during 1984-85. In May 1985, the link between
social security payments and inflation was suspended.
44.       Further reductions of public sector expenditures might have a major
impact on social programs. The Authorities have maintained, however, that as
long as unemployment rates remain high, the PEM, POJH and social programs for
the extreme poor would be continued. It seems, therefore advisable to moni-
tor the employment generation effects of the proposed structural adjustment
program before further reductions in expenditures -- above these measures al-
ready announced -  are implemented since even under the program's assump-
tions, double-digit unemployment rates are likely to continue until the
economic recovery obtained through exports is strong enough to provide pro-
ductive jobs for those currently employed by the PEN and POJ programs.
45.       The tax reform of January 1984 is designed to stimulate the rein-
vestment of profits by the gradual elimination of a 40 percent surtax on
corporate profits to 15 percent by 1986; complete elimination of the surtax
will take effect in 1987. On the other hand, to stimulate household savings,
individual taxpayers may now deduct 20 percent of funds invested in approved
shares, bank deposits, and certain other financial securities; they may also
deduct -- up to one fifth of their income -- contributions to the private



- 12 -
pension funds made above the minimum required by law. Implementation of this
program will cost the Government a yearly estimated 0.6 percent of GDP in
lost revenues during 1985-87.
46.       Because of these tax reforms and the reduced import tariffs, it is
likely that an increase in other taxes will be needed to reach the program's
public savings targets. However, the reforms were introduced to increase
private savings and exports. Thus, any measures introduced to raise addi-
tional fiscal revenues must not discriminate against savings and investment,
nor create an anti-export bias. The value-added tax and taxes on sumptuary
goods fulfill such requirements. The Government may sell some publicly-owned
assets; this could assist in increasing revenues. A recent law authorizing
the private pension funds to invest part of their funds in shares of public
enterprises would support such sales. A summary of past and programmed
public finance trends is given below:
Table 1: CHILE - FINANCES OF THE CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC SECTOR, 1981-1987
(As % of GDP)
Actual               Programmed
1981     1984     1985      1986      1987
Current Expenditures               26.3    30.1       29.5     28.5      27.5
of which:  Social Security         (7.9)    (9.5)    (8.3)   (10.2)    (10.0)
Social Expenditures    (6.6)    (8.6)    (8-4)    (8.0)       (8.0)
Current Revenues                   31.8    30.7       32.7     33.0      33.0
Public Savings                      5.5      O.6       3.2      4.5        5.5
Capital Expenditures                5.1      6.7       6.1      7.0       6.5
Capital Revenues                    0.4      1.3       1.0      2.5       2.5
Surplus (Deficit)                   0.8     -4.8     -1.9       0.0        1.5
The Public Investment Program
47.        The preparation of Chile's public investment program is the re-
sponsibility of the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry's projections cover
both public and private investments. The projections are formulated after
consultation with the private sector. Development policy objectives are de-
tailed on a sector by sector basis, and the total investment requirements for
each sector estimated accordingly. The Ministries in charge of the sectors
prepare their public programs on a project by project basis. Estimates of
projected financial resources are prepared, and the projects included in the
investment program are reviewed by ODEPLAN, which considers economic return,
social impact, and foreign exchange costs. Any project with an ERR lower
than 15 percent is rejected; all others are ranked according to their rate of
return. Despite ODEPLAN's tight control, another evaluation is made by the
Ministry of Finance before the final budget is approved. All public borrow-
ing is monitored by, and subject to the approval of, the Budget Office of the
Ministry of Finance.



- 13 -
48.       A US$4.6 billion public investment program (in 1984 dollars) is
planned for the 1985-1987 period. In the past, massive cuts were often made
in projected investments to fit the budget deficit into some agreed annual
targets. The Government has now focussed on improving its programming of in-
vestments, not only choosing or generating projects consistent with its de-
velopment priorities, but spacing them ex ante consistent with expected re-
sources. The current three-year program is directed to the promotion of ex-
ports and to break bottlenecks affecting private investment growth. The pro-
gram's priorities, therefore, stress copper expansion, energy investments,
and infrastructure that promotes exports and employment in the agricultural,
forestry, and industrial sectors.
49.       In mining, planned public investments would expand CODELCO's pro-
duction facilities in the Chuquicamata and El Teniente mines by 1990. They
will also improve the energy efficiency of the Tocopilla-Chuquicamata power
plant. In energy, power generation accounts for nearly half of the planned
energy investments; investments in oil exploration and production -- the
weakest part of the public investment program - account for the rest.
Finally, reduced investments are also planned in road, port, railroad, and
agricultural infrastructure. This program will support private investment in
forestry and irrigation and will encourage investments in oil exploration and
production and in export activities. The major sectoral breakdown of pro-
jected investments is shown in Annex VI.
50.       As part of the preparation of the proposed SAL, the Bank conducted
a public investment review, during which several inappropriately timed pro-
jects were encountered. After discussions with the Authorities, a new line
for Santiago's subway and a port in Easter Island were eliminated from the
program. Annual investment costs in a transportation project, a southern
highway through the fjord-like, unpopulated South, were reduced to accommo-
date higher priority road maintenance expenditures. Finally, large new irri-
gation projects were deferred in favor of small, fast-gestation irrigation
rehabilitation investments that will increase employment and agricultural
output in the short term. All projects in the program have been -- or will
be -- scrutinized by ODEPLAN to ensure their economic rate of return, if ap-
plicable, is satisfactory.
Financial Rehabilitation
51.       There are no easy solutions to the problems facing Chile's corpo-
rate and banking sector. Given the difficulties, it is not surprising that
the Authorities were reluctant to give explicit recognition to the magnitude
of the financial losses that were incurred and to the question of how to dis-
tribute these losses. Postponement of a credible solution, the ad hoc poli-
cies followed to face the mounting difficulties, and the guarantees extended
by the Government to the foreign debt of the private financial sector, have
reduced the degrees of freedom available to Chile's policymakers.
52.       So far, the Central Bank has been the key institution in dealing
with the joint crises of Chile's firms and banks. It has implemented general
across-the-board debt rescheduling programs, a preferential exchange rate
program, and swap operations (which involve double interest payments to those
with past debts denominated in dollars) during 1982-84. These rescue opera-
tions involved massive losses from transfers and commitments to continue some
transfers in the future. In spite of the substantial efforts made in the
past two years, an unresolved issue remains: the generation of the resources



- 14 -
necessary to pay for these losses beyond 1987. The Government has obtained a
large portion of these needed resources for 1985 and 1986 through additional
foreign borrowing. This, however, required the offer of a further Government
guarantee, although for a modest fee, on previously unguaranteed external
private financial sector debt. This guarantee may make it necessary to dis-
tribute the losses of the Chilean financial system entirely within the coun-
try. About US$2.6 billion in private corporate debt remains unguaranteed,
and substantial writedowns of this debt are expected. Since the losses from
the financial crisis -- the bad loans of the banking system based on foreign
borrowings that will have to be repaid - now amount to at least US$3.5 bil-
lion, their distribution will have major macroeconomic repercussions in the
future.
53.       As Chile reduces its dependence on foreign savings, the solution to
the financial crisis will require containing the size of the subsidies to
banks and firms and finding alternative resources to pay the past, but still
unfinanced, subsidies so far "paid" only in Central Bank notes. To contain
the losses derived from these subsidies, the Government announced, as of July
1, 1985, that the subsidies from the preferential exchange program and swap
operations will be phased out by December 1986. This represents a major
policy commitment; the cost of these subsidies to the Central Bank was about
four percent of GDP in 1984; but will now be reduced to about three percent
of GDP in 1985, and to about 1.5 percent of GDP in 1986.
54.       Besides these measures, the Government has announced several steps
to improve repayment performance on bank loans. It has announced that it
will initiate no further generalized reprogramming of domestic loans as of
November 15, 1985. The Government has also tightened bank accounting regula-
tions pertaining to risky assets. The concentration of assets by economic
groups was evidence of a major short-coming of Chilean legislation and en-
forcement. "White-collar crimes" are not clearly typified, thus making it
difficult to pursue legal action against managers, directors and controlling
shareholders suspected of legal infractions. The Government, therefore,
plans to strengthen its corporate and banking legislation in this area. Sim-
ilarly, the Superintendencia de Valores will be strengthened. It will be em-
powered to pursue legal action against companies, administrators or share-
holders or to function as amicus curiae in legal suits filed by third par-
ties. These measures will undoubtedly benefit the Chilean financial and
corporate systems in the longer run and would likely have mitigated the cur-
rent crisis had they been in place when financial liberalization began.
55.       Finally, most of Chile's banks will have to be recapitalized.  In
April 1985 legislation was enacted to permit the Government to assist in the
recapitalization of intervened banks. The legislation states that government
participation in the capital of the banks shall not exceed 49 percent, should
last for a period of five years, and provides that the shares shall be sold
to the private sector at an annual rate no less than 20 percent of the ini-
tial public participation. The main element in the Government's recapitali-
zation program, however, is not the infusion of new equity, but rather the
sale of bank "assets" to the Central Bank. This sale removes the bad loans
from the balance sheets of the intervened banks as well as the necessity of
making provisions against them. Consequently, the intervened banks should
become profitable again. However, to ensure that the original shareholders
will absorb most of the burden of the rescue operation, dividends may not be
paid to the shares of original capital until the entire bad loan portfolio is
repurchased from the Central Bank. Although the owners of new preferred



- 15 -
rapid repurchase of the bad loan portfolio, only 30 percent of earnings would
be exempt from personal income taxes if distributed as dividends.
Employment
56.     A reduction in Chile's unemployment will clearly require both an ex-
pansion of growth and policies favorable to employment generation. The
Government has ended wage indexation and eliminated virtually all major
price distortions affecting capital and labor. The economic recovery of
1983-1984 generated a high growth of employment, indicating a more elastic
relationship between output and employment than that of 1975-81. Neverthe-
less, the low GDP growth expected for the 1985-87 period will make continua-
tion of the Government's emergency employment programs indispensable.
The cost of these programs -- about one percent of GDP -- will have to be
balanced by enhancing their social and productive aspects. The Government
has already introduced some modifications in the PEN and the POJH. Moreover,
it established a National Employment Commission in 1984 to develop and imple-
ment new, more productive, employment programs in mining, urban and rural
activities. Finally, the Government will undertake a labo= study to evaluate
and, if possible, increase the efficiency of its emergency employment pro-
grams.
IMF Extended Fund Facility
57.     During 1983-84, Chile followed a two-year Stand-by program. After
initial difficulties, Chile satisfactorily complied with the program's goals
and stabilized its economy. The IMF is supporting Chile's 1985-87 program
with a three-year, SDR 750 million Extended Fund Facility (EFF). Both the
INF and Bank share the goals of a more efficient public sector, better
budgetary and institutional controls, a free trade, export-oriented economy,
and a revitalized financial sector. Besides specific fiscal, monetary and
reserve targets for 1985, the EFF program stresses the phasing out of the
preferential exchange rate and swap operations of the Central Bank, reduced
import tariffs, increased public savings and lower public deficit, and a
major drop by 1987 in Chile's need for new commercial funds.
58.       During preparation of the EFF and the proposed SAL, there was ex-
tremely close cooperation between the Government, Fund and Bank staff to en-
sure consistency between stabilization and structural adjustment measures.
The Bank's SAL identification mission overlapped with the Fund mission which
negotiated the EFF. The projections of both institutions for 1985-87 are
similar, as are the copper price and other key variables. Throughout, the
Bank and Fund have been in agreement, both on matters of general approach and
on many specific measures. Bank and Fund staff also worked together in
supporting the Government's presentation to commercial banks for Chile's
1985-86 external debt negotiations. As a result, Chile was able to obtain
US$2 billion and to reschedule its amortization payments falling due in
1985/1986. As part of this package commercial banks provided US$1.1 billion
in new money and official creditors rescheduled around US$120 million in
amortizations due in the period. We will continue this close cooperation,
especially during the supervision of the 1986 investment budget and action
programs.



- 16 -
PART III - TME PROPOSED LOAX
:eneral
59.       The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan would support the Govern-
ment's 1985-87 program of economic adjustment and recovery. The proposed
loan was prepared with the Government during February 1985 and it was ap-
praised in April/May 1985. Negotiations took place in Washington, D. C.,
from September 16, 1985 to September 20, 1985. The Chilean Delegation was
headed by Mr. Jorge Selume, Director of the Budget, Ministry of Finance. An-
nex III contains a Supplementary Loan Data Sheet.
60.       The proposed loan would support measures taken by the Government
during 1985 and the first half of 1986. Many actions taken so far reflect
understandings reached with the Bank on economic policy. Some of the actions
still to be taken -- especially in the financial, public management and labor
areas -- require further study to assist in identifying policy options. The
Bank will support many of these studies through its recent Public Sector
Management Technical Assistance Loan (2504-CH).
61.       The specific actions supported by the proposed SAL are set out in
the C-overnment's Letter of Development Policy (Annex V) and were reviewed in
detail during appraisal. For convenience, they are summarized in matrix form
in Annex IV. Actions already taken and to be taken by the Government in each
of the main policy areas addressed by its structural adjustment program are
described below.
Actions Taken and to be Taken
Export Promotion:
62.       The Government is committed to a realistic export incentive sys-
tem. Chile's exchange rate has been devalued in real terms by 25 percent be-
tween September 1984 and July 1985. Import tariffs have been reduced from 35
to a 20 percent even rate in the same period. In support of new exports,
primarily from small- and medium-sized producers, other anti-export biases --
listed in para. 31 -- have been removed and new export incentives provided.
Moreover, before release of the loan's second tranche, Chile's export in-
centives and noncopper export performance during 1985 will be reviewed and,
in the event of an export shortfall below the expected six percent real
growth, changes in the export incentive structure, satisfactory to the Bank,
will be considered.  The Go:crnment will also put into effect, as of January
1, 1986, a pilot fund for stabilizing fiscal income stemming from the copper
export receipts of CODELCO while opening the appropriate financial accounts
for this purpose.
Public Finances:
63.       Limitations on the growth of government current expenditures, care
in following its investment program, and improvement in the cost effective-
ness of public enterprises have been defined as priorities of the Govern-
ment's adjustment program. The Government's public savings goal for 1985,
established with the IMF, is three percent of GDP. Moreover, the Authorities
and the Bank have agreed to a public savings target for 1986 of about 4.5
percent of GDP. The new three year public investment program, oriented to
support export growth and trimmed of less-efficient projects, has been



- 17 -
published. The following actions will need to be taken or completed by the
Government prior to disbursement of the second tranche of the SAL:  (i)
satisfactory execution of the 1985 public investment budget; (ii) a sat-
isfactory 1986 public sector budget will have been reviewed and approved by
the Bank; (iii) fiscal measures, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to
achieve public savings of about 4.5 percent of the projected 1986 GDP will
have been put into effect; and (iv) a plan of action to improve the manage-
ment of public sector institutions will have been prepared.
Financial Rehabilitation:
64.      To contain the losses derived from the Central Bank transfers, the
Government has announced that it will begin no new generalized rescheduling
of bank loans while phasing out preferential exchange rate and swap
operations. The Government has also announced more strict bank accounting
rules for delinquent loans and has required that assets pledged to banks for
these loans be sold within one year. These steps are designed to improve
repayment performance and the accuracy of balance sheets by encouraging the
sale or restructuring of insolvent firms. The legal/regulatory framework
which permitted the crisis to develop is also being revised. A bank
recapitalization law has been passed and the process of recapitalization
begun. On the other hand, the identification of the potential banking system
losses, and the ways in which these losses might be distributed over time and
within the economy is still under study. The success of the Government's ef-
forts will be determined by its ability both to encourage the restructuring
and/or bankruptcy of the remaining insolvent firms (the banks' debtors) and
to assure that banks regain a viable financial strtacture with interested own-
ership.
65.       As part of its understandings with Bank staff, the Authorities have
started to determine more accurately future banking system losses (through
both stock and flow analyses) and the implications of these losses for future
monetary and fiscal programs. The progress of bank recapitalization, the
burden sharing program for domestic bank losses, and other financial studies
will be reviewed with Bank staff. Specifically, before release of the SAL's
second tranche, the Government will undertake the following actions:
Ci) furnish to the Bank a review of the progress in the recapitalization of
financial institutions, as well as a review of the financial flows between
such institutions and the Central Bank; (ii) review with the Bank the per-
formance of the loan portfolio of commercial banks during 1985 and, if neces-
sary, define a program to share the burden within the domestic economy of
domestic bank asset losses; (iii) provide evidence that a draft law, satis-
factory to the Bank, for the revision of the banking legislation has been
submitted for approval to the legislature; and (iv) provide evidence that ex-
ecutive approval has been obtained to improve, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, the transparency of corporate ownership.
66.       Moreover, the Government has committed itself to end the general
across-the-board debt rescheduling exercises put in place during 1982-1984.
To this end the Central Bank: (i) will end the general rescheduling of loans
extended to or by financial institutions; (ii) will not open new concessional
credit lines with the purpose of providing general rescheduling of loans; and
(iii) shall continue to carry out its plan of action, announced in 1985, to
phase out by December 1986 its preferential exchange rate program and to
eliminate the subsidy granted in currency swap operations.



- 18 -
Employment Generation:
67.       The Chilean labor market is now conducive to a much more elastic
relationship between output and employment than that which characterized the
1975-81 period. Wages are no longer indexed and the exchange rate no longer
favor. capital-intensive technology. The improved responsiveness of employ-
ment generation was demonstrated in the substantial recovery of productive
employment since the end of 1982 - about seven percent annually. Moreover,
many of the sectors where output is expanding or has the best potential for
expansion are comparatively labor intensive, especially production of fruits,
vegetables, forestry products, and some manufactured consumer goods. Never-
theless, a future GDP growth rate of three percent might lead to employment
growth of around 2.5 percent a year, even under favorable policies. Given
the estimated labor force growth rate of about two percent, the unemployed
and emergency employment program (EEP) beneficiaries could still account for
16 percent of the work force in 1990. This outlook means that the EEP would
have to be continued for quite some time unless GDP growth can be acceler-
ated. The Government has therefore taken steps to improve the efficiency of
EEPs and reduce their costs. Nine new pilot programs began in 1985.
68.       Two studies, under the auspices of the Bank's Public Sector Manage-
ment Technical Assistance Loan, will assess employment policies and pro-
grams. First, a study comparing the management and administration of the
nine new programs with a view to recommending specific cost-effectiveness re-
forms and to preparing a plan of action to reduce the size of the PEN and
POJH is being prepared by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare. Satis-
factory progress on this study will be a condition of second tranche dis-
bursement. A detailed study of the labor force composition to determine the
work force characteristics and the effectiveness of possible interventions to
enhance employment generation will then follow up the first study.
Other Areas:
69.       Before disbursement of the second tranche, the Bank shall have been
satisfied with progress on the following further actions: (i) the Government
has prepared a plan of action for the development of the forestry sector;
(ii) preparation of a set of consistent medium-term projections of the fiscal
and monetary programs; (iii) a study of measures to increase exports by
small- and medium-s-ale producers; (iv) a study on public enterprises' man-
agement; and (v) a study of Chile's competitiveness in international sugar
markets, includinig a review of measures to ensure that the long-run interna-
tional price of suear is reflected in domestic sugar prices.
Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
70.       Chile's economic prospects will depend not only on its economic
management, but also on developments in the world economy; particularly those
affecting its terms of trade and world interest rates. The projections out-
lined in Table 2 are consistent with a moderate annual average growth for
OECD economies and an economic recovery for most of Chile's Latin American
trading partners. Real copper prices are expected to rise only moderately --
ten percent - by 1990, and real international interest rates to decline to
about three percent. These assumptions are critical to achieving the growth
rate projected under the structural adjustment program.



- 19 -
71.       The mediun-term economic projections based on the structural
adjustment program indicate that the current account deficit could be reduced
from 10.6 percent of GDP in 1984 to 2.5 percent by 1990. Chile's resource
surplus would increase from minus US$204 million in 1984 to U$1.1 billion by
1990. The three-year EFF program approved by the IMF and a new commercial
bank package providing US$1.1 billion in net capital inflows as well as
reduced interest payments will support the country's initial 1985-86
recovery. Notwithstanding this effort, Chile's recovery will depend on con-
tinued reschedulings of its external commercial debt amortizations plus sub-
stantial net financing - about US$1.1 billion annual average - during the
1987-1990 period. This additional financing would come from substantial in-
creases in direct foreign investment, loans from multilateral organizations,
and very limited new lending from commercial banks and suppliers.
72.       Appropriate and well-managed exchange rate and trade policies will
be necessary to sustain the growth of noncopper export volume at the pro-
jected annual rate of 6.0 percent in the 1985-1990 period. Copper exports
would also increase 20 percent in volume terms -- near the Bank's expected
increment in world copper exports for the period. After dropping in 1985,
the volume of imports would increase by almost 20 percent faster than the
rate of GDP growth. Based on the recent behavior of the economy, the struc-
tural adjustment program appears to have the needed supply and demand meas-
ures to achieve consumption restraint and an efficient process of import-
substitution.
Table 2: CHILE - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS -- ACTUAL 1984 AND PROJECTIONS, 1985-90
(In Millions of US$)
1984       1985      1986     1987       1990
Trade Balance                   293         913     1,110    1,199     1,715
Exports                    3,650      4,168      4,684    5,159     7,277
Imports                    3,357      3,255      3,574    3,960     5,562
Non-Factor Services (Net)   -497       -458       -456     -473      -585
Resource Balance               -204        455        654      726     1,130
Factor Services (Net)     -1,955     -1,956    -2,004   -1,997    -2,241
Transfers (Net)               99        100        100      120       140
Current Account               -2,060     -1,401    -1,250   -1,151      -971
Foreign Direct Investment     67         125       200      200       250
Other Net Capital Flows    1,830       1,276     1,130      951       721
Net Reserves (-= increase)      163          0        -80        0         0



- 20 -
73.       The projected balance of payments improvement implies that there
will be a significant diversification of exports during 1985-1990; the value
of copper exports, notwithstanding a 20 percent volume increase, would be re-
duced from 46 percent of the total in 1980 to 38 percent by 1990. Agricul-
tural exports -- mainly fruits and wood-related products would increase their
share along with nontraditional industrial exports.
74.     The export-oriented growth of the structural adjustment program would
lead to strong overall growth in the sectors producing export goods. In par-
ticular, growth would be concentrated in nonferrous metals, fruits, fish pro-
ducts, wood and timber, and pulp and paper. Lower, but significant growth
potential exists in certain import-substitution products such as food, tex-
tiles, shoes, wheat, oilseeds and energy.
75.     The leading sectors would therefore be agriculture (including fish-
eries and forestry), mining, and industry. Agriculture, which in the past
ten years had an average rate of growth of under two percent, could grow at
an average 4.6 percent annual rate between 1984 and 1990. Indeed, during
1984-85 it averaged seven percent growth.  Mining, where growth is determined
by copper production, is projected to grow almost three percent per year.
Industry, where growth would be limited in 1985 because of foreign exchange
constraints, is projected to recover later, attaining almost four percent
annual growth for the period. Moreover, the projected 1985-90 growth pattern
would not only represent a significant recovery, it would also help to ensure
higher growth rates for the 1990s.
76.     To attain the growth and export targets projected by the program, the
ratio of investment to GDP would have to rise from 14 percent in 1985, to
around 20 percent by 1990. The program would impose an investment shift to-
wards export-oriented and efficient import-substitution activities. Private
projects in sectors where Chile's comparative advantages (mining, fruits,
semi-processed fish, wood and pulp and paper) exist would be supported by
public investments to increase exports and import substitution, either di-
rectly - through the State enterprises - or indirectly - by providing the
required infrastructure.
77.      Price projections of Chile's principal exports suggest that during
the 1985-1990 period, Chile's presently depressed terms of trade would likely
improve, but only slightly, providing income relief of less than two percent
of 1990 GDP. The use of foreign savings would decline substantially as a
share of GDP. Thus, Chile's recovery program will have to be financed pri-
marily through improved investment efficiency and increased savings. This
requires a dramatic increase in Chile's gross national savings, from seven
percent of GDP in 1984 to 18 percent in 1990. Because of the high interest
burden, domestic savings must increase even more dramatically. This savings
target, however dramatic, is feasible. Public sector savings will need to
increase gradually from 4.5 percent of GDP in 1986 to about six to seven per-
cent by 1990, an effort vhich replicates the 1970's effort by the public
sector. Household savings, traditionally low, could reach similar levels by
1990 as the new private social security system complements the traditional
banking role in attracting savings. The rest of the savings effort must come
from the corporate sector, which can only generate greater profits once it
overcomes its present financial disarray. These are feasible targets only if
the current financial subsidy programs are ended to allow only these



- 21 -
operationally profitable firms to continue and increase production in the
near future, as well as to induce new investments in the highly profitable
export-oriented sector.
78.       The impact of the program on Chile's poor could be considerable
during 1985-87.  First, it will permit the economy to continae its expansion,
even if it be modest. This will slowly reduce Chile's high unemployment.
Secondly, it will ensure that the inevitable fiscal austerity affects the
extremely poor least; the Authorities will be reviewing with the Bank their
future budget cuts, particularly for social and emergency employment
programs. Finally, it will deter the concentration of assets that occurred
'during 1976-80, that partly led to the present difficulties. Future
corporate and bank ownership will be more widely held and more transparently
known.
79.       Chile's creditworthiness rests ultimately on the economy's capacity
to grow while satisfactorily servicing its large external debt. The structur-
al adjustment program with its emphasis on strengthening the country's ex-
ports, restoring credibility to the country's financial system and increasing
domestic savings would create the conditions to permit Chile to slowly rely
less on foreign credits to service its external debt while recovering eco-
nomic growth. Chile's foreign interest payments would drop from the present
ten percent of GDP to about six percent by 1990. Its use of foreign savings
would be only 2.5 percent of GDP by that year, and the GDP growth rate could
be rising to over four percent. Since it would encourage economic growth and
productive employment genaeration, the adjustment program supported by thi-s
loan would improve Chile's creditworthiness.
Economic Prospects Vithout the Program
80.       Chile has limited alternatives.  Without the program, private
sector confidence, and hence investment, would likely remain at a very low
ebb. The extent to which the public sector could compensate for this would
be limited by the availability of credit. The inflow of external capital,
however, would also be drastically reduced, and total investment would fall.
From 1986 onwards some recovery could occur; however, in the absence of the
proper environment, investment in real terms would be well below what it
otherwise could be. The share of the private sector in the economy would be
increasingly limited to services a-d industries geared to the local market.
The incremental capital/outnut ratio could well remain at a very high level.
Chile would not be creditworthy for foreign lenders; indeed, the high debt
levels indicate that arrears would be so substantial as to make a debt mora-
torium likely.
81.     Even this gloomy scenario is probably optimistic in that it assumes
that a large public sector deficit could be sustained despite very low growth
rates. In reality, the Authorities would find it increasingly difficult to
finance such a deficit, even via an inflation tax, and would be forced to re-
duce current and capital outlays accordingly. The resulting economic con-
traction would not only feed back on public sector revenues in a downward
spiral, but could also lead to deepening social discontent.



- 22 -
Benefit. and Risks
82.     Besides improving the country's creditworthiness, the benefits from
the structural adjustment program will be widely spread throughout the econo-
my. Although some branches of industry and many services would not benefit
immediately from the export-oriented growth, they would be the long-term
beneficiaries of the improved income stemming from the beneficial effect on
employment. Social outlays, originally reduced, would be increased as public
sector revenues strengthen with the recovery. Because of the higher employ-
ment generation, income distribution and living conditions would likely im-
prove for the majority of the population. Moreover, the effects of the
structural adjustments would continue to be felt well beyond 1990, when the
countryts creditworthiness would attract voluntary foreign savings that could
finance an even stronger rate of GDP growth.
83.     The main benefits of the SAL would derive from the support it would
provide to the country's adjustment program of export-oriented policies, en-
hanced savings efforts and rehabilitation of the banking and corporate sys-
tems. This would, in turn, improve the private investment climate, encourag-
ing the development of those productive sectors where Chile has an interna-
tional comparative advantage, helping in obtaining sustainable economic
growth and reinforcing the recognition within Chile that this economic strat-
egy represents the best alternative to continued stagnation and increasing
unemployment.
84.       The loan would entail some definite risks.  Although there is a
growing awareness within Chile that the program is preferable to continued
stagnation and increasing unemployment, a further deterioration in the coun-
try's terms of trade could force the Government to reduce even further its
growth targets to comply with its external obligations. Such an event would
strongly increase pressures opposing the servicing of Chile's external debt,
and the Government could be tempted to abandon some of the policies that
would be supported by the SAL. To mitigate this risk, the structural adjust-
ment program is based on realistic copper price projections, modest capital
inflows and conservative income growth.
85.       Another major risk for the program stems from the savings targets.
An important element of the program is public sector savings. However, if
the prices of Chile's major exports - particularly copper prices -- fall be-
lcr their expected trend, public revenues would fall below the program's pro-
jected flows, jeopardizing the achievement of the public savings targets.
Because external debt payments would remain in force, this would in tunl neg-
atively affect the savings-investment equilibrium required by the program,
further reducing the plausibility of the savings targets as this would affect
potential corporate savings. The program, then, would be unfeasible unless
new money inflows were provided from external sources to match the loss of
the country"s export revenues.
86.       Other risks stem from the domestic financial situation.  First, to
the extent that the losses of the financial system have been underestimated,
the policies designed to contain them could be insufficient. Second, to the
extent that the foreign savings assumed by the Government's program do not
materialize, the domestic savings effort required may become unrealistically



- 23 -
large. Finally, the Government must decide who will pay the debts of
insolvent borrowers. So far the losses have been covered by increased
foreign borrowing. To the extent that the Government budget will have to
carry some portion of this burden once foreign borrowing tapers off, this can
be better programmed once the magnitude of the burden is more accurately
estimated. The Bank's recent Industrial Finance Restructuring Loan will
assist in facilitating corporate workouts to place firms in a financially
sound position, and the program's phased ending of general subsidies should
also encourare these workouts. Nevertheless, this risk will remain as an
important variable for monitoring.
Loan Amoumt and Tranching
87.     The proposed loan of US$250 million would meet about ten percent of
Chile's net external capital requirements for 1985/86, and is equivalent to
about four percent of merchandise imports for the two years. The loan would
be disbursed in two equal tranches; the first would be eligible for disburse-
ment upon effectiveness of the Loan Agreement and the second during the
second quarter of 1986. The reasons for the tranching are threefold: first,
it would enable the Bank to review the progress of the adjustment program.
Secondly, the Bank could review the 1986 public budget carefully as a comple-
ment to the IMF fiscal review. Thirdly, it would allow the completion of
several studies supported through the Bank's Public Sector Management Techni-
cal Assistance Loan, providing a useful vehicle for strengthening our macro-
economic dialogue at a time when policy actions for 1986 are determined.
Prourm 3ent and Disbursement
88.       Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines of May 1985. Private firms would follow normal commercial prac-
tice. Public sector imports would be in accordance with standard government
practices, which ensure reasonable prices. Unless otherwise specified by the
Bank, all purchases, except petroleum imports, exceeding US$5.0 million would
be through international competitive bidding.
89.       The loan would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject to
documentary evidence that they have been paid for on or after loan signing.
Retroactive financing will be permitted only for those eligible imports made
before the date of agreement but not before April 1, 1985.  Public and pri-
vate sector imports would be eligible, except for military equipment and lux-
ury consumer goods. The Central Bank would be responsible for the coordina-
tion and collection of relevant documentation and preparing withdrawal appli-
cations under the loan. The applications would be submitted to the Bank
using statements of expenditure, with the detailed documentation retained by
the Central Bank for review by the Bank as appropriate.
PAR? IT -  AR  GROUP OPERAETIONS
90.       By August 31, 1985 the Bank had made 35 loans to Chile, amounting
to US$851.6 million (net of cancellations) of which six were not yet fully
disbursed. IDA had also extended a US$22.9 million credit to the country for
a road project in FY81. IFC Gross commitments in Chile as of the same date
stood at US$56.4 milli.on. Annex II has further details on IBRD and IFC oper-
ations as at March 31, 1985.



- 24 -
91.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
substantially with the country's economic performance and the availability
of suitable projects. In the FY75-77 period, the Bank made four loans total-
ling US$107.8 million to help finance projects in the agriculture, copper
mining and power sectors. The Dank did not lend to Chile in m78-79, but in
FY80 it approved a US$38 million loan for a water supply project and, in
FY81, two loans in the amounts of US$36 million and US$42 million for a Sec-
ond Agricultural Credit Project and a Highway Reconstruction Project, respec-
tively. During FY82-84, only one Bank loan, a US$128 million Second Highway
Reconstruction Loan, was made to the country. In FY85, four loans were ap-
proved -- a US$56 million loan for Agricultural Services and Credit, a US$80
million loan for Public Sector Housing, a US$11 million loan for a Public
Sector Management Technical Assistance Project, and a US$140 million Road
Sector Loan. In the same year, the Bank also modified existing operations to
permit almost US$25 million to be used for earthquake-related emergency re-
pairs and reconstruction in the transport and housing sectors.
92.       The Bank's present lending strategy is to strongly support the
Government's medium-term economic adjustment program by focussing on improve-
ments in: (i) external trade policies and programs to accelerate export
growth and efficient import-substitution, further diversifying production and
exports; (ii) public sector management and policies to increase public sav-
ings and improve public investment; (iii) financial policies to stimulAte
domestic savings and to allocate credit more efficiently; and (iv) policy in-
centives to expand productive employment. The proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan is the keystone of this strategy. The recent Industrial Finance Re-
structuring, Small Scale Enterprise, and Road Sector Loans complement this
atrategy. These operations would contribute to improved efficiency and en-
hanced savings, as well as stimulate much needed employment and output in the
private producing sectors.  Over the next fey years, if satisfactory progress
is achieved, the Bank will continue supporting the Government's medium-term
economic adjustment program through further SALs. Loans for water and
sewerage expansion and credit for agriculture, forestry and industry -
including small enterprises - are also under consideration.
93.       Although Chile's debt situation is currently limiting cofinancing
opportunities, the responsible way in which the Authorities are handling the
country' s external obligations augurs well for future operations in which the
Bank could co-lend with commercial banks. Chile's commercial creditors have
already agreed to a US$300 million B-Loan linked to the recent Road Sector
Loan, including a Bank guarantee for half of it. Opportunities for cofinan-
cing with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) are also being explored.
IDB has a sizeable program in Chile; it is focusing primarily on agriculture,
industry, power, and transportation - sectors in which the Bank is also pre-
paring operations. IBERD exposure in Chile currently stands at about 2.0 per-
cent of public debt and about 1.6 percent of total debt.
PART V - 
94.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors ap-
prove the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
Preeident
Washington, D.C.
October   , 1985



-25. .
TnILE 3             .                             ANaEZ..E  I
WILE      -          -  SOCIAL _IUDCATORS OATA                                     of  7
CHILE                               wmclUoC on cswnm  awEt U) l
mOS                     (HOST EtCEN BMNATX) /b
oRECENT         MItDDLE 11             MIDDLIN It
1964/b  It70 OMC!L6S. 1             >         *                  ml0r
CMiLiTLib  LAT. ASUICA &CAR              031
as (rmui EQ. co)
TOTAL         .                  757.0      757.0       757.0
ACIEIOSLIUIAL                    134.4      256.9       174.5
m  CArA Cus)                         ..         ..       170.0            t87s.                    2144.3
-C C         _US N  CAPITA
CxIUOcaua  OF OIL EquTVAULUIIf   570.0      679.0      754.0             993.6                   1119.3
van  - TruL   srIcs
POPuno11,1mo-a CTCSDS)   7581.0            934.0    11682.0                 *7-
UuR   POLATION CZ OF TOTAL)       67.6       75.2       62.4              67.7                      7.5
POULTION  IN tuE 2000 (HILL)                          135.0
sTAToAILN PmPrlATrON (HILL)                            21.0
POPULATIO  HONLUM                                       1.6
Ponusnom DENSIT4
Pn sq. m31.                     10.0       12.4        15.4             46.0                     6.7
P  S?. gm. AnI. LAND            56.4       59.0       65.6              91.1                    16.9
POPULATnON AGR STdICIU  CZ)                                                                       3.
0-14 YRS                       39.1        36.0       31.3              36.5                    31.2
1544 Ys                         56.5       57.1       63.0              57.1                     61.5
65 ASD A*Oft                     4.3        4.7         5.6              4.2                      7.2
tOPWlno  GUM        RM   (2)                                                                        L
TOTAL                            2.2        2.1         1.7               2.4                     1.6
1Lm                              3.7        3.1         2.4              3.6                      3.7
COE UmT a         (PR TROWS)      34.4       24.S       24.0              30.9                     23.4
CNN IE ATIa lRA   (C   THoOS)     12.6        6.9        6.0               6.0                      6.9
cOSS EPIOOucrCoIN RATE             2.5        1A         1I3               2.0                      1.5
FAIULY PLAINIIC
ASPTOES. AESAL (TRUSI)           ..       214.7       265.6  e
UsEs (z oP  a     WE)            ..         .. *43.0                    45.3
InD   or m    PROD. PE CAPITA
(L969-71-100)                     96.0      104.0       69.0             109.6                    109.3
PM CAIA suvLv or
rAJfS (2 of EEQUIRSEUS)        106.0       110.0      109.0            113.2                    U3.5
PTS (CAm PEM DOA)               70.0       71.0       73.0               9.4                     92.4
OFr WIMC  MOal. AND PULSE     26.0       30.0        27.0 le          34.2                     34.5
WHILD (AM   1-4) DtM RATE         17.3       10.7        2.0               4.8                       .7
Lint ari. AT SIRI (YEaS)          54.9       62.3       70.0              4.11                     67.2
INFANT Hr T. aTE (PER TIIUS)     114.0       82.5       40.0              59.7                     53.3
ACCESS TO SA: WATER (21)
TOTAL                           62.0       56.0        64.0 Id          65.3                     70.2
URBIA                           76.9       67.0       100.O 7           76.5                     69.4
RUUAL                           11.4       13.0        17.0 7;          44.2                     57.0
ACCESS TO Ell:A DISPOSAL
(C OF POPUATION) 
TOrAL                            ..        29.0       60.0 Id           56.3                     59.4
URBAN                            ..        33.0        9.0 7            73.4                     65.9
SLt                              ..        10.0        ..               25.5                     47.6
pOCILLT      PER PHYSICIAN      1760.0     2130.0 /f  1930.0 in         1909.7                   1070.6
POP. PER NURSIN PERSON           640.0      610.0      450.0             808.2                    769.5
POP. Ms HOSPITAL BCD
TOTAL                          260.0      260.0       260.0 It         362.0                    328.3
URBAN                          270.0      260.0       320.0 RK         422.0                    201.9
EIAOL                            *-      1610.0       770.0 77        2716.7                   4519.7
ADISSIS PER  O L 6EI               ..         ..       U2.0 le            27.5                     20.0
AVERASE SIZE OF HOEHLD
TOTAL                            5.4        5.1
URBAN                            5.2        5.0
RURAL                            6.0        5.5
ARsJE so. or FR5tltlStROQ
TOTAL                            1.7        1.4
URBA                             1.6        1.3
RURAL                            2.0        1.7
PtUWfSE oP OF aUtLIS WIrT ELECT.
TOTAL                           70.6        ..
UlSMI                           86.3
URAltL                          23.9        ..



-26-
ANNEX I
TA *L * 34                                   Page  2  of  7
C"tL2  ~        ~~~ -SCCIAL  U13KCATOE  DATA  "T
ClCtAL 0tl10wic oC   (lIUNTOHZO AVE           I gR .S  /
mm                       (MOST hsCNT KSTUATZ) 
tUCKS?           NIW INCOMES             NIDWLK   cmU
Ikik      IMMbaI uLk               LAT. AMERICA A CAR     0      u72P
ADUSTE ENROLIN  RATIOS
PRINART   TOAL                   103.0       107.0       112.0             106.7                     101.7
PALE                  111.0       107.0       1 1.0             108.5                     106.2
LZ                    107.0       103.0       110.0             10a.6                     97.5
SICONDITIs TOTAL                  24.0        39.0        59.0              44.2                     57.5
NALE                   24.0        36.0        50.0              42.7                      64.9
9FSALZ                 24.0        42.0        62.0              44.9                      50.0
VOCATONAL CZ 0 SEC0NDA)            26.2        33.0       2$.0               13.3                     21.0
IUPIL-IEAOHE RATIO
aIlA l-                                       50.0       33.0               29.9                     25.1
3ECOUA                            14.0        13.0       20.0 /a            16.7                     19.1
*AiSMO    CARSITUIAND  POP           7.6        12.J       40.2 /              6.0                     54.2
to30 uctZlvE OUsa    my            120.8       149.4      300.         3     3.283                    170.7
TV  sczUmISlIOUSANDPo                0.1        52.4       112.2             112.4                     149.3
5113  COM"DLT GIEAL
=NmR"  CXROuLATM
M TIUOOUD POPOLATION              131.6        64.1       86.6               81.1                     97.0
CUM  AJUL ATIENDAN/CAPZTA            7.1         4.7         1.3               2.4                      2.7
LUAW    -
TOM  LAWO  PICE (tom)             2305.0      2855.0     3784.0
?NLt (PIRCUT                      21.7        22.0       26.6               23.6                     362.
ACUCUn   (P70E )                  30.5        22.6       19.2               31.4                     40.3
-003 -    ClEmENT                 20.0        21.0        19.4 21           24.3                     23.3
-TCZIATION 142a  (czii!)
TaL                                3.0        30J        32.4               33.5                     43.1
NALR                              52.1        48.4       47.8               51.3                     55.1
rPIL.                             14.2        13.5       16.8               15.9                     31.4
-5QUo1I DUUDNCM T  ATI1O 1.2                     1.4        1.2                1.3                      0.9
I huuw
PECUT o0    V       DAIN I==
IgEZUED n
31 ? 52 or WUSLI                   ..         ..          .                  ..
REM-    200 airIWO                 ..        51.4.         .         
LOUST 20S o  OUW0SE                ..         4.4         . 
LO        40 of SOUSEZOI           ..         13.4        ..
arm  =
-ss n.wun Foci= mus
LEVL CM JU CEW=
S                                  ..          ..       360.0 la           2I.3.
WILAL                              ..         ..          ..               135.3
-          RELATIE P03  sNC
LEVEL CMSS   CAEW
03346                              ..          ..       640.0 /a           519..
RUFL                               ..         ..          ..               359.7
ESTDIWE  PO. SELOM AISOL
P0111m DCN  LEVEL CZ)
CU.                                .. . ..
RURlAL                             ........
MT? AVUAILEW
NO? APPLICASL
Isq  The grop -venrE. fore sic  indicator aera pouuLation-vo1ght.d airLtlm.tlc aman. Coverage of couattLaa
sMe che lfdlitacer d.p..af an availability of eata amd to t umaoms.
jb  Unlarn atkowlew set"d. "Data for 19600" refer to any y"bearhtween 1959 and 1901; 'Data for 1970" bten
1909 nd 19g.l a-id data for "Namt Recent marinate botnesm 1981 and 19832.
Ic  1977; Id 1930;  'a17;I   ...l sgvt.:srIc.ol;~    93
JunE. 1935



- 27.-                                                   ANNEX  I
Page 3 of 7
DNTOarS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Now Althogh the dat ar drvn from mrres  nralyjudgd the mo atoriutdve and Ible. it should o be noted tdt thy my - be ienunally
co_nparble bemuase of ah_ lck of uandudiad deinituon an  p md by diOrslt caonu  In collectin tIe dat The daut m nonhdel usel to
dembnhe order of rpgntude. indika treds and chas   cerain maor diffen helum countrits.
The efen e  roups ae (1I the -c coumry roup of the swujet soauy anJ (2) a matry goUp with somwhat highs aueage incmw than the comny
roup of the subjet country (lapt for -High Income Oil Exponer group whe -Middle Incom t North Africa and Middle Eme Is chomsn becau of rae
sococ,ltural ullinitibr In the reference group dt the avgs amr popution weighted arihmetic man for ach indiotor and shown only when manorty
ofethecuries in ao  h ud  fortit inditor. Sinc theco     of countriamong the indicaorsde on th availnbilty oda  nd is noL uniform.
caution must beexercisdinrl aversof one indcartoan .Thcs awnsamolysulinomparingthe eoromindiomtor c a fnr amng
the country nd refrence groupL
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                        Crue BrWh AR   (per orh swdj-N lumber of live births in the yar
Feel-Totw surface area comprising land aea and inland waters  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Crud Deh Rae (per th.ma_dl-Number of deaths in tde year
AgriekwaI-stimte of agricultural area used temporrily or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanendy for crops. pastures, market and kitchen adensor to  Gross repdcdu AdRe-Average number ordaughters a woman
lie fafow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
pret ag-speaic fertility ramt  usully Eve-year avenges eoding
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960. 1970. and 1913.
market prices, calculated bv same conversion method as World d       fleudeg-Accepnrs AumE (th        uAnnual num-
BankiAtlas (1981-83 basis); Ic3 data.                         ber of acceptors or birthtcontrol devies under auspices of nab3onal
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPIMA-Annial appant                   family plnning progam
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite. c   a( Pimin-Usr (pacn of arrd man J-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dee-  uge of married womnen of child-bearing age who are practicing or
triciy) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are pacticing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data                                                     of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. althougF. for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATLSTICS                               groups.
Teald PEpuIadoa. MrddYw (thousands --As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
bId.x efFood Pqf wdiou Par Capta (1f969-71 - 100I -Index of per
Urba  Fbpaeio  (percent of teatij-Ratio of urban to total     capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
popuation; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among counuies 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include prmary commodities (c.8 sugarcane instead of sutpri
-a    Projecton                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and te are
Popadatin in vear 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  xcluded): they comprise cereals rooL crops. pulss oil a eds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegtabkLs. fruits, nuts. sugacane and sugar beets. livestock. and
toml population by age and sex. fertilitn rates. mortality rats and  livestock producrs. Aggregate production of each country is based
intcmational migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961465. 197u. and
=we  projected at five-car intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           Per Capita Sapply of Calries (,prCent qf re_re rs -Comput-
Starionwy popufadri-nIs one in which age- and se-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in ccuntry
taity raes have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Avaiable supplies comprise domestic produc-
ftility rates have sunultaneously remained at replacement lev  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- j). In such a population. the birth rate ii    exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constact and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirement. 'ere
constanL and the growth ratc is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on phvsiological needs for normal activit
size was estimated on the basis of the projeced characterstics of  and health considering enmironmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rare of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lvel.                                     waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbpuarton Afomenrwn-Is the tendency for population growth to  Per Caia Supply of herae  (ruts per d1a-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-levd fertility has been  per capita nct supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as abovc. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum alowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animnal and pulse protein. of which 10 grms
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These srandards.are lower than those of
mcnt level from year : onward. 1985 dat.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popait. Density                                               average for the world. proposed by FALO in the Third World Food
Per 5q.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ama 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita hrwein Supply &em Asimal and Plse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agrirulrural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pules in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 dat.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Popation Age Struicure (percent)-Children (0-I4 years). work-     W(W  e i-4) Deart Ratre (pr tduand)-Number of deaths of
ing age ( l5-64 years). and rctired i65 years and ovcr) as percentage  children aged t-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year poputatiorn 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Plpuaion Grwth Rare (peent )-troal-Annual growth rates of     from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Pbpa&ia Growrk Rare (perceni-mr6aa-.Annual growth rates       Lyle &pectancy ar Bith (yearsj-Numnber of vears a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant w-ould live if prevailing patterns of moraivty for all people



-28                                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at the time oafar iu birth were to stay the same throughout its likfe  Pu-tenche Ratio - pnwjy. and secondar-Total students en.
1960. 1970 and 1983 d                                          rolled in prmary and secondary levels divided by numbes of
Infat  Mwtalp RAe (pwr t,husan)-l-Number of infanu who die      teaches in the corresponding levels.
hers raching on year of ae per thousand live births in a given
yewz. 1960, 1970 and l913 data.                                 CONSUMPnON
Acmee tSe  Jbre (peet of p Ja leJ                 h, ad .muger Can (per thousnd pepamladu)-Passenger cars com-
rsuwI-Number or people (toaL urba  and rural) with easomble     prise motor car seting less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
acces to safe water suppl (clude  tated surface waters or      ances. hearses and military vehice.
untrated but uncontminated waer such as that from protected     Rade Receive  (per thorsand pepulation I-All types of receives
borehole, spring and sanitary wells) as percentage of thir respc-  for radio broadcasts to genea  public per thousand of populadon;
live popuions In an urban are a public fountain or sdpost c xcludes un-licensed receiven in countries and in years when
locued not mome than 200 met  from a house may be
as being within ressable access of that house. In rural areas   not be comparable since most countries abolished Icensing.
reasonable access would imply that the houswife or members of the
honeihold do not hwe to sped a disproportionate part of the day  TVRKIIo, (per rhtmzdp opule )-TV receivers for broadcast
in reagbft the reb . wam needt                                 to enera public per thousand population; excudes unlicensed TV
inAFtching thin Eaiii' w5 ftied, _                           ,  receivens in countries and in year when ritrtion of TV ets was
Acces to bErews DIsposa (Paewrct of ppffipedad )-tOtEI, ~in effect.
ad yail-Number of people (totaL urban, ad rural) served by
excreta dispol as pacentas of their respective populatons       Nws5pqpr Clatlan (per thokaudpeapouar)-Shows the aver-
Excrete disposal may include the colection and dbposal with or  age circulin of 'daily general icest newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment, of human excrea and waste-water by water-    periodical publica   devoted prmrily to raeoding gnr news
borne sym   or the use of pit privies and simlar insalations    It is considered to be -daily if it appears at ket four time a wee
bpu     aper P    p     ulation divided by number of prac-      Cs    AmwI Atteadane per Capita per YaR-Based on the
ting physicins qualified from a medical school at university leveL  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Aspuld. per Nw  Persaoa-lpulation divided by number of         drive-in cinemas and mobile units
practicing malc and female gmduate nurs, aant nurses,
pratil nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                          LABOR FORCE
_opularim per Hospital &d-m14 when, avd rwaI-NpuIation    rotal Laker Fwe f    (rhosandsj-Economically active persons in-
total, urba  and r Jerl) divided b  their specti  number of    cluding armed Forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital ubed  anva  be  in public   by dr pn l                studlents. etc.. covering population of all age. Definitions in
hospitalbs andreabilea    centeran  Hnsatals   an snvarous countris are not comparble; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permaney stffed by at least one phyica  Estblishmen  prov-     Fask (percar)-Female l-)abor force as percentge of total labor
iding prnipally cusodial cae ar not included Rural hospitls,   Foim.
howvm    incde helth and nedi  cms not pemanendy saffed        Api wre (percent)-Labor fore in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physicin (but by a m-dical asistnt nurse midwile etc.)    and fishing as percentage of toul labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  daut
of =mdical facilitics.                                          5vdsty f(perenmr-Labor force in mining consruction. manu-
Ad_ssas per Hoskatl Bd-Total number of admissions to or        facturing and eltricity, water and gas as pcntage of total labor
discharge from hospitals divided by the number of beds         force; 1960. 1970 and 19S0 data
Wapon Rate (perceer--4l, muk, andfrdnk- darticipaion
HOUSING                                                        or activity rames are computed as totaL male. and femal labor Force
Aveg She if HoushoM (person per hoJehodJ-ro, when,             as pecentag  of otaL male and femae popuation of all ages
and,raa-A household consists of a group of individuals who sha  respectively 1960. 1970. and 1983 daza. These are based on tLO s
living quarts and their mai meals A boarder or lodger may or   particpation ratesrflecting aglc-se structu  of the population. and
mnay nor be included in the houshold for statstcal purposes    long tume trendL A few estimates are from national sours
Average Numser of Penne per Room-Lorl mrbma, ad rua-           Ecoi_c Dependency Rao-Ratio of population under 15. and
Aage number of persons per room in aHl urban. and rural        65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent suctr  and unoccupied parts                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percetage of Dweling -&A Ekecrichy-toral. arba, n              Peretagr of Total Dfposah  lonw (hark in c"ask ad kmd)-
Conventional dwellings wit electricity in living quarter as percen-  Accruing to percentnle groups of housholds ranked by wtal house-
cage of wtaL urban, nd rural dwellings rspectively,            hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjsted Exrollnuw Ratios                                       The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pmvary school - total male and female-Gross tot,L male and     klevels and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enilment of all ago at the prmry lvel as percentages of  Esiued Abhole Powerty Iwomw Lewd (USS pr capita j-urban
rspectivc primary school-age populations. While many countrs   and ruri-Absolute poverty income levd is that income levl
consider primarv school age to be 6-11 years. others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pracdices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esrmmed Relive Povet Incemw Lewd  US per capita)-urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country`s standard pnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustmrent for higher cost of
Secondy shool - total. moa  andffemae- Computed as above;    living in urban areas
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Efined Populaon Blow Absolre Poverry Income Lewd (pe-
mary instrucion provides generaL vocauonaL or teache training  ce)--arhan and rura- Percent of population (urban and rural
insructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are 'absolute poor.'-
ence courses are geneally exchded.
Vocanal Efnromni (percent of  codaryj-Vocational institu-                Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tos include  chnical, industrial, or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as deparments of secondary institutions.                               June 1995



- 29-                                           - 
bp 5 ct7
-b            11 .10 (ui419B3 Umemld)
l - orou Usm.gn7.5(1990)
mg at                                         hum.)                   haimolmd
1                             1^          19   19Bt   192 191B           191F       I 19D   1981   19    I9  1981  19W    196    1W    19 9 19W 1DW
EWUL AiMD
own Qm-ti P9afat              M),22!S       7.8   5.7  -14.3  -08          6.3       1.8    3.2      3.6    4.0    4.2    4.3
Agciniu                      1.116        3.8   5.3  -2.3  -0.9          7.5       3.5    4.5      5.0    5.0             5.0
radutzW                      4.VIB        6.2   2.6  -21.6   3.0         9.8        1.8    3.5     4.5    4.5    4.5    5.0
OlOr                        14,171        9.1   6.7  -13.4  -1.9         5.2        1.6    2.9     3.2    3.7    3.9    4.0
C     _nujzUm                 16,676        4.2   12.2  -13.5  -5.8        1.2      ..3      1.7     3.5    3.6    1.4    3.2
Ib hvatt                      3,.53        31.2   5.7  -65.4  15.3        75.4      -84    14.0      3.6    6.0   19.7    9.7
Ei    of Gooand MIS           4,56         14.3  -5.    10.9   .4          6.8       3.3    4.1      4.1    4.1    3.9      38
1bi of Good.an US             -4,7D        18.7  14.7  -329   -9.4        16.3    -11.0    5.5       3.7    3.8    4.7    4.6
grow Nltql &"w       ,X           9   2     1.7  -41.1  -347   -1.7       a5.3      53.1   21.0    16.4   12.9   2:s.  15.7
PA=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
_p haWur                        59.0       29.2   13.4  11.3   2.9        15.3      3S.0   25.0    2A0    5.0   15.0   15.0
of of   at E  rt hm  (%                   i'm   (S)
WM   tW5   19D   VR    199D-   19>q5  lgrp    19Da5-19859
Oe. Ihtic Pndat            1C.0 IOD.0  lCOo  lCO.A 100.0          3      7.5    -09       3.9
Agriclat-                  6.8  6.6   7.2   9.5   9.9          0.0      2.9     1.7     4.9
Iziz.ty                   25.5  2D.3  21.4  256   21.2        -1.7      7.6    -1.6     4.4
01Ot                      67.7  '31   71.4  69.9  69.1         3.7      8L1    -1.1     4.5
Qazupti                     82.9  SL9   83.2  a17   76.2         0.0     6A      -1.3     2.7
.        trnvanImt          16.5  13.1  21.0  13.7  18.7    -11.6    19.6    -9.7    10.4
*orwnof Cood ad MS          15.0  25.5  228   25.7  25.9         2.5    15.1      0.8     4.0
rmorto of GOd. ae XIS       144  27.4  21.0  2D.2  257          -2.7    19.3    -6.8      4.3
Gros Mticml 9vifp           15.1  7.9  13.9   9.7  18.3         -7.7    18.5    -7.9    17.8
Asa% of U
119D    19
I >nt  lv..in                       32.9   27.7
ClEzmt ltdbi                        21.5   33.1
S    () w Dfic t-)                   8.4   -ZA
Cqitm 13qodtu-                       4.6    6.7
loreii PzLNgCI                      -1.0    2.8
GM nMnA
GEP GCrahf it (S)                     3.6     4.3
OW Per CadktL GoW  Rate (%)           1.9     2.9
(r C        _.uptbo  G1uU Rats        1.9     2.5
7.1     5.6
YArgkMl Savin  Rat                    0.59    0.53
Imt MrntLdt                           0.6D    1.11
E Rts. af pieth In proisetsd vab.. in cistsnt price..
Gzl Mmd= Cnmt Jc -a
P' oli min  Gony    t n-x1d
rPA
9/26MtS



-30,-                                              -      7
m_~~~                            ~~            mlW  -19  s  -
CM]4      at                                 fiamo
carat                                  t9"    lyr   . kb 51
bikatw            1c.ns   Um                               M        9      e         O
AL bN
I-Dim       it                 3.65W4                       3.3    4.3      4.2    4.3    4.1    4.1
CW-                          1,601.1                      2.0    .5       3       3.5    3.0     3
Ap~mfl~ball Qom                434                        7.6    7.7      7.9    7.9    8.1    8.2
1lahtaSmi 00mb               tS.a0                       3.0    3.8      3.6    3.8    3.7    3.6
O      r com7 .3b9                                        6.0    6.0      5.0    5.0    4.0    4.0
1_bim                           .1.7                       -7.7    3.7      4.0    4.0     54      5.0
bA                             441.9                      06      1.4     2.8    2.9    0.8    2.6
1a  O_winr Goao                405.0                      87    4.0       4.2    4.2    3.9    4.6
I*hvqmu, O1l. [dif             533.6                      1.5    3.3      3.6    4.0    4.2    4.3
0M   htoszm.t.8 CaopLtal Gosd 1,I9.2                    -15.1    5.1      3.2    3.2   2D.6   10.0
mm (97r-lwO)
:at Pm   d                                                114    125      1X     141    152    163
1aft om s                                                 12D    127      1R3    143    153    163
_ of  Tdsmd                                                       957      9       99     99    1O
rE:IPA
90/83



Mm ~     ~        ~ ~             mim   Wa nI  am
M apu o %g  a n  -0.1         VA    t%u-ss emLs a.S pf3.M1                      "      M0       =               W       IA g        ..a.W
66,or0te   a 1u6435  Man).m                             .U       MF%%      S    G" 4."          4          % aSA          WI  .w 7~ 6
'W hwh ito)                   M?   S  1.    418.    W.59.7 .1   -0.9I .1.04-.9 %NSA   -1Usd  SiLO        -.0 4.A  1.1.i0 653.   75l.8   913.  7.03,  6.1L
Co tw knbtam                -111.412-   -711.7  -319.   AW3.    W.79.  -1.3.   -ILI. 4368.8 -1,105        MM a1            Am-191.  .435-..    a.3.  a     04
at tumal bmf                   1.7     3d-    0.4    IsaIL     my.;P  %A14      6,78L    OS.)%   y      .7 6.q?     0.0  10.40   63.0%  63.9%    63.0N  18.0
111st M t FM" o             451.8     616,   4 aM-,6.  -1,1,8-,3   -te    ..46. -'0.   .85.  .10.-68006,3.                                 4  .168   91
Mist tin  lawns      49.8~"    -           "is6.  Om6,  "a.    "M,   on,  1Me     . "a     1      4.       8.    00 380 23                5.    8
oCo  U,mom  or. 1Aun)    78.   461.033    .5.0    1.s.         61.W  -l11 AM   0 -a.;  ',.s      6.        8.       n     9.
cmmnnewnsmu               ssms   633  a1  6.5   6315 6                .362         ,3
thUg-a                 ~~ ~~~~~           ~~~A ii    a  ai  7
(MlrtAtIIsbal                    SI         8        
Matm                       a1) 43 6a" 1.46 13.8l,203
aM    anss                     6    "I   41    17    19.a03'                             I
50                     66~~~~~~~~M   1  W 1.8 I?  6  64   3                  a."
USL 1WI SN.L  M                 4,0  4.104 4,464  5.9   7.50  9,413 12,9541 3,66  64,3 166,3
mat ttt blAnt a OUegbo          3.73D 3.5  3*4   MS3  4.82  4.7.0  4.48   %.15   4903  as111
511415                        8.03  8.31  2,08  3,91?  IAU   1,03  1.416  I.W1  5.4(   5,63
-                     189~~~~~~~~a  '10   141  6on  11    '63    lo6    M. a     a
8,11' 2.614 6,0  6.731  1,0  I.103  6,815      -      - 30
Mn    ~~~~~~~,0~~.  1,0  1,412  8.3  I3.6    Liii  Wm   3.5011 .561  7.33
flb ahbiM  hab              Om    49.  gm   6,89    M8    In    SW4        .     ..  6,0
Met ttt ubA hat                  611   M1   90  I.9   8.7315  4.49   DOW3  860*   ',509  WM0
WMLFM~~~~m             4.0  4.100 4.34   5,91  7,590  46   18.51 1 3,86  4.5  10-3
lISle haf Ganief 4 tMet  3.73) 3.3  3,44  4.36  4,618  4.=   4A23  5,15   6,9381631
86115.1               2,0~~~~~Z-I  8.312 2,0   IS?V IA * IMF1,51 i,i   3,86   lAa   I-
al                            a           a?   a2    a1    a1    a1    a           9    Is
ouw                  2~~~.35 Z,1%  6,0  1,710  1,49   1130  1.M1           ..  ,,
Inn                   1,0~~~~~~~.   NW  1,612  8.5  3.643  3.10  3.01  3330 5%51   7.
taidmes  attic haf               61   on   go33,9    ini    37    W            ..    ..  6A,0
hin-t tnM  ha"                   Go   718 9    t*3   8.1%   4.60  8.131  8.39  7.50  GM
2tAt hlam ad rMet -e h
awma   I~f                     93   13  IA,0  1.1 16 5,5   4,64   2.58  8.556  8.19  8,468
laesm                          M7   AG   ;a    Vs0   -0    qiS  3,48   I,?  '.78   '.41
km nhS      w                 3P3   39    43   Is    13       35    at    51    o3    51
S.Is. muons - paLse Ia M%  7.8  7.8   OL7  10*   1240   6,7  6I,0  ,,              4,
Offiial                         1.1  8.4   7.0  8.0   7.5   v.2   v.2
prInt                  8.3~~~~~~&   8.9   8.0  lCd   5.   64,1  66,
M.       or~t at   ph. is- Ly~. 64,5  10.2   4,8  8.6    LB6   4,0  610,7
OfficaLE                       19.0  11,8  17.3  61,7  IIL?   MA,  IMO
tInt                   6~~~~~~~~0,1  3,4   5,7  7,0   7.,   e.G   8.7
amN Oil= C)
omw lm, M1.5  3.8   3.9  3.5   3.1   3.5   0.    4.9    5.0   1.6
[M n oiiaJmo.e,Pale daa          5.7  3.5   1.8  6.1   1,0   IA6   2.9    ..          .     M
M  dft.*nWdMmlamtuimL   $.   6.9   ia   1.9   6,4   1.8   1.3    ,,                 ,
MA     nsou  M                         Q1 A ~ 0    0.5    Ms5   OA    0,5
aL oauJ./t-      oaam smome 
a as inw.cdt haor --,am                                                    ,    -ma
,b"nl wuwm araAWa  cantona
Mrawknt am mtat je yo.n
Pm.ni   a talonM 10m                          97.06
taunt sumw.ci ofphne dot aonuns
lemnt anm eat fnm 3=                           8
!f Inchmi pmwwAft Ls  PbJe  men.u
Sr  lamb   99N  a   o   up a3IDuas.
Lot'l
nfld



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
TWE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPBlATIONS IN CHILE
A. STATENENT OF IAR  LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at  airch 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                   USS million
Credit    Fiscal                                   Amount Tleas cancellationa)
Number      year    Borrower   Purpose              Bnk   IDA   Undinbursed
25 loans and one credit fully disbursed            326.2   22.9 1/     -
1832        1980    Chile     Water Supply          32.4    -         7.7
1902        1981    Chile     Agri. Credit          36.0    -        11.0
1927        1981    Chile     Highway Recon.        42.0    -         0.4
2297        1983    Chile     Highway Recon. II   128.0    -         97.2
2481        1983    Chile     Agri. Serv./Credit   56.0    -         56.0
2482        1983    Chile     Housing               80.0    -        60.7
2504        1985    Chile     Public Sector Mgt.   11.0    -          11.0
Total                                              711.6   22.9
of which bas been repaid                         208.9    4.5
Total now outstanding                              502.7   18.4
Amount sold                     7.2
of wbich has been repaid      7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                     502.7   18.4
Total undisbursed                                                   244.0
1/ Includes exchange rate adjustments. The original amount of the credit
was US$19.0 million.



- 33 -
ANUH II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEUKET OF IFC IUTESTUBYTS (as at March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                            Type of           Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor              Business          Loan  Tbuity   Total
1958, 1959, Eapresa Minera de
1966, 1984    Mantos Blancos      Copper mining     35.10    4.25    39.35
1959, and   Fideos y Alimentos
1965          Carozzi S.A.        Food products      1.50    0.15     1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965    Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement             1.20    0.10     1.30
1963        via. Manufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones  Pulp and paper    3.00      -       3.00
1970        Minera Sagasa S.A.    Copper mining     10.45    0.45    10.90
Money and Capital
1982        Inverchile              Markets            -     0.20     0.20
Total gross commitments                 51.25    5.15    56.40
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                 34.75    0.70    35.45
Total Commitments nov held by IFC   16.50    4.45    20.95
Total Undisbursed                  20.00    1.88    21.88



-34-                         .A.  mi
Page 1 Of 1
A-MMU  AW !~ LOAM
Seatilo I: Witmble of Ke rwmt.:
(a)     Time taken by the Couztry to Prepare Project:  Five Noathe
(b)     Project Prepared by: Ministries of Economy and Finance and the
Central Bank
(c)    First Presentation to the Bank: November 1984
(d)    Departure of Appraisal Nission:  April 20, 1985
(e)     Completion of Negotiations:      September 20, 1985
(f)    Planned date for Effectiveness:  November 15, 1985
Section nI:  Susodla Bask  I nl ntation Action:
None.
Seatian m: Suecial Conitimn
The following conditions bave been established for the release of the second
tranche:
(a) placing in effect a copper stabilization fund (pars. 62);
(b) a review of 1985 noncopper export performance (para. 62);
Cc) satisfactory execution of the 1985 public investment budget
(para. 63);
(d) review and agreement on a 1986 public sector budget (para. 63);
(e) introduction of fiscal measures to achieve public savings of
about 4.5 percent of projected 1986 GDP (para. 63);
(f) review of progress on the bank recapitalization program (para.
65);
(g) agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on a program to share
domestic bank asset losses (pars. 65);
(h) executive approval of satisfactory banking and corporate legisla-
tion (para. 65);
(i) progress in phasing out Central Bank preferential exchange rate
and swap subsidies (para. 66);
(j) development of a forestry plan (pars. 69); and
(k) satisfactory progress on the studies being carried out under the
Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan (para. 69).



-35-                                               1
Pu I c, f 2
cm      ammu  mW~  iun -   A  M
_Isses_VIN                               ~      YINKE_ to be                ie                  Relatd MM Pmlat
GmS                          _t                      l dIugzw      I m    D    E1
Need to divwsily export     Beal devalmtLai of      Dwge rate to be         Apprcal of Coppr        Maintmm   Of real
an to esoojg. develop-    70 percat between         maintained at at-       Stabilizatica Fxud      exhmg  rate
.met of efficiet impot      Juoe 1982 anl Nardh    tractLve level for       IF Jammy 1, 1986.       *ln*h 1965 (EPP).
asrt itLox.                 1995.                   rrmdnal export-
era.                   D]velopit of joint    Twiff 'edettim
Need to accelata mier-    Tariff reducotie.                                 Pablic/Private For-    (EFP).
al epots.                   frcm 35 peret to       D1velopet of             estzr Program ty
2D peroent, sim        public/private          iArch 1986.             Stpprt for sml
Need to imprve govern-      Nehwiy 1985.            forestry Pron                                   exporters (TAL).
Gat spot for ncntra-                                                        FRviev of naopper
ditiLcml exporte .          Ap           cf Pri-    PROC        to presmta  export perfom           Coal. project (IFC).
vate/Public Ebxestry    spacffi, elwted   nmd inen-tives,
CaidiaCa6              exprts.                 IeAd NC agreed,          1g=] coPazr ea-
pri  target;                   (mc).
New legslatim         Mjor eplim  of          Novmber I95 an
gLves far greter       ME=  productim          Mardi 1986.             Agricult4ur.
flexiL.lty to          enjacity durizn                                 Servies an Credit
PIEIII, expot          190-9.                  Reviw of prcgze         Project - Sugr
promotien WGM                                  of swr st* and          Stury.
Cereal and sr          acrl price band
ReguLatlcsms  d pro-    syot prnes drop-    awtixn; s    ref'-
cedus evwied to        pad with general        tim of Caribbean
permit moe raid        tariff lvel; stwr       stor pices poses
return of VAT to em-    prce poliqy to be      cn to beet faILs.
portem                 ShIlied.
Direct drawbadc of
.mport tariff p-
mts pritted to
exPorters.
Mialetim of stmp
tax. Reduoicz of
bmi'ks  reseive
qLxmitaWin
credits for erort-
er
Pui im
Need to inz ease pablic     P mtim al pub-    Coordinatin of pub-    Review of 1985 pub-            Pubic Sector Naz-
sevis.                      licatin  of 19857       lic eterpris in-        lic iw_strrts anl    asemeat Tem-
develoct pro-          vest       plns md      196 pect
Need to immve cdobee    9m.                         gwenanits mcc-          (Noeaiber i1).    ;      pmiture canpoai-
and cesitc  of public                               ecc* mic poliies.                               tim agrmed in Higb-
sectr  -temm  andl         DLferml of acme                                 Satis_ctay pro-         VW Sectr IGas
inrfestubt.                 1qlr-retL        L tresport    IcMMttiou of     gesn sties to
projects.              sties to improe         improve pullic M-         blic deficit tar-
Need for oxernmental izn-                           pubi sector an-              t (mari            gt (EF).
cenatives to private sa-    Redctim of pblic        agemnt.                 1986).
briget expeadituzr
ncrease in pubic       Bulgeted public
mom tax refcnm to    savinp fmam reduL-        sector savings cf
reward reinvestt       ticn cf am  cctly      abat 4.5 percent of
of corpcate            and inequitable pub-    G  in 1996.
profits.                    social prcg0s
an tax reforms to
Social seQqr            increase pblic
refcr tc esbanoe        z    _ems.
fMd s-vj:p,



43t~~" q0l           v;1WI g"
'11211 II!         IIIf    i dt!E  'U0
j114|S j         j    tll,'"ll
[T  X       t|ll|te llj   1    Ia'



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 10
- 37 -
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Ministry of Finance                             September 30, 1985
Mr. A.W. Clausen
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Clausen:
In 1980 the Chilean economy began to face a serious deterioration in
its terms of trade due to the world recession, coupled with an abrupt
reduction in the flow of credit and capital from abroad and high interest
rates in the international financial market. These events have brought a
sharp decline in the availability of the resources we need to finance the
growth of our economy.
To improve the prospects for economic growth so that we can increase
incomes and expand the possibilities for employment of our people, this
Government wishes to institute a structural adjustment program. The basic
outlines of that program will be similar to the economic revitalization
carried out from 1974 to 1979. Our country is requesting support from the
World Bank to accomplish this goal.
I.        Background
Toward the end of 1973 per capita domestic product s:nd real wages
had fallen below 1970 levels, agricultural output fell short of that achieved
in the 1960s, the annualized monthly inflation was estimated at 1,000%, the
government deficit was over 20% of GDP, and net international reserves were
negative.
The economic development strategy launched in early 1974 was based
on decontrol of prices and external trade, maintenance of a reF.1istic exchange
rate, resolution of the financial problems of the public enterprises and the
central government, deregulation of interest rates, the subsidiary role of tne
state, and the institution of social programs targeted at population groups
affected by poverty. After an initial recession in 1975, from 1976 to 1980
this policy produced real growth rates of over 7% in GDP and a net surplus in
the fiscal account of the public sector. At the same time, international
reserves rose to US$4 billion by 1979, the exchange rate had been unified,
tariff duties were equalized at 10%, import quotas had disappeared and tne
relative prices of goods and factors had found their equilibrium level. The



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 10
-38 -
impact on the balance of payments and the control of inflation was felt
immediately. The value of agricultural and industrial exports quintupled
between 1974 and 1980, reducing dependence on copper export earnings from 77%
in 1974 to 46% in 1980. Hyperinflation, regarded as an overwhelming problem,
was brought under control, falling from 1,000% in 1973 to only 30% in 1980.
The economic growth mentioned and the correction of the balance of
payments enabled Chile to recover its international creditworthiness and
access to the international capitnl market. At the same time, the correction
of public finances made it possible for the Government to undertake social
programs which, by improving conditions for all Chileans, will be of
particular benefit to those located on the lower rungs of the economic
ladder. By 1985 the infant mortality rate was one of the lowest in the
southern tier, while the life expectancy of Chileans biad risen by over 10
years above the 1960 figure. Progress in health and social services brought a
reduction of over two thirds in deaths from respiratory causes and infant
diarrhea and a decrease of 70% in child mortality. These health programs,
combined with improvements in sewerage and potable water supply systems
serving low income areas, have placed Chile among Latin American leaders in
per capita indexes of hygiene and health.
The social and economic gains we have made are now in danger. The
acute international recession early in the decade has caused massive losses in
earnings for Chile owing to the fall in export prices, especially those of
copper and other major export commodities.  The curtailment of external
resources, coupled with the abundance of financial resources offered to the
country by the international financial system, meant that the external
disequilibrium was financed by credit from abroad. The government had earlier
lifted the quantitative restrictions on the inflow of capital and had fixed an
exchange rate in nominal terms.
The devaluations of 1982-83 increased the indebtedness of the
productive sector and reduced its ability to pay as the value of its assets
and the flows generated by their operations failed to increas6 in like
proportion. Because of the worsening of the financial situation of the
productive plant, the financial system also suffered a deterioration of its
position. Faced with the possibility that financial institutions might become
insolvent, in January 1983 the Government intervened in the operation of the
system, taking over the administration of several banks, guaranteeing deposits
and extending emergency credits to several institutions.
Following the financial crisis of early 1983 the Government
reestablished the short-term economic program with the INF which had been
devised at the end of 1982. On the basis of that program the Government
obtained new loans from international banks and rescheduled a major part of
the debt repayments coming due in 1983 and 1984.
Throughout 1984 the government continued to follow the policies set
forth in the emergency adjustment program of 1983. Nonetheless the sharp



ANEX V
Page 3 of 10
- 39 -
Payment of interest on the country's external debt -  USS19.5 billion
in December 1984 - represents about 40% of the value of exports. Foreign
exchange earnings from copper exports still account for nearly half of total
export value, while in terms of purchasing power, its price is as low as during
the Great Depression. Unemployment remains very high at 13%. The imbalance
between savings and investment requirements underscores the need to find a way
of increasing public and private sector savings. The financial situation of
many firms and banking institutions depends on the refinancing programs
launched by the Central Bank in 1983-84 and the program initiated at the
beginning ox 1985 for capitalization of banks subjected to intervention.
To overcome these problems, the Government of Chile proposes to
undertake a medium-term adjustment program with World Bank support, which by
carrying on many of the economic policies that proved successful in 1975-79
will permit sustained economic growth.
II.       Economic Adjustment Program
The recently published 1985-87 Three-Year Program gives priority to
correcting the disequilibrium in Chile's balance of payments by minimizing its
impact on economic growth and the generation of productive employment. To
achieve this objective the Program includes measures that stimulate export
growth, increase domestic savings, support the reactivation of the private
sector, and provide for capitalization of the banking sector to improve its
action as a credit intermediary in the economy. The purpose of these measures
is to expand the country's export capacity, achieve equilibrium in the balance
of payments, and bring about sustained economic growth for the rest of the
decade.
The Government expects the actions mentioned to permit economic growth of 2-4%
this year, 3-5% in 1986-87, and 4-6% in subsequent years.   The program
projections are based on a realistic set of assumptions regarding future terms
of trade and international interest rates. Copper prices are assumed to
increase in a moderate trend from its iresent low levels (US$65 ct/lb.), while
the real average price level for Chile's other export commodities is expected
to remain constant at its 1984 level. Finally, real interest rates are
expected to slowly fall to a 3 percent level by the end of this decade.
Notwithstanding this, for resons of prudence and in view of current external
economic conditions some of the program's key actions are based on the
expectation of reaching only the lower growth limits mentioned before.
Promotion of exports.   The leading obstacles to Chile's economic
growth are posed by the burden of external debt service on the economy and the
severe deterioration of its terms of trade. Trade policy and the management of
the exchange rate under the Three-Year Program are aimed at reducing the
current account deficit and laying the ground work for economic growth based on
exports. The Government recently lowered tariffs from 30% to an even 20% and
increased the exchange rate by 8.4% while simultaneously presenting to the
Legislature additional measures to etimulate the export sector.  The exchange
rate will continue to be adjusted as required in response to the difference
between domestic and international inflation. The external trade system will
remain free of quantitative restrictions and with low, even tariffs. The
action program just described should help to increase the growth of noncopper
exports to real rates of 6% per year, so as to reach a current account deficit
of US$1 billion by 1987.



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 10
-40 -
Domestic savings. In view of the country's external savings
constraint, the financing required for economic growth will depend on a
substantial increase in domestic saving. To achieve this, the Government's
adjustment program calls for greater public savings and a tax reform that will
help stimulate the expansion of private sector saving. Improvements in
financial and managerial performance will also bolster private saving. The
government expects that the new social security system will bring about greater
family saving. Austerity will be maintained in public expenditure and tax
evasion will be curtailed to increase public sector saving and provide
financing for new private sector investment. The policy of fiscal austerity
will be complemented by a monetary policy consistent with the government's
objective of lowering the inflation rate from 23% in 1984 to 15% in 1987.
Sectoral development and investment. To foster the use of the
scarcest resources in activities of the highest priority, to encourage the use
of abundant resources, and to ensure economic growth balanced among sectors
and compatible with a sustained growth path, the Government will continue its
policy of free prices in the goods and services markets. Except for the
setting of the minimum wage, the exchange rate and the maintenance of
suggested interest rates -- until the financial system has been normalized --
the government will not intervene in the price structure of the economy.
Public sector investment will adhere to the national objectives set forth in
the Three-Year Program: exports, employment, and the subsidiary role of the
public sector in the economy. The 1985-87 Program calls for public investment
of about 7% of Gross Domestic Product, and will focus on mining, energy and
public works supporting the export sector. These sectoral public investment
programs are intended to bring about economic development oriented toward an
increase in employment and in private sector activity in the sectors of
tradable goods and services. The special employment programs will continue
until the private sector is able to generate a larger number of permanent
productive jobs. These programs will be adjusted as needed to improve their
productivity and to ensure that their benefits go to those whose financial
need for employment is greatest.
Financial system. The Chilean financial system has faced a critical
situation since 1982. In January 1983 the economic crisis brought on by the
world recession, and transmitted to the financial ctor through the
mechanisms already described, compelled the government to intervene by
shutting down a number of institutions and taking over the temporary
administration of others. Stabilization of the financial system will involve
the continued application of monetary policies consistent with the stated
objectives of economic growth and reduced inflation, permitting real interest
rates compatible with the foreign exchange policy described. The Central Bank
will implement its monetary policy through general credit and open market
operations, at market rates. There will be a gradual reduction in the
subsidies now enjoyed by the financial system and its debtors, without
altering the formal commitments in effect, and allowing the economy a period
for prudent adjustment so as to minimize losses. An initial program of
financial restructuring for private firms will be undertaken with World Bank



ANNA V
Page 5 of 10
- 41 -
Complementing tne measures in the monetary and financial areas,
certain changes in the legislation on corporations will preclude a repetition
of the problems of credit concentration that occurred in the past.
In view of the complexity of the financial problem, the economic
adjustment program calls for an annual review of financial measures to ensure
their success as the nation's economy moves ahead.
III.      Action Program, 1985/86
The Government started its adjustment program in January 1985.  In
the area of export promotion, tariff reductions of five and ten per_entage
points were ordered as from March and July 1985, respectively. Concurrently,
the peso was devalued not only to compensate for the tariff reduction, but also
to stimulate Chilean exports further. The pruce-band policy to level off the
variations of cereal and oilseed prices, which has been implemented with great
success since 1983, will be adjusted strictly in line with the tariff
reductions. In the case of sugar, a similar price policy will be applied to
beet producers although the reference price may not exceed an amount equivalent
to the cost of production in the Caribbean, inasmuch as the world free price
does not reflect production costs. Other important measures that are being
taken in supporc of exports are:
6i) Introduction of a 10% rebate on the net earnings of minor exports,
defined as those whose export value in 1984 was US$2.5 million or
less;
(ii) Streamlining of the present rebate system to lessen the impact of the
Customs duty on exporters who import inputs;
(iii) Elimination of the seal and stamp taxes on export credit operations;
(iv) An improvement in the refund process to ensure that exporters
receive the VAT quickly;
(v) The right to recover the VAT within 6 months for capital equipment
incorporated in fixed assets;
(vi) Improvement of the mecnanism for the deferred payment of Customs
duties on the value of capital goods intended for the production of
exportable goods. The amount of the debt that the exporter contracts
with the Directorate General of Customs will thereby be reduced in
proportion to the percentage that his exports represent in his total
sales;
(vii) Formation of a public/private sector committee to coordinate the
major investments required in the forestry sector;
(viii)  Study by PROCHILE of the products which are most exportable in the
short term, and assignment of experts to some groups of small and
medium-scale producers to support their export efforts and improve
their marketing, quality control and information processes;



ANNE[ V
Pag 6 Of 10
- 42 -
(iz) Increase from 5 to 10% the margin of capital and reserves that banks
may lend to exporters without guarantee. The expanded margin for
guaranteed credit operations will increase therefore from 25 to 30%
facilitating access by exporters to increased financial resources;
(x) Extension of the period of repatriation of receipts from exports that
must be sent to freeport warehouses abroad in order to be marketed
properly.
The Government will continue these measures in the future for the
effective promotion of exports, together with a realistic exchange rate and
low, level tariffs. It will maintain as exceptions only the surcharges
established to protect domestic industry from unfair competition as defined by
GATT. The 1986 budget will include a stabilization fund to alleviate the
impact of copper price fluctuations on the Treasury and the Chilean economy,
thereby providing assurances for exporters of products other than copper.
This fund is described in an attachment to this letter.
The present ratio of proven reserves to oil production is
unacceptably low. Accordingly, there will be sharp increase in funding for
the exploration of petroleum resources; the opening of this field to new firms
appears to be the most practical way of obtaining sufficient funds for the
purpose.  The Government states its intention of taking the necessary measures
so that prospects for the development of oil production will improve. During
1985 the government will take specific action in this regard.
Public expenditure in 1985 has been adjusted to reflect the new
responsibilities imposed by the earthquake of last March and the need for
fiscal austerity. Some major projects in transportation infrastructure have
been cut back or eliminated from the 1985-87 public investment program.  Among
them, Line 3 of the Santiago Metro has been postponed indefinitely, annual
expenditure for the Southern Highway will not be increased in real terms, and
some major projects for new irrigation works have been deferred. At the same
time the Government has decided to give priority to projects in the mining and
agriculture sectors offering high yields and quick returns. To ensure a
positive social rate of return on new public sector investments, all projects
presented by ministriee or public sector enterprises will be subjected to a
rigorous socioeconomic analysis by ODEPLAN, in accordance with the rules in
effect, and will have to be approved by that agency before they are considered
in the budget.
To improve public administration, tne Government pldns to accelerate
certain studies financed by the World Bank Technical Assistance Loan. The
process comprises two stages:
(i) A study for the design and implementation of organization and
information systems that will permit improved control and management of tne
public enterprises so as to set objectives and guide the enterprises in
fulfilling them;
(ii) Contracting of technical assistance that will strengthen the planning
and managerial capability of enterprises as deemed necessary in accordance with
the situation of each one. Priority in this regard will be given to
enterprises in the area of transportation (EMPORCHI, EMPREMAR, LAN, Rail
Authority).



ANNEX~ V
Page 7 Of 10
- 43 -
Both tne studies and the public investment program would be review
periodically with the World Bank.
A series of studies on the labor market and the Government's
employment programs will be initiated in 1985. They will recommend measures
not only to promote the use of labor, but also to increase the efficiency and
productivity of the government's employment programs. The content of these
studies will also be reviewed periodically with World Bank technical staff.
In agreement with the program's economic projections, the Government
will take the necessary steps to generate public savings of about 4.5% of GDP
in 1986, principally by reducing current expenditure but taking care to
maintain the required support for the lowest income sectors of the population.
To promote private sector saving, the Government began a tax reform in 1984
which is spurring reinvestment of business profits, and continuation of this
reform througn 1986 is deemed essential to achieving the domestic saving goals
stated in the Three-Year Program.
The Government intends to continue the normalization of the
financial sector in 1985 and 1986. To that end, the Central Bank will not
alter the terms and conditions governing Chilean banks portfolios since
November 15, 1985. Furthermore, it will not set up new lines of concessional
credit to refinance lostis already outstanding, leaving such activity to the
private banking system as part of its normal operations. The costs associated
with normalization of the financial system are substantial and could hinder the
implementation of a monetary stabilization program. In that case there might
be a need for additional assistance from the Treasury and the international
banks which are creditors of the private financial system. The Government
intends to take measures to manage these costs so as to minimize their adverse
effects on the national economy.
In 1985 the Government will launch a program to capitalize the Bank
of Chile and the Bank of Santiago, and will later do the same for the other
banks in which it has intervened and which require such measures. This year a
new bank deposit insurance system will be proposed and a schedule will be
published for reduction of the preferential exchange rate subsidy to be
terminated at the end of 1986.
Also by March 19fJ6, draft amendments will be proposed to the
legislation now governing the rights and responsibilities of the majority and
minority shareholders of corporations, the intention being to make corporate
operations more open.
Y6urs truly,
(Signed)                                 (Signed)
Hernan Buchi Buc                        Juan Carlos Delano 0.
Minister of Finance                     Minister of Economy,
Development and Reconstruction



ANNEX V
Page 8 of 10
- 44 -
REPUBLIC OF CHILE                              September 30, 1985
Ministry of Economy, Development and
Reconstruction
Deputy Secretary for the Economy
Office of the Minister
COPPER INCOME COMPENSATION FUND
1.       A high and stable real rate of exchange is a crucial factor in the
promotion of exports. In view of the dominance of copper in Chilean exports,
the frequent fluctuations of its price on international markets result in
continuous changes in the availability of foreign exchange, with the
consequent pressures on the real exchange rate. In this way the instability
of copper earnings works against the objective of promoting export growth
through a real exchange rate that is both high and stable.
2.        To stabilize the movement of the real exchange rate, the government
of Chile has decided to establish a Copper Income Compensation Fund (FCC).
For its first year the fund will operate on an experimental basis. In order
not to discriminate between exports of copper and those of other products by
the private sector, the FCC will be applieable only to copper exports made by
CODELCO, which are expected to account for 79% of the total for the country in
1985. The FCC will be a Treasury deposit in the Central Bank, and will be
incorporated by the Bank in its international reserves. Tne deposit will
obtain its resources from the surpluses transferred to the Treasury from
CODELCO in accordance with the formula specified in paragraph 3, subject to
tne conditions set forth in paragraph 4.
3.        The FCC will nave to show quarterly a balance determined by the
following formula:
(a)  Each year a reference path will be determined for the price of
copper, defined as the average price for each of the four quarters.
The path determined must be identical to that considered in the
annual budget of the nonfinancial public sector and in the annual
balance of payments program.



ANNEX V
Page 9 of 10
- 45 -
(b) The variation in the balance of the FCC over a given period (set at
three months) must be equal to the sum obtained by multiplying (i)
the physical volume exported by CODELCO during the period and (li)
the average difference during that period between the market price
defined as the FOB price received by CODELCO and the reference price,
this difference being adjusted by the following weights:
-   For prices situated within the band defined by a difference of
50% US cents per pound with respect to the reference price,
the factor will be zero; i.e., there will be no change in the
balance of the FCC account.
-   For prices situated in the band defined as + 12.5 US cents per
pound with respect to the reference price, the factor will be
50% and will be applied to the difference between the observed
price and the reference price + 5 cents.
-   For prices situated outside the preceding band a weighting
factor of 100% and will be applied to the difference between the
observed price and the reference price + 12.5 cents.   In
addition, a fac,or. of 50% will be applied above + 7.5 cents.
(') Without detriment to the foregoing, the balance of the FCC accrued
during a year must correspond to application of the criteria
stipulated in item (b) above, with reference to average prices and
quantities for the year.
gd) Because the receipt of export earnings takes several months from the
date of shipment, the prices and quantities which, in accordance
with the formula given, determine the variation in the balance of
the FCC account during a given quarter will be the average prices
for the period which begins and ends three months prior to tne
beginning and end, respectively, of the quarterly period referred to
in (c).
4.        The quarterly balance in the FCC account will be reviewed every six
months in the context of the SAL program. The government of Chi:e expects,
however, that during these years of world recession a mechanical application
of the preceding formula could undermine the objective of stabilizing the
movement of the real exchange rate if the fluctuation in the price of copper
that would trigger the use of the formula is accompanied by unexpected



ANNEX V
Page 10 of 10
- 46 -
movements of opposite sign in other factors that determine the balance of
payments position.  In particular, unexpected and temporary fluctuations in
the prices of noncopper exports, import prices or interest rates may be partly
or fully offset by variations in the price of copper. In that event a
mechanical application of the formula, by partly neutralizing the effects of
fluctuations in the price of copper, would have the undesired effect of
destabilizing international reserves and the exchange rate. To preclude such
an occurrence the application of the formula described in paragraph 3 must be
reviewed every six months and sufficiently in advance, to determine whether or
not to apply it, and in what proportion.



- 47 -
ARMx VI
CHIL - OVliLL INDVUHT PDOGRAN, 1984-1987
(In Millions of US Dollars)
1984     1985    1986       1987
Agriculture
Total                          125.0    133.0   139.0    139.0
Public Sector                    3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0
Private Sector                 122.0    130.0   136.0    136.0
Energy and Pover
Total                          495.0    389.0   615.0    691.0
Public Sector                  482.0    355-0   390.0    336.0
Private Sector                  13.0     34.0   225.0    355.0
Transport and Public Works
Total                          277.0    382.0   585.0    602.0
Public Sector                  272.0    379.0   524.0    514.0
Private Sector                   5.0      3.0    61.0       88.0
Mining
Total                          425.0    540.0   596.0    613.0
Public Sector                  337.0    461.0   501.0    511.0
Private Sector                  88.0     79.0    95.0    102.0
Housing
Total                          587.0    622.0   666.0    713.0
Public Sector                   29.0     31.0    34.0       36.0
Private Sector                 558.0    591.0   632.0    677.0
Other a/
Total                          158.0    290.0   429.0    534.0
Public Sector                   60.0     86.0   170.0    261.0
Private Sector                  98.0    204.0   259.0    273.0
Total Investment                 2,067    2,356    3,030     3,292
Public Sector                1,183    1,315    1,622     1,661
Private Sector                 884    1,041    1,408    1,631
a/ It includes telecommunications, fishing, manufacturing and commerce.
Source: Ministry of Economy, Programa Trienal 1985-87



