                                            Sri Lanka
                              Legal and JudicialReforms Project
                                        (Credit3384-CE)

                 ProposedAmendment of the Development CreditAgreement


BACKGROUND

1.      The Legal and Judicial ReformsProject was approved by the Board on June 20, 2000,
and became effective on August 11, 2000. The scheduled closing date of the Credit is June 30,
2005. The main objective of the project is to improve the existing legal and judicial framework
to make it more efficient, transparent andresponsiveto the needs of the public and private sector.
The specific objectives are to: (a) modernize the legislative framework that impacts on private
sector activity; (b) improve the administration, monitoring and regulatory functions of the
Company Registry; and (c) build the capacity of the judiciary and other institutions providing
dispute resolution services.

2.      Only US$ 6.4 million of the US$ 18.2 million credithasbeendisbursedtodate,and
progress towards achieving the development objectives of the Project has not been satisfactory.
Reviewing the four years of implementation,it is noted thatproject design wasoverly ambitious
and did not take into account the capacity of most of the implementing agencies. A Steering
Committee (headed by the Chief Justice) was set up initially to provide policy guidance to the
Project. The membership consists of the Secretaryof Ministry of Finance, Secretaryof Ministry
of Justice, Secretary of Trade andCommerce, Attorney General, LegalDraftsman, Secretary
Judicial Services Commission, and Additional Director General of the Department of External
Resources. At the initial stages there was little ownershipfrom the Ministry of Justice as the
Steering Committee played a major role in decisionmaking. Inaddition, the Ministry of Justice
failed to recruit a competent Project Director for two years who couldhave provided leadership
and coordinated the work of various implementing agencies. Since then, the Ministry has taken
ownership, revived the Steering Committee, and appointed a qualified and experienced Project
Director.

3.      The project provides technical assistancetoenhance knowledgein commerciallawin the
legal community, improve the skills of the judiciary, and introduce administrative reformsto
expedite enforcement of lawand dispute resolution. To support the reforms, the projectalso
provides funds to improve physical infrastructure in 25 model courts basedongeographical
distribution and case load. In addition, two newcourt complexes aretobeconstructed         in the
conflict areas of the North and East.

4.      Since only 35% of the project funds have beendisbursedandprogresshasbeenrather
slow in some of the components-such      as automating the Company Registry,judicial training
and administrativereforms-the    Country Director and Project Task Team Leader helda seriesof
discussionswith the Secretaryof Ministry of Justiceto discuss resolving the projects' problems,     '
including a possible restructuring. Asan outcome of those discussions, a Memorandumof
Understanding (MOU) was signed on March 23, 2004 between the Country Directorandthe

                                              - 2 -


Secretary, Ministry of Justice reconfirmingthe agreement to restructure the project without any
major change in the development objectives. This MOU has beenendorsed by the Steering
Committee and the new administration.

5.     Given the slow progress demonstrated so far, the closing date needs tobeextended by
another 18months until December 2006. The Government of Sri Lanka willmake such a formal
request. Given the difficulty in transporting construction material to the North (which is just
emerging from a conflict situation), the extension is vital toensurecompletion           of the
construction work on the Jaffna courts and refurbishing of some courts in three other provinces.
The main componentsof the originalproject are:

   a) Legal reforms which supportedcommerciallawreforms;            professional development in
       the Attorney General'sdepartment,Bar Association and lawschoolsmainly in the area of
       commercial law; andaccessto         legal enactmentsand    reports (LawNet)andpublic
       awareness.

   b) Reorganization and automation of the Company Registry which supported organization
       restructuring, recruitment of qualified staff, provision of training, modernizationand
                                  .
       automationof the system.

   c) Judicial reforms which supported judicial training and judicial administrative reform.
       Thejudicial training sub-component was expected to cover a twinning arrangement for
       judicial training and establish a judicial training resource center. The .judicial
       administrative reforms sub-component was expected to: (i) establish a planning system,
       human resource management systemandrecordmanagement               system; (ii) introduce
       standard legaland     administrative forms, ethiccodes,     investigative processes,and
       automation and maintenance of records and oral proceedings in case-tracking; and (iii)
       train staff. In addition, the Judicial Services Commission(JSC)        office was to be
       refurbished. This componentalso includesrefurbishment of 25 courtsbased on their case
       load and geographical distribution as well as construction of two new model courts in
       Jaffna and Trincomalee.

   d) Commercial mediation which supportedestablishmentof            a mediation center at the
       Ceylon Chamber of Commerce for providing technical assistance andtrainingfor
       mediators.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

6.     The amendment requested by the Borrower is to: (a) remove drafting of lawsandpublic
awareness from the legal reforms; (b) scale down the judicial training programto suit the
capacity; and (c) addthe provision of computerequipmenttoLabor            Tribunals toexpedite
resolution of labor disputes.

7.     Drafting of laws are taking place outside the Ministry of Justice and they cannot take
leadership in legal reforms as the policy formulation is under the purview of the line ministries.
Therefore,the Ministry believes that this component need notbe continued.

                                              - 5-



8.      Judicial training is a 'keycomponent   of the project. However, given the absorptive
capacity of thejudiciary, the Government intends to scale down the training program. Therefore
it will be confined to local training carriedout by retired judges, sector specialists,visiting
expatriatesand Sri Lankan legalexperts along with few overseastrainingprograms.

9.     Under thejudicial administrativereforms component the Governmenthasagreedtodrop
some components(such as the revision of forms), but would proceedwith the computerization of
selected courts, training of staff on use of computers, collating of judicial statistics, and
introduction of modem court and case management. Special studies would be carried out and
action plans formulated to improvehuman resourcemanagement and planning.

10.    There is very strong commitmentand        technical capacity for the court construction
component. The delay is more due to the fact that this is linked to administrativereforms. IDA
has lifted the moratorium on construction as the Government has agreedtoproceedwith
substantial administrative reforms as indicated above. However, IDA has decidedtodropthe
construction of Judges Training Institute as the Governmentfeels that it is notrequiredat
present. Nevertheless, the refurbishment of the Judicial Services Commissiontofacilitate
administrativereforms will be continued.

11.     The new administrationhas revived the automationof Company Registry andannounced
their commitmentin their recent economicpolicy statement.

12.    The Ministry of Justice has requestedfunds      for computerequipmentfor        the Labor
Tribunals which will facilitate the resolution of labor disputes within a stipulated time frame
Given the radical reforms that the Government has implementedso far, providing equipmentwill
expedite the enforcement of 4-3-2 formula for severance. IDA has agreed to provide funds for
this purpose and the Governmentwillundertake the training and infrastructure improvements
required to accommodatecomputer equipment.

13.    Based on the considerations outlinedabove, the project team considersthat the proposed
restructuring would result in the achievement of development objectives of the Project. A copy
of the Letter of Amendmentto the borrower and of the MOU are availableupon request.

