Report No. PID6350
Project Name                     Sri Lanka-Legal and Judicial (@)
Reforms Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Financial Adjustment
Project ID                       LKPE44809
Borrower(s)                      GOSL
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND THE
JUDICIAL SERVICES COMMISSION
Project Implementation and Coordination Unit
Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs
2nd F, North Wing, Sayuru Sevana
46/12, Nawam Mawatha
Colombo 2, SRI LANKA
Contact Person: Ms. Thusitha D. Pilapitiya,
Project Director
Tel: 94-1-478452-3
Fax: 94-1-478451
Email: thusitha@eureka.lk
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                August 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October 1999
Projected Board Date             June 20, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The challenges facing Sri Lanka in the 21st century include "second
generation" structural reform issues such as legal and judicial reform.
Successful implementation of such reforms entails a long term commitment
to the process of consensus building in order to ensure ownership among
the stakeholders as well as the general public. There is agreement among
the stakeholders that legal and judicial reform is needed to improve the
policy environment for private sector development, to improve the
performance of the state, to increase access for the poor to protect their
individual and property rights, and facilitate peaceful dispute resolution
for ethnic and other discriminatory practices. Sri Lanka's civil
conflict, which began in 1983, has given rise to regional disparities on
both the poor and new vulnerable groups such as war widows, victims of
abuse, and the physically challenged.The main challenge for the legal and
judicial system in Sri Lanka is to improve its efficiency, predictability,
access and transparency. Such improvements are part of the Government's
overall long term strategy. Some of the main obstacles include delays in
the judiciary; a perception of a lack of transparency; lack of access to
dispute resolution by the poor; and lack of access to legal information by
the public, the legal profession as well as the judiciary. The lack of
technology also inhibits the sharing and dissemination to the general
public of judicial decisions as well as the laws that protect individual
and property rights.       Government Strategy: The Government strategy is
three-fold. First, the Government is committed to modernize the



commercial legal framework to promote private sector activities as well as
to strengthen the judiciary as an institution. While the Government has
recognized the need for a comprehensive reform for a considerable time, an
effective mechanism and process is yet to be established to prioritize
areas of reform, to build consensus among stakeholders, and to manage the
legislative reform process. Secondly, although there are many elements
of legal and judicial reform that could be addressed, the Government has
chosen to implement reform in a phased approach with sequencing that
includes focused activities that will allow the results to foster further
longer term reform efforts. Thirdly, although considerable progress has
been made in reforming the laws relating to civil and criminal laws, laws
relating to commercial matters have not received sufficient attention
yet. For instance, the Company Law, Consumer Protection, and Intellectual
Property Law are currently undergoing reform but have not been finalized.
2. Objectives
The broad project development objectives are to improve upon the existing
legal and judicial framework by making it more efficient, transparent and
responsive to the needs of the public at large and of the private sector
in particular. More specifically, the project seeks to: (a) modernize
the legislative framework that impacts private sector activity; (b)
improve the administration, monitoring, and regulatory functions of the
Company Registry; and (c) build capacity of the judiciary and other
institutions providing dispute resolution services. The proposed project
will support the Government of Sri Lanka's long term legal and judicial
reform program, and includes a selected set of priority activities
identified by the Government as a first phase of this program.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The GOSL has requested assistance from the Bank because of its comparative
advantage in this area, given its experience in private sector development
and legal and judicial reform. Due to its experiences in countries around
the world instituting similar reforms in the legal and judicial sector in
particular, the Bank can also facilitate important cross-fertilization. In
addition, IDA support will complement, in a much broader sense, the
efforts and programs by other donors, such as USAID, the Asia Foundation,
UNOPS and Swedish SIDA.
4. Description
The project is composed of three main components: Legal Reform, Company
Registry Reform, and Judicial Reform. The Legal Reform component has
three subcomponents: a) the Commercial Law Development subcomponent aims
to address weaknesses in the legal and regulatory framework that have
adverse impacts on private sector activity, the business environment, and
investor confidence through the drafting of new laws in prioritized areas;
b) the Professional Development subcomponent seeks to strengthen the
capacity of the institutions that are responsible for law reform, and
legal education in the area of commercial law will be conducted; and c)
the Access to Justice subcomponent will assist the government in providing
access to accurate and up-to-date legal and judicial information through
the development of an automated and on-line Legal Information Network
(LAWNET). The objective of the Company Registry component is to make the
Office of the Registrar of Companies (ORC) a more efficient,
market-oriented, and increasingly self-sustaining service provider through
improvements to the ORC's administrative, management, and regulatory
- 2-



capacities. The Judicial Reform component has four subcomponents: a) the
Judicial Training component will entail the institutionalization and
systemization of judicial and judicial support personnel training; b) the
Judicial Services Commission (JSC) subcomponent will assist the JSC to
undertake a fundamental reorganization of its own administrative structure
and of the administrative structure of the court system as a whole,
including court and case management; c) the Model Courts subcomponent will
introduce the administrative reforms developed through the JSC on the
local level at twenty-five selected court-clusters, on a trial basis,
together with the necessary infrastructure modificaiton; and d) the
Mediation subcomponent will assist in the development of a formal
mediation system for commercial disputes under the auspices of the Chamber
of Commerce and the training of professional mediators, to help relieve
the demand on the court system.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               2.94
IBRD
IDA                      18.19
Total Project Cost       21.14
6. Implementation
Project implementation will be overseen by a Steering Committee, will be
chaired by His Lordship Chief Justice of Sri Lanka. In addition, the
Committee will be made up of: the Attorney General, one additional judge
from the Sri Lanka Supreme Court, the Secretary of the Ministry of
Justice, the Secretary of the Ministry of Internal and International Food
and Commerce, the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal
Draftsman, the Secretary of the Judicial Services Commission, the Private
Secretary to the Honorable Minister of Justice, Constitutional Affairs,
Ethnic Affairs, and National Integration, and an adviser. The PICU is
responsible for administering the day-to-day implementation of the Project
with relevant implementing institutions, and will be accountable to the
Steering Committee. The implementing institutions will include: the
Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General's Office, the Office of the
Registrar of Companies, the Judiciary, the Judicial Services Commission,
the Ministry of Internal and International Food and Commerce, Chambers of
Commerce, law schools, and bar associations.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of benefits from institutional reforms in judicial and
legal institutions, like institutional reform in general, requires
consensus and a broad participation from the legal community as well as
the civil society. Therefore a careful and broad participatory approach
is planned to build internal consensus leading to reforms. GOSL is
seeking consensus on project design and project performance monitoring
indicators from judges, the Bar Association, NGOs, the business community,
and other key organizations. On financial aspects, project design will
address the issues of cost recovery (LAWNET and Office of Registrar of
Companies) and financing of recurrent costs with assistance from the
Ministry of Finance.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from other TA efforts in Sri Lanka: Given that TA components in
- 3 -



IDA-financed projects are slow to disburse and often difficult to
administer, projects need to be highly focused and selective in the
components included. In addition, IDA's experience in country is that as
much preparation as possible needs to be done prior to project
implementation. Toward that end, a Project Preparation Fund (US$450,000)
was approved in June 1997 to assist GOSL in preparing as many project
components ahead of time, and an additional PPF was signed in 1999 in
order to finance preliminary preparatory activities to ensure smooth
implementation (US$560,000). Lessons from Bank/IDA Legal TA in Other
Countries: Despite the novelty of the area, the Bank's experience with
legal and judicial reform programs has shown that these projects in
particular present challenges in their formulation and implementation.
Because the reform programs often affect the balance of power among the
various branches of government, and because efforts at reforming the
judiciary can be impeded by pressure from vested interests, strong
government committment is critical the success of these programs. This
project has the governmental committment for it to be successful and
committees and working groups with broad representation have been created
to protect against vested interests. Furthermore, legal and judicial
reform is a long term process; reforms are often implemented in stages.
Ideally, the sequencing of such stages should take into account the
government's priorities as well as the country's capacity to implement
such reforms. For this reason, the project has been focused with
activities that have achievable goals and that can lay groundwork for
further reforms. An additional lesson is that wholesale importation of
legal systems may not be appropriate. While comparative law experience is
an extremely important source of guidance, any lessons learned should be
adapted to national legal systems and the particular requirements of the
society concerned. The project will use policy papers from which to
prepare draft laws, and in addition, the comparative perspective of
foreign experts will be fused with the knowledge of the local legal
community.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project will have no negative environmental
impacts. Positive impact on the environment is expected from enforcing
property rights and contractual obligations, and a general strengthening
of the legal and judicial system in the country. The court construction
and upgrading activities will be implemented in accordance with the
existing building codes, including the provision of adequate water,
sanitation and waste removal facilities. Construction waste will be
handled in an environmentally safe manner. These requirements will be
included in the bidding documents.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Maria Dakolias
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-4962
Fax: 202-522-3091
-4-



12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 18, 2000.
- 5 -



