Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20135-CE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13,600,000
(US$ 18.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORMS PROJECT
May 12, 2000
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 1999)
Currency Unit = LKR
LKR = US$
US$ I = LKR71.50887
FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR       Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanisms
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
ESW       Economic and Sector Work
GOSL    Government of Sri Lanka
GPO       Government Printing Office
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Agency
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
JSC       Judicial Services Commission
LKR       Sri Lankan Rupees
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
ORC       Office of the Registrar of Companies
PICU      Project Implementation and Coordination Unit
PMR       Project Management Reports
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
QCBS    Quality & Cost Based Selection
RFP       Request for Proposal
SOE       Statement of Expenses
SS        Summary Sheets
TA        Technical Assistance
TOR       Terms of Reference
USAID    USAgency for International Development
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
UNOPS   United Nations Office for Project Services
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   Mariana Todorova
Sector Manager/Director:   Marilou Uy
Task Manager:   Maria Dakolias



-3-
SRI LANKA
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORMS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Govemnment strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arTangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
I. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   1 3
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        13
E. Sunimary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          14
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      14
5. Environment                                                                        l 5
6. Social                                                                             15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     16
2. Critical risks                                                                     16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     17



-4-
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             17
2. Other                                                                               17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           19
Annex 2: Project Descliption                                                              24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          29
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            30
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                31
Annex 6- Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        32
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      41
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    42
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   43
Annex 10: Countr-y at a Glance                                                            45
MAP(S)



SRI LANKA
Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
LEGLR
Date: May 12, 2000                                 Team Leader: Maria Dakolias
Country Manager/Director: Mariana Todorova         Sector Manager/Director: Marilou Jane D. Uy
Project ID: P044809                                 Sector(s): FF - Financial Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Public Sector; Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
C Loan          M Credit        FLI Grant        D Guarantee     LI Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 18.2 million
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard (a variable                    Service charge 0.75%
rate between 0 and 0.5% of the
undisbursed Credit balance annual, set
by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Financing Plan:     Source                                    Local          Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                       2.94            0.00           2.94
IDA                                                              10.17           8.03          18.19
Total:                                                           13.11           8.03          21.14
Borrower: GOSL
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND THE JUDICIAL SERVICES COMMISSION
Project Implementation and Coordination Unit
Address: Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs
2nd F, North Wing, Sayuru Sevana
46/12, Nawam Mawatha
Colombo 2, SRI LANKA
Contact Person: Ms. Thusitha D. Pilapitiya, Project Director
Tel: 94-1-478452-3                 Fax: 94-1-478451                 Email: thusitha@eureka.lk
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY           200 1       2002    1   2003         2004         2005
Annual      3.2           5.8          5.7         2.4         1.1
Cumulative     3.2           9.0         14.7        17.1         18.2
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
Xs PAU Fwr FRv Maiah 2M00



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The broad project development objectives are to improve upon the existing legal and judicial framework by
making it more efficient, transparent and responsive to the needs of the public at large and of the private
sector in particular. More specifically, the project seeks to: (a) modeinize the legislative fiamework that
impacts private sector activity; (b) improve the administration, monitoring, and regulatory functions of the
Company Registry; and (c) build capacity of the judiciary and other institutions providing dispute
resolution services. The proposed project will support the Government of Sri Lanka's long term legal and
judicial reform program, and includes a selected set of priority activities identified by the Governnent as a
first phase of this program.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key Performance Indicators for the Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
§     Improved transparency in legal reform process, through increased consultation with stakeholders.
§     Increased compliance with Company Registry Law.
§     Number of successful mediations.
§     Increased number of judgments written with the use of information technology.
§     Increased number of professionals trained in commerical law.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)   Document number: 15633-LK (5/21/96)
(12/23/98 Progress Report)                Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/19/99
Sri Lanka's economic growth performance in recent years has been a result of increased foreign investment
and exports as well as market-oriented reforms. However, to sustain this growth the country needs further
reforms in the policy, regulatory, and institutional frameworks that affect the private sector. The current
CAS focuses on Sri Lanka's need to complete the transition to a market economy while reinforcing the
country's deep commitment to equity and social development. In addition, improvements in the policy
environment and incentive framework to promote private investment are needed. The CAS also refers to the
need to improve govemance as well as reduce corruption, and encouraged the Government to engage
stakeholders - including Parliamentarians, business, labor, and NGOs - in policy decision-making.
As discussed in the December 28, 1998 CAS Progress Report and the CAS discussion of January 19,
1999, supporting the government's efforts to promote sustainable private-sector led growth by
strengthening the legal and judicial framework is one of the CAS's goals. In addition, support for the
judicial sector is cited as a necessary element to improve governance and reduce corruption. The proposed
project will assist the govermnent to address some of the systemic weaknesses in the legal and judicial
systems. It will support, through technical and financial assistance, the development of an improved legal
service for the further promotion of private sector activity, and accountability of the govemment as well as
the judiciaiy itself.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The challenges facing Sri Lanka in the 21 st century include "second generation" structural reform issues
such as legal and judicial reform. Successful implementation of such reforms entails a long term
commitment to the process of consensus building in order to ensure ownership among the stakeholders as
well as the general public. There is agreement among the stakeholders that legal and judicial reform is
needed to improve the policy environment for private sector development, to improve the performance of
the state, to increase access for the poor to protect their individual and property rights, and facilitate
peaceful dispute resolution for ethnic and other discriminatory practices. Sri Lanka's civil conflict, which
began in 1983, has given rise to regional disparities on both the poor and new vulnerable groups such as
war widows, victims of abuse, and the physically challenged.
The main challenge for the legal and judicial system in Sri Lanka is to improve its efficiency, predictability,
access and transparency. Such improvements are part of the Government's overall long term strategy.
Some of the main obstacles include delays in the judiciary; a perception of a lack of transparency; lack of
access to dispute resolution by the poor; and lack of access to legal information by the public, the legal
profession as well as the judiciary. In addition, as much of the law is written in English, the inadequate use
of English within the legal education system, which also permeates the judiciary, is another pressing
challenge. The lack of technology also inhibits the sharing and dissemination to the general public of
judicial decisions as well as the laws that protect individual and property rights.
Beyond these basic obstacles, the Sri Lankan legal system has several deficiencies with regard to enforcing
property rights and contracts. Some of these are due to the unique nature of Sri Lanka's legal system,
while others can be attributed to the workings of the legal and judicial systems. The most important issues
that impact the financial sector include: dated laws that have not kept up with changes in business practices
and the development of new products and policy instruments, including financial and labor markets; lack of
relevant, up-to-date information on laws and their enforcement, as well as the weak enforcement capacity
of the legal system, leading to long delays in resolving litigation in both the courts and in alternative dispute
settlement mechanisms; poor court and property records; and judges inadequately trained on business and
economic matters. Moreover, the law school curricula has not kept up to date with the changing business
environment leaving graduating law students ill prepared to practice law either as attorneys in private
practice, or working for the government. While critical in the long-run, most actions including training of
judges, expansion of the number of courts, improvements in other dispute settlement mechanisms, and
review of legislation, are of more medium-term nature.
In addition, recent studies undertaken in Sri Lanka reveal that weaknesses in the legal, regulatory and
institutional frameworks adversely impact on private sector activity. A Private Sector Assessment carried
out by the World Bank in 1993 reviewed the environment for private sector development and identified a
number of problem areas; these include barriers to entry and exit, rigidity and distortion in the markets,
outdated legislation and weak enforcement, burdensome legal requirements, and long and costly court
proceedings for dispute resolution. Furthermore, the absence of adequate legislation on foreign investment,
intellectual property rights, utility regulation, anti-competitive behavior, inter alia, undermine
private-sector confidence and deter the country's long tern access to capital, management expertise,
technology advances and increased markets. In particular, the Company Registry--the only venue for
secured transactions in Sri Lanka--does not fulfill its mission of providing accurate and current data on Sri
Lankan firns to potential investors.
In order to appreciate these challenges, it is useful to have an understanding of the legal framework and its
history. The legal system of Sri Lanka has developed through the introduction of different legal systems
-3 -



throughout the history of the Island. Critical to the legal system of Sri Lanka was the introduction of
Roman - Dutch law by the Dutch. The Dutch established an elaborate system of courts in the occupied
areas. The sources of the classical Roman Dutch Law were statutes, treaties, opinions of jurists, decisions
of the courts and custom. Roman Dutch Law remains the basic jurisprudence or the residual law in Sri
Lanka.
The laws of Sri Lanka were greatly expanded during the British period (1796-1948), although the Roman
Dutch law, the Kandyan Law of the Sinhalese, the Tesawalamai Law of the Tamils, and Muslim Law
continued to be in force, following British colonial policy. The introduction of English ideas and concepts
of law, English methods ofjudicial administration and organization reshaped the legal fiamework of the
country. The Charter of Justice of 1833 amalgamated the Kandyan and other systems of courts, and set up
an unified system of courts for Sri Lanka. The structures of judicial administration and organization set up
during this time were not substantially altered until 1972. The 1978 constitution established a judicial
system comprising of a Supreme Court with three courts in session, one Court of Appeal with six to seven
courts in session, 25 High Courts, 77 District Courts, 92 Magistrate Courts and 18 Primary Courts which
currently have approximately 220 judges and 3,000 court employees working for the judicial system.
Today, the influence of the common law system which originated in England exercises a much greater
influence than the Roman Dutch law. Statutes are the primary source of law, but where there is no
applicable statutoly principle, the courts will refer to judicial decisions. Because of this, access to legal
information is imperative throughout the country; decisions based on precedent require up-to-date and
accurate judicial decisions. There are also instances when local laws may be applied to different ethnic
groups especially with regard to personal matters such as marriage, divorce, and inheritance.
Government Strategy- The Government strategy is three-fold. First, the Government is committed to
modernize the commercial legal framework to promote private sector activities as well as to strengthen the
judiciary as an institution. While the Government has recognized the need for a comprehensive reform for a
considerable time, an effective mechanism and process is yet to be established to prioritize areas of reforn,
to build consensus among stakeholders, and to manage the legislative reform process. Secondly, although
there are many elements of legal and judicial reform that could be addressed, the Government has chosen to
implement reform in a phased approach with sequencing that includes focused activities that will allow the
results to foster further longer term reform efforts. Thirdly, although considerable progress has been made
in reforming the laws relating to civil and criminal laws, laws relating to commercial matters have not
received sufficient attention yet. For instance, the Company Law, Consumer Protection, and Intellectual
Property Law are currently undergoing reform but have not been finalized.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
On the basis of the above, the Government has requested IDA assistance for a Legal and Judicial Refolrms
Project which will address: (a) modernization of the legislative framework which impacts private sector
activity including the provision of up-to-date information on laws and legal decisions and upgrading
commercial law curricula at the three tertiary institutions; (b) capacity building of institutions that provide
service to the private sector, through improvements to the Office of the Registrar of Companies; (c)
improvement of the efficiency and quality of judicial services. This will serve as a first stage in the legal
and judicial reform process.
Strengthening the legal and regulatory framework: Currently, for a new law to be considered by the
Parliament, the Ministry of Justice drafts the law and presents it to Parliament for its approval. The lack of
participation, or transparency, in developing new laws leads to laws that are irrelevant to society's needs,
-4 -



and also leads to delays in revamping existing laws due to strong resistance. A Law Commission was
adopted in 1969 to oversee the applicability and relevance of laws. The Commission was charged with the
oversight of existing and new laws, and revision of those laws deemed inapplicable or irrelevant. In recent
times, the Law Commission has been severely under-funded, strongly reducing its efficacy. The end result
has been that many laws which are on the books are outdated and draft laws which are prepared are
shelved because of lack of participation in the drafting process, leading to opposition. The project will
address legal drafting with an effort to improve its process for greater possibility of consensus.
Need for Professional Development: Inadequate preparation of judicial officials, law students, and
lawyers is a serious detriment to the status of Sri Lanka' s Legal and Judicial system. For example,
lawyers in the Attorney General's office provide advisory services in Commercial and Business law for
state-owned enterprises, including insurance companies and banks. The Commercial Section of the
Attorney General's office has twelve lawyers, three of whom are Deputy Solicitors General. When
necessary, this Section expands to include lawyers from the Civil Section to handle the workload. The
overall level of training in commercial law is not sufficient to cope with the demands that result from the
pace of development due to the country's economic growth.
Lawyers, the business community, and the general public are often poorly informned regarding changes to
the legal and regulatory frameworks. Toward this end, the government wishes to promote increased public
awareness through educational campaigns, and in improved access to legal and judicial data -- including
inter alia laws, rulings, and decrees. Currently, records are not kept in a central location, many are unique
(with no back-up copy), and are difficult to access and retrieve since they are kept primarily on paper.
This impacts the enforcement of law, as well as the quality of judicial decisions and the efficiency of the
court.
Law students are similarly disadvantaged in their training, as they are ill prepared to deal with commercial
cases due to outdated curricula, teaching styles, and resources. Law school curricula in Sri Lanka's three
law schools have not kept pace with the new developments in commercial law which directly impacts
private sector activities. The gaps in the cutTicula impact the quality of the graduates and attorneys-at-law
who enter legal and judicial services. Law libraries are woefully lacking in up-to-date law texts, and
journals dealing with these new areas. Due to the importance of a quality legal education, the development
or enhancement of institutions involved in legal education can have significant benefits for the functioning
of legal and judicial systems.
Access to the Law: There is a pressing need for access to legal information by the judiciary, lawyers,
academics, the government, and the private sector. Today, the information is fragmented, located in
different places, and difficult to access. There is no central agency active in the dissemination of amended
laws or judicial decisions. Access to current legislation is a problem faced not only by lawyers, but also
judges. This access is crucial for judges to make sound judicial decisions; the lack of this information can
lead to unnecessary appeals, contributing to the delays at higher courts. Law reform and the training of
lawyers, judges, and law students will not be sustainable if these groups are unable to continuously access
up-to-date information on laws and judicial decisions.
Outdated Companies Registry: The Office of the Registrar of Companies is responsible for
implementing and enforcing the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982. The objectives of the Office are to
provide an enabling legislative framework of rights and responsibilities for businesses and societies and
their stakeholders; to provide an efficient and accessible repository of key business data for commercial,
government, and consumer activities; and to provide regulatory enforcement to ensure the accuracy and
currency of business data and to maintain the legislative framework. The main work processes that support
- 5-



the Office's operations include: a) incorporation of businesses and other types of companies (including
name approval); b) post-incorporations activities, such as the filing of company information updates
(including company name changes); c) registration of information concerning company secretaries,
societies, and public contracts; d) registration of charges created by registered companies; e) provision of
access to public records and production of certified copies; f) registration of mortgages and trust receipts;
g) document verification and authentication; and h) fee collection and reconciliation. The validity and
accuracy of this information is of particular importance for investors, especially foreign investors, to make
informed decisions on secured transactions.
Currently the ORC does not perform to a satisfactory standard neither with respect to its administrative
operation nor regarding its regulatory function and cannot cope with the growing business activities. First,
the ORC's operation is manual and paper-based, making it slow and inefficient. Overall, there is a lack of
qualified, trained personnel, which impedes the ORC's regulatory function. The lengthy process, use of
numerous forms, and confusing fee scales makes document management and record-keeping difficult,
resulting in delays in providing accurate and quality services, growing public dissatisfaction and
frustration, and confused and frustrated ORC staff. Because there are single copies of company
documents, document security is very low, and the Office is vulnerable to falsification and/or loss of
documents. Staff who are not sufficiently trained and the lack of adequate training material are further
problems. Lack of communication with clients creates difficulties, as many staff are unaware of legislative
and operational changes. Furthermore, there is a lack of compliance by companies with regulatory
requirements due to inadequate supervision and enforcement from the registry, resulting in partial, out of
date data, or missing infornation on the companies. Close to 50 percent of the companies are not current
with their reporting of their annual retums and changes in the companies status. The fees raised for filings
-- which are more user-fees than perceived prohibitive costs -- provide for cost-recovery. Any
improvements in cost recovery would likely cover costs associated with increases in personnel for the
regulatory (e.g., verification and enforcement) aspects of the ORC.
Need for Judicial Reforms: CurTently, the Sri Lankan judicial system is confronted with major problems
in terms of quality and speed as reflected in the high case backlog. Recent studies undertaken have
identified that weaknesses in the legal framework and judicial services constitute a major constraint
hindering private sector activity, and hence the achievement of higher sustained economic growth.
The governance structure of the judiciary includes the Judicial Services Commission which consists of one
chief judge and two other judges as well as 89 personnel. The JSC is responsible for development and
implementation of policies, including the selection, promotion, discipline, and transfer of lower court judges
and court personnel. They are also responsible for providing court statistics and general administration
issues. The JSC receives and, at least in theory, should investigate and respond to these complaints against
judges as well as court personnel. Many of the complaints received refer to delay, incompetence and
improper conduct. Currently, the JSC cannot caiTy out its administrative functions effectively due to a lack
of qualified staff. There is no systematic planning mechanism, human resource issues are not given
necessary attention, and management information and statistical reporting is done on an ad hoc basis,
leading to inaccurate data which is hard to monitor over time. Another constraint faced by the courts is the
lack of basic amenities required for a modem judiciary as most buildings have not been repaired in many
years. Most courts are in urgent need of renovation, as well as new furniture and office equipment.
A large number of cases are filed each year in Sri Lanka's courts, and the courts are not able to meet this
demand. Five year delays, or more, have become the norm. Court management is not automated, and the
courts lack modem case management. Mediation, has been court annexed for the past five years. It is
required at the primary court level as well as for cases below Rs.25,000 in the District Court, and is
- 6-



regarded as a successful addition to the judicial process. Parties use the mediation boards and must receive
a certificate before they proceed in the courts. Some judges conduct mediation themselves in order to speed
up the process of settlement; 90% of family cases have reached settlement.
Though a separate Commercial Court -- dedicated to resolving commercial disputes -- was created,
commercial dispute resolution is still inefficient. Some altemative dispute resolution mechanisms have
proven to be as costly and protracted as litigation. Arbitration was usually done by retired judges in their
spare time, and counsel are often too busy to devote sufficient time to the proceedings. The government
recently enacted a new arbitration law, which would make the process more effective.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of    financing!  Bank-
(US$M)    TotaI      (US$MI  financing
LEGAL REFORM:                       Institutional       6.14       29.0       5.53      30.4
Development
COMPANY REGISTRY                   Institutional        1.60        7.6       1.36       7.5
IMPROVEMENTS                        Development
JUDICIAL REFORM                     Institutional      10.98       51.9       9.15      50.3
Development
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                  Institutional       1.41        6.7       1.15       6.3
Development
PROJECT PREPARATION                                      1.01       4.8       1.01       5.5
FACILITY
Total Project Costs                    21.14      100.0      18.20     100.0
Total Financing Required                    21.14       100.0     18.20      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Legal and Judicial Reformns Project was developed on the premise that a comprehensive and integrated
approach is required to achieve a maximum reform impact for sustainable development. A modem set of
laws is of minimal use unless there are trained lawyers to practice those laws. Similarly, court personnel
dealing with these issues must also be trained in order to effectively respond to the business community and
lawyers. The judiciary also should be prepared to efficiently and effectively hear and adjudicate on the new
laws argued by lawyers in a modem, professional environment. Therefore, the activities in the following
sections include technical assistance, training, capacity building, and infrastructure improvements as
appropriate. These activities are divided into three priority areas: legal reform; company registly
improvements; and judicial reform and dispute resolution. Each of the project subcomponents are
discussed briefly below. For a more detailed description of the project components, see Annex 2.
I      Legal Reform
-7 -



IA.    Commercial Law Development: The institutional development activities envisioned under this
component include support to the Government in enacting a modern legislative and regulatory framework,
and enacting procedural changes through a process that will enable all stakeholders to participate in the
drafting of new laws. Stakeholders will convene with the Government to draw up policy papers, which will
later be fleshed out into laws, or amendments to laws, thereby creating consensus for the reforms. This
subcomponent will include the contracting of experts to advise the Gove-rnment on new legislation, and
workshops/consultations with the stakeholders on the legislation, as well as other activities required in the
drafting of necessaiy laws and legislation (e.g., printing).
IB.    Professional Development: The professional development subcomponent seeks to train lawyers,
judges, and court personnel on new legislation that affects the business community. The institutional
development activities envisioned include: short-term and medium-term training programs on new
legislation for the Attomey General's office, short-term training programs for the national Bar Association;
an overhaul of the country's commercial law curricula; improvements to law library holdings to support the
revamping of the law curricula; and a public awareness and communication campaign. This subcomponent
will finance training, consultants services to develop new law school curricula and train the law faculty;
purchase of goods (e.g., books and other materials) for law libraries; and consulting services for the public
awareness and communications campaign.
IC.     Access to Law/LAVWNET: This subcomponent is aimed at improving the overall access to legal
informnation by the judiciary, lawyers, academics, the government and the private sector through the
development of a computerized, internet-based LAWNET. Information available on the LAWNET would
include: (a) statutes passed by the central and provincial governments; (b) government regulations; (c) case
information/court decisions; and (d) extracts of selected law textbooks. This infoirnation would be
accessible on a pilot basis. There are two inter-related activities which will be considered simultaneously
for the development of this project component. The first activity is to develop a system for collection,
compilation, automation, and dissemination of the above mentioned information. This task requires
significant up-front data entry, purchasing of required equipment, and strategy for information sharing and
dissemination. Second, is the design of an institutional structure capable of maintaining the LAWNET
up-to-date and provide services to the end user on a sustained basis. This organization would recover the
cost of its operations and be profitable. A committee consisting of representatives from the legal, judicial,
academic, and private sector was formed to develop a strategy for the implementation of this program. In
addition, a pilot will be tested first prior to advancing on a full scale effort. This pilot comprises of a
complete service process from creation and maintenance of the database to dissemination of the end
products. Consulting selvices, as well as some procurement of goods will be included.
II.    Improvements to the Company Registly: The objective of the improvements envisioned under the
Office of the Registrar of Companies (ORC) component is to make the ORC a market-oriented,
self-financing service provider that ensures that its monitoring and regulatory functions are carried out
expeditiously through institution building and training.
This component will address these issues through: (a) restructuring of the ORC's organization to improve
the efficiency of the Office's business procedures through fundamental organizational reform measures; (b)
developing the necessary skills among current staff as well as recruiting staff with adequate qualifications
in order for the ORC to achieve its mission; and (c) modernization and computerization of the ORC
through a turn-key contract awarded to a service provider as a means of strengthening the functions of the
institution and its capacity to better perform its monitoring and regulatory functions. Some refurbishment
will take place in the existing premises of the ORC to house the proposed on-site automation. Many of
these changes need to be carTied out in parallel to achieve the expected result. A steering committee of
-8 -



major stakeholders (i.e. clients of the registry) will be formed once the project is approved to provide
feedback and advice. The component will include training, consultancies, services, minor refurbishment,
and some goods.
Although the new Companies Act has not been passed by Parliament, it is in Bill form with presentation
forthcoming, and enhancements to the registry should proceed. A further review of the current and
proposed legislation will take place in order to determine any amendments that may be necessary to achieve
optimal benefit from the restructuring.
III. Judicial Reform: In order to overcome case backlogs, the project has a number of subcomponents to
reinforce judicial reform throughout the justice system. This includes: judicial training, judicial
administrative reform (Judicial Services Commission), model courts, and mediation. The training
subcomponent will entail the institutionalization and systemization of judicial and judicial support
personnel training, hitherto conducted on an ad hoc basis. The administrative reforn subcomponent will
assist the Judicial Services Commission, the administrative body for the court system as a whole, to
undertake a fundamental reorganization of its own administrative structure and of the administrative
structure of the court system as a whole, including court and case management as well as improve its
ability to manage the disciplinary process. A judicial sector analysis will be carried out to facilitate the
reforms designed by the JSC as well as to further a judicial reform strategy. The model courts
subcomponent will introduce the administrative reforms developed through the JSC on the local level at up
to 25 selected court-clusters, on a trial basis, together with necessary infrastructure and modification. An
additional two courts at Trincomalee and Jaffna will also undertake the same reforms, with new
construction of courts. This will include establishment of public information centers; user surveys will be
conducted to pinpoint improvements. The mediation subcomponent will assist in the development of a
formal mediation system for commercial disputes under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce and will
include the training of professional mediators, as a means to relieve the demand on the court system.
IV. Project Management: This component will include the costs of the PICU, including training, technical
assistance, some equipment, and some operational costs necessary to implement this project.
3. Benefits and target population:
A sustainable process of legal and judicial reforms will have an effect on the staff of the judiciary, the
litigants, the lawyers, government agencies as well law students and professors. The project will improve
the access, efficiency, quality and transparency of legal information and dispute resolution. This will have
an indirect effect on the poor through improvements in the courts and access to information from the
Company Registry, leading to higher investor confidence in Sri Lanka's commercial sector, and hopefully in
tum boosting private sector investment. Specifically, the project will ensure proper filings are made with
the Company Registry and improvements in the model courts will provide more access to dispute
resolution. In addition, the judicial sector assessment will identify additional areas of reform which could
be prepared by other donors or in other projects which will promote the government's longer term strategy
for legal and judicial reform.
-g



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation will be overseen by a Steering Committee, will be chaired by His Lordship Chief
Justice of Sri Lanka. In addition, the Committee will be made up of: the Attomey General, one additional
judge firom the Sri Lanka Supreme Court, the Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, the Secretary of the
Ministry of Internal and Intemnational Food and Commerce, the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, the
Legal Draftsman, the Secretary of the Judicial Services Commission, the Private Secretary to the
Honorable Minister of Justice, Constitutional Affairs, Ethnic Affairs, and National Integration, and an
adviser (a retired judge of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka). The role of the Steering Committee is to
oversee and monitor the project's progress and to provide policy guidance. Specifically, the Steering
Committee will facilitate coordination and oversight, advise the Project Implementation and Coordination
Unit (PICU), and review progress reports.
The PICU is responsible for administering the day-to-day implementation of the Project with relevant
agencies or institutions, and will be accountable to the Steering Committee. The PICU will be headed by a
Project Director, who will be appointed by the Ministry of Justice, subject to approval by the Steering
Committee and acceptable to IDA. In addition, the PICU will consist of a Project Coordinator for the
Judicial Components, nominated by the Chief Justice. The Project Officer, a Finance and Administration
Officer, a Procurement Specialist, one Engineer, an Accountant, and other staff as agreed to with IDA, will
be appointed by the Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Since there are several implementing institutions
that are beneficiaries of this project, the PICU will also coordinate the various components, however, it is
important that each institution have ownership and independence in its decision-making authority.
Financial Management: The PICU will be responsible for the financial management of the project. The
PICU, which will be a single point coordinating unit, will record all financial transactions of the project
and will be responsible for managing the proceeds of the credit as well as counterpart funds. The financial
management system to be adopted by the PICU has been reviewed and found satisfactory (further details in
annex 6) and the project is expected to have sufficient capacity to commence under the PMR based
disbursement procedure. Project accounts will be maintained on a cash basis of accounting in a manual
system. PICU is expected to complete the process of computerization of project accounts by December 31,
2000.
Project accounts will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association. The TOR and the
shortlist of audit firms have been reviewed and cleared by IDA. The auditor is expected to be appointed by
credit effectiveness date. The PICU will be responsible for rendering the project accounts for audit in a
timely manner. Audited project financial statements, including project accounts, project management
reports and special account statements, will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each
fiscal year. In addition, the auditor will submit annual and semi-annual management letters to the PICU;
these will be submitted to IDA within six months and three months after the end of the relevant period.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In general, although there are many issues to tackle in the legal and judicial reform area in Sri Lanka, it
was agreed that it would be important to strictly focus the first project on certain areas within the
government's long-term plan. Legal and judicial reform is clearly a long term process: the range of legal
and regulatory issues identified in the ESW as well as pressing needs described in the CAS was too large to
be addressed by one single project. While the focus of this project is on commercial law, the activities to be
financed will have a positive impact on the rule of law in general. Other areas considered, but rejected,
- 1 0 -



include: land titling and regulation, reform of the entire judicial system, a large infrastructure component,
civil service reform, and access to justice. The reasons for not including these areas in this project are
described briefly below.
The importance of agriculture in the country's economy lead to the adoption of a separate project in land
registration and regulation, another pressing area of reform. Another alternative considered, but rejected,
was to tackle the entire judicial system. This project will only serve as one of the many stages of reform
with a select number of courts that will test new processes which can later be revised and expanded.
Although there are many aspects of judicial reform, this project addresses the court and case management
aspects as a priority. This will both benefit the users as well as the court staff including judges. In this
way, the project was designed to include activities that allowed for an integrated reform to achieve
improved delivery of services. In addition, a project with a large infrastructure component was also
contemplated, but was rejected because of the country's pressing need for substantive reform in the legal
and judicial system. Also, components of civil service reform were considered but were later rejected given
the rigidity of the market. There are many issues related to access to justice within Sri Lanka, and although
general improvement in the efficiency, quality and transparency of the judiciary will necessarily improve
access to the public, specific activities related to access will be identified in the project. The project is
viewed as a first step -- albeit limited -- in the reform process. It is hoped that the successes of this project
will create momentum for further reforms.
2. Major related projects fmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
I                            I    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings..
__                          : {~~~~~~~~~Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Legal and Judicial Capacity Building   BANGLADESH: Legal and
Judicial Capacity Building
Project; under preparation,
scheduled for FY 2001.
Land Titling and Reform             SRI LANKA: Land Titling and
Reform; under preparation.
Other development agencies
US AID                              Mediation (court-annexed) case
tracking system in one court in
Colombo.
SIDA                                Support for arbitration.
Asia Foundation                     Support for judicial
perfornance (promotion of
ADR, judge mentor program),
access to justice (legal aid,
NGO legal awareness), and
human rights (monitor election
violence, legal support for
detainees and torture victims).
-11-



UNDP                               Preparation of a project to
strengthen the judiciary, but
components not yet defined.
UNOPS                              Capacity-building for Legal
Draftsmen's Office
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from other TA efforts in Sri Lanka: Given that TA components in IDA-financed projects are slow
to disburse and often difficult to administer, projects need to be highly focused and selective in the
components included. In addition, IDA's experience in country is that as much preparation as possible
needs to be done prior to project implementation. Toward that end, a Project Preparation Fund
(US$450,000) was approved in June 1997 to assist GOSL in preparing as many project components ahead
of time. The PPF helped to finance the creation of the primary Terms of Reference and Bidding
Documents for the first year's procurement activities. An additional PPF was recently signed in order to
finance preliminary preparatory activities to ensure smooth implementation (US$560,000).
Lessons from Bank/IDA Legal TA in Other Countries: Despite the novelty of the area, the Bank's
experience with legal and judicial reform programs has shown that these projects in particular present
challenges in their formulation and implementation. The reform programs often affect the balance of power
among the various branches of government. At the same time, legal and judicial reform is a long term
process; reforms are often implemented in stages. Ideally, the sequencing of such stages should take into
account the government's priorities as well as the country's capacity to implement such reforms. For this
reason, the project has been focused with activities that have achievable goals and that can lay groundwork
for further reforms.
Sector reviews prior to the development of any reform program are also extremely useful. These reviews
become a stock-taking activity to develop the short, medium and longer term priorities. A judicial sector
study will be done prior to carrying out the reforms under the judicial reform/dispute resolution component.
Government -- or country -- ownership of the project is another high priority when developing legal and
judicial reforms. Project ownership, with legal and judicial reform projects in particular, can make the
difference between a successful and unsuccessful project. This project has the government commitment for
it to be successful. In many instances, efforts at reforming the judiciary are impeded by strong pressure
exerted by vested interests which aim at maintaining the status quo or capturing the reform program and
directing it to accommodate their particular interests. Thus committees and working groups with broad
representation have been formed to build coalitions to overcome vested interests.
A participatory approach to project development, implementation, and where possible, supervision, is also
a necessary step in building ownership. Participation is needed to gain ownership and commitment by the
government and stakeholders; some of the stakeholders include different branches of government, bar
associations, law schools, NGOs, and the citizens. The project components benefit many different
stakeholders which allows for greater participation. Participation should include those at the grassroots as
well; legal and judicial reform efforts in particular should not overlook the needs of the people within the
marginalized segments of society who lack the resources to enforce basic rights. These segments of society
will be included through surveys as well as in the public outreach programs. Participation together with
political consensus should assist in achieving sustainability in the reforms.
- 12 -



The fifth lesson is that wholesale importation of legal systems may not be appropriate. While comparative
law experience is an extremely important source of guidance, any lessons learned should be adapted to
national legal systems and the particular requirements of the society concerned. The project will use policy
papers from which to prepare draft laws. In addition, foreign experts can provide a comparative
perspective, but this instance will be fused with the knowledge of the local legal community -- the
knowledge of the language, social norms and the social economic factors underpinning the countries'
political structure and legal traditions to create relevant laws.
Other important lessons include:
*      these projects are difficult to evaluate. The Bank is constantly developing and refining
performnance indicators that will allow objective evaluations. For this reason, a selected key indicators have
been chosen for this Project.
coordination among all concerned development institutions multilateral and bilateral, is critical.
Partnerships to share knowledge and experience can enhance legal and judicial programs. Coordination
meetings have been held and will continue throughout the implementation process including the
development of a long term strategy for legal and judicial reform.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The preparation. of this operation has been led by the Minister of Justice and enjoys strong support
throughout the Judiciary, academia, the private sector, as well as other government agencies. A team of
senior government officials and law professors in late 1996 was formed to develop suggested reform
activities within each potential component and has had an impact on, the design process. In addition, the
above mentioned Steering Committee is composed of key members from the legal community who have
contributed to the design process as well as to the participation process. Overall, there has been strong
support for legal and judicial reforms by the stakeholders and specifically in the priorities chosen for this
first phase project.
A PICU was established in December 1998 to carry out the preparation activities. The PICU is staffed
with personnel with judicial reform as well as project related expertise. During the project preparation the
government encouraged and facilitated stakeholders meetings on the project components. There are initial
indications of broad-based support by the private sector, and there will be further consultations with the
primary stakeholders throughout the project.
In early 1999, the government appointed a technical Committee for commercial law reform. The
Committee comprises six prominent Sri Lankan representatives from the Law Commission, Chamber of
Commerce, Federations of Chambers, the Bar Association, and the Attorney General's office. This
technical committee developed the priority areas of reform in commercial legislation that needed reform.
They will continue in this role and consult with stakeholders to revise and modernize existing laws during
project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The GOSL has requested assistance from the Bank because of its comparative advantage in this area, given
its experience in private sector development and legal and judicial reform. Due to its experiences in
countries around the world instituting similar reforms in the legal and judicial sector in particular, the Bank
can also facilitate important cross-fertilization. In addition, IDA support will complement, in a much
broader sense, the efforts and programs by other donors, such as USAID, the Asia Foundation, UNOPS
and Swedish SIDA.
- 13 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
A traditional economic analysis is not feasible for this project due to the nature of the Legal and Judicial
Refonus Project. A cost benefit analysis of individual subprojects will de done, when appropriate.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR   % (see Annex 4)
A financial feasibility study will be undertaken at the completion of the LAWNET pilot to measure market
demand and feasibility of replication.
Fiscal Impact:
N/A
3. Technical:
There are proven methods to improve court administration. Technologies for management and data
gathering have been evaluated to be viable and appropriate for creating model courts and improving
management in registries.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Justice, the Judicial Services Commission, the ORC, the Attomey General's Office, the
law schools, the Bar Association of Sri Lanka, the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, and the Ministiy of
Trade and Commerce are the executing agencies under this project. Many of the agencies involved in
executing the project have never been directly involved in a IDA-financed project. However, many of them
(notably the law schools as well as the Ministiy of Justice) have received some financing from the PPF, and
therefore have some institutional capacity (albeit limited) to implement projects. The Steering Committee
will facilitate project coordination and oversight, advise the project PICU, and review progress reports.
The PICU, with its specialized staff, will report to the Steering Committee and coordinate implementation
of the project components. Working groups will be developed to monitor and motivate the judiciary and
other stakeholders in the reform process.
4.2 Project management:
The PICU is headed by a project manager who is acceptable to the IDA. In order to ensure the
success of the project, it is preferable that this person has a comparative knowledge of judicial
administration systems and previous experience with intemational institutions. This will be important since
the institutions have limited institutional capacity in implementation of projects.
4.3 Procurement issues:
N/A
4.4 Financial management issues:
N/A
- 14 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Sumnmarize the steps undertaken for enviromnental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project will have no negative environmental impacts. Positive impact on the environment is expected
fiom enforcing property rights and contractual obligations, and a general strengthening of the legal and
judicial system in the countty. The court construction and upgrading activities will be implemented in
accordance with the existing building codes, including the provision of adequate water, sanitation and waste
removal facilities. Construction waste will be handled in an environmentally safe manner. These
requirements will be included in the bidding documents.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There is a growing awareness within Sri Lanka of the need for judicial reform. The public's understanding
and access to legal information and efficiency and fair dispute resolution is a high priority. Such access is
important given the internal conflict and the desire for greater assurance of the rule of law and good
governance. This project responds to such needs by improving the access to information through
LAWNET, public awareness campaigns and the implementation of the model courts.
6.2 Participatoiy Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
This project has been developed by the Government with strong stakeholder participation. Bar
associations, law schools, Chambers of Commerce, Judicial Services Commission, and business
associations have been part of the process to date through stakeholder meetings and workshops and this
will continue throughout the legal drafting process, and the model court and company registry
implementation. Moreover, the project will create new venues for public and private sector participation in
judicial reform through the establishment of a number of public outreach offices and activities. One of the
main successes of project preparation has been the wide and continuous commitment and participation by
the stakeholders.
The Ministry of Justice has been at the center of preparation while the Judiciary, Attorney General's office,
the Government Printing Agency, the Company Registry as well as the law schools have also contributed to
the preparation process. This participatory process will continue through the project by means of the
Steering Committee and stakeholder meetings. The participatory process will also focus on determining
- 15 -



whether there is any resistance to a particular reform and developing strategies to mitigate such resistance.
6.3 H4ow does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in tenns of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                       ;             Applicability
O Envirornental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01 GP 4.01)             D Yes l No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   [I Yes Z No
| Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     Cli Yes E No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       l Yes M No
l Cultural Property -*PN 11.03m                Oii Yes Z2 No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   El Yes Z No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             CI Yes   No
ElC Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                             O Yes   No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   El Yes 1 No
L Projects in Disputed Areas LOP 7.60, BP 7.60. GP 7.60)           l Yes 3 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Measures developed under this project will contribute to the sustainability of the judicial reform process.
Moreover, in the case of the LAWNET and Company Registry, these components will become increasingly
self-sustaining during project implementation, financially and institutionally. In addition, measures
developed under this project will contribute to the sustainability of the judicial reform process. The intent
is to build on the results and lessons learned to develop judicial processes that create a more efficient,
effective and transparent process of dispute resolution.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                i  Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Draft laws do not reflect the needs of the  M         Policy papers will be prepared and discussed
changing business environment.                        among interested parties prior to drafting the
laws. Greater stakeholder participation should
ensure consensus-building for the reforms.
- 16 -



LAWNNET, once established, becomes           S        The Legal Draftsmen's Department and Ministry
quickly outdated.                                     of Trade will work together with the Ministiy of
Justice and later in partnership with the private
sector to carry out the activity.
The Judicial Services Committee will not    M         Careful design of the components and training
be able to manage the process of reform               as well as intensive monitoring by qualified
through the Model Courts.                             personnel and careful selection of the
implementation team should ensure that outputs
meet the objectives. Participating courts will
also be selected based on stringent criteria.
From Components to Outputs
Refonn environment complicated by            S        The risk will be offset by strong support by the
vested interests.                                      Steering Committee and the Judiciamy. A
Bar/Bench committee will be established to
manage the change processes.
Capacity of the institutions to implement   M         Personnel will be trained with agreement that
and degree of turnover in personnel as                they will not be transferred for a period of three
well as ability to attract qualified                  years and special arrangements for contract
personnel is difficult.                               employees has been made.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A six month procurement plan acceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. Development of a computer program - A computer program has been developed for recording and
reporting financial, physical, procurement, and accounting information as well as monitoring project
performance indicators by negotiations.
2. An independent private auditfirm should be appointed - The PICU should submit for IDA's clearance
the Request for Proposals (RFPs), the TOR, and the shortlist of audit firms for this consultancy assignment
and issue the same to the shortlisted firms by negotiations. (TORs reviewed, and RFP issued.) The
selection of the extemal auditor would be a condition of implementation.
3. A Cabinet Paper has been prepared in order to allow for qualified staff to be hired by the ORC on a
contractual basis. Since these staff will also receive training, it has been agreed that such staff will have
contractual obligations with the government to remain in the Registiy for a fixed period of time. In
addition, a Cabinet Paper has been prepared to ensure that the staff are not transferred from the Registry to
another government agency once the qualified cadre are formed. This is referred to as the "closed services"
employment policy which needs to be in place before any training program starts. These Cabinet Papers
- 17 -



have been approved.
4. Issuance of a Project Operations Manual -- including Terms of Reference for the PICU, acceptable to
IDA by as a condition of implementation.
5. A representative group of courts, which are diverse in geographic location, case load, and case type, will
be selected. This selection will be based on the outcome of the baseline study of case statistics and analysis
of delays. The GOSL will furnish to IDA the proposed selection and the design of the model courts as a
disbursement condition for the judicial reform component.
6. The incorporation of the mediation center and the legislation for commercial mediation will be presented
as disbursement condition for the mediation sub-component, with rules and procedures agreeable to IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the stalt
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Man  Dakolias                       arilouJane D. Uyorova
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Co          ager/Director
- 18-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives  I        Indicators         iMonitoring & Evaluation L  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. To improve the          1. Increased private sector   1  Baseline indicators for    1. Private sector and
environment for private    investments                selected model courts       foreign investors to
investors through      2. Effective and efficient    2. Progress reports and      respond positively to
assistance for judicial    resolution of disputes     user survey updates.        improved legal and
and regulatory reform.     with qualified staff and                               judicial framework.
2. To increase private        transparent policies                                2  Government
sector-led growth.                                                                commitment to support
3. To improve governance                                                              private sector through
and decrease corruption                                                           initiating and
by increasing                                                                     implementing
participation in the                                                              comprehensive reforms
reform process                                                                    of the legal and judicial
systems.
3. Stable domestic
political, economic, and
social conditions.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To modernize legislative     1. Development of an       1. Updates on Private       1. Continued Government
framework that impacts          arrangement to sustain a    Sector Assessment          commitment on the
private sector activity.        continued review of        report                      legal and legislative
commercial law and its   2  Progress reports,          reforms.
necessary reforms          mid-term review, ICR,    2. Effective participation of
2. Improved transparency       and user surveys.          the concerned
in legal reform, through   3. Policy papers, defining  institutions and
increased consultation     some key baseline           stakeholders in
with stakeholders.         indicators                  preparation and
3. Greater public                                         implementation of the
awareness of legal                                     project.
reform.
4  Improved
education/training of
Commercial section of
Attorney General's
office.
5. Open access to
legislation, decrees, and
judicial decisions.
6. Increased number of
lawyers practicing in
Commercial Law field.
- 19 -



To improve administration,  1. Reduction in elapsed    1. Progress reports, user    1. Continued commitments
monitoring, and regulatory     time to provide services.   surveys, and baseline      from the Ministry of
functions of the Company    2  Increased company           statistics to compare      Trade to develop and
Registry.                       compliance with the        performance at the         strengthen the ORC.
regulatory requirements    beginning and          2. ORC's management,
3. Decrease in rejected       periodically throughout    commitment close
applications, complaints  the project.               involvement in, and
received, etc.         2  Periodic reports on the     ownership of the project
4. Company Registry           financial management       continues
increasingly               and performance of the   3  Business community
self-financing by end of   Company Registry           complies with reporting
project.                                              requirements.
Build capacity of the judiciary   1. More efficient and  1  Progress reports and   1  Business community
and other institutions          effective service          user surveys to compare    uses mediation.
providing dispute resolution    delivery                   statistics and evaluate  2  Judicial Services
services.                   2. Improved quality of         performance throughout     Commission champions
decisions                 the project.                reform.
3. Access to mediation.    2  Baseline statistics.
3. Incorporation of
mediation center by
statute.
4  Approval of mediation
procedures.
- 20 -



Key Performance       3
Hierarchy of Obiectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Abssumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Comprehensive, modern, and   1. Number of court        Progress reports, Midterm   Strong support by the Steering
useful set of laws relating to  decisions distributed    Review, ICR, and periodic    Committee and Judiciary in
commerce and business.           through LAWNET.       user surveys                conjunction with a Bar/Bench
2. Six key legislative                                committee will be able to manage
proposals drafted                                 the change process
through participatory
process by project
completion.
Well-trained lawyers able to    1. By Midtermn Review,    Progress reports, Midterm
prosecute and defend their       partial implementation  Review, ICR, and periodic
clients in the commercial        of new curricula in the 3 user surveys.
sector through enhanced law      selected institutions
school curricula                teaching law.
2. By 5th year of project,
increased number of
students enrolled in
Commercial Law
specialties.
3. Higher percentage of
trained state counsels in
field of commercial law
with in the Attorney
General's Office.
Improved administrative and    1. Increase in ORC      Progress reports, Midterm   Insurance and adherence to
regulatory capacity of the      profit-generation.     review, ICR, and periodic user the Cabinet paper which
Company Registry, making it  2. Reduce time required to surveys                    specifies personnel trained
a market-oriented and            incorporate a company                             under the project cannot be
self-financing service           or register information                           transferTed for a period 3
provider                        to one day.                                        years.
3  Provide immediate
computer access to
Registry information
4. Establishment and
continuous monitoring
of a baseline of service
times for public
inquiries.
- 21 -



Efficient, effective, and     1. Training strategy,       I. Progress reports,      Increased public trust, both
transparent resolution of        materials, and              Midterm Review, ICR,  local and foreign, in the legal
disputes                         curriculum developed        and periodic user      system and the economy of Sri
and approved by the         surveys.               Lanka.
Training Board by       2  Establishment of Board
Midterm Review.             for Training Resource
2. By project close, at least  Center.
2-years training for new
judges, current judges,
and court personnel
following the new
curriculum, and at least
25 courses for 250
current judges.
3  Increase in number of
successful mediations
4. Standard forms adopted
in model courts by
Midterm Review.
5. Increased number of
judgments written with
use of technology
6. Annual increase in
clearance rate per judge
per year within model
courts.
7  Annual publication of
judicial statistics,
including number of
complaints to the JSC.
-22 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Project Components /        Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:             component)                                              Outputs)
1.A Commercial Law Reform US$ 676,020
I B. Professional Development  US$ 3,642,860
1C. LAWNET                  US$ 1,530,020
ID. Public Awareness        US$ 286,630
2. Company Registry         US$ 1,600,880
3A Judicial Ttaining        US$ 2,440,340
3B. Judicial Services Commission US$ 1,114,610
3C Model Courts             US$ 5,818,360
3D. Mediation               US$ 149,880
3E 2 Courts in Jaffna and   US$ 1,453,900
Trincomalee
4. Project Management       US$ 1,412,180
5. Project Preparation Facility    US$ 1,010,000
- 23 -



Annex 2: Project Description
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$6.14 million
The Legal Refolrm Component is comprised of activities in Commercial Law Reform, Professional
Development, and Access to Law subprojects. The total of all of these activities, including all
contingencies is US$6.14 million equivalent. The specific subprojects are described in more detail
below.
Commercial Law Reform: The objective of this subcomponent is to assist the Sri Lankan
government in addressing weaknesses in the legal and regulatory framework that have adverse
impacts on private sector activity, the business environment, and investor confidence. A prioritized
list of laws has been agreed to by the Technical Group--comprised representatives of the Law
Commission, Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, Federation of Chamber of Commerce, Bar
Association of Sri Lanka, and Attorney General's Office. Each member will lead a drafting
committee for each law revision; a policy paper will be prepared prior to the drafting of each law.
A consultative group has been established to provide stakeholder views in the drafting process.
The subcomponent will provide support for obtaining expert input to identify and formnulate a
comprehensive reform policy. This subcomponent will finance the cost of consultants, stakeholder
workshops and seminars, and other activities required in the drafting of necessary laws and
legislation (e.g., printing). For greater detail, see the Commercial Law Reform section of
Technical Document.
Professional Development: The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the capacity of the
institutions that are responsible for law refonn and legal education in the area of commercial law
will be carried out. These institutions include the Attorney General's Office, bar associations, and
law schools. The activities envisioned under the project include: (a) general, short-term training in
commercial law related subjects for State Counsels in the Attorney General's Office and
specialized longer-term training for those lawyers in the Commercial Law section of the Office in
areas of procurement, financial transactions, joint ventures, and alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms; (b) development of training materials and courses to familiarize lawyers with new
laws by the Bar Association; (c) upgrading and introduction of new courses within the law school
curricula for commercial law (especially in international investment law, globalization and
enviromnental law, contract law, business law, and company law), improvement of teaching
methodologies, development of training material, enhancement of skills of law professors, and
improvement of libraiy holdings; and (d) development of a public awareness and communication
activity increase among the public and stakeholders on the importance of legal and judicial
reforms under this project. This will include a mass-media campaign; creation and dissemination
of public education materials; seminars; development of information materials for judges, court
staff, the media; training of journalists in legal reporting; canrying out opinion research and
analysis; and feed-back mechanisms for the judiciary.
Any long-term training provided under the Professional Development component will require a
contractual obligation to remain with the institution for a certain period of time. This component
will cover local and international training for lawyers in the Attorney General's office and judges.
Consultants will be hired to develop a new commercial law culricula; these consultants will later
train members of law faculties on this new curricula. Lecturers of law and government lawyers
- 24 -



participating in long-term training will have a contractual obligation to remain in the institution for
a period of three years.
Access to Law: This subcomponent will assist the government in providing access to accurate and
up-to-date legal and judicial information to various stakeholders through: a) development of an
automated and on line Legal Information Network (LAWNET), which will include statutes,
government regulations, case information/court decisions, and excerpts from selected law
textbooks; and b) organizing and modernizing the storage and retrieval of related publications.
The technical aspect of this component involves collection, organization, and automation of legal
information. Organizational goals of this subcomponent include: (a) improvement of the Ministiy
of Justice's capacity to collect and disseminate legal infonnation; (b) development of a network of
key institutions in the legal and judicial sector, academia, and the private sector to facilitate the
collection and exchange of information; and (c) development of a market-oriented institutional
structure for continual updating and distribution of these data on a sustained and self financing
basis that is increasingly financially sustainable. An automation committee was formed
consisting of representatives from the Attorney General's Office, the Legal Draftsman's
Department, the Judicial Services Commission, the Bar Association of Sri Lanka, law schools,
and the Chambers of Commerce to advise on issues related to technical development and
institutional arrangements and to establish rules on the content and use of proposed LAWNET.
An initial pilot is being financed under the PPF plior to the implementation of a full-scale
LAWNET. The pilot will be small in size but will incorporate the complete process, including
final product and distribution. The proposed pilot will be carried out by the Ministry of Trade
and the Government Printing Office. The pilot will be housed in the Ministry of Trade which
has engineering/computer facilities to install the required equipment and run operations at a much
lower cost. In addition, some equipment (such as servers and data processing software) will be
procured for the pilot. After completion of the pilot, the PICU and the Automation Committee
will study the feasibility of the full scale LAWNET as well as the market demand for such
services and propose a comprehensive program based on the evaluation of the pilot program.
After two years of a full-scale operation, an independent evaluation will be carried out to invite
private sector participation and develop a profit-generating scheme. Launching of the LAWNET
on a larger scale will require the hiring of consultants, purchasing of equipment, and related
training. The total cost, inclusive of expenses for this pilot component under the PPF, will be
approximately US$ 1.5 million equivalent.
A total of US$5.53 million equivalent, or approximately 31 %, of the credit will be allocated for
this component; it will finance the cost of consulting services, training and goods, including some
contingencies.
Project Component 2 - US$1.60 million
The medium-term objective of this component is to make the Office of the Registrar of Companies
(ORC) a more efficient, market-oriented, and increasingly self-sustaining service provider. This
component will help improve the ORC's administrative, management, and regulatory capacities.
The broad reform program envisioned for this component includes: a) organizational restructuring
through improvement of the ORC's business processes; b) providing the ORC with some flexibility
and autonomy to recruit qualified staff with proper expertise; as well as training for new and
current staff, and c) the modernization and automation of the ORC's operations. A baseline study
will be conducted on statistics, the backlog of requests, time required to provide basic services,
- 25 -



number of companies current with their financial accounts and annual returns, and complaints
received. A ORC committee comprised of representatives from the Attorney General's Office,
Ministry of Trade and Commerce, Legal Draftman's Department, and the Registrar will review
and prepare forms and regulations. This committee will oversee the entire reform process of the
ORC. A steering committee which includes key registry clients will also be established. The
registry should establish a special management position. The Project Manager would be
responsible for overseeing the activities of the project, including liasion with the service provider,
adjusting existing services to market needs and promoting the new services such as access to the
registry information from external computers (e.g., CD-Rom products). The position should be
filled by a person from the private sector. The management team will participate in a study tour
where automated registries are in place. A customer service satisfaction survey will be developed
and its results will be the basis for the redesign of the services provided. Service performance
criteria and measurements for monitoring will be established. The ORC will establish a
commitment to transfer excess personnel from the ORC before implementation of the new
organizational scheme, and not to transfer those personnel that are needed and who will receive
training under the project.
The total estimated cost of this component is US$1.6 million equivalent, including contingencies.
A total of US$1.36 million, or 8%, of the credit will be allocated for this component; it will finance
the cost of experts, training, and equipment.
Project Component 3 - US$ 10.49 million
Judicial Reform/Dispute Resolution: There are four subcomponents of the project: 1) Judicial
Training, 2) Judicial Administrative Reform (Judicial Services Commission), 3) Model Courts, and
4) Mediation. The total cost of this component, including contingencies, is US$10.49 million
equivalent.
Judicial Training: This training subcomponent will entail the institutionalization and systemization
of judicial and judicial suppolt personnel training, hitherto conducted on an ad hoc basis.
Activities include: a) training and b) faculty development. Training will be developed for
newly-appointed judges, current judges, and court personnel. Although curriculum development
will cover a broad scope of areas, priority areas have been identified as follows: ethics, new
economic and commercial laws, court management, caseflow management, and the judge's role in
alternative dispute resolution. Faculty development will include the appointment of three full-time
trained judicial instructors/administrators, and ad hoc specialists will be retained. Active judges
and support staff will serve as board members, faculty, or committee members, and will oversee
development of the programs. Training of trainers will be one of the first activities under this
subcomponent, and this group will train others and develop a network of trained judicial educators.
Teaching materials will be developed in conjunction with the new curricula. This will include
audio and video tapes, hypotheticals, bench books, manuals, etc. Distance-learning programs will
also be developed for both regional and local delivery to supplement the centralized training in the
capital. Construction of a modest Resource Center for Law and Justice with a computer lab,
model court room, video and audio lab, and a library where judicial education resources will be
catalogued and used for training programs is also contemplated under the project. A twinning
arrangement will be entered into for this subcomponent. In addition to training, consultancies and
procurement of goods and works will also be included.
Judicial Services Commission (JSC): The administrative reform subcomponent will assist the
Judicial services commission, the administrative body for the court system as a whole, to undertake
- 26 -



a fundamental reorganization of its own administrative structure and of the administrative structure
of the court system as a whole, including court and case management. This subcomponent is
conceived, designed, and must be implemented in tandem with the Model Courts subcomponent.
Activities include: a) establishment of a planning function and development of a long-range plan
for facilities; b) establishment of a human resource management system for judicial and
non-judicial personnel and administrative responsibilities and procedures; c) development of a
records management system; d) development of a judicial statistics and management information
system; e) development of standardized legal and administrative forms; f) definition of ethics code
and investigative process to improve transparency and accountability; g) provide automation
systems, including systems for maintaining a record for oral proceedings in case-tracking; h)
refurbishment of JSC offices; i) and training in the above for staff. This subcomponent will
finance consultancies, and services.
Model Courts: The model courts subcomponent will introduce the administrative reforms
developed through the JSC on the local level at twenty-five selected court-clusters, on a trial basis,
together with necessary infrastructure modification. Model courts will be selected under criteiia
for representation of regional diversity, caseload and case type, as well as encompassing "nested"
sets of courts in each region. Two additional courts, in Jaffna and Trincomalee, will be
constructed. Each model court will create a committee in order to plan and follow the models and
will meet with conmnittees from the other pilots fiom time to time to evaluate progress and share
experiences. Bench and bar committees will also be established. Administrative reforms adopted
under the Judicial Services Commission subcomponent will be implemented in the twenty-five
selected court clusters and the two additional courts mentioned above. This will include
refurbishment to accommodate computers and electronic equipment necessary for the model courts.
The designs of such refurbishment will be developed on the basis of the requirements of the new
administrative systems and procedures developed above. Public Information centers will be
established in each participating court to provide the public with information generally on the
judicial process, specifically on specific issues relating to a case, as well as received complaints
and suggestions concerning the pilot which will be passed on to the Judicial Services Commission.
This subcomponent will finance consultancies, and services, as well as works.
Mediation: The mediation subcomponent will assist in the development of a formal mediation
system for commercial disputes under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce and the training
of professional mediators, to help relieve the demand on the court system. Mediation procedures
are drafted for the Sri Lankan Commercial Mediation Center. The Mediation Center will be
incorporated by Statute under an Act of Parliament and will be initially housed at the Ceylon
Chamber of Commerce, which presently has the facilities to accommodate a Mediation Center.
Activities include: a) publicity and communication campaign; b) training of mediators; c) training
of trainers; d) development of a mentor program; e) long-term training; f) and evaluation of
mediators and mediations. This subcomponent will finance consultancies and services.
Approximately 50%, or US$9.15 million equivalent of the credit will be allocated for this
component.
Project Component 4 - US$1.41 million
A Project Implementation and Coordination Unit (PICU) is responsible for administering the
day-to-day implementation of the Project with relevant agencies or institutions, and will be
accountable to the Steering Committee. The PICU will be headed by a Project Director, who will
be appointed by the Steering Committee and acceptable to the IDA. In addition, the PICU will
-27 -



consist of a Project Coordinator for judicial components who will be nominated by the Chief
Justice. A Project Officer, a Finance and Administration Officer, a Procurement Specialist, one
Engineer, and other staff as agreed to with the IDA will be appointed by the Secretary to the
Ministry of Justice. Since there are several implementing institutions that are beneficiaries of this
project, the PICU will also coordinate the various components, however, it is important that each
institution have ownership and independence in its decision-making authoiity.
The total cost for this component, including contingencies is US$1.41 million equivalent. A total
of US$1.15 million equivalent, or 6% of the total credit will be allocated for this component; it will
finance the cost of consultants, training, equipment, and operational costs.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
Sri Lanka
Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including
(US$ '000)                                                         Totals Including Contingencies
2000        2001        2002         2003        2004        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
New Construction                                  -      507 56     1,155.06      251.16           -      1,913 78
Refurbishment                                704.44     1,706.65    1,518.99      137.78           -      4,067.86
Subtotal Civil Works                           704 44     2,214 21    2,674 05      388 94           -      5,981 64
B. Equipment and Machinery
Furniture                                      7.59      24492        27234       11257        3908         67650
Equipment                                     49 59       149 97      439.68       54 32        18 63       712 19
Computers                                     16 48     1,137 75      658 31      338 96           -      2,151 50
Books                                         61.80      127.36        65.66           -           -        254.81
Subtotal Equipment and Machinery               135 46     1,660.00    1,435 99      505 84        57 71     3,795 00
C. Training
Local Training                                4838       251 12       138 80       88 22       72 99        59951
Foreign Training                             607 91      721 52       642 75      470 37       68 46      2,511 01
Workshops/Seminars                            42.44       49.17        40.18       41.30       30.73        203.82
Subtotal Training                              698 73     1,021 81      821 73      599 89       172 18     3,314 34
D. Technical Assistance
International Consultants                    30806       61438        61764       50284       270 19      2,31311
National Consultants                         385.44     1,099.19      969.08      580.54      470.40      3,504.65
Subtotal Technical Assistance                  693 49     1,713 57    1,586 72     1,083 38      740 59     5,817 75
E. Incremental Costs
Fees to Project Staff                        124 85      114 32       118 90      122 20       125 05       605 33
External Audit                                16.98       17.56        18.26       18.77       19.21         90.78
Subtotal Incremental Costs                     141 83       13188       137 16      140 97       144 25       696 10
F Project Preparation Facility                1,010.00          -            -           -           -      1,010.00
Total Investment Costs                          3,38395     6,741 47    6,65566      2,71903     1,114.73    20,61483
II. Recurrent Costs
A ProjectSupport Staff Salaries                 2135         2209        2297        2361         2416        11418
B Operation and Maintenance                     63 98       66 18        68 83       70 75        72 39       342 14
C Other Recurrent Expenditure                   12.07        12.49       12.99       13.35        13.66        64.55
Total Recurrent Costs                             97.40       100.76      104.79      107.70       110.21       520.87
Total PROJECT COSTS                             3,481 35     6,84223     6,760 45    2,82673      1,22494     21,135 70
- 29 -



Annex 4
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
N/A
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
Years Ending
IM.LEMtNTrATl6N1 P4 .                             ]
Year 1     Year 2    Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            3.4        6.7        6.7        2.7         1.1       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           3.5        6.8        6.8        2.8         1.2       0.0        0.0
Total Financing               3.5        6.8        6.8        2.8         1.2        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDAIDA                   3.2         5.8        5.7        2.4        1.1       0.0        0.0
Government                  0.3        1.0        1.0        0.3        0.2       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      3.5        6,8        6.7        2.7         1.3       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Project costs years are FY2001* to FY2005.
*Year I (FY2001) also includes costs incuired under the two PPFs (US$1.01 million), and price
contingencies.
- 31 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
Procurement
A procurement unit has been organized within the Project Implementation and Coordination Unit to manage
the procurement processes of the project. The procurement unit will include experienced staff trained in
World Bank procurement procedures. All procurement documents for goods, civil works and consulting
services under the project would be prepared by PICU
Procurement of works, goods and services under the project will be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Bank's "Guidelines. Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits ", published January
1995 and revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement of
consultants will be in accordance with the provision of the Guidelines Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997 and revised September 1997 and
January 1999. Standard Bidding Documents issued by the Bank for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) for goods and the Standard Request For Proposals (RFP) for selection of consultants will be used.
For procuring civil works and goods using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures bidding
documents satisfactory with IDA would be used. The procurement methods applicable to various
expenditure categories are summarized in Table A.
Most of the civil works financed under the project are small-scale rehabilitation activities which are
geographically dispersed throughout the country. Most of these works would be canied out through
labor-intensive methods. These rehabilitation works include: repairs to (a) the selected model courts
estimated at US$3.7 million; (b) ORC rehabilitation estimated at US$0.14 million; and (c) Judicial
Services Commission office estimated at US$0.27 million. The new civil works will include construction
of: (a) a Resource Center for Law and Justice estimated at US$0.7 million; and (b) new court houses at
Jaffna and Trincomalee estimated at US$1.2 million.
The procurement of goods would consist of: (a) books for law schools (US$255,000); (b) office equipment
(US$712,000); (c) computers (US$2.2 million); and (d) furniture (US$676,500).
The consulting services will include: (a) drafting new laws (US$564,000); (b) curriculum development
(US$838,000); (c) automation & management of company registry office (US$687,000); (d) twinning
partner for judges training ( US$804,000); (e) Develop and introduction of new court management system
(US$975,000); (f) public awareness (US$254,000), (g) development of LAWNET (US$213,500); (h)
Institutional Development of Judicial Service Commission (US$0.9 million); (i) engineering services
(US$290,000); (j) external auditing (US$90,000); (k) foreign and local training ($3.1 million); (1) other
technical assistance (US$375,000); (m) workshops (US$200,000); and (n) project implementation
(US$605,000).
Procurement methods (Table A)
Works - Given the nature of the works rehabilitation works would be procured by National Competitive
Bidding Procedure in accordance with paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the guidelines up to an aggregate amount
of US$4.1 million equivalent. The rehabilitation of courts will be grouped in to about 10 contract packages
approximately US$400,000 equivalent, depending on the locations: Repairs to the Company Registry
Office and the Judicial Services Commission will be procured under two separate contracts New
- 32 -



construction work will be procured under three ICB contracts; one for the Resource Center for Law and
Justice, and two separate ones for the new court houses at Jaffna and Trincomalee.
Goods - Bulk of the computers will be procured through three ICB packages, one each for Company
Registry office, LAWNET and Law Schools. Any urgent requirements of computers estimated to cost less
than US$30,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 equivalent may be
procured under International/National Shopping procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of
the guidelines with prior approval from IDA. Bulk of the office equipment, such as type wliters,
photocopiers, and fax machines will be procured using ICB procedures; all other office, miscellaneous
equipment estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, and up to an aggregate of
US$100,000 will be procured under national shopping procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.5 and
3.6 of the guidelines with prior approval from IDA. The bulk of the furniture will be procured under
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure following paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the guidelines for up
to an aggregate of US$600,000 equivalent. Urgent requirements of furniture estimated to cost less than
US$30,000 equivalent per contract, and up to an aggregate of US$100,000 will be procured under national
shopping procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the guidelines with prior approval from
IDA. Books will be procured directly from the publishers on the basis of pro-forma invoices; whenever
two or more simnilar items exist, comparative bids will be sought from a minimum of two publishers or
suppliers.
Consultants' Services - Consultants for (a) automation & management of company registry office; (b)
public awareness; (c ) development of Law-net; (d) develop and introduce new court management system;
(e) institutional development of Judicial Service Commission; and (f) engineering services will be done
following Quality and Cost Based Selection Procedure (QCBS) in accordance with Section II of the
guidelines. Drafting of new laws will be done by a technical group consisting of individual consultants,
representing various agencies; these individual consultants will be selected in accordance with paragraphs
5.1, 5.2, and 5.3 of the guidelines. Consultants for curriculum development and twinning partner for judges
training will be selected under selection Based on Consultants' Qualification (SBCQ) following paragraph
3.7 of the guidelines. The external audit firm will be selected following least cost selection method in
accordance with paragraph 3.6 of the guidelines. Any other technical assistance consultancies estimated to
cost more than US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals will be
procured following QCBS procedure in accordance with Section II of the Consultant Guidelines. Other
technical assistance consultancies estimated to cost less than or equal to US$50,000 equivalent for firms
and US$30,000 equivalent for individuals will be procured following methods acceptable to IDA. Foreign
training will be awarded under the Govenmment's current administrative procedures, which are satisfactoly
to IDA. All local training plans and workshops will be agreed with IDA, and should be in compliance with
Government's procedures acceptable to IDA.
Prior Review Threshold
Civil Works: For all contracts to be awarded under ICB, IDA's prior review will be required in accordance
with Paragraphs 2 & 3 of Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines. All contracts over US$300,000 or
equivalent, plus the first two NCB contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent of each year shall be prior
reviewed by IDA in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Procurement Guidelines. All
other contracts will be subjected to post review.
Goods: IDA's prior review will be required in accordance with Paragraphs 2 & 3 of Appendix 1 of the
Procurement Guidelines for all contracts exceeding US$30,000 or equivalent and first two NCB contracts
of each year exceeding US$30,000 equivalent. All other contracts will be subjected to post review.
- 33 -



Consultancy Services: Contracts estimated to cost more than US$50,000 or equivalent for individuals, and
more than US$ 100,000 or equivalent for firms will be subjected to prior review by IDA in accordance with
Paragraphs 2 & 3 of Appendix 1 of the Consultants Guidelines. IDA will review the TOR, cost estimates
and shortlist for all other contracts.
Procurement thresholds and prior review requirements are outlined in Table B.
- 34 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method          Total
ICB      NCB       Other      Cost
Civil Works                                                                  4 1                  4.1
a) Rehabilitation for model courts, company registty and judicial            (3.3)                (3 3)
services commission                                            _
b) New construction                                                 1.9                           1 9
____________________________________________ _  _    _________ _     (1.5)  _  ______   ________   (1.5)
Subtotal   1.9       4 1                  6.0
(1.5)    (3.3)                (4.8)
Goods                                                               0 6                01 ,       0 7
a) Office equipment                                                 (5)                (0.08)    (0 6)
b) Computers                                                        2 0                01         2.1
(1.6)       __   (0.08)    (1.7)
c) Books                                                                               0.32       03
._____________________________________________                    (0.24)     (0.24)
d) Furniture                                                                 0 6       0o1        0 7
(0.4)    (0.08)    (0.5)
26       06        0.6        3 8
(2.1)    (0.45)   (0.48)    (3.0)
Consultancy Services                                                                   3.3        3 3
a) Automation & management of company registry office, public                          (3 0)      (3 0)
awateness, development of Law-net, institutional development
of Judicial Service Comtnmission, develop and introduction of
new court management system and engineering services                                   4
b) Drafting of new laws                                                                0.6        0.6
(0.5)      (0.5)
c) Curriculum development and twinning partner for judges                              1.67       1 6
training                                                                            (1.5)      (1.5)
d) External audit                                                                      0.1        01
(0.09)    (0.09)
e) Othet technical assistance                                                          0 43&4    0 4
(0.37)    (0.37)
f) Project implementation                                                              0 6        0 6
(0.5)     (0.5)
g) Workshops                                                                           02         0 2
(0.178)    (0.18)
h) Local training                                                                      0 6        0.6
(0.5)     (0.5)
i) Foreign training                                                                    2 57       2 5
(2.5)     (2.5)
Subtotal                       9.8        9 8
_  _  S)   (9.1
Incremental Ooeratinc Cost                                                             05         0.5
(0.26)    (0.26)
Proiect Preparation Facility                                                                      1 0
(1.0)
Project Cost                                  21 1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _(1 8 .2 )
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA. All costs include contingencies
1/ National/International Shopping
2/ National/International Shopping and Direct Contracting
3/ Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
4/ Individual Consultants
5/ Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification (SBCQ)
61 Least Cost Selection Method
7/ Single Source
8/ Direct contracting
- 35 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
- 36 -



Expenditure Category                    Conthact Value        Procurement    Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Method        Prior Review
(US$ equivalent)
1. W orks                                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Civil Works                             All new             ICB               All contracts shall be prior
construction Works                    reviewed by IDA in accordance
with paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the Procurement
Guidelines.
Rehabilitation      NCB               First two contracts of each yeai
works > $300,000                      shall be plioi ieviewed by IDA in
equivalent                            accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3
of Appendix I to the Procurement
Guidelines.
Rehabilitation      NCB               Post review
works < $300,000
equivalent
2. Goods
Computers, office equipment             Contracts           ICB               Shall be prior reviewed by IDA in
>=$30,000                             accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3
of Appendix I to the Procurement
Guidelines.
Contracts <$30,000   IS/NS            Post review
Furniture                               Contracts >=        NCB               First two contr acts of each year
S30,000                               shall be prior reviewed by IDA in
accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3
of Appendix I to the Piocurement
Guidelines.
Contracts          ISINS              Post review
<$30,000
Books                                   All contracts       IS                Post review
Direct contract
3. Services
Automation & management of              Contracts           QCBS              TOR, cost estimates and shortlist
company registry office, public         <$100,000                             shall be prior leviewed.
awareness, development of Law-net,    Contracts >=          QCBS              Prior review in accordance with
develop and introduce new court         $100,000                              paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix I to
management system, institutional                                              the Consultancy Guidelines
development of Judicial Service
Commission, and engineering services
Drafting of new laws                    Corntracts >$50,000   IC              TOR, cost estimates and selection
procedure shall be plior reviewed.
Contracts           IC                TOR and cost estimates shall be
<=$50,000                             prior zeviewed.
Cutriculum development and              Contracts >=        SBCQ              TOR, cost estimates and shoitlist
twinning partner for judges training    $100,000                              shall be prior reviewed
Contiacts           SBCQ              TOR and cost estimates shall be
<$100,000                             prior reviewed
External audit                          Contracts            LC               Prior review in accordance with
<$100,000                             paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix I to
,_________________             the Consultancy Guidelines.'
Technical assistance                    Contracts            QCBS             TOR, cost estimates and shortlist
<=$100,000 (firms)   Single source    shall be prior reviewed.
Contracts
<=$50,000
(individuals)
Contracts           QCBS              Prior review in accotdance with
>=$ 100,000 (firms)                   paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix I to
Contracts                             the Consultancy Guidelines
<=$50,000
(individuals)
Local training and Workshops            All contracts        Single Source    Annual plans shall be prioI
I                  reviewed
Foreign Trairirig                       All conrt acts       Single Source    Annual plans shall be prior
reviewed
PIU                                     Contracts <$50,000   IC in accordance   Job description, minimum
- 37 -



1/ Prior review of consultants contracts shall be governed by the provisions ofparagraphs (i) and (ii) below
(i) With respect to each contractfor employment of consultingfirmns estimated to cost the equivalent of$ 100,000
or more, procedures setforth in paragraphs I and 2 [other than the third sub-paragraph ofparagraph 2 (a)] and
5 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply
(ii) With respect to each contract for both employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50, 000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference for the services, and terms of employment of
the contsultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval
Note
IC. Individual Consultant                            ArS National Shopping
IDA: International Development Association           IS. International Shopping
LC: Least Cost Selection                             QCBS Quality and Cost Based Selection
SBCQ Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications  NCB. National Competitive Bidding
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:
One every 6 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 38 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Financial Management and Disbursement
The Project Implementation and Coordination Unit PICU would have adequate financial management
capacity to commence under the Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursement method. The
PICU will follow a cash basis of accounting for recording financial transactions and would initially
maintain project accounts on a manual system until it is computerized (expected date: December 31, 2000).
(a) Internal Controls: The PICU will follow the Financial Regulations (FRs) of the Govenmment of Sri
Lanka. These procedures, which are well established and documented, cover almost eveiy aspect of
financial administration and will provide the necessary control framework for the PICU for ensuring
orderly and efficient conduct of the project activities.
(b) Accounting System: The PICU will maintain separate set of accounts for recording all financial
transactions of the project on a cash basis. The Chart of Accounts (see Project Files) developed for the
project will facilitate recording of project expenditure by financing source, disbursement category, project
component, and expenditure type. The coding the classification method adopted will enable the PICU to
produce the PMRs as per the agreed formats, to be agreed upon (see Project Files).
Initially, project accounts are likely to be maintained on a manual system. The PICU is taking steps to
identify/develop a suitable software for the computerization of the accounting and reporting process. The
target date for computerization is December 31, 2000.
(c) External Auditing: The PICU will appoint an independent extemnal auditor by credit effectiveness date.
The IDA has reviewed the auditor's TOR (see Project Files). The Request for Proposal, including the
shortlist of audit finns, will be submitted for IDA review and clearance by February 18, 2000. The PICU
will be responsible for submitting to the IDA: (i) annual audited financial statements, within six months
after the end of each fiscal year; and (ii) annual and semi-annual management letters, covering the specific
items mentioned in the auditor's TOR, within six months and three months respectively after the end of the
period.
(d) Staffing- Financial aspects of the project will be overseen by a Project Accountant, who has already
been appointed to the PICU. IDA reviewed the qualifications of the Project Accountant and concurred with
his appointment. The Project Accountant will be responsible for ensuring timely recording and reliable
reporting of all financial transactions of the project. The PICU will be required to assign support staff to
the Project Accountant, as deemed necessary.
(e) Project Management Reports (PMR): The project will commence under the PMR based disbursement
procedure. The format and content of the PMRs will be agreed during project negotiations. The PMRs shall
be submitted to the IDA within 45 days of the end of the reporting quarter.
(f) Special Account: PICU will be responsible for maintaining a Special Dollar Account (SDA) at the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka according to terms and conditions acceptable to the IDA. Requests for advances
and/or deposits into the SDA should be accompanied by duly completed PMRs. Payments out of the SDA
can only be made for IDA share of eligible project expenditure as and when they are incurred by the PICU.
Total amount outstanding in the SDA, at any given time, shall not exceed USD$3.64 million.
- 39 -



ACTION                                    DATE
1. Appointment of an independent         Credit Implementation
external auditor
2. Computerization of Project Accounts    December 31, 2000
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
7   Expenditure Categry    j Amountin US$million         Financing Phrcentage
Goods                                      2.50                100% foreign expenditure;
100% local expenditure (ex-factory cost)
80% local expenditure for other items
procured locally
Works under Part C of the Project          3.70                 100% foreign expenditure
80% local expenditure
Works (other than Part C of the Project)   0.70                 100% foreign expenditure
80% local expenditure
Consultant's Services and Training         8.50                         100%
(other than Part C4 of the Project)
Consultant's Services and Training         0.10                         100%
under Part C4 of the Project
Incremental Recurrent Costs                0.30             90% through December 31, 2001
50% through December 31, 2003
and 20% thereafter
Refunding of the Project Preparation       1.01
Advance
Unallocated                                1.39
Total Project Costs                        18.20
Total                                      18.20
-40 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
lProject Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  _                                36
First Bank mission (identification)                                          01/27/97
Appraisal mission departure                     08/19/98                     10/18/99
Negotiations                                    09/22/98                     03/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court
Preparation assistance:
PPF Q0430-CE -- $450,000 -- effective May 14, 1997
PPF Q043 1-CE -- $560,000 -- effective November 3, 1999
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Maria Dakolias                    Task Leader (since preappraisal) and Counsel
Shideh Hadian                     Operations Officer and Co-Task Leader
Beth Dabak                        Operations Analyst
Shana Lee                         Researcher
Pedro Da Silva                    Country Lawyer
Naresha Duraiswamy                Institutional Development
Jayantha De Mel                   Procurement
Rakesh Nangia                     Private Sector Development
Waleed Malik                      Public Sector Management/Judicial Reform
Robert Anderson                   Team Leader (and Task Leader from preparation to appraisal)
Rohil Hafeez                      Team Leader (identification to preparation)
Eric Haythome                     Team Leader (during preparation)
Julitta Rasiah                    Financial Management
Nancy Zhao                        Operations Advisor
Chathuri Nugawela                 Program Assistant
Leigh Sontheimer                  Project Assistant
-41 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
See Technical Document.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Report by consultant on project design.
C. Other
Sri Lanka: Companies Registry Office Reform -- Report, February 1995.
Background of Legal System
*Including electronic files
-42 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements-
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                                    IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
LK-PE-63472   1999 CENTRAL BANK OF SRI      EMERGENCYY2KTA                                   o00       2900        000      2281       156       000
LK-PE-10525   1998 LANKA                    GENERAL EDUCATION II                              000      7030       000       6603      1511       000
LK-PE-34212   1998 GOSL                     MAHAWELtRESTRUCTURI                              00o       5700       000       3663       6 17      000
LK-PE-10498   1997 GOSL                     ENERGYSERVICESDLVY                               000       2420       000       1857       181       000
LK-PE-10513   1997 GOSL                     ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION                             000       1480       000       11 03      407       000
LK-PE-10526   1997 GOSL                     HEALTH SERVICES DEV                              000       1880       000       1523       814       000
LK-PE-10517   1996  GOSL                    PVTSECTINFRASDEV                                 000       7700       000       6900      3724       a00
LK-PE-42263   1996 GOSL                     TELECOM REG & PUBL                               000       1500       000        9 11     1007       000
LK-PE-42266   1996 GOSL                     TEACH ED &DEPLOYMENT                             0 CO      64 10       0 00     44 65      4 71      0 00
GOSL
Total:       0 00     370 20        0 00      293 06    88 88      0 00
- 43 -



SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-I 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC-
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1980/84/85/96/ 0    Lanka Orix                      2.97    0.00     0.30     0 00    1.97    0.00     0 00    0 00
1981                Lanka Hotels                    0.00    0 00     0 64     0.00    0.00     0.00    0 64    0 00
1988/95             Union Assurance                 0.00    0.00     0.98     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.98    0 00
1992                CKN Fund Mgmt                  0.00     0.00     0 06     0.00    0 00    0.00     0 06    0 00
1992                Pyramid Trust                   0 00    0 00     0 25     0 00    0.00    0 00     0 25    0 00
1996/97             Asia Power                     1000     0.00     227    10.00     875      000     2.27    8.75
1997                Packages Lanka                  0.00    0.00     1.11     0.00    0.00    0.00      1.11    0 00
1998               MLL                             0 00     1.80     0 00    0 00     0 00    0.50     0 00    0 00
1999                Aitken Spence                   0.00    0 00     2 73     0.00    0 00    0.00     2 73    0 00
Total Portfolio:         12 97    1 80     8 34    10.00    10 72    0.50    8.04    8 75
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0 00      0 00      0 00       0.00
- 44 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SRI LANKA: Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
Lower-
POVE-RTY and SOCIAL                                         Sri     Southi   middlle-
1998   -                                  ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~Lank-a  Asia   income  Development diamond'
PooUlation mirt-vear fmillionsi                            18.       1 305        90A                    Life expectancy
GNP oar claoita (Atlas method. USS,                         sib1       430      1.710
GN1P (Atias method. USS billions).                         15 2 .      555      :1 557
Averaae annual orowth. 19922-98,
Pcou:arion (i1.3                                                        1 8      *1 1                                           Grs
Laborlonce.1%)                                              2 0        2'2         15s     GNPGrs
per                               primary
Most-recent e-stimnate flatest vear avaliable. 1992-981                                     apt
capita    ~ ~ ~   ~    er.lim.nt  -
Povertv /% of oovulafior befow hational ooverfv line)
Urban -ooouation Y% 6f tot al oo elation)                    23         27         58
Life excectancv at birth lvear.f)                            75         62         68
Infant mornra!,tv (Dar 1. 000 live births)                   14.        7          38
ChildJrnaMnutrition (% of children under 5?  -<8                        53               .            Access to safe water
Access to safe wate-r 1% of ocooulatior)-    ..71'                      8'        .75
Wliteracv (% Pt noozuiation ace 15+)     .    -9    ~ 49                           I14
Grosxrimaienro~ment(9Aofschofl6ofi~notiulation)       10S         00        103          -    Sri Lanka
Male   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0                             109        -,05             -Lower-middle-income group
-remale                                                  i.8q                    0]      ___________________
KEY _ECONOMIC RATIO.S and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977,    1987        1997       11998
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ bjlfionst                                4 I       6 7       i5s        I's 7
Gross domiestic mrvestmentlGOP                             23 3.      24.4       25 4Trd
EXsoorts of onods and serviceslGi3P      .       33.8      25 2:      36         36 0
Gross domestic savinosIGOP                       is 1 1    12 a       1.73      . 18.9T
Gross nat!onai sPvinos,GDP                        il 1,2  * 198       21 5.   232l 
Current account b2a)acIGP. 3.5                             -4.9        -2 5        i's
Interest toavm6n.ts/GDP                       = .  .5       19           5                 Domestic                        Investment
Totm a~dhtGOP ..2.                                          1         56       .s4         Savings
Total debt service/scoorts                       18a 7     23.2         6 4:      6 4
Present value of debtIGDP                                             34 9
Present va;ue -of debt/exood-s                                        79 1- 
- -           ~~~Indebtedness
faveraae 4n0u4 aro vii ') .19?71717  1988.98      1997       1998  11-999.03
GDP                                     5 0       52        .6 4        4 47     s5 6-Sri Lankia
GNP cer cacas              .            35    .  3.7    .  55           3 3    . 3 5      ILower-rniddte-ncorme oroup
Exoorts of ooods and services           5 2       8.8      1i-6        I 1        4 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                        ~~~~~~1977  1987        1997       1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Acriculture                                      30 7      27 0       21 9       211       2
Industrv                                         28 7      27 4       26 9       27 5      11
Manufacturina                                  23 1      16 0        16 4       16 5     15
Services                                         40 6      45 6       51 2       51 4 
01 
Private consumotion                              73 3      77 2       72 3       71 3              93    94    a5    as    97    go
General covernment consurmotion                   8 6       99q       1 0)4       9 8                  __ D          --O-GDP
Imnoris of aoods and services                    30 2      35 7       43 6       42 4
laveraoe annual arowthil                     1977-87  1988-98         1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports J%)
Aorirulture                                       3 5       2 0         3 0       2 5      16
Industrv                                          50(       7 1         7 8       56      t 1
Manufacturina                                   5 3       8 4         9 1        8 3
Services                                          648 6                           4
Private consurnotion                              5 7       5 3         6 6       7 2      4
General oovernment consumotion                    7 0       6 5       10 3        8 4         ---- i-----                          I
Gross domestic investment                         7 8       5 4        465       15 3              93    94    9s    99    97   98
Imoorts of ooods and services                     8 5       8 2       10(5       111 5    1           -Exporks         4l-mporis
Gross national toroduct                           5 2       5 0        68         46
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv tin hold) comoared with its income-oroun averaae If data are missina the diamond will
he- incomolete
- 45 -



Sri Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998      InflaUon (%3
Domestic prices                                                                     2
(% change)                                                                         20 T
Consumer prices                                         7 7       9 6       9 6     1S                       9
Implicit GDP deflator                        14 7      7 8        8 9       8 8     10 
Governmenf finance                                                                  s
(/ of GDP, includes cufrent grants)                                                 o,
Current revenue                                       21 4       194       18 0             93    04   95   95   97   98
Current budget balance                                  1 3      -1 4      -17               --GDP deflator          CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -7 0      -8 5
TRADE
(US$ mdilions)                               1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS mlillions)
Total exports (fob)                                  1,397      4,648    4,742      7,000
Tea                                                   362       721       778     8t000
Other agricultural goods                               99        79        43  s,0oo .
Manufactures                                         241      2,279    2,466      4,000 +
Total imports (cif)                                  2,056      5,662    5,913      3,0C0'+
Food                                                             73        4      2       0. : O
Fuel and energy                                                 264       215     2 000   D   s    s  g I        .  
Capital goods                                                 1,326     1,476        0
ExDort price index (1995=100)                                     122      136
Imoort odce index (1995=100)                                      115      112                0 Exports     *lmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                         106      121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mjn/ons)                                'IS77    1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 855    1,722      5,523     5,655     0
Imports of goods and services                 769    2,399      6,580     6,661                                *|
Resource balance                               86     -677    -1,057    -1,006               ',. :  . L         |j
Net income                                    -16     -142       -159      -178
Net current transfers                          72      493        832      903
Current account balance                       142     -326       -384      -281    -4
Financing items (net)                          10      248        556      325
Changes in net reserves                      -153       78       -172       -44     J
Memo:
Reserves includino aold (USS millions)                          2 029     1 984
Conversion rate (DEC local/USS)                8 9     29 4      59 0      64 6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE PLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,132    4,751      7,639    8,551
IBRD                                         34       89         31       26                   G: 458  A: 26
IDA                                          55      618      1,514     1,648
Total debt service                            166      497        428      453             F:756   /                1,648
IBRD                                          8       12          9        8
IDA                                           0        6         22       24
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              71      192        118      150
Official creditors                          103      249        292      379
Private creditors                           -53      -63         47      126                     _
Foreign direct investment                    -1       60        430      200         E: 3,501                      795
Portfolio equity                              0        0         98        6                          _
World Bank program
Commitments                                  41       20                  57
Disbursements                                13       88         78       96
Principal repayments                          5        5         17       19      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Net flows                                     8       82         61       78      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Interest payments                             3       13         14       14      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net transfers                                 5       70         47       64
Development Economics                                                                                                  919/99
-46 -



