Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3384 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Legal and Judicial Reforms Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3384 CE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 2000, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI 
LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)
 the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through \0bDecember 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
Page  2
"If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine."; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
"radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read: 
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 4, set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(c)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(d)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to two letter agreements signed on 
behalf of the Association on May 14, 1997 and November 9, 1999, respectively and on 
behalf of the Borrower on June 19, 1997 and November 11, 1999, respectively; and 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 13,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
Page  3
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2010 and ending June 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
Page  4
appropriate administrative, financial and judicial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; and 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures.
Page  5
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project management report for such period, 
which: 
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; and 
(ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report; 
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report; and 
(ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and 
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Director General, External Resources 
Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:
Telex:
Fascimile:
 SECMINFIN
FINMIN 21409
449823 or
FORAID 21232
449496
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s/ Warnasena Rasaputram 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kenichi Ohashi 
Acting Country Director, 
Sri Lanka
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works 
100% of foreign
expenditures;
80% of local
expenditures
(a)
Part C of the Project   2,770,000
(b)
Other than Part C
      520,000
of the Project
(2)
Goods
    1,870,000
100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost); 80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
100%
and training
(a)
Part C. 4 of the
       70,000
Project
(b)
Other than 
    6,350,000
Page  7
Part C. 4 of
the Project
(4)
Incremental 
      220,000
90% through
Operating Costs
December 31, 2001;
50% through
December 31, 2003;
and 20% thereafter
(5)
Refunding of
      760,000
Amount due pursuant 
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) of
Advances
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    1,040,000
TOTAL
   13,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means operation and maintenance 
costs of equipment, office space, staff salaries and allowances, and administration 
and travel costs, incurred for the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:  
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
under Category 1(a) for any specific model court unless and until the 
Association has received for such model court evidence satisfactory to the Association 
that the requirements of Schedule 4, paragraphs 4(a) and 4(b) have been met. 
(c)
under Category 3 (a) unless and until a mediation center has been 
established with rules and procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central 
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, except as the 
Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. Payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
Page  8
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,640,000.  Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve upon the existing legal and judicial 
framework of the Borrower by making it more efficient, transparent and responsive to 
the public at large and particularly to the private sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  9
Part A:
Legal Reform 
1.
Commercial law development by providing support to the enacting of a modern 
legislative and regulatory framework and procedural change, including stakeholder 
workshops and seminars. 
2.
Professional development by providing training to lawyers, lecturers of law, 
judges and court personnel, by revamping law curricula including improving law library 
holdings, and by carrying out a public awareness and communication campaign. 
3.
Development of a computerized internet-based LAWNET.
Part B:
Company Registry Restructuring
Restructuring of the Office of the Registrar of Companies to improve services 
offered to the public and private sector by providing training to its existing and new 
staff, including automation and refurbishment.
Part C:
Judicial Reform 
1.
Judicial training of judges and court personnel by developing teaching methods 
and new curricula, providing audio and video tapes, bench books and manuals, entering 
into a twinning arrangement and constructing a judicial resource center. 
2.
Assisting the Judicial Services Commission to undertake a reorganization of its 
own structure and the administrative structure of the court system as a whole, 
including related refurbishment. 
3.
Introducing the administrative reforms developed through the Judicial Services 
Commission at twenty seven model courts, including related refurbishment, and new 
construction of two court houses. 
4.
Developing a formal mediation system for commercial disputes.
*         *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Page  10
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
All rehabilitation works, and goods estimated to cost less than $200,000, 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provision of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(i)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with 
a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission 
of bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are 
willing to pay the required fee;
(iii)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any 
kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process;
(iv)
qualification criteria (in case prequalification was not carried 
out) shall be 
stated in the bidding documents, and, if a 
registration process is required, a 
foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable 
opportunity of registering, without let or hindrance;
(v)
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline 
for submission of bids;
(vi)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of 
the Association;
(vii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(viii) post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or 
any other bidders;
(ix)
rebidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence;
(x)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in 
the bidding/contract documents;
(xi)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed 
in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed by the 
Association;
(xii)
a bidder’s Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s 
performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it 
was furnished;
(xiii) bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over 
the estimated cost;
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; 
and
(xv)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of 
the bids. 
Page  11
2.
International or National Shopping 
Computers, office equipment and furniture, estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international/national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Books, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be 
procured directly from the publishers on the basis of pro-forma invoices in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines; whenever two or more similar 
items exist, comparative bids will be sought from a minimum of two publishers or 
suppliers.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first two contracts in each year procured under 
national competitive bidding procedures estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more, in respect of civil works, and $30,000 or more, in respect of goods and 
thereafter all civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more each, and all contracts for goods procured under international competitive 
bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under shopping or direct 
contracting procedures, the following procedures shall apply: (i)
prior to the 
execution of any contract procured under direct contracting, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  12
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for curriculum development and twinning partners for judges training 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for drafting of new laws shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial auditing may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, 
may with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all Consultants’ 
Services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Page  13
1.
The Borrower shall maintain and operate a Project Implementation and 
Coordination Unit with staff, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Association. 
2.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a Project 
Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association. 
3.
The Borrower shall employ not later than June 30, 2000, and thereafter maintain 
throughout the Project implementation period, external auditors with terms of 
reference and qualifications acceptable to the Association, for performing the annual 
audit of the financial statements of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
select up to twenty-seven model courts in accordance with criteria 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association, for its comments, proposals for 
the design, refurbishment and construction of the model courts under Part C. 3 of the 
Project; and
(c)
thereafter carry out such proposals taking into account the Association's 
comments thereon.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31 and July 31, a semester report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28 and August 31, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
