                                          Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 39538



                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                         (Cr. 3384-CE)

                                             ON A

                                           CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.6 MILLION
                               (US$ 18.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                     DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                             FOR A

                           LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT


                                         October 1, 2007




Finance and Private Sector Department
South Asia Region

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
         (Exchange Rate Effective Rate April 11, 2007)

               Currency Unit = LKR
                       LKR 1 = 0.009 US$
                     US$ 1.00 = 109 LKR

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AG       Attorney General
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
ESW      Economic and Sector Work
GOSL     Government of Sri Lanka
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Agency
JSC      Judicial Services Commission
LAN      Local Area Network
LD       Legal Draftsman
LJRP     Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
LLM      Master of Laws
LT       Labor Tribunal
MOJ      Ministry of Justice
NCED     National Council for Economic Development
OECD     Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
ORC      Office of the Registrar of Companies
PICU     Project Implementation and Coordination Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
QAE      Quality at Entry
SC       Steering Committee
SLIIT    Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
TA       Technical Assistance




               Vice President:   Praful C. Patel
             Country Director:   Naoko Ishii
              Sector Manager:    Simon C. Bell
           Task Team Leader:     Sriyani M. Hulugalle




                                2

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


1.  BASIC INFORMATION                                                               4

2.  KEY DATES                                                                       4

3.  RATINGS SUMMARY                                                                 4

4.  SECTOR AND THEME CODES                                                          5

5.  BANK STAFF                                                                      5

6.  PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES                                         5

7.  KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES                               8

8.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES                                                         10

9.  ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME                                      16

10. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                    16

11. LESSONS LEARNED                                                                18

12. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS           19

ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS                                                20

ANNEX 2: RESTRUCTURING                                                             22

ANNEX 3: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                               23

ANNEX 4: OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT                                                      24

ANNEX 5: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS (INCLUDING ASSUMPTIONS IN THE ANALYSIS)   29

ANNEX 6: BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES             30

ANNEX 7: DETAILED RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE                         32

ANNEX 8: BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS                                                33

ANNEX 9: STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS                                   34

ANNEX 10: SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR                   35

ANNEX 11: COMMENTS OF CO FINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS                38

ANNEX 12: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS                                             39

ANNEX 13: MAP                                                                      40




                                           3

       1.           Basic Information
        (some fields are entered by the system)
          Country: Sri Lanka                                          Project name: Legal and Judicial Reform Project

          Project ID: P044809                                         L/C/TF Number(s):3384 CE

          ICR Date:                                                   ICR Type:1 Core

          Lending Instrument: SIL                                     Borrower: GOSL

          Original total commitment: US$18.19                         Disbursed amount: US$16.97

          Environmental category: C                                     [Focal Area--for GEF only]:

          Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Justice and the Judicial Services Commission

          Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None


       2.           Key Dates
        (all fields are entered by the system)
                 Process                      Date                      Process            Original Date           Revised/Actual
                                                                                                                      Date(s)

       Concept review:                March 3, 1998            Effectiveness:            August 11, 2000        August 11, 2000

       Appraisal:                     May 12, 2000             Restructuring(s):                                August 26, 2004

       Approval:                      June 20, 2000            Mid-term Review:          April 28, 2003         March 31, 2006

                                                               Closing:                  June 30, 2005          February 28, 2007


       3.           Ratings Summary

        2 (the system automatically displays entries in other relevant sections3)
       3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
       Outcome:                                                           MU
       Risk to Development Outcome:                                       Moderate
       Bank Performance:                                                  MU
       Borrower Performance:                                              MS




1 Core or Intensive Learning (ILI) ICR.
2 All ratings given by the ICR should use a six-point rating scale (Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
  Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, or Highly Unsatisfactory); except for the rating of Risk to Development Outcome (or Global Environment
  Outcome) that uses a four-point scale (Negligible to Low, Moderate, Significant, High).
3 Data pulled from Sections 8.4, 9, 10.1(c) and 10.2(c).


                                                                           4

      3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      (all fields are entered by the system)

                  Implementation Performance                      Indicators   QAG Assessments (if any)            Rating

                    Potential Prob. Project at any time(Yes/No):     Yes                  Quality at Entry (QEA):       2

                            Problem Project at any time(Yes/No):     Yes              Quality of Supervision (QSA):     5

                                        DO rating before Closings:    MS


      4.          Sector and Theme Codes 4
      (the original column is entered by the system--the same as in SAP/AUS)
                                                                                         Original               Actual
      Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
      1. Financial Adjustment                                                             100                      100
      2.
      3.
                                                                                   Original Priority         Actual Priority
      Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
      1. Public Sector                                                                     100                    100
      2. Private Sector


      5.          Bank Staff
   (some fields are entered by the system)
               Positions                                 At ICR                                  At Approval

     Vice President:                     Praful Patel                           Mieko Nishimizu

     Country Director:                   Naoko Ishii                            Mariana Todorova

     Sector Manager:                     Simon Bell                             Marilou Uy

     Project Team Leader:                Sriyani Hulugalle                      Maria Dakolias

     ICR Team Leader:                    Sriyani Hulugalle

     ICR Primary Author:                 Hiran Heart


      6.          Project Context, Development Objectives
   [or Global and Design (this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative):

   6.1            Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance):
    Sri Lanka's economic growth performance during project preparation (1999/2000) had been a result of increased
    foreign investment and exports as well as market-oriented reforms. However, to sustain this growth the country
    needed further reforms in the policy, regulatory, and institutional frameworks that affected the private sector. The
    Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) during that period focused on Sri Lanka's need to complete the transition to a
    market economy while reinforcing the country's deep commitment to equity and social development. In addition,
    support for the judicial sector was cited as a necessary element to improve governance and reduce corruption. The
    project was to assist the government to address some of the systemic weaknesses in the legal and judicial systems.
    It was to support, through technical and financial assistance, the development of an improved legal service for
    further promotion of private sector activity, and accountability of the government as well as the judiciary itself.


4 There can be a maximum of five Sector Codes (that has more than zero percent) and five Theme Codes (of which at least one must be
  "Primary").


                                                                     5

The challenges facing Sri Lanka in the twenty-first century included "second generation" structural reform issues
such as legal and judicial reform. It was envisaged that the successful implementation of such reforms entailed a
long term commitment to the process of consensus building in order to ensure ownership among the stakeholders
as well as the general public. There was agreement among the stakeholders that legal and judicial reform was
needed to improve the policy environment for private sector development, to improve the performance of the
state, to increase access for the poor to protect their individual and property rights, and facilitate peaceful dispute
resolution for ethnic and other discriminatory practices. Sri Lanka's civil conflict, which began in 1983, had given
rise to regional disparities on both the poor and new vulnerable groups such as war widows, victims of abuse, and
the physically challenged.

The main challenge for the legal and judicial system in Sri Lanka was to improve its efficiency, predictability, access
and transparency. Such improvements were part of the government's long term strategy. Some of the main
obstacles included delays in the judiciary; a perception of a lack of transparency; lack of access to dispute resolution
by the poor; and lack of access to legal information by the public, the legal profession as well as the judiciary. In
addition, as much of the law was written in English, the inadequate use of English within the legal education
system, which also permeated the judiciary, was another pressing challenge. The lack of technology also inhibited
the sharing and dissemination to the general public of judicial decisions as well as the laws that protected individual
and property rights.

Beyond these basic obstacles, the Sri Lankan legal system had several deficiencies with regard to enforcing. Some
of these were due to the unique nature of Sri Lanka's legal system, while others were attributed to the functioning
of the legal and judicial systems in general. The most important issues that impacted the private sector included:
dated laws that had not kept up with changes in business practices and the development of new products and
policy instruments, including financial and labor markets; lack of relevant up-to-date information on laws and their
enforcement, as well as the weak enforcement capacity of the legal system, leading to long delays in resolving
litigation in both the courts and in alternative dispute settlement mechanisms; poor court facilities and property
records; and judges inadequately trained on business and economic matters. Moreover, the law school curricula
had not kept up to date with the changing business environment leaving graduating law students ill prepared to
practice law either as attorneys in private practice, or working for the government. While critical in the long run,
most actions including training of judges, expansion of the number of courts, improvements in other dispute
settlement mechanisms, and review of legislation, were considered priorities for the sector.

In addition, studies undertaken in Sri Lanka revealed that weaknesses in the legal, regulatory and institutional
frameworks adversely impacted on private sector activities. A Private Sector Assessment carried out by the World
Bank in 1993 reviewed the environment for private sector development and identified a number of problem areas.
These included barriers to entry and exit, rigidity and distortion in markets, outdated legislation and weak
enforcement, burdensome legal requirements, and long and costly court proceedings for dispute resolution. These
problems still persisted at the time this project was approved in June 2000. Furthermore, the absence of adequate
legislation on foreign investment, intellectual property rights, utility regulation, anti-competitive behavior, inter alia,
undermined private-sector confidence and deterred the country's long term access to capital, management
expertise, technology advances and increased markets. In particular, the Company Registry--the only venue for
secured transactions in Sri Lanka--did not fulfill its mission of providing accurate and current data on Sri Lankan
firms to potential investors.

In general, although there were many issues to be tackled in the legal and judicial reform area in Sri Lanka, it was
agreed that it would be important to strictly focus the first project on certain areas within the government's long
term plan. Legal and judicial reform was considered a long term process: the range of legal and regulatory issues
identified in economic and sector work (ESW) as well as pressing needs described in the CAS were too large to be
addressed by one single project. While the focus of this project was on commercial law, the activities to be
financed were expected to have a positive impact on the rule of law in general. Other areas considered, but
rejected, included: land titling and regulation, reform of the entire judicial system, improvement in court
infrastructure, civil service reform, and access to justice. The reasons for not including these areas in this project
are: (i) already addressed under some other projects, and (ii) the need to address priority areas.

On the basis of the above, the government requested IDA assistance for a Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
which was to address: (i) modernization of the legislative framework which impacts private sector activity including
the provision of up to date information on laws and legal decisions and upgrading commercial law curricula at the


                                                           6

   three tertiary institutions; (ii) capacity building of institutions that provide service to the private sector, specifically
   the Office of the Registrar of Companies (ORC); (iii) improvement in the efficiency and quality of judicial services.
   This was to serve as a first stage in the legal and judicial reform process.


     6.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicator:

  The broad project development objectives were to improve the existing legal and judicial framework by making it
  more efficient, transparent and responsive to the needs of the public at large and the private sector in particular.
  More specifically, the project sought to: (i) modernize the legislative framework that impacted private sector activity;
  (ii) improve the administration, monitoring, and regulatory functions of the Company Registry; and (iii) build
  capacity of the judiciary and other institutions providing dispute resolution services. The project was to support the
  government's longer term legal and judicial reform efforts, and included a selected set of priority activities identified
  as a first phase of this program.

  The key performance indicators were:

        · Improved transparency in legal reform process, through increased consultation with stakeholders.
        · Increased compliance with the Company Registry Law.
        · Number of successful mediations.
        · Increased number of judgments written with the use of information technology.
        · Increased number of professionals trained in commercial law.



6.3            Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification:

 The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

6.4            Main Beneficiaries (original and revised; briefly describe the "the primary target group" identified in the PAD,
as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project):

 The primary target group identified in the PAD, were the judiciary, the litigants, the lawyers, government agencies, the
 private sector as well as law students and professors. The project was expected to improve the access, efficiency,
 quality and transparency of legal information and dispute resolution. This was also expected to have an indirect effect
 on the poor through improvements in the courts.

 Legal Reform Component:               This component facilitated the drafting of new laws in a participatory manner,
 involving all the stakeholders. In addition, training was provided to lawyers, judges and court personnel on new
 legislation that affected the business community. Training on new legislation was also provided to the following
 institutions: (i) The Attorney General's Office; (ii) National Bar Association; and (iii) universities and law schools. The
 professional training of law school teachers enhanced their skills and provided an opportunity to train a large pool of
 law students in commercial law. In addition, the launching of the LAWNET provided overall access to legal
 information to the judiciary, lawyers, academics, government, private sector and public at large.

 Company Registry: Improvements to the company registry were to provide access to information leading to higher
 investor confidence in Sri Lanka's commercial sector, and hopefully in turn boosting private sector investments. As
 explained later in this report, improvements to the Company Registry did not take place. This is expected to be
 completed under the proposed follow on project.

 Judicial Reform:         The training provided enhanced skills to members of the staff of the judiciary and in addition,
 has widened their exposure and created awareness among them that their judgments have wider ramifications on
 economic development and investor confidence. Improvements to court houses have benefited the judiciary, lawyers
 and public at large in delivering judicial services.




                                                                 7

6.5 Original Components (as approved):
 The project had four main components:
      (1)   Legal Reform ­ (i) Commercial Law Reform: The activities envisioned under this sub-component included
            support to the government in enacting a modern legislative and regulatory framework, and enacting
            procedural changes through a process that was expected to enable all stakeholders to participate in the
            drafting of new laws; (ii) Professional Development: The professional development sub-component sought to train
            lawyers, judges, and court personnel on new legislation that affected the business community. The
            institutional development activities envisioned included: short term and medium term training programs on
            new legislation for the Attorney General's Office, training programs for the Bar Association; an overhaul of
            the country's commercial law curricula; improvements to law library holdings to support the revamping of the
            law curricula; and a public awareness and communication campaign; long term training for staff of all three
            law schools; and (iii) Access to Law/LAWNET: This sub-component was aimed at improving the overall access
            to legal information by the judiciary, lawyers, academics, government and private sector through the
            development of a computerized, internet based LAWNET.

      (2)   Improvements to the Company Registry: The objective of the improvements envisioned under the ORC
            component was to make the ORC a market-oriented, self-financing service provider that ensured that its
            monitoring and regulatory functions were carried out expeditiously through institution building and training.

      (3)   Judicial Reform: In order to overcome case backlog, the project had a number of subcomponents to
            reinforce judicial reform throughout the judicial system. This included: judicial training, judicial administrative
            reform (Judicial Services Commission), and refurbishment of model courts and construction of courts in
            North and East, and mediation.

      (4)   Project Management: This component included the costs of the Project Implementation and Coordination
            Unit (PICU),including training, technical assistance, some equipment, and operational costs necessary to
            implement the project.

6.6           Revised Components:
A sub-component was added under the main-component Judicial Reform to provide computer equipment to Labor
Tribunals to expedite resolution of labor disputes. This was in support of an IMF Standby and ADB Programmatic
Loan (where assistance to labor tribunals was part of the conditionality but no financing was provided for
implementation under these programs). In addition, the sub-components commercial law reforms and public
awareness under legal reform component were removed.

6.7 Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations):
None

    7.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

    7.1       Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into
    account, risks and their mitigation identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable):

A QAE was carried out in August 2001. Overall, the project was rated satisfactory at entry. However, the panel rated
the institutional aspects, implementation arrangements, and the Bank input and processes marginally satisfactory. In
the early stages of project preparation the Bank team appeared to have lacked adequate expertise in judicial reforms.
The panel also concluded since there were several operations officers and institutions development specialists on the
task team, more could have been done on these aspects of the project. This was rectified in mid 1999, with strong
support from the Sector Department. During project preparation there was wide spread support for, and participation
in the preparation of the reform program from the Minister of Justice (who initiated the project), Chief Justice,
judicial system, academia, private sector and government agencies indicative of strong ownership. The project covered
a reform program, which was expected to address in a participatory manner important issues related to the improved
performance of the judiciary. There was also a promising pilot operation for the development of an automated and
online Legal Information Network (LAWNET). At the time of project preparation, there were no OED findings for
this type of a project, and the task team was commended for the excellent use of lessons from earlier Bank funded
judicial reform projects and the experience from several industrial and developing countries.


                                                                 8

7.2   Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken, as
      applicable):

  As mentioned above, there were some weaknesses in the design of the project with respect to institutional aspects and
  implementation arrangements, which were to hamper the project during the implementation phase. In retrospect, the
  project's development objectives were overly ambitious. It is important to note that this operation was designed in
  2000 by a team mostly comprised of staff from the legal department, legal consultants and private sector development
  specialists. Practitioners in this area are aware that legal and judicial reform is a long and drawn out process that
  typically takes 10 -15 years to bring about meaningful change or reform. Prior to project preparation, the Sri Lankan
  judiciary had never interacted with the Bank or any other major donor until the Bank started a dialogue with them in
  late 1990s. The judiciary also had not received much attention from the government in terms of modernization or
  capacity building. In fact, the judiciary was the most isolated and insulated third branch of the government. In addition,
  the initial project team working on this operation was not particularly experienced in dealing with the "on-the-ground
  realities" of legal and judicial reform, in a complex country such as Sri Lanka within a relatively volatile political
  environment.

  There was commitment from the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) and the Judicial Services Commission (JSC) during
  preparation of the project. However, at the initial stages of implementation there was little ownership from the
  Ministry of Justice and the Steering Committee (SC) played a major role in decision making. About a year into the
  project, there was a steady deterioration in project performance and a lack of commitment by the counterparts. In
  addition, the relationship between the Bank team and the counterparts became strained, further affecting project
  implementation. There was no effective project director for the period 2002-04, as the previous director had left and
  the MOJ failed to recruit a competent project director (for two years), who could have provided leadership and
  coordinated the work of various implementing agencies. There was also a mismatch of skills at the PICU which further
  hampered implementation. The PICU was staffed by qualified lawyers who did not have much procurement and
  implementation experience. By 2003-04, the Legal and Judicial Reform Project (LJRP) was rated a "problem project".
  Almost four years into implementation (2004), the progress towards achieving the development objectives was
  unsatisfactory, disbursements were only 35 percent and the project was at risk. Progress in some components had
  been very slow, such as automating the Company Registry, judicial training, court computerization and administrative
  reforms. The situation deteriorated to such an extent, that in 2004 the Country Management Unit and the Sector Unit
  (SASFP) decided to change the Bank project team to attempt to rebuild the relationship. This resulted in restructuring
  of the project.

  In April 2004, with a change in government, the Ministry of Finance took a strong interest in LJRP since it was rated "a
  problem project."      Subsequently, the high level SC ­       consisting of the Chief Justice, Attorney General, Legal
  Draftsman, Secretary Ministry of Finance, Secretary Ministry of Justice, Secretary Ministry of Trade and Commerce, the
  Secretary of the JSC and Director General of External Resources ­ was revived and took an active role with the
  objective of turning around the project (as highlighted in Aide Memoires), and mentioned in the paragraph below. The
  restructuring was carried out in August 2004, and at the request of the Borrower, the project was amended to: (a)
  remove drafting of laws and public awareness from the legal reform component since the drafting of laws was taking
  place outside the MOJ, and the MOJ could not take leadership in legal reforms as the policy formulation was under the
  purview of the line ministries; (b) scale down judicial training program to suit capacity given the relatively low
  absorptive capacity of the judiciary; and (c) add the provision of computer equipment to labor tribunals to expedite
  resolution of labor disputes.
  The revival of SC was a clear evidence of government commitment to the restructured project. In addition, the
  Secretary, Ministry of Justice appointed a qualified and experienced project director by the latter part of 2004, and
  staffed the PICU with experienced fiduciary and technical staff, especially procurement and Information Technology
  (IT). As a result, implementation progressed satisfactorily thereafter. The SC granted the Bank's task team leader
  "observer status" to ensure that Bank concerns were adequately raised at their meetings.


7.3   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

  The project design did not include measurable indicators to track progress towards achieving development objectives.
  Furthermore, the outcome indicators were primarily aimed at judicial reforms and there was only one specific indicator



                                                                9

  (increase in private sector investments) and an indirect indicator (increase in the office of the Registrar of Companies
  profit-generation) relating being responsive to the private sector. Since this was a central development objective of the
  project, additional indicators should have been identified to measure the outcome of the program. It was also unclear
  as to how the outcome of the project in terms of expediting commercial cases and other cases were to be evaluated.
  Although data on activities funded under the project was available, it was not collected in an organized manner. The
  collection of data was properly organized towards the end of the project in areas such as: (i) case disposal rate at court
  houses; (ii) dispute resolution (mediation); (iii) client survey of training conducted at MOJ and participating institutions;
  and (iv) on the effects of refurbishing of court houses. In addition, data was also collected on the quality of court
  decisions and sample cases were selected (good and bad), to be used as training material for the judiciary. Although the
  outcomes of the data collected were not utilized for the LRJP, given that this was done almost at the completion of the
  project, the data collected provided the base for formulating a baseline for M&E activities for the proposed follow on
  project.


7.4   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable):

  Fiduciary compliance with respect to disbursements, procurement and financial management of the project was
  satisfactory with no major problems encountered.            The project was categorized as a C and no Environmental
  Assessment was conducted. No safeguard policies were applicable to the project. There were initial delays in the
  preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluations, but this improved towards the latter part of implementation.

7.5   Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
      present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next
      phase/follow-up operation, if applicable):

  The main challenges for the legal and judicial system in Sri Lanka are to further improve its efficiency, predictability,
  access and transparency. Such improvements are a part of the Government's overall long-term strategy. Under the
  LJRP, the government addressed some of these issues through professional development, improving physical
  infrastructure and introducing computerization to courts. The documentation for setting up a Maintenance Fund is
  being finalized to upkeep the refurbished infrastructure and will be funded by the government budget. In addition, the
  direct involvement of the Finance Secretary in LRJP, ensured that the project had adequate counterpart funds and also
  paved way to discuss long term sustainability beyond the project. For the first time, legal and judicial reform has also
  been mentioned in the last two budgets as a key element of the government's reform agenda and highlighted by the
  Ministry of Finance in their 2005 Annual Report. Also, the participation of the Chief Justice at the inaugurations of
  new and refurbished court complexes and his public speeches at these functions put on public display the need for
  continuous ongoing reform and modernization in the judicial sector.

  Delays in the disposal of cases, resulting in a backlog of court cases; a perception of lack of transparency, and
  inadequate infrastructure especially at provincial level continue to pose challenges to the judiciary. The government has
  requested that the Bank expedite the processing of the follow on project. The key elements of the capacity building
  program in the follow on project, once implemented would provide a strong and sound foundation for long term
  growth and stability and justifies full IDA support. The program is sufficiently well defined and formulated with strong
  government commitment and ownership. The government has already identified legal and judicial reforms as a priority
  area and has demonstrated a strong commitment and leadership by incorporating the reform efforts in the proposed
  project. There is acceptance among all stakeholders that legal and judicial reforms are needed to improve the policy
  environment for private sector development, to improve the performance of other economic sectors such as finance,
  trade and investment and the governance structure of the country.


      8.         Assessment of Outcomes

  8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy):

  The broad project development objectives were to improve the existing legal and judicial framework by making it more
  efficient, transparent and responsive to the needs of the public at large and private sector in particular. More
  specifically, the project sought to:


                                                                 10

(i) modernize the legislative framework that impacted private sector activity. This was achieved by the passage of
several laws that affected the private sector, including the Companies Act. These laws were modernized and are in line
with international best practice and OECD norms.
(ii) improve the administration, monitoring, and regulatory functions of the Company Registry. The passage of the
Companies Act was an extremely positive development. For the private sector to fully benefit from this legislative
change, it was important that the Companies Registry be modernized and automated. This could not be achieved
under the LRJP, not because of a lack of commitment on the part of the government, but because of an unexpected
decision made by the New Zealand government (the new law was based on the New Zealand model) that would have
made it impossible to complete the component prior to project closing. It is expected that this will be completed
under the proposed follow on project; and,
(iii) build capacity of the judiciary and other institutions providing dispute resolution services. The capacity building of
the judiciary has widened the exposure of the judges and has created awareness among them that their judgments have
a wider ramification on economic development and investor confidence.

Sri Lanka has started to embark on legal and judicial reforms. Successful implementation of such reform entails a long
term commitment by the state and the judiciary in order to ensure ownership among stakeholders as well as the general
public. The government has already placed legal and judicial reforms as a priority area and plans to continue these
efforts in the follow on project demonstrating a strong commitment and leadership.

The CAS for Sri Lanka was presented at a time of great optimism on the political, economic and peace fronts. Indeed,
Sri Lanka was then facing a rare window of opportunity. However, despite several changes in the political regime, the
main thrust of the CAS ­ Peace, Growth and Equity ­ has remained unchanged. Furthermore, the government is
committed to a better governance structure by putting in place, a more comprehensive regulatory framework.
Therefore, the CAS has identified a regulatory environment conducive to private sector participation as a key strategy
under the CAS.


8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with
     details on outputs in Annex 4):

Overall, the achievement of the PDO were moderately satisfactory and disbursements reached 93.2 percent by the end
of the project (February 2007) compared with 35 percent in 2004. In addition to the favorable disbursement rate, the
programs were introduced in a sustainable manner with strengthened client ownership. The achievement of the PDOs
are summarized below and detailed in Annex 4.

Strengthening client ownership: The judiciary is an independent third branch of the government and does not come
under the purview of any line ministry. Therefore, from the inception, for effective implementation, a SC was set up
with all key stakeholders chaired by the Chief Justice. The membership consisted of the Attorney General, Secretaries
of the Ministries of Finance, Justice and Trade and Commerce, the Legal Draftsman, the Secretary of the Judicial
Service Commission and Director General of External Resources. This high-powered SC met regularly especially in the
last three years and provided policy guidance while reviewing and monitoring the implementation. The regular
interaction made the stakeholders see the benefits of continued dialogue which led to policy formulation and the
establishment of a Legal Cluster under the National Council for Economic Development (NCED). The Legal Cluster
has expanded stakeholder participation to the banking sector, private commercial sector, academia and legal
community. The Legal Cluster reviewed and endorsed the proposal for the proposed follow on project. The Bank
also had limited consultations with independent stakeholders. This ensures the sustainability of measures introduced
under the project and creates country ownership and commitment.

Sustainability in capacity building: The project adopted an integrated approach to address capacity building in the
judiciary, the state legal departments (for example, the AG's department and the Legal Draftsman's department), law
schools, court administration staff and support staff. The judiciary had not received training opportunities for a long
time and did not have exposure to the advancements that had taken place in other countries. Therefore, the
participation of the judiciary at the outset of the project was marginal even in the construction activities. This approach
has changed since 2004, however, when the judiciary participated in tailor made training programs both in and outside
the region. With this training, came a visible attitudinal change which was demonstrated by the active participation of
the judiciary in the pilot court automation carried out in the Colombo and Kandy courts within a record time; span of
five months.



                                                              11

A. Legal Reforms

Commercial Law Development: The project sought to modernize the legislative framework that had an impact on
private sector activities by carrying out activities under the legal reforms component. The activities that were
implemented under this component helped to improve the capacity of the state legal agencies such as the AG's
department, the Legal Draftsmen's (LD) department and also the law schools. Although, by an amendment to the
Credit Agreement two sub components (drafting of laws and public awareness) were dropped from the restructured
project, the operation directly and indirectly facilitated the amendment of several key pieces of legislation and passage
of new legislation including the Companies Act, Payment and Settlement Systems Act, Anti-Money Laundering Act,
Financial Transaction Reporting Act, the Sale of Goods (Amendment), Frustrated Contracts (Draft Law),
Misrepresentation Draft Law, Partnerships (Draft Law), Civil Law (Amendment), Financial Instruments, IT / Data
Protection and Product Liability law. It also contributed to the drafting of other legal documents as well as expediting
laws pertaining to commercial law especially the new Companies Law and the Act to amend the High Court of
Provinces (Special Provisions) Act. These laws are modern and in line with international best practice and OECD
norms.

Professional Development

Attorney General's Office: The training provided for the AG's office has helped them to improve the attitude,
productivity and sharing of knowledge within the institution. They have during 2001-06 conducted 37 programs on
variety of subjects. In addition to the short term training, 18 officers received long term postgraduate training in
reputed universities. A detailed table is attached in the Aide Memoire of the mission conducted during December 2006.
Both the external and internal training programs have been greatly appreciated by the AG, as these have resulted in
enabling trained staff to share their knowledge within the organization and also by lecturing at law schools in the
country. The training has also encouraged staff to get involved in commercial cases and serve more effectively in other
enterprises such as Public Enterprise Reform Commission. The foreign training programs (especially in commercial
law), enabled the staff who were handling criminal cases and were trained under the program on commercial law, to
attend to arbitration cases and negotiate contracts easing the burden of the staff of the commercial section. In
addition, the local area networking provided to the AG's department has led to automation of the work processes
beyond expectations of the activity funded. In addition, the AG's department has formed a 10 member team to
implement workflow automation and human resource management. The enthusiasm shown by the team for change
management in the organization was commendable. This initiative will contribute to the efficiency of the institution as
a whole and can be replicated in other institutions such as the JSC and LD's department in the second phase. This team
will be able to impart knowledge to other departments to initiate change management.

The Bar Association of Sri Lanka has been active in organizing its "Nithi Neethi Ugenuma" seminars under the
sponsorship of the LJRP in addition to the post graduate training provided for four members. These seminars provided
an opportunity for continuing legal education for members of the Bar who are more conversant in the vernacular
language. From 2002, they had conducted 22 programs in the country. These seminars were on a variety of topics and
were conducted at locations around the island which helped to enhance the knowledge of the legal community in the
provinces.

Law Schools: 27 lecturers of the three law schools received post graduate training in reputed universities and two of
the three law schools have commenced post graduate courses in commercial law using the staff trained under the
project. In addition, new curricula were developed and are being used by the law schools. New areas introduced in the
law schools include commercial law, international investment law, international commercial transactions and litigation,
foreign investments and ICSID arbitration, globalization and environmental law, international economic law, and law
of contracts. Since 2002, over 450 students have completed the law degrees annually in the three law schools with a
higher commercial law content. With the enhancement of skills of the faculty and with the assistance of few eminent
lawyers, the law faculty has been able to design a commercial law course in the Master's degree program which is
scheduled to commence in 2007. Masters degree program (LLM) on commercial law was introduced in 2004 by the
Law College in collaboration with the University of Wales. This program has contributed to the increased skills of a
large pool of lawyers in commercial law. Books and periodicals requested by all the law schools have been provided by
the project unit and it has enhanced the commercial sections of all the libraries.

Legal Draftsman's Office: At the appraisal stage of the project, the LD's office was not included in the program but
was brought in during the implementation stage in recognition of the need for enhancement of skills in legal drafting.
Several officers of the department participated in foreign training programs in Italy, India, USA and UK, and all


                                                             12

officers of the department attended an in house legal drafting course. These courses have helped to improve the
productivity of the officers. The LD's department was also provided with several personal computers and furniture.
The equipment provided has reduced the delays in legislative drafting.

Access to Law

The LAWNET: To ensure access to laws, the `LAWNET' was established; a web based online system that provides
access to statutes, law reports, conventions and international trade agreements. The publication of statues is a costly
exercise and some legislation is out of print and thus is difficult to obtain printed copies especially outside the Western
Province. This has been a problem for law students, practicing lawyers, government officials, private sector, researchers
and the general public. However, now all laws are available online at www.lawnet.lk, improving access especially for
disadvantaged groups. The website will also have the day's list of the cases to be heard by the Supreme Court and the
Appeal Court which is being updated on a daily basis. This will be expanded further to improve transparency of the
system.

Overall, substantial progress was achieved under this sub component, despite the fact that the drafting of laws and the
public awareness activities were officially dropped from the project (it should be noted that all the key pieces of
legislation that were expected to be drafted were drafted and submitted to the relevant ministries). The activities that
were carried out under this component have assisted in strengthening the legislative framework that has an impact on
private sector development, and as such can be rated as satisfactory.

Improvements to the Company Registry: The objective of the improvements envisioned under the ORC sub
component was to make the ORC a market oriented, self financing service provider that ensures its monitoring and
regulatory functions are carried out expeditiously. To achieve this, activities included institution building and training,
and modernization and computerization of the Registry. In an extremely positive development, facilitated by the LJRP,
the new Companies Law ­ something that had been pending for 12 years ­ was passed by Parliament on October 20,
2006, paving the path for the automation of the Registry. For the private sector to fully benefit from this legislative
change, it is important that the Company Registry be modernized and automated. The new law is based on a New
Zealand model, and to implement the automation of the Registry, the decision was made to pursue single sourcing with
the New Zealand Company Registry. Cabinet approval was obtained to proceed with this process and a contract was
about to be entered into when the New Zealand government decided to change vendors (despite the fact that the
vendor had been providing technical support for 15 years) and enter into a competitive bidding process to select a new
service provider. Since it would have been impossible to complete the automation before the closing date of the LJRP
and also since single sourcing is not the optimal procurement method, the IDA team decided to postpone the
Company Registry automation under the first phase project, and complete it under the second phase. Therefore, this
component was not completed, but not because of lack of commitment on the part of the government, but because of
an unexpected decision made by the New Zealand government that would have made it impossible to complete the
component prior to project closing. While, the recruitment of staff and training were carried out as envisioned, the
PDO of this component was not achieved and is rated as unsatisfactory.

B Judicial Reforms:
In order to overcome case backlog, the project had a number of subcomponents to reinforce judicial reform
throughout the system. This included judicial training, judicial administrative reform (Judicial Services Commission),
model courts, and mediation.

Judicial Training: Under the judicial training sub component, 12 judges received post graduate training in commercial
law. In addition, the project enhanced the skills of various practitioners especially in areas of commercial law,
economics and finance by providing targeted short term training in foreign countries. This training has widened the
exposure of the judges and has created awareness among them that their judgments have wider ramifications for
economic development and investor confidence. In the future the training criteria will be disclosed on the web to
provide more transparency.

Judicial Administrative Reform: Over the last few years, the performance evaluation criteria for judges and the
recruitment procedures have also been revised. The JSC utilizes the monthly reporting sheets prepared by individual
judges to assess their performance. The JSC also reviews the judgments handed out and selects sample cases
(judgments, good and bad) to be discussed at the Judicial Training Institute to improve the quality of judgments. The
judiciary has also moved into using technology and reported that over 180 judges currently write their judgments using
computers. In addition, with the setting up of the Legal Cluster (comprising of representatives of the legal community,


                                                            13

including private sector lawyers and financial community) under NCED, transparency, efficiency and wide stakeholder
participation of formulation and prioritization of policies have increased.

Model Courts:         The LJRP commenced before the Cease-Fire Agreement (CFA). During preparation and
implementation, an inclusive approach was taken especially providing infrastructure to the North and East provinces
with new court complexes constructed in Jaffna and Trincomalee. Court houses were renovated in Mannar and
Vavuniya (North) and Ampara and Akkaraipattu (East) with the country's resources. This approach ensured that there
was equal access to justice by all citizens of the country. Overall, the project supported 24 court refurbishments, with
the Ministry of Justice supporting the refurbishment of an additional 13 courts using government resources. The LJRP
also introduced automation of case tracking and bar coding in 8 court houses and automated the work processes in the
AG's department. The foreign training combined with provision of computer equipment has changed the working
environment from a manual system to a more automated environment. One hundred and eighty judges (as mentioned
above) have started writing their judgments using computers. In addition, computer use has made it possible to move
into court automation in Colombo and Kandy which have a high proportion of commercial cases. Under the pilot
launched in 2007, there will be audio recording, transcription management, bar coding and file tracking. This will not
only improve the efficiency of the court system but also reduce corrupt practices. Court automation is expected to
reduce the cost of daily operation in the courts by 30-50 percent. This will also provide a technological platform for
introducing electronic court case management in the second phase.

Commercial Mediation: The Mediation Act had been enacted and a Commercial Mediation Centre has been set up
at the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Historically in Sri Lanka, there has been strong resistance to mediation as a
means of resolution and those with grievances prefer to continue taking cases to court rather than pursuing mediation.
However, 35 mediators were trained and accredited to provide mediation facilities to the private companies under the
project. The Mediation Centre received 322 applications of which 18 were mediated, 84 were directly settled, 220
declined to mediate while 10 were settled by the mediation centre. Since the appetite for the commercial mediation was
less at the time of restructuring it was explicitly mentioned in the MOU that only training would be undertaken and
that a modest impact would be expected. A law was passed in early 2000 and amended in 2005 to require mandatory
mediation if the mediation clause is incorporated in a contract.

Labor Tribunals:       Equipment was provided to the labor tribunals. It was made clear in the letters of the Country
Director and the MOU signed with the government that the tasks undertaken within the labor tribunals were not
expected to have a major reform impact. It was agreed that the project would support the purchase of equipment to
help implement proposed reforms supported by the PRSC, IMF and ADB (i.e., labor market reforms to limit the
Labor Commissioner's role and discretion in labor disputes).

Based on the substantial progress made the judicial reforms main component is rated as satisfactory.



8.3 Efficiency (Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and comparisons;
    and Financial Rate of Return):

N/A

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency):

 Rating:           MU

Overall, some credible progress has been made in initiating legal and judicial reforms in Sri Lanka. However, some
activities initially envisaged as part of the program  such as, improvements to the Company Registry, public
awareness and outreach programs were not implemented. As a result, the overall outcome is rated as MS. The rating
was also affected by the fact that the project did not have monitorable indicators or a robust M&E framework. The
five key performance indicators listed in the PAD were: (i) Improved transparency in legal reform process, through
increased consultation with stakeholders; (ii) Increased compliance with Company Registry Law; (iii) Number of
successful mediations; (iv) Increased number of judgments written with the use of information technology; and (v)
Increased number of professionals trained in commercial law. Of these five, the project achieved substantial progress
on items i, iv and v. With the setting up of the Legal Cluster under NCED transparency, efficiency and wide
stakeholder participation for policy formulation and prioritization have increased. Under the project, the judiciary also


                                                             14

started to use computer technology. The project has helped strengthen the capacity of the law schools by improving
the curricula in commercial law, enhancing the capacity of the teaching faculty by training them overseas and locally.
The skills have been enhanced in other agencies such as AG's department and LD's department by providing and
institutionalizing training to sustain the capacity building to expedite the legislative process. In addition, the judicial
staff have been trained in Hong Kong, Malaysia and Rome on court administration and new commercial concepts to
enhance knowledge on advanced commercial practices. In addition, the project has been able to provide the much
required physical infrastructure for the modernization of the court system which will improve the efficiency of the
proceedings and reducing the backlog of court cases.

Progress on items ii and iii was limited. The Companies Act (based on the New Zealand Model) was passed, but the
Company Registry was not automated. Therefore, this component was not completed, but not because of lack of
commitment on the part of the government, but because of an unexpected decision made by the New Zealand
government that would have made it impossible to complete the component prior to project closing. As a result, the
Registry will be automated under the proposed second project. The Mediation Act was enacted and a Commercial
Mediation Center was set up. Since the appetite for commercial mediation was less at the time of restructuring of the
project (2004), it was explicitly stated in the MOU that only training would be undertaken and that a modest impact
would be expected.

Based on the above, the overall outcome is rated as MU.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above):

    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

 N/A

    (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
    development):

The project had a major impact on institutional strengthening. Training, computer facilities, buildings and building
refurbishments and resources (library books and journals) were secured for the AG's department, several universities
and law schools, Bar Association, LD's department, the Judiciary, the JSC and the labor tribunal (LT). Details are
provided in Annex 4. Apart from building capacity, the exposure that the participants received have widened mind sets
to judicial improvements and future measures will be easier to implement. In addition, the use of technology and court
automation has helped to improve the decisions on judgments given.

    (c)       Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):



8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details
in annexes):

A beneficiary survey was carried out towards the end of the project to assess the impact of the training and
infrastructure provided. Further follow up will still be needed as not enough time has passed to realize the total
expected benefits, but a good start has been made.

Training: More than 90 percent of respondents rated highly the overall usefulness of training. In addition, capacity
building and productivity enhancement were also rated highly (3.9 and 4.2 out of 5). The average score of 3.9 for
capacity building however, should be viewed as an indication for need for further interventions. With respect to
changes in behavior and approach to work, the evidence points to maximum benefits realized through: (i) improved
analytical ability and judgment; (ii) effective and timely decision making; (iii) planning and organizing of own work; and
(iv) concerns about the operational efficiency of the organization.

Infrastructure: The respondents' overall satisfaction with infrastructure facilities was examined in terms of


                                                             15

contribution to enhance productivity of the organization, capacity building, image building, and overall usefulness. The
empirical evidence reveals that more than 80 percent of the respondents have rated infrastructure facilities as high
overall in terms of productivity enhancement and image building.



9.            Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating:    Moderate

The government has identified improving legal and judicial system as a priority area by bringing it to the forefront of
the development agenda of the country. For the first time, legal and judicial measures have been mentioned in the last
two budgets as a key element of the reform agenda and highlighted by the Ministry of Finance in their 2005 and 2006
Annual Reports. The government has established a Legal Cluster under NCED which is one of the highest policy
making bodies in the country. This is a clear indication towards institutionalizing the efforts started under the LJRP. In
addition, the government has requested for assistance under a second phase with more measures to be carried out,
including the preparation of a Judicial Reforms Strategy, establishment of a judicial statistical base, and automation of
court case management. Ownership is further being demonstrated by the significant participation of the implementing
agencies in the preparation of the proposed second project. The follow on project is expected to be presented to the
Board in the second quarter of FY08. In the interim period, the government has provided funds from the budget to
keep up momentum of the reform activities. As a result, the risk to development outcome is rated as moderate.




 10.          Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
    (relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

    10.1      Bank Performance

    (a)       Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase):

Rating:          U

A QAE was carried out and the overall rating was satisfactory, although the QAE pointed out the deficiencies in
project design and lack of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) indicators. The PDOs were not framed so as to enable
tracking of progress and the project M&E indicators did not facilitate progress towards the achievement of the DO.
The project design (inadequate attention to institutional and implementation arrangement needed improvement) at
entry was weak. The design issues were exacerbated by a lack of ownership from both the executive and judiciary, and
were evidenced by the slow pace of implementation/disbursement and the different perspectives of the original task
team and the counterparts. As a result, Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory.


    (b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):

 Rating:                   MU

Because the quality at entry was weak, implementation suffered from 2002-04. In addition, the skill mix of the task team
was inadequate and the team lacked development experience. However, by 2004, the Bank realized that the
achievement of the PDOs would not be achieved and took steps to rectify the situation and initiated actions to ensure
government support. The original task team was replaced by a more responsive and decentralized task team, led by a
country based task team leader. Project activities were revised and the Credit Agreement was amended in August 2004.
Over the past two years, project implementation and disbursements accelerated with the project being closely
supervised by the country based team. There was constant interaction between the Bank team and the counterparts


                                                           16

(especially the PICU), and any issue that arose was resolved quickly. In addition, both procurement and financial
management reporting activities improved, enabling the project team to closely monitor project progress from this
standpoint. Over the first four years of the project, disbursement was only 35 percent, but under the new team, 58
percent of the project funds were disbursed over the last two years. It must be noted that disbursements by themselves
may not be a good indicator of project progress, in this instance, disbursements were accompanied by a tremendous
increase in project activities (e.g., increased training of judges, launching of the court automation pilot, launching of the
online access to legislative enactments, automation of work processes in the AG's department, enhancing technology
and staff skills in the LD's department, completion of the model courts, etc.). By the closing date (February 28, 2007),
93.2 percent of the IDA Credit was utilized.

A QAG supervision assessment (QSA7) rating carried out in 2006 was 5. The team as well as the country and sector
management did not agree with this rating and assessment. The issues raised by QSA7 were: (i) inadequate M & E
indicators, (ii) inadequate skill mix, (iii) issue of sustainability, (iv) automation of courts, (v) team being highly
decentralized, and (vi) lack of social accountability of the judiciary. On item (i) the team agreed with the findings and
has incorporated a more robust results framework for the second phase. On item (ii), the team will ensure international
experts on the team who will manage the next phase. The team disagreed with the rest of the issues raised. The
explanation and the related documentation are available in IRIS. As a result of the weak performance of the Bank
during the initial years of implementation (2002-04) Bank performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

    (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

 Rating:                     MU

 The quality at entry of the project was weak, as was implementation during 2002-04. However, the team that replaced
 the original Bank team was proactive and did well to turn the project around and get a large number of activities
 implemented. But the new team could have done more to: (i) revise and narrow the PDOs when the Credit
 Agreement was amended, (ii) review and sharpen the project indicators, linking them clearly to achievements of the
 PDOs, and (iii) formulate monitorable indicators whereby impact could be assessed. The team has benefited from the
 lessons learned under this project, which they have incorporated in the proposed follow on project. As a result,
 overall, Bank performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

    10.2       Borrower Performance

    Note: When the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, provide rating and justification
    only for Overall Borrower Performance.

              Click here if the Government and the Implementation Agency is the same or indistinguishable


    (a) Government Performance:

 Rating:                       MS

 Initially, there was a lack of ownership by the government, and implementation suffered as a result. However, with
 the change of government in 2004, interest and commitment to the project picked up and the government agreed
 with the Bank to revise the project according to something that they felt was implementable. The government has
 shown further commitment to satisfying the efforts including the reform process and has requested substantial
 funding to sustain the momentum created by this project and to deepen the process commenced in 2000. The
 government has also expressed its strong commitment to ensure focused and timely implementation of the proposed
 project. In the interim period, the government has extended its own resources to sustain the measures. Apart from
 other components, the follow on phase will include development of a comprehensive Judicial Sector Strategy, IT and
 human resources. Overall government performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.




                                                                  17

 (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating:                MS



             Implementing Agency                                                    Performance
1. Ministry of Justice (PICU)/Judicial Services        During     the  initial  phase,   implementation    progressed
Commission.                                            satisfactorily. After the project director left in 2002,
                                                       implementation progress declined. The Ministry of Justice
                                                       failed to recruit a competent project director for two years
                                                       (between 2002-04) who could have provided leadership and
                                                       coordinated the work of the various implementing agencies.
                                                       In addition, the procurement and IT staff of the PICU were
                                                       weak. This was rectified later on and qualified procurement
                                                       and IT staff were hired. Subsequently, the Ministry took
                                                       ownership, revived the SC and appointed a qualified and
                                                       experienced project director to get the project back on track.
                                                       Over the last two years the PICU has worked closely with the
                                                       Bank team and has done substantial work to get most of the
                                                       components implemented. In addition to their coordination
                                                       functions, the fiduciary activities (especially procurement)
                                                       were of high caliber. Overall PICU performance is rated as
                                                       satisfactory.


 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating:     MS

The performance of the Borrower during 2002-04 was unsatisfactory.               However, after the Bank and the
Borrower decided to restructure the project to get it back on track and a new project director was hired, overall
Borrower performance improved significantly. Most of the project components were implemented and 93.2
percent of the Credit utilized. In addition, the government has enhanced its commitment to reforms by
requesting from the Bank, a follow on project to implement further reforms in the judicial sector. As a result, the
overall rating is considered moderately satisfactory.


 11.       Lessons Learned
 (both project-specific and of wide general application)

There are several lessons that have emerged from this project that can be used to strengthen performance in
similar circumstances in the future:

1.       Project Design: Project design needs to be realistic and simple to ensure effective implementation. In
particular, adequate attention should be given to institutional and implementation arrangements, including
developing measurable indicators to track progress towards the Project Development Objectives (PDOs).
Especially, in a "Legal Reform Project", monitoring arrangements pose particular challenges. However, without
indicators, an objective assessment of the project is not possible. Increase in judges' knowledge of commercial
law, and changes in attitudes rest on interpretations of qualitative factors and are matters on which observers
can reasonably differ. In order to avoid such disagreement, projects require monitorable indicators.

2.        Reform Timing and Management Capacity: One important lesson is that in rushing to fulfill
conditions agreed with International Financial Institutions (IFI), the authorities can be prone to over commit
themselves. Government often agrees to move on too many areas without realizing the technical and managerial
capacity as well as the political capital that is required to deliver on these requests. One mitigating factor is the
creation of a steering committee representing the major stakeholders, which is empowered to take hard


                                                           18

decisions to move the reform process forward. Ownership of the project by the Ministry of Finance also
provides it with strong and empowered leadership.

3.       Need for Sequencing Change: Part of the project's success was its use of phasing. Once the judiciary
was exposed to the modern practices of teaching in other countries in the region (e.g.Hong Kong, Malaysia,
Rome etc.) the judiciary was more receptive to change especially the introduction of IT and also to the modern
commercial practices in other countries. In addition, staff who had access to foreign training provide services as
resource persons to support the teaching courses in commercial law in the local law schools.

4.      Mainstreaming Reforms: The government set up a Legal Cluster under NECD providing a forum for
wide stakeholder participation by bringing together the legal community, judiciary, the banking and the private
sector for policy formulation. This ensures long term sustainability of the agenda beyond the project. Since
NCED reports directly to the President, the actions undertaken have the attention of the highest levels.

5.        Management Turnover: The last five years have witnessed four successive governments, each of
which is accompanied by change at the political and technocratic levels. Each new incumbent has to take time
to familiarize himself with the key sector issues and chart a suitable course of action. The task team has worked
with their nominated successors whenever possible to ensure that the incoming team starts from a position of
knowledge and familiarity with the issues.

6.       PICU and Implementing Agencies: Initially the project unit was well staffed but with high turnover,
the project lost technical and implementation capacity. However, in 2004 staff with experience in IT and
procurement were hired, including a competent project director. In addition, technically qualified staff were
identified in the implementing agencies and included in the implementation process. Comprehensive
assessments of the capacities of the various implementing agencies need to be carried out (where such agencies
are responsible for implementing the reforms under the project), and TA tailored to strengthen any
shortcomings, to avoid problems during implementation. This is especially important given that lessons from
past projects have shown that TA components are difficult to administer and slow to disburse.

7.      Team Skill Mix and Continuity: It is essential that the Bank team has the appropriate expertise on its
team, both when preparing the project and in its implementation. Not having the right skills mix can lead to
poor project design, which in turn lead to problems during implementation and the inability to achieve the
PDOs. The project had four team leaders from the identification stage through appraisal. In a complex and
sensitive area such as this, continuity of staff is an important factor in the successful design and implementation
of a project.



12.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
          Agencies/Partners

(a)       Borrower/implementing agencies:

 Borrower's Report is given in Annex 10. No comments were given by the Borrower.

(b)       Cofinanciers:

 N/A

(c)       Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

 N/A




                                                          19

                        ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS


 Project Development Objective (from Project Appraisal Document): (the system displays entries in Section 6)

  The broad project development objectives were to improve the existing legal and judicial framework by making it more
  efficient, transparent and responsive to the needs of the public at large and the private sector in particular. More
  specifically, the project sought to: (a) modernize the legislative framework that impacts private sector activity; (b)
  improve the administration, monitoring, and regulatory functions of the Company Registry; and (c) build capacity of the
  judiciary and other institutions providing dispute resolution services. The project was expected to support the
  Government of Sri Lanka's longer term legal and judicial reform efforts, and included a selected set of priority activities
  identified as a first phase of this program.



 Revised Project Development Objective (as approved by original approving authority): (the system displays entries
 in Section 6)

  N/A


(a)   PDO Indicator(s)  from Project Appraisal Document (Indicators entered from the ISR)
Baseline Values from Project Outcome Indicators/Date of Value (from approval documents)

                             Baseline Value          Original Target           Formally Revised           Actual Values
                                                          Values                Target Values               Achieved
                                                      (from approval                                    at Completion or
                                                        documents)                                        Target Years
   PDO Indicator 1:         Improve quality of judiciary and legal community on commercial law
   Value
   (quantitative or         NA                     NA
   Qualitative)
   Date achieved
   Comments                 The mission assessment in December shows that the LJRP had been able to improve the
   (incl. %                 capacity of the state legal agencies such as the AG's department, the LD's department and also
   achievement)             the law schools. It has contributed to legal drafting as well as expediting laws pertaining to
                            commercial law especially to the new Companies Law and the Act to amend the High Court of
                            Provinces (Special Provisions) Act. These will significantly contribute to reducing laws delays.
                            However, the LJRP was unable to automate the Company Registry as agreed since the New
                            Zealand Company Registry who was to assist in the automation changed the service provider
                            after 15 years which resulted in the automation process being postponed to the second phase.
                            The LJRP also enhanced the skills of the judiciary especially in areas of commercial law,
                            economics and finance by providing targeted training in foreign countries. The judiciary has
                            moved into using technology and reported that 180 judges write their judgments using
                            computers currently. The LJRP also introduced automation of case tracking and bar coding in
                            8 court houses and automated the work processes in the AG's department. In addition, with
                            the setting up of the Legal Cluster under the National Council for Economic Development
                            under the chairmanship of the Chief Justice, the transparency, efficiency and wide stakeholder
                            participation of formulation of policies increased.


 (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) - from Project Appraisal Document
 Baseline Values from Project Outcome Indicators/Date of Value (from approval documents)



                                                                 20

                           Baseline Value          Original Target           Formally Revised             Actual Values
                                                        Values                  Target Values                Achieved
                                                   (from approval                                       at Completion or
                                                     documents)                                           Target Years
IO Indicator 1:           Number trained in commercial law ­ foreign and local PhD/Masters degree programs
                 Value                          30                         NA                         102
        (quantitative or
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved                                                                                02\28\2007
            Comments     At appraisal the agreement was to have a twinning arrangement for the judiciary while long term
 (incl. % achievement)   training was provided only to the AG's Department and law schools.                However, at the
                         implementation stage the staff from the judiciary and the Bar Association were also included in this
                         program. In addition, the Law College commenced a Master's Program accredited by the University
                         of Wales to increase the carder of lawyers trained in commercial law and 40 were funded under the
                         project. Therefore, in total 102 have received post graduate training. The respondents' overall
                         satisfaction was examined by carrying out an assessment and the findings indicate that more than
                         90% rated overall usefulness of training at the maximum end. Similarly about 81 percent have rated
                         productivity enhancement at the maximum end.
IO Indicator 2:          Number of court houses refurbished
                 Value                          25                         NA                         24
        (quantitative or
           Qualitative)
         Date achieved                                                                                02\28\2007
            Comments     96% of court houses that were identified to be refurbished were refurbished except one in the East,
 (incl. % achievement)   an area affected by Tsunami, that proved difficult to engage contractors. This had been identified
                         under Phase III which was the last phase of the construction work planned. The respondents'
                         overall satisfaction with infrastructure facilities was examined by carrying out a beneficiary
                         assessment in terms of contribution to enhance productivity of the organization, capacity building,
                         image building, and overall usefulness of the project. The empirical evidence reveals that more than
                         80% of the respondents have rated infrastructure facilities at the maximum end.




                                                            21

                              ANNEX 2: RESTRUCTURING
                                (if any) (some fields are entered by the system)


  Restructuring      Board Approved       ISR Ratings at                Amount                 Reason for
    Date(s)          PDO [ Change          Restructuring             Disbursed at            Restructuring &
                       [check box]                                   Restructuring         Key Changes Made
                                      DO              IP               in US$m



08/12/2004          PDO was not       U               U            6.4                  Progress towards
                    changed                                                             achieving the development
                                                                                        objectives of the Project
                                                                                        was not satisfactory.




If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body) enter ratings
                                                    below:

                                                                                Outcome Ratings

Against Original PDO/Targets

Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets

Overall (weighted) rating                                      [the same rating as Section 8]




                                                      22

                       ANNEX 3: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

    (a)    Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
    (Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)


                Components                   Appraisal Estimate Actual /Latest Estimate        Percentage of
                                                 (US$ million)           (US$ million)          Appraisal

     1.Legal Reform                                    6.14                 4.11                  66.9

     2.Company Registry                                1.60                 0.31                  19.4

     3.Judicial Reform                                10.98                14.10                 128.4

     4.Project Management                              1.41                0.98                   69.5

                    Total Baseline Cost

     Physical Contingencies

     Price Contingencies

                     Total Project Costs              20.13                19.50                  96.9

     Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                1.01                0.52                   0.51

     Front-end fee (IBRD only)

             Total Financing Required                 21.14                20.02                  94.7


(b)   Co-financing

                                                              Appraisal           Actual/Latest
     Source of Funds        Type of Financing                  Estimate             Estimate        Percentage

                                                            (US$ million)         (US$ million)     of Appraisal

     Government                                                     2.94              3.05         102.3
     IDA                                                           18.19              16.97        93.02

     Total                                                         21.14              20.02         94.7

(c)   Disbursement Profile (system generated graph)




                                                                 23

                                   ANNEX 4: OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

The Legal and Judicial Reforms Project (LJRP) was designed with the objective of improving the legal and judicial framework in
Sri Lanka by making it more efficient, transparent and responsive to the public at large and in particular to the private sector. The
Project had four main components: (i) Legal Reforms; (ii) Company Registry Improvement; (iii) Judicial Reform; and (iv) Project
Management.


(i) Legal Reforms:       There were three sub-components under Legal Reforms, namely: (i) Commercial Law Development; (ii)
Professional Development; and (iii) Access to Law/LAWNET.

(a)    Commercial Law Development: The objective of this sub-component was to assist the Sri Lankan government in
addressing weaknesses in the legal and regulatory framework that had an adverse impact on private sector activity, the business
environment, and investor confidence. A prioritized list of laws were agreed to by the Technical Group--comprised of
representatives of the Law Commission, Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, Federation of Chamber of Commerce, Bar Association
of Sri Lanka, and AG's Office. Each member was expected to lead a drafting committee for each law revision and a policy paper
was to be prepared prior to the drafting of each law. A consultative group was established to provide stakeholder views in the
drafting process. When the project was amended in August 2004, the Borrower requested that this sub component be removed
from the project. The reason being, that the drafting of laws was taking place outside the Ministry of Justice and as such they
could not take the leadership as the policy formulation was under the purview of the line ministries. However, the LRJP was
instrumental in promoting the drafting of key legislative proposals using a participatory process. For example the new Company
Law was passed by parliament in October 2006. It provides the legal framework for the proposed Company Registry Automation
in the second phase. The following laws were drafted by a core group set up at the outset by the project: (i) Sale of Goods
(Amendment) (ii) Frustrated Contracts (Draft Law), (iii) Misrepresentation Draft Law), and (iv) Partnerships (Draft Law), and the
project director facilitated the presentation of bills such as Payments and Settlements Systems Act, Amendment to the Credit
Information Bureau Act, Anti-Money Laundering Act, Terrorist Financing Act and Financial Transactions Reporting Act.


 (b)    Professional Development: The objective of this sub component was to strengthen the capacity of the institutions that
are responsible for law reform and legal education in the area of commercial law. These institutions included the AG's Office,
Bar Associations, and law schools. This sub component has been successfully implemented. Professional development was
provided through training and provision of books. Selected members of the judiciary, officers of the AG's department and the
LD's department, labor tribunal presidents, staff of law schools, members of the Bar Association and commercial mediators were
given training, both locally and internationally. Furthermore, books were provided to Judges' libraries, the AG's department
library, Ministry of Justice library, law schools and outstation court libraries.

   (i) Attorney General's Office:

Professional Development: The foreign and local in house training programs have helped to improve the attitude, productivity
and sharing of knowledge within the institution. Eighteen officers obtained their LLMs through the project. These officers have
shared their knowledge and experience with other staff through in house training programs and also lecturing at law schools in the
country. The training has also encouraged staff to get involved in commercial cases and serve more effectively in other enterprises
such as Public Enterprise Reform Commission. The project also funded three short term foreign training programs for the AG's
department for 35 officers in 2002 at the City University in Hong Kong, 24 officers in 2003 at the National Law School in
Bangalore, India, and 28 at the International Development Law Organization in Rome, Italy. The programs covered areas of
commercial law. Staff who were handling criminal cases who have been trained under the program on commercial law have been
able to attend to arbitration cases and have negotiated contracts easing the burden of the staff of the commercial section. In
addition, they have conducted 37 in house programs during 2001-05 with 3,025 total participants - i. e., an average of about 80
participating per seminar. Details are given in the Aide Memoire of December 2006.

Computerization: The local area network (LAN) for the AG's department was completed. The assignment included establishing
systems for case workflow, human resource management, document management, calendaring and scheduling. The automation
enables better monitoring, coordination and productivity in the department. The AG formed a ten member team to implement
parts of the automation that has contributed to improving the efficiency of the institution as a whole and can be replicated in
other institutions such as JSC and LD's department in the second phase of the project. This team will be able to impart
knowledge to other departments to initiate change management as well.

Development of Library Resources: The consultancy assignment for the computerization of the library of the AG's department



                                                                   24

was partially completed. The consultant prepared technical specifications for the automation of the AG's library and submitted a
report. However, the report did not contain any cost estimates and given that the lead time for the procurement of software (prior
to the closing of the LRPJ); this has been postponed to the next phase of the project.

Supply of Books and Periodicals: All books requested by the AG's department have been provided, except for those that are
out of print.

   (ii)    Bar Association:

Professional Development: Four members of the Bar Association were sponsored to follow LLMs (3) and PhDs (1) and 70
Bar Association libraries islandwide were provided with Case Law Digest. The Bar Association has been active in organizing its
"Nithi Neethi Ugenuma" continuous learning programs under the sponsorship of the LJRP. These seminars provide an
opportunity for continuing legal education for members of the Bar who are more conversant in the vernacular language. These
seminars are on a variety of topics and are conducted at locations around the island which enhances the knowledge of the legal
community in the provinces. During 2002-06, the LJRP funded 22 programs around the country and the list of topics and the
speakers are given in Annex 8 of the December 2006 Aide Memoire. There had been 2,300 participants at these seminars in total.
In addition, the 5th Annual Junior National Law Conference held in August 2005 was funded by the project where a session was
devoted to legal and judicial reforms.

   (iii)   Law Schools:

Curriculum Development: Four international consultants were contracted by the LJRP in 2001-02 and curricula for commercial
law courses were developed and are being used by the law teaching institutions. New areas introduced in law schools are
commercial law, international investment law, international commercial transactions and litigation, foreign investments and ICSID
arbitration, globalization and environmental law, international economic law, and law of contracts. Since 2002, over 450 students
have completed law degrees annually in the three law schools with a higher commercial law content. A new LLM on commercial
law will commence from 2007 at the Faculty of Law in the University of Colombo while the Faculty of Law at the Open
University is considering the introduction of a LLM course in the next academic year using the staff that had been trained under
the project.

Professional Development:

Foreign PhD\LLM Programs: In the Colombo Law faculty, two have completed PhD programs and returned, and two others
are expected to complete in 2007. Four LLM candidates have completed the course and returned. With the enhancement of the
skills of the faculty and with the assistance of few eminent lawyers, the law faculty has been able to design a commercial law
course in the Master's degree program which is scheduled to commence in 2007. The Dean informed that it was a direct result of
the LJRP curriculum development and professional development support. A copy of the LLM brochure is available with the
Colombo office in the project files. In the Law College, a PhD candidate is expected to complete a thesis in 2007 while one LLM
candidate has completed the studies and returned. In the Colombo University more courses are now taught in English. At the law
faculty of the Open University, staff had returned after completing six LLMs and one PhD. The staff explained how the LLM
has provided them with much needed exposure, knowledge and skills on teaching methods.

Local LLM Program: An LLM program on commercial law was introduced in 2004 by the Law College in collaboration with
the University of Wales. Ten candidates completed the 2004-05 program and 15 completed the 2005-06 program. Partial funding
has been approved for the 3rd batch of 15 for 2006-07. This program has contributed by increasing the skills of a large pool of
lawyers in commercial law.

Library Resources: Books and periodicals requested by all the law schools have been submitted by the PICU enhancing the
commercial sections of all the libraries.

Computer Facilities:

Colombo University-Faculty of Law: A computer training facility was set up at the law faculty, including a LAN. Headphones
as well as English language learning software were also supplied. In addition, software has been provided to self monitor the usage
by students, and a user fee of Rs. 400 per annum is being charged to upgrade and maintain the system.

The Open University of Sri Lanka was provided with a computer center including furniture. Only the law department has a
computer lab, and the head of the law department has even commenced a virtual class which encourages the use of computers. A


                                                                25

log has been set up to monitor the use of computer by each student. The university has also introduced distance learning
programs online. The computers provided by the LJRP are not only used by students for word processing and research, but also
for the delivery of virtual classes, assignment monitoring and student discussions.

Law College: Sri Lanka Law College has been provided with a computer training center with 20 computers. The computers were
upgraded again during the project in 2005 and the center was provided with a LAN as well as English language communications
training software. The initial technical problems with the software package have been rectified.

    (iv)  Legal Draftsman's(LD) Department :

Professional Development: At the project's appraisal stage, the LD's office was not included in the program. However it was
brought in during the implementation stage in recognition of the need for enhancing skills in legal drafting. 18 officers of the
department participated in foreign training programs in Italy, India, USA and UK. Four others were sponsored for conferences
and training programs. The LD informed the Bank that the training has improved the productivity of the officers. The LD
highlighted the need for a legislative program to enable proper planning of legislative drafting and reducing delays. All officers of
the LD's department attended a legal drafting course conducted by Sir Peter Graham (a Parliamentary Counsel from the UK) held
in the department during September-October 2005 which was well received. The LD felt that such in house programs benefit a
large number of staff and could address some work-related issues during the sessions. The LD requested that more of such
training be provided in the next phase in addition to short-term foreign training.

Computer Facilities: The LD's department was also provided with 31 personal computers, ten chairs and tables and a server.
These equipments are expected to further reduce the delays in legislative drafting.

C. Access to Law/ LAWNET :

This sub-component was to assist the government in providing access to accurate and up-to-date legal and judicial information to
various stakeholders through: a) development of an automated and on line Legal Information Network (LAWNET), which was to
include statutes, government regulations, case information/court decisions, and excerpts from selected law textbooks; and b)
organizing and modernizing the storage and retrieval of related publications. The LAWNET pilot phase was completed in March
2003 with assistance from the Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (SLIIT). However, it was in PDF format and also
not user friendly. Therefore during the second phase it was made more user friendly and comprehensive including the day's lists
of cases to be heard at the Supreme Court and the Appeals Court. The LAWNET is now operational and will be further
developed in the next phase. The registrars in the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal are uploading the decisions of these two
courts as they are issued. The proposed Trust for Maintenance is expected to take charge of the LAWNET and ensure its update
and sustainability after the initial maintenance agreement of three years has expired.

Public Awareness Campaign:             The public awareness campaign was never carried out using project funds. The project SC
recommended that project funds should not be used for this purpose, given the intentions of the Ministry of Justice to use its
own staff resources to conduct its own legal awareness campaign. The occasion of the inaugurations of the refurbished buildings
were used by the ministry and the project to highlight the modernization process.

(ii)   Office of the Company Registrar (ORC):

The objective of this component was to make the Office of the Company Registrar (ORC) a more efficient, market oriented and
increasingly self sustaining service provider. The activities leading to the overhaul of the ORC were unsatisfactory. While there
were a number of positive steps with regard to staffing, staff training and restructuring of business processes, the automation of
the ORC never materialized. Study tours were made to Hong Kong, Singapore and New Zealand to review those systems in order
to select a system that would best suit the Srilankan context. The New Zealand model was selected. However, the New Zealand
government decided to change their service providers, and as a result, the project had to discontinue the ORC automation.
Nevertheless, refurbishment of the ORC was completed by June 2006, which will facilitate the automation as planned in the next
phase. The new Companies Law was passed by the parliament in October 2006 and became effective in May 2007. Necessary
steps have been taken to enable the smooth transition from the earlier law to this new law. About 30 new statutory forms have to
be drafted and issued to enable the implementation of the law.

(iii)   Judicial Reform:

This component had four sub components: (a) Judicial Training; (b) Judicial Administrative Reform (Judicial Services
Commission); (c) Model Courts; and (d) Mediation.


                                                                 26

(a)   Judicial Training/Center for Law and Justice

Judicial Training (local): The quality of judges has improved with the local training provided for the new and sitting judges. In
addition, the training has widened the exposure of the judges and has created awareness among them that their judgments have
wider ramifications on economic development and investor confidence. The Judicial Training Institute (JTI) is running the local
training programs. A coordinating office for the JTI has been established with the assistance of the project and a new Director
was appointed on December 15, 2006. Judicial training seminars/workshops held by the JTI on weekends for sitting judges of
High Courts, District Courts and the Magistrates as well as for the newly recruited Judges started in 1999 and are still continuing
with a new curriculum developed under the project. Two new programs have been launched and a panel of resource persons
(consisting of eminent sitting and retired judges) has been appointed to conduct the training. A computer training lab has been
established at the JTI to train judicial officers as well as labor tribunal presidents and court staff. Over 800 personnel have
received computer training.

 Judicial Training (foreign): Twelve judges were provided with post graduate training and, 162 judges have been trained in
 Hong Kong, Italy and Malaysia. The short term training covered recent developments in commercial transactions, banking and
 finance, intellectual property, law and commerce, new techniques in court management and administration, effective case flow
 management, judicial writing and margin trading. The following table provides the details of the short term training programs.

                                   Year                    Place                No. of participants
                                   2004        City University of Hong                   60
                                               Kong
                                   2005        International Development                 17
                                               Law Organization in Rome
                                   2005        University of Malaya                      70
                                   2006        City University of Hong                   15
                                               Kong


Curriculum Development: The City University of Hong Kong has completed developing a curriculum for commercial law
courses in Sri Lanka. The same university has also developed a training kit on concepts and principles of the new Companies
Law.

(b)    Judicial Administrative Reform/Judicial Services Commission

Court Computerization: The computerization of the eight pilot courts (three Colombo district courts, two Colombo
commercial courts and three Kandy courts) was commissioned in February 2007. Acoustic work had to be undertaken since the
court buildings had not been built for an environment to record the court hearings with the new audio recording system. For the
proposed new building in the next phase, these aspects need to be considered at the construction design stage. The judges who
have received overseas training have seen the benefits of information technology and are very receptive to enhancing technology
in court houses.

Recurrent Expenditure for Equipment: The SC has been concerned about the sustainability and maintenance of infrastructure
and equipment provided under the project. However, with the active participation of the Secretary to the Treasury and the Project
Director, the PICU has drafted the Trust Deed and it is being finalized now. The government has allocated funds for the
operation and maintenance fund under the budget. In addition, the PICU provided the proposed cadre and the proposed
structure for the ICT Unit.

JSC Renovation: The JSC renovation was completed and the new building was opened in November 2005. Productivity has
increased due to improvements in the physical infrastructure and a human resource development program and a statistical
database are being initiated.

Judicial Statistics: The Bank discussed with JSC the need to develop judicial baseline data for the purposes of monitoring the
performance indicators of the project. The government has scaled down the funding available indicating that additional resources
will be provided by the government.

IT Facilities for the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal: The upgrade of equipment in these institutions and installation of
a network and cabling system were completed in June 2006.


                                                                27

(c) Model Courts: This sub component has been completed.

Courts Refurbishment (25 courts complexes): Renovation works and supply of furniture and equipment under the
refurbishment program were carried out in three phases. Phase I (ten courts complexes/houses and one pilot): All goods and
works contracts costing a total of US$2.0 million were completed. Phase II (six courts complexes): All goods and works contracts
costing a total of US$1.0 million were completed. Phase III (eight courts complexes): All goods and works contracts costing a
total of US$2.5 million were completed. One courts complex (in Batticaloa) which was originally included in this phase could not
be carried out as there was poor contractor interest in bidding due to the security situation in the area. Only one bid was received
for a bid price far in excess of the estimated cost. Construction of New Courts: (i) Trincomalee courts complex: Goods and
works contracts costing a total of US$0.8 million was completed. The court house is in operation. (ii) Jaffna courts complex:
Construction work has been completed costing US$ 1.7 million and equipment contract costing a total of US$ 0.1 million has also
been completed.

(d)   Commercial Mediation:

A regional training program was organized on commercial mediation; however, the commercial mediation has not been used as a
dispute resolution mechanism very effectively (see Table below). A law was passed in early 2000 and amended in 2005 to require
mandatory mediation if the mediation clause is incorporated in a contract.

                    Year      Application       Mediated        Settled Directly         Declined to       Settled
                                                                                           mediate
                 2001                     6                3                                           3         3
                 2002                     4                                       2                    2
                 2003                    88                4                     29                  55          2
                 2004                   163                3                     32                 128          1
                 2005                    32                4                      9                  19          3
                 2006                    29                4                     12                  13          1
                 Total                  322                18                    84                 220          10

(e) Labor Tribunals (LT):

This sub component was added, when the project agreement was amended in 2004. The labor tribunals throughout the island,
were given two computers each; 80 in total to enable them to use the software package provided by ILO to facilitate the
adjudicating process introduced under the new Labor legislation in January 2004. Along with the computers, the LT's were
required to be provided with computer training. This has been useful for expediting the proceedings in some of the LTs, but can
be further improved. In addition, twenty two LT Presidents attended a training program titled `Making Adjudication Effective'
held at the V.V. Giri National Labor Institute in India in December 2005.

(iv)   Project Management:

Project management had initial set backs when the Ministry of Justice failed to recruit a competent project director for two years
who could have provided leadership and coordinated the work of various implementing agencies. Subsequently, the ministry took
ownership, revived the SC and appointed a qualified and experienced project director. Since that time, project management has
been satisfactory.




                                                                28

ANNEX 5: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS (INCLUDING
           ASSUMPTIONS IN THE ANALYSIS)

N/A




                        29

                 ANNEX 6: BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION
                           SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

  (a) Task Team members
              Names                            Title               Unit       Responsibility/ Specialty

Lending (from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet)

Maria Dakolias                 Sr. Counsel                      LEGLR    Task Leader and Counsel (Since
                                                                         Appraisal)

Shideh Hadian                  Operations Officer               SASFP    Operations Officer/CO TM

Beth Dabak                     Operations Analyst               LEGRJ    Operations Analyst

Shana Lee                      Operational Assistant            LEGOP    Researcher

Pedro Da Silva                 Country Lawyer                   LEGEM    Country Lawyer

Naresh Duraiswamy              Senior Institutional             SASFP    Institutional Development
                               Development Specialist

Jayantha De Mel                Procurement Specialist           CMBWB    Procurement

Rakesh Nangia                  Senior Financial Specialist      SASFP    PSD

Waleed Malik                   Sr. Public Sec. Mgt. Specialist  LCS/LCR  Public Sector Mgt/Judicial Reform

Robert Anderson                Consultant                       IEGCR    Team Leader (Preparation to
                                                                         Appraisal)

Rohil Hafeez                   Sr. Financial Specialist         SASFP    Team Leader (Identification to
                                                                         Preparation)

Eric Haythorne                 Sr. Counsel                      LEGOP    Team Leader (during preparation)

Julitta Rasiah                 Financial Management Specialist CMBWB     Financial Management

Nancy Zhao                     Operations Advisor               CMBWB    Operations Advisor

Chathuri Nugawela              Program Assistant                CMBWB    Program Assistant

Leigh Sontheimer               Project Assistant                SASFP    Project Assistant

Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


Sriyani Hulugalle              Senior Economist                 SASFP    Task Leader ­ Sr. Economist

Nagavalli Annamalai            Lead Counsel                     LEGPS    Lead Counsel

Dory Reiling                   Senior Counsel                   LEGPS    Sr. Counsel Justice Reform Spc.

Deepal Fernando                Senior Procurement Specialist    SARPS    Procurement

Suresh Peiris                  Information Specialist           ISGOS    Information Technology Spc.

Jiwanka Wickramasinghe         Financial management Specialist SARFM     Financial Management

Miriam Witana                  Operations Officer               SACSL    Operations Officer

Nalin Perera                   Jr. Professional Associate       SASFP    Jr. Professional Associate



                                                        30

      (b)        Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                 (all fields are entered by the system)

                No.                  Date ISR Archived            DO        IP      Actual Disbursements (US$mil.)
                 1                       12/01/2000                S       Not                    $1.55
                                                                          Rated
                 2                       06/06/2001                S        S                     $1.83
                 3                       06/29/2001                S        S                    $ 1.83
                 4                        12/21/2001               S        S                    $ 3.04
                 5                       05/14/2002                S        S                    $ 3.54
                 6                        12/12/2002               S        S                    $ 3.74
                 7                       06/27/2003               U         U                     $4.90
                 8                        12/31/2003              U         U                     $5.10
                 9                       06/07/2004               U         U                     $6.05
                 10                      12/07/2004                S        S                    $ 7.70
                 11                      03/05/2005                S        S                     $9.90
                 12                      08/05/2005                S        S                    $10.92
                 13                      02/02/2006                S        S                    $12.48
                14.                      03/14/2006                S        S                    $12.48
                15.                      08/16/2006               MS       MS                    $ 14. 90
                16.                       12/19/2006              MS       MS                    $15.47
                17.                      01/03/2007               MS       MS                    $16.57


      (c)        Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
(all fields are entered by the system)

                                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
          Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Staff Weeks                                    US$ Thousands
                                                                               (including travel and consultant costs)
    Lending
                     FY98                                                                                  149,795.00
                     FY99                                                                                  131,373.89
                     FY00                                      70.88                                       183,071.61

                                 TOTAL:                       70.88                                        464,240.40
    Supervision/ICR
                     FY01                                      17.09                                        82,212.96
                     FY02                                      38.86                                       130,457.61
                     FY03                                      35.99                                       132,777.65
                     FY04                                      35.86                                       105,465.00
                     FY05                                      33.07                                        84,022.01
                     FY06                                      38.37                                       103,808.20
                     FY07                                      31.59                                        90,181.00
                                  TOTAL                       230.83                                       728,924.43




                                                                  31

          ANNEX 7: DETAILED RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER
                                                   PERFORMANCE

(the system automatically displays entries in Section 10

                  Bank                      Ratings                    Borrower                Ratings

      Quality at Entry:                                 2 Government:                        MS

      Quality of Supervision:                           5 Implementation Agency/Agencies:    S

      Overall Bank                                    MU  Overall Borrower Performance:      MS
      Performance:




                                                            32

             ANNEX 8: BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS
                                                 (if any)

A rapid assessment of training and infrastructure support components of Sri Lanka Legal and Judicial
Reforms Project (LJRP) was carried out by end of 2006 as a response to the request of the QAG
recommendations. The training component of the project covers both short term and long term
training. Considering the time constraint, the sample size for the training component was fixed at 50
(about 17% of total training recipients) and greater weightage was placed on long term training with a
view to assess potential long term benefits of the LJRP. The assessment of infrastructure component
includes a total of 25 court complexes/ houses refurbished under in three phases. The sample covers
20 court complexes/ houses representing 80 percent of the institutions refurbished under the LJRP.

The assessment was based on two structured questionnaires administered among project beneficiaries
in December, 2006. In addition to project specific details, both questionnaires were designed to
include questions on efficiency, effectiveness and overall satisfaction of project components and the
respondents were asked to rate each aspect using a progressive scale of 1 (minimum) to 5
(maximum). The efficiency related questions dealt with efficient use of time, human resources, office
resources, and changes in behavior and approach to work . (Report is available in the project file).

Overall satisfaction (Training) : The respondents' overall satisfaction was examined and the
findings indicate that more than 90 percent of respondents have rated overall usefulness of training at
the maximum end with only 2 percent reporting at the minimum end. Similarly about 81 percent have
rated productivity enhancement at the maximum end with 2 percent rating at the minimum end. In
terms of capacity building (e.g. development of human resources, availability of computers and
information technology, physical resources etc.) however, the overall rating was 61 and 6 percent at
the maximum end and minimum end respectively. As an alternative measure, the average scores were
also computed for the three criteria. It clearly indicates the positive impact of the capacity building
programs funded by LJRP in terms of productivity, capacity building and overall usefulness. The
average score of 3.92 for capacity building however, should be viewed as an indication for further
need for interventions in legal and judicial sector.

Overall satisfaction (Infrastructure): The respondents' overall satisfaction on infrastructure
facilities was examined in terms of contribution to enhance productivity of the organization, capacity
building, image building, and overall usefulness of the project. The empirical evidence reveal that
more than 80 percent of the respondents have rated infrastructure facilities at the maximum end with
only a small percent of respondents staying at the minimum end in terms of productivity
enhancement, image building and overall usefulness of infrastructure facilities. As an alternative
measure, the average scores were also computed for the four criteria. The positioning of average
scores closer to the maximum end indicates the positive impact of infrastructure component of the
project. Interestingly, similar to the responses of the training component, only 60 percent of
respondents have rated capacity building at the maximum end indicating the need for further support
by the LRJP.




                                                    33

ANNEX 9: STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS
                      (if any)

 NA




                         34

ANNEX 10: SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON
                                                 DRAFT ICR


  Borrower's comments

  The Legal and Judicial reforms Project (LJRP) was instrumental in carrying out many landmark reforms in the
  Legal and Judicial spheres. LJRP implemented most of its key reforms in 2006. The overall implementation of
  the project was guided by a Steering Committee (SC) chaired by the Honorable Chief Justice, with the
  participation of the Attorney General, Secretary to the Treasury, Secretary to the Ministry of Justice, Secretary
  to the Ministry of Trade, Secretary, Judicial Services Commission and the Legal Draftsman. The SC met
  regularly and provided policy guidance, reviewed and monitored the implementation. The regular interaction
  made the stakeholders see the benefits of continued dialogue which led to policy formulation and the
  establishment of a Legal Cluster under the National Council for Economic Development (NCED). The Legal
  Cluster has expanded stakeholder participation to the banking sector, private commercial sector, academia
  and legal community. The Legal Cluster reviewed and endorsed the proposal for the second Legal and
  Judicial Reforms (LJRP II). This ensures the sustainability of reforms introduced under the project and
  creates country ownership and commitment.

  This project was completed in February, 2007 aimed to institute legal reforms by supporting the following:
  (a) enactment of a modern legislative and regulatory framework, and procedural changes; (b) professional
  development of lawyers, judges, and court personnel; (c) an overhaul of the country's commercial law
  curricula; (d) improvements to law library holdings to support the modernization of the law curricula; (e)
  implementation of a public awareness program; (f) improvement of access to law by enabling the judiciary,
  lawyers, academics, government and the private sector to obtain legal information on legislation and judicial
  decision, through the computerized, Internet-based LAWNET (www.lawnet.lk); (g) refurbishment of the
  office of the Registrar of Companies to become market-oriented and improve its efficiency and effectiveness
  in implementing the Companies Act; and (h) improvement of delivery of judicial service through judicial
  training, judicial administrative reform JSC, model courts, and mediation.

  The reform emphasis was on human resource and institutional development, facilitating legislative changes
  and introduction of Information Technology.

       · Human resource development and knowledge enhancement was given priority through foreign and
            local training.
                 o The project adopted an integrated approach to address capacity building in the judiciary,
                      the state legal departments, law schools and court administration staff and support staff.
                      The judiciary participated in tailor made training programs both in and outside the region.
                      With this training, came a visible attitudinal change which was demonstrated by the active
                      participation of the judiciary in the pilot court automation carried out in the Colombo and
                      Kandy courts within a record time span of five months.
                 o The state counsels who were handling criminal cases were trained in commercial matters
                      which increased their pool of commercial state counsels. The staff who obtained overseas
                      training served as resource persons in local Mater's degree (LLM) courses thus providing
                      their enhanced skills beyond their own organizations and increasing training capacity
                      within the country in commercial law. Therefore, the postgraduate training has built local
                      capacity sharing training to a large number of lawyers in commercial law.
                 o Going further to ensure a total impact, the support staff of the judiciary were given training
                      on word processing and speed development at the institute of Government Accounting
                      and Financing (INGAF). English language, communications skills were sharpened through
                      training conducted by the British Council.

       · Amending and introducing legislation relating to finance, tax and commercial law were facilitated. A
            new Company Law was passed by Parliament in October 2006 to enable the proposed Company
            Registry automation, and the enactment of the following laws was expedited; Payments and
            Settlements Systems Act, Amendment to the Credit Information Bureau Act, Anti-Money
            Laundering Act, Terrorist Financing Act and Financial Transactions Reporting Act. The following


                                                           35

  laws were drafted by the core group set up at the outset by the project: Sale of Goods
  (Amendment), Frustrated Contracts (Draft Law), Misrepresentation Draft Law), Partnerships (Draft
  Law), Civil Law (Amendment), Financial Instruments, IT / Data Protection, and Product Liability.

· An automated document and workflow management system with a Local Area Network was
  introduced to the Attorney General's department in 2006 to modernize the department thus
  streamlining and improving efficiency of the legislative process and tracking of cases.

       o     The foreign training combined with provision of computer equipment has changed the
            working environment from a manual system to a more automated environment. Hundred
            and eighty judges have started writing their judgments using computers. In addition,
            computer use has made it possible to move into court automation in Colombo and Kandy
            which have a high proportion of commercial cases. Under the pilot launched in 2007, there
            will be audio recording, transcription management, bar coding and file tracking. This will
            not only improve the efficiency of the court system but also reduce corrupt practices.
            Court automation is expected to reduce the cost of daily operation in the courts by 30-50
            percent. This will also provide a technological platform for introducing electronic court
            case management in the second phase.
       o The local area networking provided to the AG's department has led to automation of the
            work processes beyond expectations of the activity funded.             In addition, the AG'
            department has formed a 10-member team to implement workflow automation and human
            resource management. The enthusiasm shown by the team for change management in the
            organization was commendable. This initiative will contribute to the efficiency of the
            institution as a whole and can be replicated in other institutions such as the Judicial
            Services Commission (JSC) and Legal Draftsman's department in the second phase. This
            team will be able to impart knowledge to other departments to initiate change
            management.

· LAWNET Phase 11, to ensure access to laws Sri Lanka's up-to-date and modern legal database was
  setup in 2006, through which all laws, by-laws, important judgments, day's lists of Superior Courts,
  statutes, law reports, conventions and international trade agreements etc are available to the public
  through the World Wide Web www.lawnet.lk This ensured greater awareness and access to legal
  information by law students, practicing lawyers, government officials, private sector, researchers and
  the general public.

· 8 selected courthouses in Colombo and Kandy were automated in 2006, aimed at avoiding laws
  delays and reducing possible human intervention to make the judicial system more efficient and
  transparent in this process an integrated audio and video recording of court proceedings and a
  centralized record tracking system were introduced to facilitate judicial proceedings.

· Infrastructure was improved and in this effort, 2 new court complexes were built in Jaffna and
  Trincomalee and 28 other existing court houses spread island wide were refurbished/renovated to
  be able to give better facilities to the public who seek redress at such court houses as litigants.

· Law school curricula and judges training curricula were aligned with modern concepts of
  commercial law; commercial law was introduced to all law schools and 450 students completed
  commercial law courses during the project period.

· Law books were provided to libraries of the judiciary, the AG's and LD's departments and the law
  schools and new course manuals were developed for law schools and the Sri Lanka Judicial Training
  Institute through local and foreign consultancies. This was to facilitate updating knowledge to be
  able to better serve the public and to permit research to be able to write quality judgments, opinions
  etc.

· Alternate Dispute Resolution was promoted with the setting up of a Commercial Mediation Center
  with the assistance of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and by training 35 mediators. This was to
  facilitate reducing laws delays and cost of litigation of the public seeking redress through the



                                                  36

          judiciary, especially in relation to minor commercial disputes.

     · Audio recording, bar coding, file tracking and electronic record management were introduced to
          eight courts in Colombo and Kandy reducing opportunities for corrupt practices and improving
          record management which will lead to a cost reduction. This system will improve the evidence
          management system and provide access to electronic documentation.

An assessment of cases filed and dispensed reveals that there is an increase in the number of cases filed with
the judiciary. When considering other factors that have an influence on the need to file cases, such as number
of accidents, number of those who seek dispute resolution through mediation etc. which show a downward
trend, it appears that there is an increasing reliance on the judiciary for administration of justice. On the other
hand the number of cases dispensed also shows an increasing trend. Focused training accorded to judges,
closer monitoring by the Judicial Services Commission (JSC) on the dispensation of cases and their quality,
strengthening of the support staff of the JSC and courts appear to have contributed to this trend. The impact
of automation of model courts and the establishment of Appeal Courts of the Provinces, are yet to be felt
since both measures were taken towards the end of 2006.




                                                        37

  ANNEX 11: COMMENTS OF CO FINANCIERS AND OTHER
             PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS

N/A




                       38

                  ANNEX 12: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

(In the Portal, each document can be linked to a file in IRIS or attach a new document)

  1. Project Concept Note, March 1999
  2. Project Appraisal Document, May 12, 2000
  3. The Rapid Assessment 2007
  4. Aide Memoire December 2006
  5. Qualitative Evaluation of Judgments of Judicial officers ­ March 2003-December 2005
  6. Particulars of Copies of Judgments forwarded to Judicial Training Institute
  7. Note on Performance Evaluation of Judges
  8. An Act to amend the high court of the provinces (Special Provisions) Act No 19 of 1990
  9. Companies Act No. 2006
  10. Ministry of Finance and Planning ­ Annual Report - 2006

  Note : Hard copies of items 5 and 6 available in Project Files




                                                            39

ANNEX 13: MAP




     40

