.
                                                                                                  38144
                     Restructuringthe RegionalTrade FacilitationProject(RTFP)

                                                    ProjectPaper

     A.      Introduction

      1.      T h i s Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
     following changes in the Regional Trade Facilitation Project (the "Project") for the Africa
     Trade InsuranceAgency (ATI) and the following member states: Republic of Uganda (Cr,
     34890, P070627); Republic o f Tanzania, (Cr. 34910, P69982); Republic of Kenya (Cr.
     34900, P070718); Republic o f Zambia (Cr. 34930, P070122); Republic o f Malawi (Cr.
     34920, P070235); Republic o f Burundi (Cr. 34950, Cr. 34951, P065789); Republic of
     Rwanda (Cr. 34940, P065788); Democratic Republic o f Congo (Cr. 38150, P071144,
     partially restructured)]; and Republic o f Madagascar (Cr. 35670, P072160, partially
     restructured) (collectively, the "Current AT1Members", and their corresponding Credits, the
     "AT1 Member Credits") and any accompanying amendments to the corresponding legal
     documents.

     2.       While performance is satisfactory, the project has fallen short of its potential due to
     the restrictive capital structure of AT1and a misalignment of products offered by AT1with
     market requirements. Three changes are proposed: (i)capital restructuring of ATI; (ii)
     expansion of product lines offered; and (iii)consolidation of the existing individual IDA
     projects listed in paragraph 1 above under a single project number. These modifications (i
     and ii)will help solidify ATI's capacity to deliver on its mandate to facilitate_productive
     trade and investment for member states while the third proposed change (iii)will realign
     World Bank processes to ensure a regional approach to development.

     B.       BackgroundandRationalefor Restructuring

     3.       The Project Appraisal Document for AT1 and the original member countries was
     presented to the World Bank Board on April 3, 2001. The Development Credit Agreement
     (DCA) between the International Development Association (IDA) and AT1 (Cr. 34880,
     P063683) became effective on August 23, 2001, while the AT1 Member Credits became
     effective on February 5,2002.

     4.       The Project Development Objective (PDO), which remains unchanged, is to facilitate
     private sector-led trade flows, investment and productive activities through the provision o f
     insurance, coinsurance and reinsurance, financial instruments and related services. The
     project brought together a group of countries that were willing to address the market's
     perception of risk by setting up a credible insurance mechanism against losses caused by
     politicalrisks. This type of insurancewas not available from the private market, particularly
     for medium-term transactions (over one year). As a result o f the public sector tackling
     political risk through the RTFP, the private insurance sector has demonstratedits willingness
     to extend its activities inthe region by sharingrisk with ATI.

     5.       AT1 is performing in a satisfactory manner and has had both a direct and an indirect
     impact on the convergence of the countries towards regional integration. The recent mid-
     'Democratic    Republic of Congo and theRepublicof MadagascarjoinedAT1 in 2005 as a result of a
     partial reallocation offinds within the existing credits to enable them tojoin AT].

term review confirmed that the project has attained the keyperformance indicators, including
financial sustainability, and while some country-specific targets fell short o f their initial
objective, the aggregate value o f the policies issued to date surpassed the 3-year target by
more than 30 percent. To date, AT1has issued more than 25 policies and/or policy renewals,
including eight (8) intra-regional transactions. Total transaction value exceeded US$168
million for trade and investment transactions using AT1 resources totaling US$29.4 million.
The mobilization o f US$138.6 million inprivate andpublic coinsuranceheinsurance capacity
clearly highlights AT1 role in attracting the private sector to an area in which it previously
had little interest. The proposed restructuring would support AT1to meet its objective to
become "Africa's Export Credit Agency" and support the public-private partnership of this
institution. The impact that AT1 has on the region as a catalyst to trade and investment
would be hrther strengthened through the proposed restructuring. AT1 recognizes that it
must respond to the needs and requirements o f the market in order to be relevant. This
requires ATI, with IDA support, to re-engineer its business model to ensure that it has the
appropriate capital structure, range o f products and the institutional and financial capacity to
meet market demand.

6.      The increased capital, risk pooling and diversification would allow AT1 to better
leverage its resources and reinsure risks, thus enabling a higher volume of policies to be
issued. The product line expansion will address specific market demands and catalyze the
development o fpreviously underserved market segments. Projections indicate that, ina base
case scenario, AT1 could double the transaction volume to US$480 million per annum by
2009.

7.      The existing individual IDA projects would be consolidated under a single project
number and the results framework and targets would focus on the overall regional
development impact. This will align the World Bank's internal processes to ensure a regional
approach as well as substantially improve the efficiency o f monitoring and reporting o f the
program.

C.      ProposedChanges

8.      The proposed changes are: (i) restructuring o f ATI; (ii)
                                         capital                            expansion o f product
lines offered; and (iii)consolidation o f the existing individual IDA projects listed in
paragraph A.1 above into a single project. Key aspects are discussed below.

9.      Capital Restructuring. The current capital structure restricts the efficient and
effective use of IDA resources. AT1currently has an open-ended capital structure which the
Agency operates as a silo-system o f underwriting capital contributed by each member state
(generally through IDA credits) for the support o f its own risks. This structure does not
allow for risk pooling and diversification, and excludes any possibility o f leveraging IDA
hnds (other than through co-insurance). It also constrains the amount o f business AT1can
underwrite for a particular country, without an increase of subscribed underwritingcapital, as
was the case inBurundi.

10.     The AT1General Assembly (see attached resolution) hasagreed to convert the current
IDA-fhded facilities granted by its member countries into pooled equity capital for the
Agency. As noted above, the increased capital, risk pooling and diversification allows AT1
to leverage its capital and reinsure retained risks, thus enabling a higher volume o fpolicies to
be issued with the same amount o f resources and optimizing the usage of IDA resources.

                                              2

While AT1already has private and multilateral shareholders (PTA Bank, ZEP-Re, COMESA
and Atradius, aprivate credit insurer), the proposed capital structure would further encourage
additional private participation. Existing IDA credits would be utilized by the countries to
subscribe share capital in ATI. An in-depthanalysis by World Bank insurance experts, in
collaboration with ATI, project ATI's risk capital needs for 2007-8 to be in the order o f
US$80-120 million. Thus we recommend that progressive capitalization be pursued as the
most practical option.

11.      Specifically, we recommend that, upon effectiveness o f the proposed restructuring, a
total o f approximately US$33 million equivalent be disbursed. This would bring the total
aggregate disbursements to 64 percent o f each AT1 Member Country's IDA credit. The
aggregate total amount already disbursed upon effectiveness, therefore, would be US$86
million equivalent which includes US$53 million o f already disbursed funds2The remaining
undisbursed portion of each country's IDA Credit would be released in two disbursements
each o f 18 percent, subject to ATI's achievement o f disbursement targets agreed with IDA
(see paragraph 18 andthe results framework (Annex 1).

12.     All previous and future disbursements would be converted into equity capital for ATI.
However, US$25 million o f the already disbursed funds (US$53 million) are currently bound
as cash collateral for existing insurance policies and may not be immediately available as
unencumbered capital since approval for their release must be secured by the existing
policyholders. Thus we have assumed that only the balance of US$28 million disbursed and
uncommitted funds from the already disbursed IDA credits will be initially available as risk
capital to support the underwriting o f new policies. With the disbursement o f an additional
total amount o f $33 million upon the effectiveness o f the restructuring, this amount will be
increased to approximately US$61 million.

13.     Once the capital is restructured and thus the framework for new membership is in
place, AT1 may gradually expand its membership with regional member states and capital
subscriptions from non-regional member states, International Financial Institutions (IFIs),
andprivate shareholders (notably banks and insurersheinsurers), among others.

14.     Aligning ATI's product ofleering with market demand.                       Products offered are
misaligned with market demand. Initially, AT1was able to offer only political risk insurance
to the private sector. The targeted volume of transactions was estimated on a highturnover
o f short-term business. It was anticipated that AT1would be able to offer comprehensive risk
(including commercial risk), through its partnership with Atradius. While this partnership
has enabled AT1 to offer comprehensive cover to African exporters exporting to OECD
countries, Atradius was unable to cover commercial risks on African buyers due to
constraints imposed on it by its reinsurers. Actual market demand for stand-alone political
risk insurance turned out to be mostly for longer-term transactions, while suppliers sought
comprehensive risk cover on short-term transactions, which AT1was unable to provide. With
the introduction o f comprehensive credit insurance, AT1 will be able to target shorter-term
transactions, where it complements MIGA, which is only allowed to provide political risk
insurance for longer term investments o f over 3-years, and is prohibited from assuming
commercial risk.



 Amount refers to thosefunds which have been disbursedfor the initial contribution tojoin ATIandor
used as cash collateralfor the insurancefacilities.
                                                    3

15.     ATI's Board and General Assembly has authorized management to develop andoffer
new products, subject to Board approval, including comprehensive credit insurance for
private sector buyers, non-honoring o f sovereign obligations or guarantees, and trade cover
for sub-sovereign obligors. The new products will be subject to conservative risk
management practices with prudent limits on exposure by country, sector, product and
counterparty. These underwriting limits will be clearly reflected in updated operations and
underwriting manuals. AT1 is building adequate credit risk management capacity by hiring
experienced credit analysts and cooperating with internationalcredit insurers andbanks.

16.     Consolidation of existing credits into a single regional project will realign World
Bank processes to ensure a regional approach. The RTFP was originally packaged as a
regional project with one FADand individual DCAs for seven (7) countries and ATI. Due to
the multiple Project IDSassigned, however, the project has been viewed as a series o f
projects, necessitating multiple Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR) and
Implementation Completion Reports (ICR) rather than as an integrated regional program.
The proposed consolidation would combine all o f the projects as one regional project under
one project ID number (even if there are multiple DCAS).~Under the revised results
framework, the key performance indicator would be the number o f intra- and inter-regional
transactions catalyzed by AT1and only one ISR would be prepared on a semi-annual basis.

 17.    The new structure is also expected to provide an appropriate framework for new
member countries to join ATI.                 Membership will be open to all African countries,
International Financial Institutions and relevant private sector entities (notably banks and
insurerdreinsurers).      It is envisaged that 10-15 new members will join AT1 over the next
three years and some o f the countries may require financial support to do so. The modalities
andprecise terms andconditions on which such new countries wouldjoin AT1as well as the
source o f financing will need to be determined. Buildingon IDA'Scatalytic role inhelping
to establish ATI, it is envisaged that other financingpartners could be found to help facilitate
new membership.

18.     Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements. Pursuant to the proposed
restructuring, the first disbursement would be drawn under each Current AT1Member's IDA
Credit in amounts required to bring each respective credit disbursements to 64 percent o f
each o f such country's total credit amount. The remaining 36 percent o f each such Current
AT1Member's IDA Credit would be released intwo equal disbursements o f 18 percent each,
linked to ATI's achievement o f performance targets and required capital.                    The second
disbursement under the restructuring will be made when the required capital4 is equal to or
greater than US$80 million, and the final disbursement will be made when the required
capital is equal to or greater than US$120 million.               AT1 will submit to IDA, a letter,
accompanied by its financial statements, certifying that it has reached these performance
targets.

19.     Any undisbursed funds would take the form o f contingent (callable) capital
committed by the participating member countries. In the unlikely event that AT1 suffers


 This was done in several other regionalprojects,includingtheAfrica Locust Project (P092473) that has
seven countriesand the TreatmentAccelerationProject (P082613) that has threecountries.
4Required capital is defined as theproduct of thefollowingformula: (AdjustedNet Exposure multiplied by
43%) plus (Reinsurancemultiplied by 4%) plus the aggregate outstandingpolicy limit amount of Cash
CollateralizedPolicies, as of the last day of each calendar month:
                                                      4

losses such that it was no longer able to continue writing new business without disbursement
of the additional capital, these remaining undisbursed IDA b d s then would be released'.
This committed contingent capital structure would thus enable ATI's management to
establish riskmanagement limits basedupon the total capital available for use, which i s a key
assumption o f their business plan. This approach would still ensure that required capital
funds are available as neededby AT1to successhlly implement its business plan.

20.      Current and future AT1Members would subscribe for share capital inATI. Financial
Management will continue to be governed by International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) andInternational AuditingStandards. The format o fquarterly FinancialManagement
Reports (FMR) will thus be based on existing quarterly financial reports as currently
prepared by management. The reports will continue to be submitted to IDA on a quarterly
basis within FMR reporting. Audited reports will continue to be sent to IDA no later than
June 30 o f each year.

21.      Procurement. There are no procurement issues related to the IDA Credits for
Members States as the insurance facility i s not used to purchase goods and/or services but is
being used to finance equity capital o f the Member States. All procurement procedures
related to Cr. 3488-RAF for AT1remain unchanged.

22.      Environmental Impact.          The proposed changes do not raise the environmental
category o fthe project nor trigger new safeguard policies. AT1has a detailed Environmental
Operations Manual which covers safeguard policies and how they relate to the
transactions/projects beingcovered by ATI's policies. The Environment Operations Manual
i s current and includes standard guidelines and procedures for members and provides detailed
guidance for ATI's staff. This manual remains inforce.

23.      CZosingDate. The closing date o fthe project will remain at June 30,201 1.

D.       Analysis.

24.      The World Bank has acted as catalyst to regional trade integration. The proposed
restructuring o f AT1 engagement has resulted in several significant offers o f co-financing
being tabled, from both official and private sources. As noted in paragraph 4 above,
previously the private sector was not interested inrisk insurance inAfrica.

25.      Inaddition, developmentpartnersarecomingforwardwithsupport, the first ofwhich
i s the European Investment Bank that will co-finance Madagascar's membership in ATI.
These cofinancings indicate, ina rather tangible way, that IDA i s playing a catalytic role.

26.      The innovative nature o f the restructured project has led to it been nominated for an
`Africa Investor' award.       The nomination is an encouraging signal that IDA i s seen as
responsive to a perceived gap in financial instruments relatedto trade.

27.      To mitigate risks that might be associated with the proposed changes to the capital
structure and product line, AT1 (i)       has developed sound investment policies to manage its
capital, (ii)clear underwriting guidelines to ensure prudent risk management, and (iii)an
appropriate training program for staff to underwrite the insurance products.                         ATJ's

  Thesecontingencyfinds are necessary toprovide a level of comfort to theprivate insurance market that
ATI will have thejinancial capacity topay claims ifrequired.
                                                    5

investment and risk management guidelines have been reviewed by high level insurance
specialists at the World Bank andconfirmed that they are modeled after those usedby MIGA
andbasedon international best practices.

28.     Member Governments are fully committed to providing the necessary resources for
AT1to succeed. As noted inparagraph5, AT1has hadan indirect, as well as a direct impact
on the convergence of the countries towards regional integration; it has guaranteed eight
intra-regional projects and the agency intends to continue to support inter-regional and
South-South transactions. However, AT1 also supports producers who are trying to export
outside o f Africa to Europe, Asia and North America. Countries recognize this value and
there has been an increase in membership to AT1 from the initial seven members in April
2001 to the current eleven members. A numbero f other countries have expressed an interest
injoining (such as Ghana, Liberia and Sudan), and the entry of public and private sector
shareholders, including some o f the larger trading countries, would help AT1better respond
to the needs of regional and non-regional exporters, thus providing an increase in revenues
andimproved economies o f scale.

29.      Private insurers are becoming more comfortable with African risk since AT1 was
created. Since AT1 began operations, there has been an improved perception o f political
risks inthe region despite opposite global trends since the attack on the World Trade Centre
in 2001.      As noted in paragraph 5 above, the mobilization o f private and public
coinsurance/reinsurance capacity clearly highlights ATI's role in generating interest from the
private sector inan area inwhich it previously had little interest. This has been evidenced by
the increase inthe leverage ratio (the ratio o f private sector participation to ATI) from 1:2 to
5:l during the past three years which illustrates ATI's increasing ability to attract private
insurers and thus need to take a smaller percentage o f the risk.

30.     ATI is financially sustainable. The capital restructuring and the progressive full
disbursement o f IDA hnds will substantially increase ATI's capital endowment. AT1posted
its first profit in 2005, which has continued into the first quarter o f 2006 and will further
improve as a result o f the proposed restructuring. AT1was also cash positive in 2005 and
cash flow forecasts confirm that AT1will continue to be able to meet its financial obligations
(operations plus loss reserves) andbuildcapital reserves out o fretained earnings. .

3 1.     Theproposed restructuring provides a clear strategy to reduce dependency on IDA
andprovide ATI with a sustainable business model. The new proposed structure has, inthe
last few weeks, resulted in offers o f co-financing being tabled. While some o f the new
member countries may continue to require financial support to join ATI, it is envisaged that
other financing partners could be found to facilitate new membership. These proposed co-
financings are a result o f the new capital structure and provide an exit strategy for IDA which
didnot previously exist.

E.      ExpectedOutcomes

32.     The proposed changes will help enhance ATI's capacity to deliver on its mandate to
facilitate productive trade and investment. The results framework will be more in line with
PDOs. Given the commercial orientation o f the institution and a changing environment, the
targets will be reviewed, revised (ifnecessary) and agreed with IDA, on a regular basis. This
exercise will be undertaken as part o f the Annual Rolling-Three Year Business Strategy
which i s presented to the AT1Board and General Assembly annually.

                                               6

     +   Increased trade in participating countries which will be measured by the volume ($)
         o f trade in participating countries insured by AT1 policies (disaggregated by
         domestic, intra-regional and international).6
     +   Increased investment inparticbatinn countries which will be measured by the volume
         ($) o f investment inparticipating countries insured by AT1policies (disaggregated by
         domestic, intra-regional and international).
     +   Increased private participation through reinsurance and co-insurance uartnerships
         with Drivate and public insurers which will be measured by volume o f reinsurance
         obtained.

F.       BenefitsandRisks.

33.      The benefits o f the proposed restructuring outweigh the risks to the Agency and IDA.
The expansion o f the product offering will pose challenges in terms of implementation and
risk management. However, AT1intends to buildits portfolio prudently, once qualified staff
and all appropriate systems and procedures are in place. Capital will be managed according
to sound and prudent investment guidelines acceptable to IDA; the pooled capital will, in
fact, enable AT1to better manage its risk through risk sharing, and portfolio and product risk
diversification. Appropriate country and project limits will be put inplace in order to limit
ATI's exposure to potential loss, calculated on the net exposure o f AT1 to individual
countries or projects. As these will be scarce resources, they will need to be managed
through the effective use of reinsurance and therefore all large deals would be reinsured.
While a country cannot lose more capital than it has put in, if a loss i s incurred due to a
defined political event, then the country responsible will have to meet its obligations under
its ParticipationAgreement to reimburse AT1for any claim paid.

34.      Although AT1 i s not subject to domestic regulation in its member countries, it will
voluntarily apply good international standards for corporate governance and accounting and
disclosure.    This will include the application o f IFRS and Solvency I1 (the insurance
equivalent of Base1 11) when it comes into effect. Adherence to these standards and codes
will be verified by external auditors.

35.      Consolidating o f the existing individual IDA projects under a single project number
would have multiple benefits.           It would (a) facilitate entry into AT1 by new members,
including African, non-African public and private investors; (b) encourage a regional
approach to trade and investment; and (c) streamline World Bank internalprocesses to ensure
greater     administrative      efficiency     and     consolidated     monitoring      and reporting.




6As there are manyfactors which determinethe volume and value of trade in a particular country, we
wouldpropose to use the volumeof trade insuredby AT1and itspartners as aproxy. Based on discussions
with insuredparties, it appearsthat transactions supportedby AT1either would not have takenplace
without A TIsupport, or thecosts would have been higher, Thisindicator is used by MIGA.
                                                    7

