                  Madagascar SecondPrivateSector DevelopmentProject
                                 -
                                       (Credit3567-MAG)
                     Amendmentof the DevelopmentCreditAgreement


 1.      BACKGROUND

 1.      The objective of the project i s to assist the Borrower to improve access, reliability and
affordability of key utilities, through completion of the divestiture program of key state-owned
enterprises, and capacity buildinginitiatives to strengthen the capacity of autonomous regulators
and privatization agencies, and facilitate entry of new operators in the deregulated sectors, and
increase the competitiveness of Malagasy companies (as approved by the Board on November
 14,2002).

2.       The three components of the project are being implemented in a satisfactory way.
Implementation of the critical aspects of the transactions and the private sector development
activities i s proceeding in a timely and satisfactory manner. The disbursement pace i s picking up
significantly these last five months with a total disbursed amount at US$9.4m as at early January
2005, which accounts for 39.5% of the total credit.

3.       Upon a re-evaluation of the Project costs for the existing components, the Project has
been found to have savings in the amount of US$ 3,000,000, and the Government has requested
the Association to consider the utilization of these savings for the financing of two additional
components as further described below.           In addition, the Government has requested the
Association to consider the increase in the thresholds for the procurement of goods, works and
services.

2.       PROPOSEDAMENDMENTS

4.       The Government has proposed that the Project Savings be utilized to finance the
following two additional components: (i)     Madagascar's initial contribution to, and participation
inthe Insurance Facility managed by African Trade InsuranceAgency (ATI), and (ii)        Technical
Assistance Facility for SMEs, in cooperation with IFC. The Government has requested the
increase inthe thresholds for the procurement of goods, works and services

5.      According to OP13.25, the Bank may exceptionally agree to apply some of the project
savings to finance additional project activities not included in the original Project description
provided that: (i)  implementation i s satisfactory and includes substantial compliance with the
Agreements of the project, (ii)   the additional activities have a high priority and are consistent
with the original Project Objectives, (iii) the activities have been fully appraised by Bank staff
and are economically justified, and (iv) financing the activities does not violate the country
financing parameters in cost sharing.

6.      As has been indicated above, the Project currently has a satisfactory rating. Inaddition,
as will be further described below in the detailed explanation on the proposed two new
components, the additional activities have a high priority and are fully consistent with the
Project's original objectives as they will further facilitate the entry of new participants in the

                                                    2


 economically justified, and the country's financing parameters in cost-sharing have not been
 violated. Consequently, the requirements o f OP13.25 on the use o f Project savings have been
 met.

     A.       The InsuranceFacility Component

 7.      The use ofproject savings would finance Madagascar's membership subscriptionto AT1
 (US$lOO,OOO)    and capital for Madagascar's insurance facility (US$900,000), which AT1 will
 manage.

 8.      The facility will cover productive activity involving cross-border trade and foreign
 investments, against political risks. Both imports into and exports fiom Madagascar have access
 to cover. The proposed facility is therefore consistent with the overall objective of the Project
 Objectives. In addition, the facility has been fully appraised by Bank staff as the component
replicates a concept already usedunder the Regional Trade Facilitation Project (RTFP), currently
under disbursement.

 9.      The design of the facility is flexible so that a wide variety o f transactions and financing
 structures can be covered.

The coveredrisks include:

         Inability to convert andor transfer currency
         Impositiono f Exchange controls
         Cancellation o f Licenses and Restrictions on Import and Export
         Impositionor Increase o f Import or Export Taxes
         Expropriation
         Seizure o f Goods, Prevention o f Sale, or Preventiono f Export
         Interference with the Carriage o f Goods
         War or Civil Disturbance
         Embargo

10.      Diversion o f voyage as a consequence o f any o f these risks as well as the same risks
occurring while goods are intransit ina participating country are also covered.

11.      The operating rules o f the facilities are set out in a detailed Operations Manual that was
agreed at negotiations of the Regional Trade Facilitation Project between IDA, participating
countries and ATI. A number o f rules definedinthe Operations Manual are designed to enhance
the credibility o f the facility and ensure transparent decision making and policy issuance. These
rules are reinforced inthe revised Development Credit Agreement between Madagascar and IDA
and the Project Agreement between AT1 and IDA, and in various other Project Documents
including an Insurance Facility Agreement among the Insurers participating in the Facility and
ATI, and a Security Trust Agreement among the Insurers, AT1and a Trustee to be appointed to
act as such with respect to the proceeds o f the Credit deposited in the Security Trust Account
opened for purposes o f the Insurance Facility. One important rule i s the "first come, first served"
rule which states that applications for policies must be handled in the order they are received to
avoid preferential treatment o f certain applicants over others. Another key requirement is the
"no objection" rule. An insurance policy cannot be issued unless IDA provides its no objection
after reviewing the applications and supporting documentation. This rule ensures that AT1adopt
a consistent and objective standard in underwriting, that only eligible transactions are covered

                                                  3


 and that all the procedures set out in the Operations Manual, including the environmental
 screening o f projects, have been followed.

 12.      AT1will implement Madagascar's insurance facility in cooperation with a syndicate of
 private risk insurers and will be assisted by a facility broker. Agreements between ATI, the
 syndicate and the facility broker define how the facility works.

 (i)Leveraged Structure

 13.      Under a leveraged structure AT1 works in cooperation with private insurers to issue
 policies. The insurance policies are issued inthe name o f the private insurer(s), which can be in
 the form o f a syndicate. AT1 can participate on a first loss or pro rata basis. Madagascar will
 place the IDA funds allocated to it for the insurance facility in a separate trust account and the
 funds can be withdrawn from this account only to pay valid claims. Funds allocated to the
 insurance facility, as well as the amount o f leverage private insurers agree to for each
 transaction, will determine the maximum amount o f insurance available to cover transactions
 (both import and export transactions). For example, with a US$1 million IDA credit, and an
 average leverage ratio of 3 to 1, a maximum o f US$4 million in insurance policies could be
 issuedat any one time. Leverageratios may vary among transactions.

 14.      The funds in trust earn interest, which can be used to defray the cost o f operating the
 facility and to buildupreserves.

 15.      The risk sharing mechanismbetween ATVthe countries and the private insurers depends
on whether AT1 intervenes on a first loss or pro rata basis. If AT1participates on a first loss
basis, claims would be paid out o f the trust account up to a maximum o f ATI's share o f the risk
at which point the private insurer(s) would be liable for additional claims. Ifthe policy i s issued
on a pro rata basis, the amount o f the claim multiplied by ATI's share o f the policy would be
paid out o f the trust account. It should be stressed that it i s not expected that claims would reach
a level where Madagascar's funds would be completely used to pay claims unless a disaster
scenario (such as a full-fledged civil war) occurred. Inaddition, for claims occurring as a result
o f government actions, the Bank's Credit Agreement with Madagascar requires the government
to replenish the trust account. This requirement strengthens the disincentive for the government
to cause claims.

(ii)Non-leveraged Structure

16.       The non-leveraged structure can be used for political risk cover in countries where the
private insurance market i s no longer willing to take riskand leverage the IDA funds.

17.       Inthis scenario, AT1would issue a policy in its ownname, which would be fully cash-
backed by the funds inthe trust account.

18.       Similarly to a leveraged structure, the government would have to replenish the trust
account incase o f a claim payment resulting from its own actions.

19.      The component is specifically designed to create strong disincentives for the
Government to cause claims as well as to stop further losses incase o f claims. IDA has the right
to suspend disbursements for new liabilities under issued policies and for the issuance o f new
policies if: (i)the government i s in arrears on a debt service payment to IDA; (ii) or civil
                                                                                           war
disturbance occurs in Madagascar; (iii)     payment o f a claim resulting from a risk occurring

                                                   4


 Madagascar is made usingcredit funds; and (iv) failure by Madagascar to reimburseAT1for the
 amount o f any claim caused by a risk other than war and civil disturbance. Suspensions of
 disbursement for reasons (i), and (iv) above automatically leads to loss of the right to use
                                  (iii)
 these funds after the project life.

 (b)     Implementation Arrangements

 20.     As indicated above, this component will be implemented by ATI.                     AT1 is an
 intemational institution governed by the Agreement Establishing the African Trade Insurance
 Agency which was adopted at the COMESA Summit o f Heads o f State on May 18, 2000.
 Madagascar i s in the process o f fully joining ATI. AT1 has full juridical personality and i s
 deemed a legally constituted body corporate. Even though ATI's constituent instrument i s an
 Agreement between sovereign states, its character i s modeled as a private corporation
 incorporated or organizedunder the municipal laws o f a state.

 21.     African states or any public entity nominated or designated by any such State,
 international development financial institutions, regional economic organizations and private
 corporations (such as privately owned insurance corporations) may become members o f AT1
 upon signature andratification, accession or acceptance o f the Agreement EstablishingATI.

 22.     AT1 is autonomous and enjoys administrative and financial independence.                   The
 Agreement Establishing AT1provides that AT1will be independent from political control from
 its members. ATI's operations must be insulated from political considerations and based on
commercial considerations.

23.      Initially supported by a US$5 million IDA credit, AT1 has been fully operational for
over two years and i s currently managing 7 insurance facilities for seven countries which
received IDA credits for this purpose under the Regional Trade Facilitation Project, representing
a total o f $105 million. AT1 meets IDA'Srequirements in terms o f procurement, financial
management and environmental safeguards.

24.      AT1 and IDA will enter into a Project Agreement , as one o f the conditions for the
disbursement o f funds, reflected below. The Project Agreement will inter alia require AT1 to
carry out its functions with due diligence and efficiency using appropriate administrative and
financial practices. AT1i s also required to maintain accounts o f its financial dealings, have these
accounts audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, furnish regular reports to
IDA of its operations, and participate inreviews and evaluations with IDA of the operations of
the project.

25.      IDA has the right to suspend disbursements for new liabilities under issued policies and
for the issuance o f new policies in all participating countries if (i)  there i s a failure by AT1to
perform any o f its obligations under the Project Agreement; (ii)    AT1fails to perform any of its
obligations under the insurance arrangements with the cooperating insurers; (iii) governments
                                                                                      the
or any other authority havingjurisdiction shall have taken action for the dissolution o f ATI, or
the suspension of its operations so far as it relates to the insurance facility; (iv) the provisions o f
the multilateral agreement establishing AT1are amended without the consent o f IDA; or (v) any
material or substantial provision o f the Operations Manual shall have been changed or there has
been a change inthe form of policies o f insurance without the approval o f IDA.

                                                   5


26.      AT1shall also enter into aParticipationAgreement with the Republic ofMadagascar,
also as a disbursement condition, whereby the Republic o f Madagascar shall mandate AT1to act
on its behalfwith respect to matters pertaining to the Insurance Facility.

(c)      Disbursement of Funds

27.      Funds for this component will not use the Special Account, but will be disbursed to a
Security Trust Account to be opened by AT1on behalfo f the Republic o f Madagascar. AT1shall
also open a corresponding Income Account for the deposit o f the interest earned on the funds
deposited into the Security Trust Account.

(d)      Procurement

28.      This component has no procurement implications as the funds are used essentially as
financial backup for the payment o f insurance claims.

(e)      Safeguard Policies

29.      This component adds nonew safeguardpolicy implicationto the project.

fl DisbursementConditions

30.      The following actions will be taken prior to the disbursement o f funds under this
component: (i) Borrower has become a member o f ATI; (ii) Borrower has entered into the
                 the                                                 the
Participation Agreement with ATI, in a form and substance acceptable to the Association, and
such agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf o f the Borrower and ATI, and all
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, if any have been fulfilled or waived; (iii)   the Insurance
Facility Agreement and Security Trust Agreement(s) shall have been entered into in a form and
substance that i s acceptable to the Association; (iv) AT1has opened one Security Trust Account
and one Income Account on behalf of the Borrower and provided one copy of the account-
related informationto the Association; (v) the Project Agreement has been entered into between
the Association and ATI; (vi) legal opinions satisfactory to the Association have been submitted
establishing that: (A) the Agreement Establishing AT1has been duly ratifiedby the Borrower by
all necessary action, and i s legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; (B)
the execution and delivery o fthe ParticipationAgreement has beenduly authorized or ratifiedby
the Borrower and AT1by all necessary action and is legally bindingupon the Borrower and AT1
in accordance with its terms; and the execution and delivery of the Insurance                  Facility
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by ATI, the Insurer and the Security Trust
Account Trustee, respectively, and are legally valid and binding upon ATI, the Insurer and the
Security Trust Account Trustee, respectively, inaccordance withtheir respective terms; and


(8)     Performance Monitoring Indicators

3 1.    Issuance o f Insurance Contracts in an aggregate principal amount of one millionDollars
($1,000,000) or equivalent by the third anniversary o f the effective date o f the amendment o f the
Development Credit Agreement and issuance o f Insurance Contracts in an aggregate principal
amount of ten million Dollars ($10,000,000) or equivalent by the tenth anniversary o f the
effective date o f this amendment letter, all inrespect o f transactions pertaining to the Borrower.

                                                 6


32.      On average, in any twelve-month period commencing on the effective date o f the
amendment o f the Development Credit Agreement, fewer than one Claimper year resulting from
Covered Risks other than War or Civil Disturbance, Civil Commotion or Embargo has been
made, which Claim, inthe opinion o f the Association, would have arisen as a result o f the action
or omission o f the Government of Tanzania, including any department, agency or political or
administrative subdivision thereof.


(h)      Costs, BeneJits and Risks

Madagascar's initial contribution and insurance cauacitv to AT1

33.      Potential costs to the government will materialize if claims are paid from Madagascar's
Insurance Facility. The IDA funds would be used to pay the claim and, depending on the risk
causing the claim, the government would have to replenish the Insurance Facility.            The
replenishment clause creates an incentive for the government to avoid causing claims through its
own actions (e.g. by imposing a retroactive increase induties).

34.      The benefits o f this sub-component are equated to the business that it will generate
through the provision o f insurance. The Insurance Facility will be $900,000 as stated above.
The private market is expected to leverage this amount 3 to 4 times. This translates into up to
$3.6 million o f insurance coverage at any one time. The volume o f business generated will also
dependon the nature o f the transactions covered. For example, short-term policies (less than one
year) revolve and generate a multiple o f the value o f the outstanding insurance policy in a one
year period.
35.      Based on the above, it i s expected that Part D o f the project will generate about $4
millioninbusinessby the project's closing date.

36.      Other benefits will include better financing terms for trade transactions; stronger
regional integration and increased intra-regional trade; and access to risk management tools for
Malagasy exporters wanting to expandtheir cross-border sales.


                Risk                                  RiskMitigationMeasure
Highlevel ofclaims                     Bank's ongoing policy dialogue with Government;
                                       Government's obligation to replenish facility for
                                       claims due to political risk; detailed Operations
                                       Manual for ATI's due diligence o f credit risk for
                                       transactions involving public obligors.
Low demandlow awareness o f AT1 Effective marketing plan; continuous dialogue with the
and its products                       market to adapt insurance products to changing
                                       demand; expansion o f AT1member countries.
Lack    o f awarenesshnterest     by Follow-up with relevant government representatives,
government representatives o f AT1 especially when personnel changes occur, and at least
member countries and World Bank once a year; Presentations to Country Office staff at
Country Office staff                   least once a year; strong local liaison office.


   B.       Small andMediumEnterprises RiskCapitalFundComponent

                                                  7


 37.      The use of project savings would finance Madagascar's contribution o f US$2.0 million
 to a technical assistance facility. The Technical Assistance Facility will be used to complement
 investmentsmade by the SME Risk Capital Fund and i s expected to strengthen the recipient's
 management and operational capacity. The fund manager o f the SME Risk Capital Fund will
 work with the recipient to identify the recipient's TA needs and to structure the appropriate TA
 project. The fund manager will be responsible for overseeing the TA project as part o f the SME
 Risk Capital Fund's investmentinthe recipient. The recipient will be requiredto pay back the
 amount forwarded under the TA Facility, but this repayment will be subordinated to repayment
 o f the investment made by the SME Risk Capital Fund. The repayment mechanism i s expected
 to ensure that recipients use the funding from the TA Facility with discipline and extract the
 maximum commercial benefit fkom the projects funded by the TA Facility. It i s expected that
projects financed by the TA Facility will be for amounts o f up to 20% o f each investment.

 38.      This initiative is ajoint IDA-IFC initiative to demonstrate the potential of blendedrisk
 capital to address SME financing conshaints.        Its objective i s to mobilize investments and
 financing for SMEs in Madagascar, while at the same time providing technical assistance. The
proposed sub-component is therefore consistent with the overall objective o f the Project which i s
to increase the competitivenesso f Madagascar. This sub-component has been fully appraised by
Bank staff.

(a)       Context

39.       Indeveloped countries most SMEs obtain formal financing from banks usingassets and
real property as collateral against bank loans, and early-stage SMEs may also finance start-up
costs with credit card debt or soft loans from family and friends. However, few o f these sources
o f debt are available to most SMEs in developing countries, where SME investment relies
predominantly on equity fkom the savings o f the owner and hisher family and reinvested profits.
While SMEs are widely regarded as the backbone o f any economy and a key driver o f
employment growth and economic activity, providers o f finance to SMEs face some important
challenges inAfrican countries:

Lack of collateral. Evenwhere bank lending i s available inprinciple, most SMEs are unable to
provide sufficient and satisfactory collateral to meet commercial bank requirements (often 150%
or more of loan amounts), and the weak enforceability o f property rights further discourages
banks even from collateralized lending other than to the largest concerns.

High cost of appraisal. Unable to obtain sufficient security for collateralized lending, lenders
must rely on the strength of a company's projected cashflow to service debt and this lending
requires more due diligence which i s inreturn expensive.

Limited Growth Potential. The majority o f SMEs are lifestyle business providing a steady
income to the owners, who have little interest inrapid growth or selling the company to a third-
party. Consequently, only the large SMEs attract interest from private equity funds.

Limited exit potential. Inmost cases the entrepreneur is unlikely to agree giving up control o f
the company that supports his or her lifestyle. And most SMEs are also too small to qualify for
public offerings, which, especially inAfrica, are reservedfor only the largest enterprises.

      @)     SMERiskCapitalFundStructure

                                                  8




                                     SME Risk Capital Fund




                                            BPI Madagascar
                                          Fund Management                        GOM
                                                                                 PSD I1         IDA

                                                     TAFund         4     $2.0m  Project

             Other                         BPI
            investors       $10m    +  Madagascar

                                         Invest-

                                          ment

                                          Fund
                                                   tnterest, royalties, dividen




40.       At a very early stage Madagascar was part ofthe pool o f countries that was identified for
the establishment o f quasi-equity mechanisms (the other two are Ghana and Kenya). The
component will take advantage o f a joint IFC-IDA initiative to demonstrate the potential o f the
blended risk capital model pioneered by an investment firm from South Africa (Business
Partners) to address SME financing constraints in a country such as Madagascar, and thereby to
introduce the Malagasy environment as one that can host lucrative investment. This will be a
demand-led program..

41.       IFC along with other private investors will invest $10 million into the fund. Transfer o f
technology and management services from Business Partners International will be covered from
an IFC grant and eventually from returns to the investment fund. By demonstrating success, this
pilot i s expected to pave the way for additional SME equity investment inthe future.

(c)       Rationale for IDA Support

42.       The use o f IDA funds for TA is justified by the ability to leverage private investment
funds that would otherwise not be available to SMEs, in a methodology specifically designed to
support significant numbers o f SMEs. The World Bank Group (IFC, SME Department, and
Africa Region) have been working collaboratively over the last two years to seek out models and
best practices in this area. After reviewing a number o f players, including the experience o f
institutions such as the Small Enterprise Assistance Fundand the Institute for SME Finance, only
one operating model has been identified with the desired SME focus, methodology, and proven
track record inreaching large numbers.

                                                 9


43.      The South Afi-ican financial intermediary, Business Partners Limited (BPL), has over 20
years developed, refined, and successfully applied an appropriately balanced approach to equity,
 debt and quasi-equity financing targeted to ordinary SMEs.. The Bank has received a letter dated
 October 26,2004 from the Government expressing their interest and consent of selecting BPI as
the FundManager.

44.      The rationale for working with Business Partners is its unique approach to financing and
supporting SMEs. IFC has not identified any other fund manager or financier that has had
similar success investing over many years in SMEs and that i s willing to experiment with
replicating the model in other equally or more difficult environments. Applying this model in a
new country will require a technical assistance fund to substitute for the mentoring role that is
incorporated into Business Partners. Because a new fund will not have adequate in-house ability
to provide the mentoring services, a TA fund i s necessarily so that clients are able to finance
external services that are needed to address management and production issues identified by the
fundmanager duringthe appraisal process.

(d)      Implementationofthe SME RiskCapitalFundincooperationwith the IFC

45.      There are four main benefits to this Component: (i) will not directly finance but will be
                                                           It
a critical factor inmobilizing US$lO.O million for investmentin SMEs inMadagascar. The fund
manager will be permittedto recycle investments, which, if there i s capital available to recycle
and there are sufficient investment opportunities, could substantially increase the amount
invested in SMEs. (ii)   The project will bring to Madagascar what IFC has identified as global
best practice in financing and supporting SMEs. Since 1981, Business Partners has made over
27,000 investments in SMEs in South Africa. (iii)   Business Partners range o f financing products
have been tailored to fit the specific needs o f SMEs. The products are quasi-equity in risk
profile, partially secured and structured based on cashflow projections. (iv) Business Partners
will use a commercial approach to technical assistance. Using a third-party service provider,
Business Partners will complement its investments with technical assistance programs.
Recipients will be required to pay back the cost o f the technical assistance as a non-interest
bearing loan, enabling the Fundto have an impact beyond the end o f the project. This aspect i s
important in ensuring recipients understand the cost-benefit o f the technical assistance and in
enforcing commercial discipline when usingtechnical assistance.

(e) PerformanceMonitoringIndicators

        (i)       The main performance measure for the Fund Manager will be the number of
                  investmentsin SMEs, with minimumthresholds as follows:

                  Year 1         15
                 Year 2          18
                 Year 3          18
                 Year 4          24
                 Year 5         27
                 Total          102

        (ii)     To measure the performance o f the TA Facility we take the default rate in
                 paying back the TA money. The default rate should not be more than 20%
                 within the observation periodof two years which is the remaining period for the
                 PSDP2 credit. Recognizing that return o f TA monies i s subordinated to return ,

                                                     10


                    o f invested capital, a default rate of no more than 20% on TA monies would be
                    acceptable.

 (f)      Synergies betweenthe SME RiskCapitalFundandthe IFC & SME Solution
 Center

 46.      Building upon the successes and/or lessons learned from previous or existing IFC
 facilities or initiatives in Africa or in other parts o f the world such as Africa Enterprise Fund
 (AEF), Africa Project Development Facility (APDF), Private Enterprise Program (PEP) and
 African Management Services Company (AMSCO),IFC intends to promote a holistic approach
 to hlfilling the needs o f SMEs in Afkica by establishing a physical location referred to as an
 SME Solutions Center (SSC) that offers an integrated package of fit-for-market solutions to
 drive a sustainable development o f Afkican SMEs.

 47.      The SSC will have facilities and technology to provide SMEs with access to reliable
market information and capacity building services, and to help improve the business
 environment for SMEs. The Business Partners Intemational (BPI) SME Risk Capital Fund,
though a separate legal entity, will be situated in the offices o f the SSC. This will help attract
more business, and will also make it easy for BPI'S clients to have access to information and to
the business development services offered by the SSC. Furthermore, sharing offices and certain
technical staff will reduce operational costs for bothparties.

(g) Avoiding Conflictof Interestwithinthe WorldBankGroup

48.       This IFC-IDA collaboration inthe preparation of this Project will enable us to develop a
significantly better overall program that accurately reflects the requirements and expectations o f
private parties in the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise sector while also preserving the
interests o f the Government. However, we recognize that it also raises the risk o f potential
conflicts o f interest, or the perception thereof, between IDA and IFC activities in Madagascar.
Accordingly, IDA and IFC have established a framework for identifying and managing conflicts
o f interest in or the perception thereof between IDA and IFC activities in Madagascar within the
context o f this Project.      This framework will involve disclosure to concerned parties in
communications and specific measures to manage actual, potential or perceived conflicts o f
interest arising from the roles o f IDA and IFC. Specific measures that will be implemented
include:

          Separate teams (consisting of IFC and IDA staff as appropriate) will be established, with
          no overlapping team leaders or, members, to handle the IDA preparatiodsupervision
          activities on the one hand, and IFC investmentactivities, on the other hand. These teams
          shall not share any team members. Accordingly, no staff who have beenpart o f the IDA
         preparation and supervision team would be assigned to work on IFC financing o f actual
          or potential beneficiaries o f the IDA Project.

     0   No confidential information will be shared among the teams. Accordingly, the IDA
         preparation and supervision team would not provide IFC staff working on financing
         potential Project beneficiaries any confidential or privileged information obtained by the
         preparation and supervision team in the course o f the Project; and IFC staff which may
         become involved in providing financing for potential Project beneficiaries would not
         provide the preparation and supervision team any confidential or privilegedinformation
         obtained as a result o f their work with an IFC client.

                                                  11


   0    The advice of the preparation and supervision team has been and will continue to be
        separate and independent from any IFC role or investment in a potential Project
       beneficiary. The preparation and supervision team will continue to provide stand-alone,
        independent advice based on international best practice and experience, and without
        regard to the possibility that IFC might eventually become a lender to or investor in a
       Project beneficiary.

   0   The selection of Project beneficiaries will be based on best practice and transparent
        eligibility criteria which have been developed by the preparation team and agreed with
       the Government of Madagascar.

(h)    Risks

   Risks                           RiskMitigationMeasures

   Lack o f investable SMEs        Country and market studies prepared for the project
                                   identify only a small number o f investable SMEs.
                                   However, it i s expected that programs such as the road
                                   program and the tourism development initiative will
                                   provide additional opportunities for Business Partners.
                                   Moreover,     as Business        Partners becomes    more
                                   established, businesses currently operating on an
                                   informal basis may be encouraged to formalize and
                                   seek financing from Business Partners.

   Low demand for Business         Business Partners products are priced commercially and
   Partner products                reflect the risk profile o f the investment. SMEs used to
                                  bank products may not fully understand the nature o f a
                                  Business Partners product. Nevertheless, once Business
                                  Partners i s fully established the business community
                                   should be aware o f the flexibility and the benefits o f the
                                  product range.

   Poor transfer o f Business     To date Business Partners has operated only in South
   Partners model                 Africa where extensive business infrastructure already
                                  exists. Some o f this infrastructure does not exist in
                                  Madagascar, which may hinder the transfer of the
                                  Business Partners model.             In addition, different
                                  business practices may make it difficult to establish the
                                  model outside South Africa. Inorder to minimize the
                                  transfer risk, Business Partners i s establishing a
                                  separate     intemational      division   to  oversee    the
                                  development       and    management        o f intemational
                                  operations. Also, the Madagascar management team
                                  will be based in Antananarivo and will be comprised
                                  exclusively o f Malagasy nationals with extensive
                                  commercial      experience       in Madagascar.         The
                                  management team will be trained fully in Business
                                  Partners operating systems and products.

                                                 12



    Government's lack o f         The Government might in the end not adhere to this
    support                       program for various reasons: (a) Other priorities might
                                  arise consequently the Government might opt to
                                  reallocate the funds currently benchmarked for the
                                  proposed component to address other issues and
                                  activities; (b) There i s a possibility that the Government
                                  o f Madagascar might show a lack o f interest in
                                  providing the necessary incentives to develop the range
                                  o f financial instruments suited for SMEs as part o f its
                                  sectoral development strategy. All stakeholders will be
                                  reminded o f potential rewards the program offers so
                                  that the momentum i s kept. In addition, Government
                                  officials will be frequently briefed on the progress o f
                                  theprogram.

    C.      Procurement


49.    The newthresholds were requested andrecommendedby the Procurement team
following the Project PerformanceReview.

1.     Paragraph4(i) o f Schedule 1i s amended by (i) and works under contracts not
                                                          goods
       exceedingrespectively $150,000 and $200,000 equivalent.

1.     Part B.2 (a) of Section Io f Schedule 3 i s amended to read as follows:


       "(a)    Growing; o f contracts


       To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid
       packages estimated to cost, respectively, $150,000 and $200,000 equivalent or more
       each."


2.     Part C.l o f the Section Io f Schedule 3 i s amended to read as follows:


       "1.     National Competitive Bidding


       "Office furniture and supplies estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per
       contract and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be
       procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.3
       and 3.4 o f the Guidelines; provided, however, that: (i) bidder shall be given adequate
                                                                 any
       response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission o f bids; (ii)       bid evaluation
       and bidder qualification criteria shall clearly be specified in bidding documents and not
       applied arbitrarily; (iii)
                                eligible firms shall not be precluded from participation; (iv) no
       preference margin shall be granted to domestic contractors and suppliers; (v) the award
       shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and
       transparent methods; and (vi) bid evaluation reports shall clearly state the reasons for
       rejection o f any non-responsive bid."

                                                 13


3 .    Part C.2 o f Section Io f Schedule 3 i s amended to read as follows:


        "2.


        Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
       under contracts awarded on the basis o f national shopping procedures in accordance
       with the provisions ofparagraphs 3.5 and 3.6 o fthe Guidelines.''


4.     Part D.2o f Section Io f Schedule 3 i s amended to read as follows:


        "2.     Prior Review


       With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent o f
       $150,000 and $200,000 or more, respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
       and 3 o f Appendix 1to the Guidelines shall apply."


5.     Part D.2 o f Section I1o f Schedule 3 i s amended to read as follows:


       "2.      Prior Review


       (a)      With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated
       to cost the equivalent o f $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth inparagraphs 1, 2
       (other than the third subparagraph o f paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the
       Consultant Guidelines shall apply.


       (b)      With respect to each contract for the employment o f consulting firms estimated
       to cost the equivalent o f $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent o f $200,000, the
       procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph o f
       paragraph 2(a)) and 5 o f Appendix 1to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply."


       " 3 .    Procurement o f Small Works

       Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured
       under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from
       three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
       invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
       specifications, the required completion date, a basic form o f agreement acceptable to
       the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to
       the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has
       the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully."


   D.       Proposed reallocation

Therevised Schedule 1is set forth below.

                                               Amount o f the
                                             Credit Allocated                     % o f
                                                (Expressed in                Expenditures
         Category                            SDR Eeuivalent)                to be Financed


  (1) Works                                       2,496,000               loo%**       until December 31,
         2003;
                                                                          100%of foreign expenditures
                                                                          and 80% o f local expenditures
                                                                          thereafter


(2)     Goods                                        750,000              100%"" untilDecember 31, 2003;
                                                                          100% of foreign expenditures
                                                                          and 80% o f local expenditures
                                                                          thereafter

        Consultants' services                      9,624,000              loo%**    untilDecember 31,2003;
        and audits                                                        100% o f foreign expenditures
                                                                          and 83% o f local expenditures
                                                                          thereafter


        Training and                               1,000,000              100%
        study tours


        Retraining Fund                              650,000              100%
        under Part B.4
        o f the Project



        Operating costs                            2,250,000              loo%**    untilDecember 31,2003;
                                                                          90% thereafter


        Insurance Facility Funding
        for Part D of the Project


        (a) Initial Capital Stock Contribution        71,500               100%

        (b) InsuranceFacility                        643,500               100%

        TA Loans under                        '    1,430,000               100% o f amounts disbursed
       Part E o f
       the Project



       Unallocated                                    85,000


       TOTAL                                      19,000,000

** Note: These percentages have been calculated on the understanding that, in accordance with the
applicable laws of the Borrower, the corresponding goods, works and services will be exempted from taxes and
customs duties levied by the Borrower. It is understood that, if any change is made to such laws, or in their
scope or application, which has the effect of permitting or requiring taxes or customs duties to be levied on
such goods, works or services, these percentages shall be adjusted accordingly, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.

