Document of
The World Bank
FCR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Al zth(zJ
ReportNo. 9411-CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ERDP)
MAY 8, 1991
Africa Region
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Industry and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit              CFA Franc (CFAF)I/
US$ 1.0                    CFA 253
CFAF 1 million    -        USS 3,953
SDR 1.0           =        USS 1.200
US$ 1.0           8        SDR 0.830
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      -   African Development Bank
AIPB     -   Aide & l'Initiative Productrice de Base (CCCE's SME
Promotion Program)
BCAD     -   Banque de Credit Agricole et de Developpement (Local
financial institution)
BEAC     -   Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (Regional Central
Bank)
BIAO     -   Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale (Local
financial institution)
BPMC     -   Banque Populaire Maroco-Centrafricaine (Local financial
institution)
CAPMEA   -   Centre d'Assistance aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
et a l'Artisanat (Promotion Agency for SMEs)
CAR      -   Central African Republic
CCIA     -   Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Artisanat
CCCE     -   Caisse Centrale de Coopdration Economique
COBAC    -   Comrission Bancaire d'Afrique Centrale (Regional Banking
Supervision Commission)
DDIA     -   Direction du Ddveloppement Industriel et Artisanal
(Directorate of Industrial and Artisanal Development)
DEG      -   German Finance Company for Investments in Developing
Countries
IFAD     -   International Fund for Agriculture and Development
ILO      -   International Labor Organization
MEPSCI   -   Ministere de l'Economie, du Plan, des Statistiques et de
la Coopdration Internationale (Ministry of Economics,
Planning, Statistics, and International Cooperation)
HE       -   Micro-enterprise
MFCIPME  -   Ministere des Finances, du Commerce, de l'Industrie et
des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (Ministry of
Finance, Trade, Industry, and SMEs)
I    Th. CFA Fra,.  (CFA) is Iinked to th. French Franc (FF) *t . fi .d p-rity ef FFI t. CFAF 50.  The French Franc is
eretyfloeti.g.
NGO     -    Non-Governmental Organization
OCSD     -   Organisation Canadienne pour la Solidarite et le
Developpement (Canadian NGO)
ONIFOP   -   National Professional Training Center
OPPER    -   Opdration Promotion Petits Entrepreneurs Routiers
(Promotion program for SMEs in transportation)
PCC      -   Project Coordinating Committee
PFI      -   Participating Financial Institution
PU       -   Project Unit
SME      -   Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
UBAC     -   Union Bancaire en Afrique Centrale (Local financial
institution)
UDEAC    -   Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
(Customs Union of Central African States)
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   -   United Nations Children's Fund
VITA     -   Volunteers in Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pare No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (i)-(iii)
I.  THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
A.   The Economic Setting . . t      i   . . .  .*. . .    . . .   . .   . . . 1
1.    Socioeconomic Structure and Performance  . . . . . . 1
2.    Regulatory Environment   .*. . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
3.    Industrial and SHE Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
4.    Institutional Support  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
B.   The Financial Sector . . 9 . . . . .      . . . . . . . .  . .  . 7
1.    Financial Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
2.    Commercial Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
3.    Financial Sector Reform Program  . . . . . . . . .  10
C.   Government and IDA Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
II.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
A.   Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
B.   Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
C.   Apex Line of Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
D.   Hicroenterprise Development Program  . . . . . . . . . .  16
E.   Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              18
F.   Training Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .  19
G.   Studies Program       ..  # .....................  .    20
H.   Project Cost and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
I.   Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
J.   Procurement  . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
K.   Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
L.   Reports and Audits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
III.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  .....  ... ... .....  25
IV.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANN3MS8
1.    Micro-Enterprise (ME) Development Program
2.    Medium- and Long-Term Credit Outstanding, by Sector, December
1986-1989
3.    Selected Documents Available in the Project File
4.    Technical Assistance Component
5.    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
MAP   IBRD No. 18095 Rl
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. R. Glaeser (Sr. Economist, Task Manager), A. Nespoulous-
Neuville and D. Rhatigan (Consultants) who visited the Central African
Republic in November/December 1990. Messrs. T.N. Dinh (AFTEF) and P.
Ballard (AFTIE) were the peer reviewers for the operation. Secretarial
support was provided by Ms. A. Kamau. Messr. I.T. Christie tAFlIE) and
M.J. Gillette (AElDR) are the managing Division Chief and Department
Director, respectively.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          Government of the Central African Republic (CAR)
Beneficiaries:    Existing or new enterprises in the private sector and
institutions including NGOs supporting private enterprise
development.
Credit Amounts    SDR 9.4 million (US$11.3 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity.
Project
Description:       The principal objective of the project is to promote and
finance private enterprises in the productive sectors in
support of the ongoing structural adjustment process and
financial sector reform program. The project would include
the following components:
(a)   an apex line of credit within the commercial banking
system to finance fixed assets and working capital
needs of eligible existing and new enterprises
(US$7.7 million);
(b)   a micro-enterprise (ME) development program managed by
Volunteers in Technical Assistance (VITA), a US-based
NGO, and consisting of a line of credit, institutional
support, and technical and management advisory
services (US$3.4 million);
(c)   technical assistance for project management and
strengthening of private sector promotion agencies
(US$2.5 million);
(d)   a training program for enterprise management and
project evaluation (US$0.9 million); and
(e)   a studies program to carry out sub-project
feasibility, preparation and sector studies relevant
to enterprise development (US$0.7 million).
On-lending Terms: The apex line of credit (with an IDA contribution of US$5.0
million equivalent) will be channelled through the Banque
des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) to eligible



- ii -
participating financial institutions (P?Is) at a referenci
interest rate of 7X p.a., which is the average remuneration
of term deposits. Subloans would have maturities of up to
12 years including grace periods of up to three years and
would initially have an interest rate of 16Z p.a.. The
exchange risk would be borne by the Government. The lending
terms and conditions including interest rates and financial
margins for PFIs would be reviev-ed annually and adjusted as
appropriate. The Government would make US$2.4 million
equivalent available for institutional and operational
support and technical and management advisory services to ME
development program. US$0.5 million would be made available
through VITA for onlending to micro-enterprises (MEs). The
Government would pass on US$3.4 million equivalent as a
grant to finance training and studies programs and technical
assistance.
Benefits:          The proposed operation represents IDA's first private sector
development project in the country and is expected to
provide sustainable socio-economic benefits. It will help
revitalize the private sector and support trade
liberalization and retrenchment of the Government from the
productive sectors, which forms the core of the country's
adjustment and growth. An improved policy environment,
combined with greater access to term financing for business
should ensure a supply response by the private sector,
improve the operating efficiency of firms and in the process
promote economic growth. The project would help exploit
domestic entrepreneurial potential and help mitigate the
adverse social effects of structural adjustment on poverty
through the generation of employment and ir   a in both the
formal and informal sectors.  The project    . stimulate
entrepreneurship at the grassroots level with special
emphasis on women. Finally, the project would support the
ongoing financial sector reform aimed at further
liberalizing the regulatory environment and bringing
monetary policies including interest rates more in line with
market conditions. A more competitive and responsive
financial system will help improve resource  mobilization
and allocation.
Risks.      Potential risks of the first apex operation in the country
include the possible reluctance of banks to extend term
financing that may result in slower than anticipated
disbursements. The Government may have difficulty in
sustaining the institutional and regulatory changes
necessary for effective project implementation. Increased
cooperation between the Government and the business
community may not materialize as anticipated on investment
promotion. These risks have been minimized through project
design, including adequate lending margins for PPIs and
institution-building measures for project management and
training.



- Aiii -
Estimated Costs*                             -------- US$ million equivalent ---
Local       Foreign      Total   ? of Total
Subproject financing (Investments)           2.4           5.3         7.7         51
}E promotion program                          1.8           1.6        3.4         22
Technical assistance                          0.7          1.8         2.5         16
Training                                      0.3          0.6         0.9          6
Studies                                       0.1          0.6         0.7          5
Total Costs                            5.3           9.9        15.2       100
mm=          _      ..
* net of taxes
Financing Plan
IDA                                         1.4            9.9        11.3         74
Subborrowers                                2.4             --         2.4         16
Participating financial institutions        0.9             --         0.9          6
Goveriinent                                 0.6             --         0.6          4
Total Financing                       5.3            9.9        15.2       100
Estimated Disbursements                      FY (US$ million equivalent)
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Annual                                1.2a/  0.8   2.2   2.2   2.3   1.6   0.7   0.3
Cumulative                            1.2    2.0   4.2   6.4   8.7  10.3  11.0  11.3
a/ Includes SPPF and PPF refinancing totalling US$1,096,000.
Rate of Return: n.a.



I. TU SOCIO-ECONOKIC ZUYIROIUUNT
A. The Economic Setting
1. Socio-Economic Structure and Performance
1.01     The Central African Republic (CAR) is a landlocked country with an
estimated population of some 2.7 million. With a per capita GNP of US$380
in 1988, it is one of the least developed countries. The primary sector is
the mainstay of the economy. It accounted for 42 percent of GDP and 49
percent of commodity exports in 1989 and provided employment for some 80
percent of the population. Mining, manufacturing, construction and
utilities (16 percent), and services (42 percent) account for the balance
of GDP.
1.02     The economic mismanagement of the late 1970's which had caused
considerable social and economic dislocation and international isolation,
was followed in the early 1980's by efforts at restoring internal and
external equilibria. Efforts focussed on reducing the budget and current
account deficits. Results were mixeds modest overall real growth was
reported during the 1986-89 period with significant growth only in 1989;
the budget deficit and the current account of the balance of payments
narrowed, but less than originally forecast; overall price stability,
however, was achieved.
1.03     Growth performance was disappointing.  SAL I and II projected an
annual average growth of 3 percent; with population growing at 2.5 percent
a year, this would have permitted a slight improvement in per capita
income. In reality, growth averaged a meager 1.5 percent per annum in
1986-88, rising to 3.7 percent only in 1989. Public investment as a share
of GDP fell to 7 percent in 1989 from 10 percent in 1986. Also, the sharp
fall in export prices of coffee during the period depressed agricultural
demand, which in turn lowered demand in the industrial and service sectors.
Restructuring of the public enterprise sector led to the closure of three
development banks and seven public enterprises, while some foreign
enterprises either left the country or reduced their operations.
1.04     The overall budget deficit fell to 12 percent of GD2 in 1989 from
14 percent in 1986. This improvement was largely due to the reduction in
the investment budget from 13 percent of GDP in 1986 to 9 percent of GDP in
1989. The current account deficit of the balance of payments fell from
16.5 percent of GDP in 1986 to 14.4 percent in 1989. A lower level of
investments led to a fall in imports to 30 percent of GDP in 1989 from 33
percent in 1986; exports remained at about 19 percent of GDP. The sharp
drop in coffee and cotton exports was, however, more than offset by an
increase in diamond exports.
1.05     At the outset of the SAL program in 1986, a number of major
structural constraints plagued the economy including: weak investment
planning, poor performance of revenue collection, an excessive wage bill, a
costly para-public sector, an inefficient civil service, little private
sector participation in economic activity, weak agricultural institutions,
and an education system poorly adapted to the economic and social needs of
the country. In addition, government finances were excessively dependent
on foreign financing of investments, extraordinary budgetary support and



continued need for debt rescheduli.g. A major objective of both SAL I and
II was to set the basis for achieving pesitLve real growth. The strategy
was based ons (a) agriculture-led growth: (b) stimulating private sector
inLtiative through creating an enabling environment; (c) retrenchment of
the public sector from directly productive activitiesi (d) improving public
investment planning; and (e) reducing the budget deficit. Taking into
account the deep-seated structural constraints, the weak administration,
and the difficult external environment, implementation of the adjustment
measures has been broadly satisfactory.
1.06     The main objective of the ongoing SAL III is to support the
Government in its efforts to realize sustained real per-capita income
growth while enhancing the participation of all segments of the population
in the development process. The SAL III program will carry forward the
reform measures initiated since 1986 and support a deepening of the
adjustment effort in macroeconomic management, measures to promote expanded
private sector activity, civil service efficiency improvement, public
enterprise reform, and policy reforms in agriculture and transport.
Special attention will be paid to strengthening institutional capacity to
Implement necessary reform measure, to building up the Government's human
resource base, and to alleviating the social cost of adjustment. Key areas
of the SAL III program includes (a) macroeconomic management, with
particular attention given to maintain a prudent monetary policy, to reduce
the structural fiscal deficit, and to strengthen further investment
planning and programming while increasing the level of investment; (b)
enterprise and financial sector reform, aimed at identifying and rectifying
factors that hamper financial intermediation, and promoting an incentive
environment propitious to expansion of private enterprise; tc) civil
service reform, with the objective of improving longer term efficiency,
strengthening personnel and career management, and improving pay and
incentives policies, leading to reform of the civil service statutes and
rationalization of the regulatory framework; (d) improved policies in
agriculture, transport, education and health; and (e) the social dimensions
of adjustment (SDA) will be addressed in various SAL III components and in
a SDA operation. The SAL program has been prepared in collaboration with
the IMP. In March 1990, the Government, together with the Bank and Fund,
updated its medium-term macro-economic and financial strategy and
negotiated a PFP covering 1990-92. At the same time, the IMF negotiated a
third SAF with the Government.
1.07     As a result of the ongoing structural adjustment process, economic
growth is projected to average about 3.7 percent p.a. during the first half
of the 19909. The private sector has reacted favorably to the improved
business environment resulting from adjustment measures put in place since
the mid-1980s. Therefore, a four to five percent growth rate is expected
for the secondary sector. The ongoing reform of public enterprises will
strengthen their performance while the positive response of the private
sector, experienced in 1989 and 1990, is expected to continue. The
informal sector is expected to be a major source of growth. The
restoration of the financial sector on a sound footing should also underpin
the growth of the private sector and a continued low inflation rate should
help the overall competitiveness of the economy. Finally, investment is
expected to increase from 9.3 percent of GDP in 1989 to 14 percent in 1995,
with private investment rising significantly faster from 25 percent of



- 3 -
total capital formation in 1989 to more than 40 percent by 1995. We are
working with other donors to provide assistance in the framework of the
Special Program of Assistance to Debt-Distressed Countries. Since CAR is a
member of the Customs Union of Central African States (UDEAC), it is
commltted to implement the measures that will be required in the context of
an UDIAC-wide reform program including rationalization of the tariff and
indirect tax structures, improvements in the taxation of intra-UDEAC trade,
and reform of financial and credit policies withln BEAC. As a member of
the UDEAC, CAR would also benefit from a Regional SAL currently under
preparation.
2. Regulatorv Environment
1.08     Prior to the start of the structural adjustment process in the
mid-1980s, prlvate sector activity was constrained by a pervasive web of
bureaucratic regulations, price controls, fiscal and trade policies which
hampered private investment. Considerable liberalization of the business
onvironment has been taking place under the ongoing adjustment program.
Under SAL I and II, Government simplified the institutional and regulatory
framework and improved the business environment including liberalization of
prices for all but 12 commodities, abolition of most import quotas.
liberalization of internal trade, and promulgation of an investment code.
1.09     Under SAL III, Government is further improving the regulatory
environment. Specifically, the Government is in the process of:
(a) adopting an action plan to reform the financial sector and strengthen
financial intermediation; (b) liberalizing remaining price controls to
achieve full liberalization; (c) carrying out the reorganization of the
Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Mining, and Artisans; (d) making the
One-Stop Investment Office (Guichet Unique) operational; (e) reviewing
annually actions taken to promote SMEs to assess the impact of existing
legislation on the SHE development program as well as the overall
investment climatt and to take corrective actions as appropriate in
consultation with IDA; and (f) amending legislation that restricts real
estate transactions by foreigners.
3.  Industrial and SME Sector
1.10     The industrial sector in the CAR is small, accounting for an
estimated 10 percent of GDP, of which manufacturing industry accounts for
about half. Food and agricultural processing account for an estimated 50
percent, and textiles and clothing 25 percent of total output. The
sector's small size is attributable to the low per capita income, the small
and dispersed population, and consequent fragmented markets, of which
metropolitan Bangui is by far the most active. The development of the SME
sector, that is now a Governmental priority, has in the past been
constrained by inappropriate policies, limited access to the banking system
of indigenous entrepreneurs, and an overly-regulated business and
investment climate.
1.11     Most processing activity consists of very small production and
service craft operations such as furniture making, traditional forge work,
sewing, and welding. Production includes processing of agricultural and
forestry products, textiles, food and beverages and footwear. High



-4-
International transport costs hamper an export-oriented strategy. Import
substituting activities have had only limited success since the domestic
market is small, raw material costs are high, and competition from both
legal and illegal imports is strong, so that it is often more profitable
and less risky to import directly rather than produce locally.
Consequently, more entrepreneurial endeavor is concentrated in trading than
in directly productive activities. Liberalizing the economic environment,
and reducing tariffs and import restrictions, as has been taking place,
will lead to a more efficient allocation of inveetment capital.
Potentially promising activities under the project are likely to be found
in the agricultural support sectors, in local market-oriented activities
such as furniture making, domestic food processing, repair activities, and
in the service sector such as transport.
1.12     Reliable data on the industrial sector are scarce.  Results of a
1983 survey indicated that the modern manufacturing sector (defined as
having sales of CFAF 30 million or more), including both private and
para-statal operations, consisted of 40 enterprises with 5,500 employees.
Nine parastatals employed 45 percent of this total, *- most of the rest
were foreign-owned. A 1989 economic census of the Bangui area private
sector indicated a total of 29 formal sector manufacturing enterprises with
1,100 employees, whereas informal sector transformation and manufacturing
accounted for some 1,200 enterprises with 2,300 employees; the total of
3,400 accounted for 9 percent of Bangui's non-agricultural employment.
Commerce and services accounted for over 80 percent of remunerated
employees.
1.13     Preliminary indications suggest that, after years of stagnation,
the continuing economic liberalization coupled with the 3.7 percent growth
in 1989, have contributed to a resurgence of informal sector activity. The
response for investment and working capital, demonstrated by beneficiaries
of a pilot micro-enterprise program, shows an informal sector dynamism
which is capable of responding rapidly to an improving enabling environment
and appropriate sources of financing. Total private sector investment as a
percentage of GDP was estimated at 1.9 percent in 1988 and was projected to
increase from 2.4 percent of GDP in 1989 to 3.6 percent in 1990, and to 5.2
percent in 1993, mainly as a result of an improved business environment.
Recent industrial investments include a sugar refinery (joint ve.ture with
Danish partners), and the rehabilitation of a brewery, a cigarette factory,
and an oil and soap mill. Future growth factors are likely to include the
food and livestock sectors which benefitted from the liberalization of
prices and trade, and the secondary sector as a result of the enterprise
reform and promotion programs.
1.14     After independence, a number of public enterprises were created
which accounted for a large part of industrial employment. Many parastatal
enterprises were of dubious economic soundness from the start. Public
enterprise sector reform has, therefore, been a major component of the
structural adjustment program. Through liquidation and privatization, the
number of public enterprises has been reduced from 58 in 1985 to 35 in
1990, and the divestiture process will continue under SAL III. Consistent
with the objective of fostering private enterprise development, former
parastatal enterprises which have been privatized, or which remain as mixed



-5-
enterprises with majority prNvate sector ownership, will be eligible for
financing under the proposed project.
1.15      Local Entrepreneurship.  The development of indigenous
entrepreneurship in the country at the grassroots level has been hampered
by several socioeconomic factors including a low level of settlement and
cultivation activity, a preference for trade--traditionally dominated by
foreigners--versus production as less risky and quicker activity to earn
income, the inability of traditional money markets (tontines) to generate
investment funds, and negative attitudes towards private inltiatives,
especially during the Bokassa regime. Local entrepreneurship, while still
largely confined to relatively small and informal sector activities, is
growing and partial evidence suggests that there is significant development
potential, notably at the micro-enterprise level, in a more liberal and
deregulated policy environment. The project aims at supporting further
development of entrepreneurship.
1.16     Female Entrepreneurship.  Economic activities by women are
traditionally concentrated in food-crop production and small retail trade.
Some indigenous female entrepreneurship also exists in agricultural
marketing, local food processing and handicrafts. Initial experience with
a pilot micro-enterprise program and sociological field studies suggest
that, prima facie, there is female entrepreneurship potential in the
country that could contribute to more broad-based socioeconomic development
at the grassroots level. The Government, therefore, recently strengthened
its institutional capacity for promoting women through the State
Secretariat of Social Affairs (Directorate for Women's Affairs) and is
proposing a new initiative in the field of women's education and family
legislation. Particular efforts are being undertaken to promote female
entrepreneurship in the framework of the micro-enterprise program under the
proposed project.
4. Institutional Support
1.17     Institutional support for SME development, though improving from a
point of virtual inactivity prior to the onset of the adjustment prog-im,
is not yet effective. Principal institutions active in the field are the
SME promotion agency CAPMEA (Centre d'assistance aux petites et moyennes
entreprises et & l'artisanat), and the Chamber of Commerce, Industry, ar.d
Artisanat (CCIA). Several small private sector groups and NGOs are also
involved in private sector promotion, notably at the micro-enterprise
level.
1.18     CAPMEA.  The principal objective of CAPMEA is to provide training,
technical assistance and business advice to SME8, and to assist
entrepreneurs to obtain credit from commercial banks. CAPMEA was
reorganized to its current structure in 1987. The intention was to create
an institution with operational and financial autonomy to avoid public
sector interference and bureaucratization. CAPMEA is administered by a
seven member board of directors, consisting ot its Director General,
representatives of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of
Commerce, the Professional Association of Bankers, and one member each
representing medium, small, and artisan scale enterprises. During 1987-89,
CAPMEA was assisted by a team of two ILO experts (management and mechanical



engineering), funded by a UNDP grant of US$1.4 million, and three UN
Volunteer technicians in woodworking, metal work and general mechanics, the
dominant activities of Bangui's informal sector. During the first three
years of operation (1987-1989), twenty of CAPMEA's clients were able to
obtain medium-term financing totalling CFAF 190 million, mostly from Banque
de Cr4dit Agricole et de Developpement (BCAD). Bankability of CAPMEA-
sponsored projects at the Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale
(BIAO) and the Union Bancaire en Afrique Centrale (UBAC) has been limited.
1.19     CAPMEA's operational difficulties included lack nf funding, slower
than anticipated professional development of local enterprise advisors,
constrained staff mobility and inadequate field contact with clients, and
poor staff motivation. A review of client dossiers indicated that project
preparation and analytic skills, and the project review process before
dossiers are submitted for financing, are weak. The UNDP/ILO has proposed
a two year extension of its assistance in the form of one expatriate
advisor. A condition of implementation is the availability of an adequate
level of operating funds. This proposal is currently under review by the
Government and UNDPIILO. CAPMEA's annual funding requirement to maintain
adequate staffing and logistical support was estimated at CFA? 60 million,
while revenue for 1989 was CFAF 42 million (30 million appropriations and
12 million fees). Appropriations for 1990 were reduced to CFA 25 million,
and fee income decreased since demand for CAPMEA's services declined with
the discontinuation of BCAD's lending activities. Currently, CAPMEA can be
characterized as an under-funded entity with a clearly defined mandate, but
with insufficient means to provide effective services. However, with
appropriate human and material support, it could play an important support
role for project beneficiaries in an environment where no other entity
exists for this purpose. CAPMEA's future role and financial autonomy over
time will be addressed in the operation and organization study to be funded
under the project. Moreover, at negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the government will provide adequate funding for CAPMEA's operating
budget to support its future activities.
1.20     Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Artisanat (CCIA).  The CCIA has
a representative on the Board of Directors of CAPMEA and participated in
the formulation of private sector policies in the framework of the
structural adjustment program. The Chamber of Commerce receives technical
assistance in the form of an expatriate advisor provided by the French
Chamber of Commerce. This advisor also cooperates with the CCCE-sponsored
SME program (Aide & l'Initiative Productrice de Base, AIPB). Through the
program, small entrepreneurs and cooperatives who are considered non-
bankable are financed by AIPB. So far, six projects have been funded under
the AIPB. Continued cooperation and coordination among private sector
promotion agencies, including the Ch.mber of Commerce, is foreseen under
the proposed project.
1.21     Promotion Program for SMEs in Transport (Operation Promotion
Petits Entrepreneurs Routiers; OPPER). A group of some 12 private small
and medium road maintenance contractors are organized into a cooperative
managed with expatriate technical assistance under an IDA-financed
transport project. Although originally organized for carrying out contract
work for the Ministry of Transport, OPPER entrepreneurs are now
diversifying and obtaining building and other small construction contracts



-7-
in public and private sectors. Joint training activities for OPPER and
other beneficiaries under the proposed project will be considered. OPPER's
experience in entrepreneurship development, albeit under market-specific
conditions, could be a useful input into future promotion activities.
1.22     National Association of Central African Entrepreneurs (Association
Nationale des Entrepreneurs d'Afrique Centrale; ANZAC). ANEAC was
organized at about the same time that CAPMEA began operations and is
composed of about 100 small entrepreneurs. Its president is member of
CAPMEA's Board of Directors. Individual ANEAC members sometimes seek the
services of CAPMEA to qualify as bidders for government construction
contraets.  ANEAC has had organizational difficulties and is not yet
considered to be an effective organization.
1.23     Non-Governmental Organizations.  Although several non-governmental
organizations of varying national origin and means of support operate in
the CAR, NGOs in the past have not been active in SME development. Most
NGOs have been involved in social sector activities located in rural areas.
The recently initiated pilot micro-enterprise (ME) development program
managed by VITA, a US-based-NGO, is the first direct involvement of NGOs in
private sector development. VITA has extensive operational experience in
the CAR and in the management of small business support programs in Africa
and elsewhere. VITA's previous achievements include the implementation of
a US-AID-funded Post Harvest Food System Project in Northwestern CAR, and
multilingual staff from this operation will continue to work in the ME
program. Annex 1 gives details on VITA.
B. The Financial Sector
1. Financial Policies
1.24     The Regional Central Bank (Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale;
BEAC) was established in 1972 as the Central Bank common to five countriest
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo and Gabon; Equatorial
Guinea joined in 1985. BEAC's operations are largely decentralized. Some
powers, such as setting rediscount rates, common to all member countries,
are retained by the Board, whereas most of the responsibilities in the
management of monetary and credit policies are delegated to national
authorities in each country, including a National Monetary Commlttee and
the Ministry of Finance.
1.25     The record of BEAC in the areas of credit and monetary policies
and banking supervision has been characterized by conflicting and sometimes
contradictory objectives, inefficient instruments and weak administration
of these instruments. An important shortcoming has been a lack of
effective banking supervision. Besides, a system of preferential interest
rates and sectoral allocation of credit has impaired the conduct of
monetary policy and resulted in major distortions in resource allocation.
BEAC recently initiated a major reform program to bring its financial
policies more in line with market conditions (para. 1.29).
1.26     In accordance with its charter, BEAC regulated the volume of
credit within limits compatible with balance of payment constraints and
price stability through individual credit limits, global refinancing



- 8 -
ceilings and ceilings on banks' outstanding credits. These limits have
been largely ineffective, individual limits because of multiple derogations
adopted, and other limits as a result of economic decline. BEAC had a
policy of allocating credit preferentially to selected priority sectors
through a lower rediscount rate, higher percentage of rediscount, lower
spreads for banks and obligatory minimum of 1O2 of total credit to be
allocated to SMEs. Lower spreads may have worked against the stated policy
objectives, and the minimum 1O0 ratio has not been respected by any bank.
1.27     BEAC's Boerd periodically revised its interest rates, which
comprised five categories: the norrnl rediscount rate (taux d'escompte
normal or TEN), the preferential r "`3count rate (taux d'escompte
pref6rentiel or TEP), the rate o'    .' advances to the Government, and
two penalty rates respectively to-  :.Ks and Governments.  The TEN varied
slightly around 92 from 1982 to ,         t was increased from 9.52 to 10.5Z
in July 1989. The TEN was negati,e' iL, real terms in 1983, when inflation
was 14Z.  Because annual changes in ---nsumer price index decreased
considerably in the following years, the TEN remained positive in real
terms since 1984. Deposit and lending rates as well as financial margins
are regulated by the National Monetary Committee and the Ministry of
Finance, but effectively by the latter.
1.28      BEAC, the Conseil National du Credit, the Commission de ContrOle
des Banques, and the Direction des Assurances et des Banques within the
Ministry of Finance are all empowered to play a role in the supervision of
banks.  BEAC did not undertake banking supervision until 1980, when a
supervision unit was established at its headquarters in Yaounde which
effectively started reviewing banks' financial statements in 1984.
Inspections of banks were decided by the Ministry of Finance or, if
proposed by BEAC, must be approved by the Minister. In the past, Bank
supervision has been weak and no sanctions have been taken against banks
which did not respect the regulatory financial ratios.
1.29     Aware of serious shortcomings in its financial policies as
indicated above, BEAC, with the support of IDA, has prepared a far-reaching
reform of credit and monetary policies for the monetary union as a whole.
As a first significant step, BEAC's Board decided in October 1990 to
initiate a series of reforms with a view to bringing its policies more in
line with market conditions. Specifically, the Board decisions included:
(a) an increase of the normal discount rate from 10? to 112 to be
competitive with the French money market rate; (b) the abolition of the
subsidized preferential discount rate previously set at 6.52; (c) the
introduction of a unified discount rate by raising by one percentage point
every six months the rate of 5.52 for overdraft to the national treasury
until the rate reaches the normal discount rate of currently 11; (d)
greater authority for BEAC's Governor to adjust the discount rate between
BEAC Board meetings; (e) tightening of control of credit to the public
sector; (f) the creation of a regional banking supervision commission
(Commission bancaire d'Afrique centrale (COBAC)), which is to become the
main authority for supervising all banks in the BEAC zone, subject to
ratification of statues and regulations by national parliaments; and (g)
the adoption of a general framework for the restructuring of the banking
sector including consolidation of BEAC debts over 15 years including 3
years of grace at an interest rate of 3X p.a. as adopted in the case of



- 9 -
Cameroon. Further reforms under consideration include the replacement of
the system of prior authorization of individual credits by BEAC by
financial criteria and the introduction of a system of reserve
requirements.
2.  Commercial Banks
1.30     In addition to the Central Bank (BEAC), the formal financial
sector includes two active commercial bankss the Union Bancaire en Afrique
Centrale (LBAC) and the Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale,
Centrafrique (BIAO). A third, the Banque de Credit Agricole et de
Developpement (BCAD), has ceased operations. A new bank, the Banque
Populaire Maroco-Centrafricaine (BPMC), started operations in March 1991.
UBAC is a mixed ownership bank with a Government participation of 852, and
management support from the other shareholder, Credit Lyonnais.
Shareholders of BIAO Centrafrique are BIAO (France), with 75?
participation,, the Government (20?) and private local investors (52).
BIAO (France) is presently being liquidated and negotiations are in process
for the sale of BIAO's share. Meridien Bank has expressed interest in
taking over BIAO. BCAD is owned 50? by the Banque de Placement et de
Participation (BPP Holding, Luxemburg), now bankrupt, the Government (33Z),
the French Caisse Nationale de CrEdit Agricole (8.3?) and Pack Financial
Consultants (8.3?). BCAD will be liquidated under the Government's
financial sector program currently under preparation. BPMC's share capital
consists of a CFAP 500 million subscription by the Moroccan Banque Centrale
Populaire and a CFAF 300 million contribution (in kind) by the Government.
1.31     Though reliable estimates do not exist, a large share of the CAR's
money supply is reportedly held in liquid form outside the banking system.
Mobilization of local savings by banks so far has not been very effective,
mainly due to: (a) a low level of confidence of the public in the banks,
following liquidation of three development banks in the 1970s/early 19808;
(b) the existence of only two bank branches in the provinces; and (c) the
reluctance of informal operators to be identified through their bank
accounts. BPMC, known for its success with mobilization of rural savings
in African countries, should help improve domestic resource mobilization
and financial intermediation.
1.32      The distribution of credit through the banking system in recent
years has been approximately as follows: UBAC 50?; BIAO 30?; and BCAD 20?.
Total credit outstanding has stagnated in the vicinity of CFAF 30 billion
since the early 19809. On December 31, 1989, total credit outstanding in
the banking system was CFAF 32.5 billion, of which CFAF 7.6 billion was
medium- and long-term credit. The latter increased from CFAF 3.5 billion
at the end of 1986 to CFAF 7.6 billion at the end of 1989 (Annex 2). In
evaluating term lending, it should be kept in mind that some short-term
loans that are rolled over may in fact be effectively medium-term credits.
Interest rates charged by banks for medium-term credits average about 16?
p.a.. Interest payment on demand deposit was suspended in 1984. The
average remuneration of term deposits is about 7?.
1.33      The banking system has in the past displayed little interest in
expanding SME lending under prevailing lending regulations including
restricted financial spreads. The banks attribute the small volume of term



- 10 -
loans SHEs to poor collection experience, high administrative costs, and a
lack of bankable projects. Small entrepreneurs and CAPMNA staff attribute
the scarcity of bankable projects to excessive collateral and guarantee
conditions, which are beyond the capability of all but a small percentage
of potential SHE borrowers. A market-oriented approach clearly calls for
revised lending rates including higher lending spreads as envisaged under
the proposed operation.
1.34      Bank balance sheets show high defaults and insufficiency of
provisions. If adequate provislons were made, the equity of the banks
would become insufficient or even negative. BIAO's equity would be reduced
from CPAP 1.1 billion as of August 31, 1989 to about CFAF 400 million, too
small in relation to BIAO's portfolio of CPA? 9 billion. UBAC underwent a
financial restructuring in 1987, with external capital injection of CFAF 2
billion. Further restructuring is needed, since UBAC's equity of CPA? 1.9
billion as of August 1989 would be wiped out by a provlsion of CFAP 4.4
billion primarily for a long-standing non-performing loan to one princlpal
client (Moura) and would become negative by the amount of CPA? 2.5 billion.
If adequate provisions were made, BCAD's equity at the end of 1989 would
become negative in an amount of CPA? 2.7 billion.
1.35      The profitability of banks is poor in spite of spreads averaging
around 72 on total resources. Thanks to a recent reorganization, including
a 20a reduction in staff, BIAO, which broke even in 1988, made a profit of
around CPAF 160 million in 1989. UBAC, which also reduced its personnel by
252 in recent years, suffered losses in 1987 and 1988, but made a profit
of CFA? 160 million in 1989. UBAC's administrative charges represented
12.42 of its loan portfolio in 1988. In spite of technical assistance from
the French Caeisse Nationale de Credit Agricole, BCAD could not achieve
adequate operational and financial performance. Its estimated losses for
the year 1989 amounted to CFAF 220 million. For UBAC and BIAO, medium- and
long-term use of funds was adequately matched by corresponding maturities
of resources. However, the rate of recovery of doubtful loans for both
banks was low in 1989 (about 102) and increased efforts are needed to
improve their recovery performance.
3. Financial Sector Reform Program
1.36     Under the ongoing SAL III, the Government has undertaken to adopt
an action plan for the reform of the financial sector the major elements of
which are to restructure and reorganize the banking system, to bring
monetary policies more in line with market conditions, and to further
liberalize the regulatory environment. This comprehensive reform program,
currently under preparation by the Government, would include the regional
BEAC reforms described in para. 1.29 combined with a series of country-
specific measures under national jurisdiction as outlined below.
1.37     Reorganization of Banks.  All banks, to varying degrees, need to
build up and strengthen operational capacity to enhance efficiency and
improve financial performance. Recent reorganization in BIAO and UBAC were
moves in the right direction. In UBAC, the French minority partner, Cr6dit
Lyonnais, provides substantial management support with five key executives
including the Deputy General Manager. Improved staff training remains
necessary in the field of project appraisal and supervision for UBAC and



- 11 -
BIAO. Banks are expected to further compress their administrative
expenses, and take advantage of increased spreads to improve services in
the interior of the country, for instance through mobile banking or
establishment of branches. Reorganization programs, including extended
computerization, are being firmed up by the banks and the Government in
consultation with a PPF-funded financial expert.
1.38     The BPMC is expected to endeavor to revitalize savings collection,
as the Moroccan Banque Centrale Populaire has already done successfully in
other African countries. A study on the reform of the postal checking
system, which could also play a role in rural savings mobilization, is
currently being considered with the assistance of the French Government.
1.39     Capital Restructuring.  Government policy in the medium-term is to
diversify ownership of the banks through an increase in private
participation, both foreign and local, following reorganization and capital
restructuring, so that subscription to share capital would become more
attractive. One option for restructuring the capital of UBAC and BIAO
would be the assumption of Moura's Government-guaranteed debt by the
Government, combined with the consolidation of BEAC debts owed by banks
which is currently under review at the level of the monetary union. Such
an arrangement would increase UBAC's equity to about CFAF 700 million, or 7
percent of its loan portfolio, and BIAO's equity to about CFAF 1,400
million, or 15 percent of its loan portfolio. A prime objective is to
upgrade the capital base of the banks to internationally acceptable levels
in relation to the size and nature of banking operations and portfolio
structure. Expected expansion of banking activities would require
additional capital injections at a later date, to be provided primarily by
private local and foreign investors. A possible German participation of $1
million equivalent in one of the banks through the Finance Company for
Investments in Developing Countries (DEG) is also under consideration.
Capital restructuring programs are being firmed up by the banks and the
Government with the assistance of the PPF-funded financial expert.
Financial implications of BCAD's liquidation are being assessed on the
basis of ongoing audits.
C.   Government and ID. Strategy
1.40     IDA's strategy is to support the government's development strategy
to rehabilitate and restructure the economy by (a) promoting private sector
initiative and investments; (b) supporting strategies aimed at improving
incentives and providing a more enabling regulatory environment; (c)
providing financial and technical assistance to rehabilitate and expand
productive sector activities and vital infrastructure investments; (d)
strengthen institutions to improve policy formulation and effective
management; and (e) mitigate potentially adverse social effects of the
structural adjustment process.
1.41     The proposed project represents IDA's first involvement in the
private enterprise and financial sectors in CAR, and is a key component of
IDA's development strategy in the country. It is an essential complement
to policy reforms initiated under the three IDA-supported structural
adjustment operations to stimulate a supply response in the productive
sectors. Given the strong emphasis on private sector activities in the



, 12 -
country's development strategy, the Government considers IDA's involvement
important for the success of the ongoing adjustment and growth process.
The provision of investment and working capital financing to private
enterprises constitutes an important ingredient for sustalned expansion of
private sector activities. The Government's strategy supported by IDA also
stresses promotion of entrepreneurship -- including female entrepreneurs --
with the assistance of NGOs.
1.42     As of March 31, 1991, 23 IDA Credits had been made to CAR,
totalling US$360 million equivalent. Of this, about US$205 million
equivalent was lent for investment in, and rehabilitation of, the
transport, education, energy, and agricultural sectors, and US$155 million
for structural adjustment, adjustment of the cotton sector, and for
technical assistance in support of economic management. Total
disbursements are around US$240 million equivalent. Total commitments
during FY90-92 are expected to be in the order of US$191 million, as
compared to US$104 million in FY87-89. A US$62.0 million Transport Sector
Project, US$19.0 million Natural Resources Management Project, and a third
Structural Adjustment Operation of US$45.0 million were approved during
FY90.
II. TSE PROJECT
A. Prolect Obiectives
2.01      The broad objective of the proposed project is to promote and
finance private enterprises to increase output, employment, and income in
both the formal and informal sectors in support of the ongoing structural
adjustment and growth process. Specifically, it woulds
(a)   support enterprise development and rehabilitation through
provision of term finance and working capital for viable
investments in existing or new enterprises;
(b)   help implement the financial sector reform program;
(c)   improve access to financing and provision of business advisory
services and training;
(d)   strengthen selected enterprise promotion institutions; and
(e)   provide support to micro-entrepreneurs including female
entrepreneurs.
2.02     Integration of Lessons Learned in Proiect Design.  The proposed
project is the culmination of preparatory work by the Government and IDA
extending over a two-year period. IDA has played a key role in assisting
Government to formulate strategies in the private and financial sectors.
Taking into account lessons learned from apex and SME operations in other
countries, project preparation focussed on financial sector reforms and on
establishing an enabling regulatory environment in the framework of



- 13 -
structural adjustment. In addition, the following arrangements were
incorporated in project design: (a) market-oriented lending terms and
conditions, including interest rates and adequate financtal margins for
participating financial institutions; (b) appropriate institutional
arrangements, including technical assistance to ensure effective project
management; (c) periodic reviews of implementation experience, and flexible
adjustment arrangements; and (d) apex set up to stimulate competition among
participating financial institutions.
B. Proiect Description
2.03     The project would include the following components:
(a)   an apec line of credit within the commercial banking system to
finance fixed assets and working capital needs of eligible
enterprises (US$7.7 million);
(b)   a micro-enterprise development program managed by VITA, and
consisting of a credit fund, institutional support, and technical
and management advisory services (US$3.4 million);
(c)   technical assistance for project management and
strengthening of private sector promotion agencies (US$2.5
million);
(d)   a training program for enterprise organization and management and
project evaluation (US$0.9 million); and
(e)   a studies program to carry out sub-project feasibility,
preparation and sector studies relevant to enterprise development
(US$0.7 million).
C. Apex Line of Credit (USS7.7 million)
2.04     The Government would make the proceeds of the credit available to
eligible financial institutions through an apex scheme, under a management
arrangement with BEAC. A Project Unit (PU) in the Central Bank would be
responsible for administering the credit line. The PU will be an entity
with adequate staff and responsibilities necessary to administer the
project component effectively. The PU would operate under procedures
designed to provide an appropriate degree of autonomy to avoid undue delay
in the processing of sub-projects financed by PFIs. Approval of PU's
operational policies and procedures by the Central Bank and IDA is a
special condition of disbursement for the apex component. The staff of the
PU would initially consist of the unit chief, one banking expert, and local
support staff. The project would provide assistance to the PU includings
(a) an expert for a two year period, with the possibility for extension for
another two years, if required, to help establish procedures and build
institutional capabilities through on-the-job training; (b) the training of
PU staff and PFIs in term financing, sub-project preparation and
supervision; (c) procurement of computer hardware, vehicles, and office
furnishings; and (d) 502 of incremental operating cost. The appointment of
the expert and the signing of a Protocol of Cooperation between the
Government and BEAC under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and the



- 14 -
establishment of the PU with staff whose qualifications and professional
experience are satisfactory to IDA, are special conditions of disbursement
of the apex component.
2.05     Participating Financial Institutions (PF1s).  All commercial banks
will be eligible to participate in the apex scheme, subject to their
entering into a subsidiary loan agreement with the Central Bank, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government on institutional arrangements for onlending,
the eligibility criteria for PFIs, beneficiary enterprises and
sub-projects, terms and conditions, sub-loan processing and administration,
and auditing and reporting requirements as described in the following
paragraphs. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between BEAC and a
PFI is a special condition of disbursement for each PFI. This agreement
would, inter alia, specify that the PFIs shoulds (a) undertake
satisfactory sub-project appraisals and submit required documents to the
PU; (b) ensure that disbursed funds are used by the final borrowers for the
purposes intended and under procurement procedures acceptable to IDAt (c)
supervise sub-projects regularly; (d) provide the PU with reports on the
status of sub-projects; and (e) submit to the PU audited financial
statements. A draft subsidiary loan agreement, draft operational norms and
procedures for PFIs, and draft terms of reference of the PU have already
been discussed with interested parties and are available in the Project
File (Annex 3).
2.06     The PFIs would bear the credit risk of sub-projects.  UBAC and
BPMC have expressed interest, in principle, in participating in the
project. No response has so far been obtained from BIAO Centrafrique,
since it has not yet been decided which institution will take over the
shares of BIAO France. There is a strong likelihood, however, that the
institution succeeding BIAO Centrafrique will agree to participate in order
to retain a significant market share. BIAO Centrafrique has already taken
over from BCAD the implementation of a small pilot rural credit scheme
under an agricultural project funded by the International Fund for
Agriculture and Development (IFAD). To become eligible, UBAC and BIAO
Centrafrique's successor will have to present acceptable programs of
reorganization and capital restructuring under the financial sector reform
program to be adopted under SAL III.
2.07     Sub-proiect Eligibility and Selection Criteria.  All private
sector SMEs (defined as firms with maximum fixed assets (excluding land) of
US$0.5 million equivalent, before financing, and with at least 512 private
ownership) would be eligible for financing under the project. Real estate
activities would not be eligible. The project would finance investments in
new enterprises as well as existing enterprises in need of expansion or
rehabilitation. Financing would be available for fixed assets, permanent
working capital and free-standing working capital for viable enterprises in
directly productive sectors. Since a major objective of the project is to
finance fixed investment, the total amount of sub-loans financing free--
standing working capital would be limited to a maximum of 25Z of the credit
component. Sub-loans granted under the line of credit could finance up to
852 of the costs of subprojects, leaving a minimum of 152 to be provided by
sponsors.



- 15 -
2.08     The following conditions would apply: (a) for all sub-loans, an
evaluation of technical viability, market analysis, and management
capabilities, and an assessment of any significant environmental impacts,
using, whenever appropriate, the Bank's industrial guidelines, would be
required. The financial rate of return (FRR) should be at least 122;
(b) the projected debt servicing capacity should not be less than 1.3 over
the life of the project, and the debt equity ratio should not be more than
4:1; and (c) for sub-loans above US$500,000 equivalent, economic analysis
would be required, including a minimum economic rate of return (ERR) of
12?, and (d) sub-loans for any new or existing single enterprise should not
exceed US$0.75 million equivalent.
2.09     Size of the Apex Line of Credit and Credit Demand.  The size of
the credit component has been based on a conservative estimate of credit
demand. There are no reliable data available on capital formation by
sub-sectors and on term financing of investments in the private sector in
the country. Commercial banks in CAR do not have sub-project pipelines
that would indicate the prospective credit requirements. It is, therefore,
difficult to relate precisely the proposed amount of the credit component
to potential demand. However, as indicated earlier, medium-term credit
outstanding more than doubled from end-1986 to end-1989. Estimated new
medium-term credit commitments, excluding housing, increased from about
CFAF 1.5 billion during 1988 to about CFAF 2.5 billion during 1989. The
proposed IDA contribution of US$5.0 million for the apex component
represents about 1OX of the estimated medium- and longer-term credit demand
by the commercial banks over a four year period and about 4X of current
total credit outstanding. While the proposed amount of the apex line of
credit is justified by recent trends indicated above, actual demand for
term financing is expected to be higher as a result of increased economic
activities following the ongoing adjustment process. To provide maximum
flexibility in implementing the apex scheme, no pre-established allocations
among PFIs, by economic sectors, industries or economic agents, have been
set.
2.10     On-lending Terms and Conditions.  The apex line of credit would be
channelled through BEAC to PFIs at a reference interest rate of 7? p.a.,
vhich is the average remuneration of term deposits, and with a flexible
amortization schedule reflecting the aggregate maturity of subloans
extended by PPIs. Sub-loans to beneficiaries would range from two to 12
years, inclusive of grace periods of up to three years and would initially
have an interest rate of 16? p.a.. This rate is substantially positive in
real terms in relation to current and foreseeable inflation rates. The
exchange risk would be borne by the Government, which is an appropriate
arrangement given the market-based on-lending terms and conditions
including interest rates applicable to end-users. PFIs' financial margin
would initially be 9?, reflecting the higher risks and administrative costs
associated with SME lending. The lending terms would be reviewed annually
by the Government and IDA in light of prevailing economic and financial
conditions including inflation rates. On-lending rates will be kept in
line with standard banking rates in the BEAC zone which are expected to
remain market-based in accordance with BEAC's new policy orientations
(para. 1.29).



- 16 -
2.11     Because this is the first IDA project of its kind in the CAR, the
first three sub-loans from each PFI would be subject to prior IDA review
and approval. Thereafter, assuming satisfactory appraisal standards and
with the exception of sub-loans over US$250,000 equivalent, which would
require prior IDA approval. IDA would review a sample of sub-projects on
an ex-post basis during supervision missions.
D. Micro-enterprise (ME) Development Program (US$3.4 million)
2.12     A special ME development program is included in the project to
provide a package of credit and support services to micro-enterprises. To
gain first-hand operational experience, a pilot ME program was initiated in
1990 and primarily funded under an SPPF and PPF. The proposed program is
designed to provide reasonably-priced, timely business credit to capable
entrepreneurs who do not have access to such financing through banking
channels, nor personal wealth. Satisfactory experience with the program,
managed by VITA, confirms that an extension of the program is warranted.
Details of the genesis of, and experience with, the pilot ME development
program, as well as the background on the managing NGO, are given in Annex
1. The Government has opted for a single-source selection in continuing
the ongoing ME program because: (a) the proposed tasks are a natural
continuation of previous work carried out by the NCO; (b) the NGO has
unique qualifications considering country and sector-specific experience
requirements; (c) the NGO has gained particular experience through past
work in the country; and (d) a valuable Government-NGO relationship exists.
Moreover, the Government considers the scope and size of the extended ME
program, and the estimated development outlays under the proposed project
appropriate, given the existing and potential demand over the life of the
project in the Bangui area and in two selected regions of the country, and
the substantial socio-economic benefits expected from the grassroots
scheme.
2.13     The geographical coverage of the pilot ME scheme was initially
confined to Bangui. Under the project, the program would be extended to
cover MEs in the Bossangoa area, where VITA has already been active, and in
Bambari. Preliminary sociological and economic field studies suggest that
good potential for micro-enterprise development and adequate infrastructure
exist in these two major provincial towns and neighboring rural areas.
2.14      The ME component would provide investment credit and working
capital, as well as support services to viable MEs in all productive
sectors. At the beginning of March 1991, some 700 applications had been
processed and 380 credits totalling CFAF 42 million extended of which 662
to women entrepreneurs. Supported activities included food processing and
distribution, livestock, woodworking, transport, tailoring, and
handicrafts. Loan collection so far has been excellent with 99Z of amounts
due recovered. The Government would conclude contractual arrangemexfts
satisfactory to IDA under which VITA will provide institutional support,
and technical and managerial advisory services (US$2.4 million) and would
make US$0.5 million available for on-lending to MEs on terms and conditions
indicated below. The credit risk would be borne by the Government. VITA
would return to the Government at the time of the terminaticn of the
program the amount of US$0.5 million plus interest earned minus losses f:om
credit operations. It is estimated that during the life of the project,



- 17 -
the program would provide credit to MHs amounting to some US$3.1 million
equivalent that would generate total investment by micro-entrepreneurs of
about US$4.0 million.
2.15      Lending terms and conditions for the HE component would be as
follows: (a) financial charges would range from 2 percent to 4 percent per
month depending on the duration of the loan. These financial charges
include interest, risk premium, and fees for technical and management
advisory assistance. The charges compare favorably with informal sector
financing through money lenders where rates may rise to 25 percent per day
and up to 100 percent per month; (b) guarantees would be provided by
borrowers, including liens on physical assets, direct salary or retirement
deductions, group solidarity guarantees, and/or a legally liable guarantor;
(c) the size of loans would range from US$100 to US$2,000, although larger
loans of up to about US$9,000 could be extended. The proposed range of
sub-loans would be lower than the minimum amount of SME credits extended by
local banks. Maturities would be up to two years; and (d) self-financing
of 25 percent would be required, including possible contributions in kind.
2.16      Since the inception of the pilot ME program, particular emphasis
has been given to exploit the potential of female micro-entrepreneurs.
Host of the support so far has been concentrated on solidarity groups
involved in agricultural marketing where women traditionally have been
strongly represented. VITA will continue to focus on female entrepreneurs
to help integrate them fully into mainstream economic development,
including production activities. Technical and management advisory
services will be provided to MEs during periodic monitoring visits to the
clients' business sites as well as in supplemental sessions at the
entrepreneurs' request. The training component of the proposed project
would include a management training and visiting program in collaboration
with CAPMEA. VITA will continue to implement the ME development program in
collaboration with US Peace Corps and Canadian OCSD Volunteers under a
management agreement between the Government and VITA under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
2.17     The pilot ME component, while still in an early stage of
operational experience, has considerable potential for entrepreneurship
development and employment generation at the grassroots level. A
substantial portion of the operating outlays constitute extension
activities. The program is expected to achieve progressively higher
self-generated revenues and cost recovery. Lending terms and conditions
and the operations program of the scheme will be reviewed annually.
Increased local participation in project management to achieve longer-term
sustainability will be examined in a mid-term review. Future activities
may include extension of the geographical coverage, the introduction of a
savings component, and increased integration of the ME scheme into formal
financial sector activities. Subject to satisfactory results of the
mid-term progress review, a study to prepare a follow-up project could be
initiated and funded under the studies component.



- 18 -
B. Technical Assistance (1882.5 nillion)
2.18     The project will aim at strengthening project management and
private sector promotion agencies. In particular, it will support (a) the
establishment and operation of the Project Unit (PU) in BEAC, including a
banking expert for an inLtial period of two years, to be extended, if
required, and start up and incremental operating costs, equipment and
vehicles (para. 2.04); (b) strengthening of the Directorate of Industrial
and Artisanal Development (Direction eu Developpement Industriel et
Artisanall DDIA) in the Ministry of Finance, Trade, Industry and
International Cooperation (Ministire des Finances, du Commerce, de
l'Industrie et des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises; MFCIPME), including an
enterprise development specialist for two years, to be extended, if
required, and incremental operating costs, equipment and vehiclest and (c)
support to CAPMEA, including an external NOO-supplied financial analyst and
incremental operating costs, vehicles and equipment. Funds allocated for
technical assistance would be passed on as a grant from the Government to
the implementing agencies. Experts will be recruited subject to IDA
approval. The appointment of the expert in MFCIPME and the designation of
a counterpart with qualifications and professional experience satisfactory
to IDA, is a condition of disbursement of the technical assistance,
training and studies components. Details of the sub-components of
technical assistance are given in Annex 4. Draft terms of reference for
the banking and enterprise development experts have already been discussed
with the Government and BEAC and are avallable in the Project File (Annex
3).
2.19      The design of the technical assistance component takes into
account the experience with completed free-standing technical assistance
projects (Project Completion Reports No. 9144 and 9151 dated December 14,
1990), the ongoing Economic Management Project, and findings and
recommendations of the OED study entitleds "Free-Standing Technical
Assistance for Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa", (Report
No. 8573, April 19, 1990). Based on the lessons learned from these
experiences, the design of the technical assistance component emphasizes
(a) strong Government commitment and demonstrated need for TA support aimed
at institution building and sustainability; (b) close upstream cooperation
with implementation agencies during project preparation; (c) result-
oriented terms of reference and timely nomination of qualified key
counterpart staff; (d) periodic evaluation and Mid-Term Review; and (e)
adequate provision for supervision, including extended involvement of the
Resident Mission to ensure greater transparency and effective management
and cost control.
2.20     The scope and cost of the technical assistance component relative
to the project as a whole responds to the following prime considerationst
(a) the project is the first operation of its type in the CAR. It will be
implemented in an environment of relatively weak institutional support with
a largely unsophisticated borrowing clientele. The experience of CAPMEA
and the pilot micro-enterprise program have shown that the SME sector in
CAR still requires substantial direct assistance in acquiring simple
business management tools, understanding basic bookkeeping and cash flow
techniques, improving work methods and productivity as well as access to
institutional credit; and (b) the project includes provision for future



_ 19 -
technical aseistance needs, to be identified as the project develops,
including the extension of contracts for mome of the expatriate experts in
the third and fourth years of operation.
2.21     The technical assistance complements other ongoing IDA and TA
programs. In particular, the project would strengthen and extend
institutional support to MHCIPME under the Economic Management Project in
key areas of pollcy formulation and management such as a more responsive
enabling environment, entrepreneurship development, organization of
training programs, and Lmplementation of studies relevant to private sector
activities. Also, the project would complement UNDP/ILO support to CAPMEA
by providing urgently needed assistance in financial analysis and
management.
P. Trainina Proram (US80.9 million)
2.22      Training activities under the proposed project would focus on
(a) development of project evaluation capacity wlthin the PU, the banking
sector, CAPHEA, CCIA, and MCIPMEt and (b) training in elementary business
and management for micro and SME project beneficiaries. Training programs
would also cover environmental issues including occupational health and
safety standards. The DDIA will coordinate the needs, identification,
program development, and recruitment of trainers, and implementation
arrangements. CAPHEA will be the principal executing organization, but
other local entities active in training, such as the National Professional
Training Center (ONIFOP), will also help implement the training programs.
Specific training proposals would be submitted to DDIA for review and
coordination, and approved for funding on an individual basis by the
Government with the concurrence of IDA. The program will support the cost
of short-term consultants for training program design and implementation to
include trainers fees, logistical support and 50S of incremental operating
costs of executing agencies. This approach will allow for a flexible
response to training needs as they arise during project life. Token fees
would be charged to private sector beneficiaries to make programs more
responsible to needs, and to increase the motivation of participants. A
higher fee scale will apply for trainees who are staff of PFIs.
2.23     It is anticipated that a training program in project evaluation
for medium term credits will be organized in Bangui during the first year
of project implementation for analysts of implementing agencies, NGOs, and
participating financial institutions. Provision has also been made for a
similar program during later years of the project if the need arises.
Training programs for project beneficiaries will be more frequent and
flexibility in response to perceived needs will be essential. Mindful of
the poor return to formal classroom training for owners and staff of small
enterprises, training methods include more effective systems combining
training and visiting. Training program content will be further elaborated
during project implementation through discussions among DDIA, VITA, CAPHEA,
and other promotion agencies. Monitoring and evaluation will be carried
out throughout project life to assess short- and longer-term impact on sub-
projects. Emphasis will be maintained on beneficiary feedback to ensure
the relevance of training programs.



- 20 -
B. Studles Proaram (US80.7 mAillio)
2.24     Support will be provided to identify and carry out studies
relevant to enterprise development and business environment, and to
facilitate project implementation. Topics tentatively identified include:
(a) CAPMEA organization to evolve into a private and financially autonomous
operation; (b) improvements in the legal system particularly in the area of
enforcement of loan repaymentsl (c) feasibility of a credlt guarantee fund;
(d) environmental assessment reportsg and (e) preparation study for a
possible follow-up ME project. The definition and justification of the
studies to be financed under the project will be prepared by DDIA in close
collaboration with the implementing agencies concerned. Included in the
studies component will be funds to support the external audits of the
project implementing units and the SpeciAl Account. Each funding request
will be reviewed by DDIA and approved by the Government, with the
concurrence of IDA. Assurances have been obtained on a timetable for the
execution of the studies, the review of results with IDA, and the
Implementation of recommendations agreed upon with IDA.
R. Prolect Cost and Financing
2.25     Total project cost is estima%.ed at US$15.2 million.  Of this
total, an estimated US$7.7 million will be channelled through the apex
operation; US$3.4 million through the pilot micro-enterprise program;
US$2.5 million will be for technical assistance, US$0.9 million for
training, and US$0.7 million for studies. The proposed IDA credit of
US$11.3 million would cover 74Z of total project cost, and all direct
foreign exchange expenditure, the total of wIich is estimated at US$9.9
million. The remainder of total project cost, US$3.9 million or 26Z would
be financed by sub-borrowers, participating financing institutions and the
Government. Costs for local staff salaries, office space and 50 percent of
incremental operating costs of the technical assistance and training
components will be borne by the Government. A summary of the project cost
and its anticipated financing is given in the following tables



- 21 -
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs*                             ----- US$ million equivalent ---
Local       Foreign      Total   2 of Total
Subproject financing (Investments)           2.4           5.3        7.7         51
ME promotion program                         1.8           1.6        3.4         22
Technical assistance                         0.7           1.8        2.5         16
Training                                     0.3           0.6        0.9          6
Studies                                      0.1           0.6        0.7          5
Total Costs                            5.3          9.9        15.2       100
* net of taxes
Financing Plan
IDA                                          1.4           9.9       11.3       74
Subborrowers                                 2.4            --        2.4       16
Participating financial institutions         0.9            --        0.9        6
Government                                   0.6            --        0.6        4
Total Financing                        5.3          9.9        15.2     100
--                        -        -
I. Project Implementation
2.26     As indicated earlier, the Central Bank (BEAC), through the Project
Unit (PU), would administer on behalf of the Government the apex credit
component to be implemented by eligible PFIs. VITA would continue to
implement the ME development program under a management agreement with
Government. The DDIA in MFCIPME would be the coordinating and managing
agency for the technical assistance, training, and studies components. A
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) within the Ministry of Economics,
Planning, Statistics and International Cooperation (Ministere de
l'Economie, du Plan, des Statistiques et de la Cooperation Internationales;
MEPSCI) would ensure overall project coordination. The Committee will be
headed by the Minister of MEPSCI, and will include reprenentatives of all
implementing and promotion agencies participating in the project. An
official, to be nominated by the Minister as chairperson of thie PCC, will
serve as Executive Secretary. Establishment of the PCC is a condition of
credit effectiveness.
2.27     Environmental Assessment.  Appraisal of subprojects by
participating financial institutions would include an assessment of any
significant environmental impacts using, whenever appropriate, the Bank's
Industrial Guidelines (para 2.08). The studies component of the proposed
project could provide funding for environmental assessment reports as
needed. Training programs would also cover environmental issues, including
occupation health and safety (para. 2.22).



- 22 -
J. Procurement
2.28     Procurement for sub-projects financed under the investment
component of the Credit would generally be made on the basis of current
procurement procedures of the participating financial institutions which
require quotations from three different suppliers. These procedures have
been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA. Procedures of future, not yet
existing financial institutions, who wish to participate would be reviewed
prior to their signing a participation agreement. Contracts for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$0.75 million or more would be
required to be awarded through International Competitive Bidding, in
accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines. Procurement of ME sub-loans
and operating expenditures of the ME development program would be made in
accordance with standard commercial practices in the CAR, which are
acceptable to IDA. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, and furniture would
be made on the basis of at least 3 quotations from reputable suppliers
eligible under IDA guidelines. If possible, quotations from eligible
suppliers from at least two countries that are eligible under IDA
guidelines would be sought. Whenever possible, purchase of equipment,
vehicles and furniture would be grouped in lots equal or over US$30,000
equivalent and procured through local competitive bidding. Selection of
consultants would be made in accordance with Bank Grotto Guidelines. Two
long-term and possibly some short-term consultants are expected to be
recruited on the basis of shortlisting. The qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment of all specialists would be
satisfactory to IDA. The table below summarizes procurement methodss



- 23 -
PROCUREMENT METHOD
Procurement element                   -Procurement Me,thod             Total
ICB         LCB       Other
--------(U$million)-----------------------
Apex subloans                                                7.7       7.7
(5.0)aI (5.0)&l
Micro-enterprise (ME)                                        0.8       0.8
subloans                                                  (0.4)a/  (0.4)a/
Management services                                          1.7       1.7
for the ME program                                        (l.7)b/  (1.7)b/
Consultant services,                                         2.3       2.3
technical assistance, and training                        (2.0)c/  (2.0)el
Incremental operating costs                                  1.0       1.0
(0.5)    (0.5)
Equipment and vehicles                            0.4        0.2       0.6
(0.4)     (0.2)d/  (0.6)d/
SPPF/PPF refinancing                                         1.1      1.1
(1.1)    (1.1)
Total                                        0.4       14.8     15.2
(0.4)    (10.9)   (11.3)
7~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -   _m
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Standard commerclal practice; contracts for goods exceeding US$0.75
million equivalent would require ICB. The appraisal mission did not
identify any subproject qualLfying for ICB.
b/ NGO VITA.
cl In accordance with IDA guidelines.
d/ Three quotations.



- 24 -
K. Disbursement
2.29     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as
follows: (a) 100 percent of expenditures of apex sub-loans subject to a
maximum of 85 percent of total sub-project cost; (b) 100 percent of
expenditures of ME sub-loans up to 75 percent of total sub-project cost
and 100 percent of operating cost of the ME component; (c) 100 percent
of expenditures for vehicles and equipment; (d) 100 percent of the costs
of consultant services, training, and studies; and (e) lOOZ of eligible
operating expenditures of PU, DDIA, CAPMEA, and other training agencies
(office running costs and supplies, spare parts, fuel, maintenance and
travel), accounting for 50 percent of incremental operating costs.
2.30     All disbursements would be fully documented except payments
against contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent, which would be made
against statement of expenditures (SOEs); this documentation would be
made available to IDA supervision missions and independent auditors. To
expedite disbursement of funds, a Special Account would be set up at
BEAC into which IDA would make an initial deposit of US$0.5 million from
the proposed credit immediately after credit effectiveness.
Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted
on a quarterly basis. The Special Account would be audited annually by
independent auditors and the audit reports would be submitted to IDA
within three months of the end of the fiscal year.
2.31     The project disbursement schedule is based on the relevant
disbursement profile for similar projects in Africa. Funds under the
credit component would be available for commitment until June 30, 1997
and the closing date would be set at December 31, 1998. The estimated
disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 5 and summarized below.
Estimated Disbursements                  FY (USS million equivalent)
1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
Annual                     1.2a/ 0.8   2.2   2.2   2.3   1.6   0.7   0.3
Cumulative                 1.2   2.0   4.2   6.4   8.7  10.3  11.0  11.3
a/ Includes SPPF and PPF refinancing totalling US$1,096,000.



- 25 -
L. Reporta and Audits
2.32     The DDIA, PU and VITA will have their project accounts, as well
as the Special Account and SOEs audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and will furnish to IDA certified copies of their
audited accounts together with the corresponding management letter
within three months of the end oi the fiscal year. The PFIs will submit
their audited financial statements to the PU (para 2.05). The DDIA, PU,
and VITA will submit to IDA quarterly and annual progress reports
including financial and budgetary accounts on the project components
concerned. The PU and the DDIA together will prepare a Project
Completion Report within six months after the closing date of the
project.
2.33     IDA Supervision.  During appraisal, discussions were held with
potential implementing agencies to familiarize them with IDA's
supervision of the project. Nonetheless, the first private sector
developmentlapex operation in the country will still require close IDA
supervision, particularly during the first three years. At
negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that a Mid-Term
Review be carried out in consultation with IDA in early 1994 to assess
progress and the status of project implementation and, if necessary, to
make appropriate adjustments to ensure that the original objectives are
achieved.  It is estimated  that about 15 staff weeks per year of IDA
supervision would be required during implementation of the project.
Expected skill requirements would include expertise in banking and other
financial sector operations, private sector development, institutional
capacity building and training. The Resident Mission is expected to
assume an increasing role in supervision activities.
III. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
3.01     Benefits.  The proposed operation represents IDA's first
private sector development project in the country and is expected to
provide sustainable socio-economic benefits. It will help revitalize
the private sector and support trade liberalization and retrenchment of
the Government from the productive sectors, which forms the core of the
country's adjustment and growth. An improved policy environment,
combined with greater access to term financing for business should
ensure a supply response by the private sector, improve the operating
efficiency of firms and in the process promote economic growth. The
project would help exploit domestic entrepreneurial potential and help
mitigate the adverse social effects of structural adjustment on poverty
through the generation of employment and income in both the formal and
informal sectors. The project will stimulate entrepreneurship at the
grassroots level with special emphasis on women.  Finally, the project
would support the ongoing financial sector reform aimed at further
liberalizing the regulatory environment and bringing monetary policies
including interest rates more in line with market conditions. A more
competitive end responsive financial system will help improve resource
mobilization and allocation.



- 26 -
9.02     Rlk    Potential rliks of the first apex operation ln the
country liclude the poseLble reluctance of banks to extend term
financing that may result In slower than antLelpated dLsbursements. The
Government may have diffLeulty in sustaining the instLtutLonal and
regulatory changes necessary for effectlve project implementatLon.
Increased cooperatLon between the Government and the busLness community
may not materialise as antieLpated on lnvestment promotLon. These risks
have been minLmiLed through project deign, Including adequate lendLig
margins for Pfle and inutLtutLon-buLlding measures for project
management and training.
SV. AGNDIS MiD ANCDSIJDATIOU
4.01     During negotiations, the following agreements were reached wLth
the Governments
(a)   Apex credlt lines
Ci)     lendLng terms and condLtions to Pils (p5ra. 2.10)s
(i)    terms and conditions for on-lending the apex credit to
sub-borrowers lncluding the economlc and financial
analysLs of sub-projects (paras. 2.0712.08);
(LLL)   annual reviLw of the lending terms including interest
rate structure (para. 2.10);
(b)   ME programs
(lv)    arrangement for the micro-enterprLse development
program includLag menagement agreement between the
Government and VITA under terms and condltlons
satLsfactory to IDA (para. 2.16);
(v)     annual revlew of lending terms and operations programs
of ME component ((para. 2.17);
(c)   Generals
(vi)    technical assistance arrangements and training and
studies programs (paras. 2.18-2.24);
(vii)   procurement arrangements (para. 2.28);
(viii)  auditing and reportlng arrangements (para. 2.32);
(ix)    Mld-Term Revlew of project progress (para. 2.33);
(x)     annual assessment of the impact of Government policies
lncluding legislatlon on the SME development program
and the overall Livestment climate and LuLtiating of



- 27 -
correctlve measures as appropriate in consultation with
IDA (para. 1.09); and
(xi)    coverage of shortfall in CAPMEA's operating budget
through adequate Government budgetary appropriations
(para. 1.19).
4.02     Condition of Effectiveness
Establishment of a Project Coordinating Comnittee (para. 2.26);
4.03     Conditions of Disbursement
(a)   the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between BEAC and
the PFI is a special condition of disbursement to each PFI
(para. 2.05);
(b)   approval of PU's statement of operational policies and
procedures by BEAC and IDA, and the recruitment of the banking
expert, subject to IDA approval, and the establishment of the
PU with staff whose qualifications and professional experience
are satisfactory to IDA, is a special condition of disbursement
of the apex component (para. 2.04);
(c)   the signing of the Protocol of Cooperation between the
Government and BEAC with terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA is a special condition of disbursement of the apex
component (para. 2.04); and
Cd)   the recruitment of an enterprise development specialist for
DDIA, subject to IDA approval, and the designation of a
counterpart with qualifications and professional experience
satisfactory to IDA, is a special condition of disbursement of
the technical assistance, training, and studies components
(para. 2.18).
4.04     With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$11.3 million equivalent to the
Central African Republic.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MICRO-ENTERPRISE (ME) DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Introduction
1.          During identification and preparation of the ERDP, the
Government considered the establishment of a micro-enterprise (ME)
development program to respond to high priority needs of the economy
through the generation of employment, income and entrepreneurship
development in the lower income groups at grassroots level. Although
several of nongovernmental organizations of varying national origin and
means of support operate in the CAR, NGOs in the past have not been
active in SME development. Most NGOs have been involved in social
sector activities in rural areas. Therefore, the Government, in
collaboration with IDA, conducted a detailed review of NGOs operating in
the country, based, in part, on the findings of a Bank NGO
reconnaissance mission conducted in 1987 and 1988 (K Martin ONGO
Mission to Central African Republic,' July 1988). Also, preliminary
contacts with NGOs active in other francophone African countries had
been established for consideration as possible implementing agencies.
In addition, sociological field studies were carried out during project
preparation work of the ERDP to identify ME targets groups and an EGO
willing and capable of providing effective support for the ME
grouping(s) in terms ofs (a) loan processing (simple subproject
evaluation, investment follow-up); (b) financial management
(disbursements, repayments); and (c) business advisory services to
ensure effective ME subproject implementation. These studies, funded
out of the Danish Consultant Trust Fund, confirmed that prima facie
Volunteers in Technical Assistance (VITA), a US-based-NGO, would be a
suitable NGO to carry out the development program (M. Naur, Development
Consulting Denmark, 'The Design of a Pilot Micro Enterprise for the
Central African Republic,' July 1989; report is available in Project
File; Annex 3).
2.            The pilot micro-enterprise development program managed by
VITA is the first direct involvement of NGOs in private sector
development. VITA's previous achievements include the implementation of
a US-AID-funded Post Harvest Food System Project in Northwestern CAR.
VITA
3.            VITA is a private, non-profit, voluntary organization
established in 1959. It is incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia
and registered as 501(c)(3) with the US Internal Revenue Service as a
Private Voluntary Organization (PVO). It has extensive experience in
Africa and in CAR in particular. It is its first private sector
development assignment in CAR, although it has carried out such work



ANEX 1
Page 2 of 4
elsewhere. It derives its income from government, foundation, and
corporate contracts and grants; fees for services; and individual
contributions. A list of the members of its Board of Directors, audited
financial statements of December 31, 1988 and 1989, and the Independent
Auditors' Report dated April 27, 1990 are available in the Project File
(Annex 3).
4.          Funding for the establishment and initial operation of the
pilot program was obtained through an SPPF of US$216,000 in July 1989
(exchange of letters dated June 6, 1989 and July 6, 1989). VITA
submitted a detailed project proposal with a draft contract to the
Government in October 1989. The Government reviewed the proposal and
the Minister of Finance confirmed in his letter dated November 24, 1989
the selection of VITA as the appropriate NGO/executing agency. In
December 1989, the Government and VITA signed a contract -- with the
concurrence by IDA -- to develop and carry out the pilot ME development
scheme. VITA's project proposal and the Government-VITA contract are
available in the Project File (Annex 3).
5.          VITA, with the assistance of a US Consultant Trust Fund-
financed expert with specialized expertise in ME schemes in Africa,
elaborated a comprehensive promotion program that was approved by the
Government (C. Mock, "Pilot Micro Enterprise Development Projects Final
Project Design and Initial Operational Decisions" May 1990; report is
available in Project File (Annex 3). Successful experience with the
initial experimental phase of the ME program prompted the government to
request an extension of VITA's activities through a PPF that was
approved by exchange of letters dated July 16, 1990 and July 26, 1990.
On that basis, and with concurrence from IDA, the Government and VITA
signed a contract extension on September 12, 1990 amounting to
US$232,000 for operating expenditures, US$30,000 for additional funding
of the (revolving ME) line of credit, and US$48,000 for necessary
project equipment (contract extension is available in Project File
(Annex 3)). Another PPF was approved by exchanges of letters dated
March 25, 1991 and March 28, 1991 earmarking US$340,000.
The Component
6.          To continue to provide an effective and integrated package
of credit and support services to micro-enterprises, a special ME
development program is included in the project. Satisfactory experience
with the program confirms that an extension is warranted. The proposed
program is designed to provide reasonably priced, timely business credit
to capable entrepreneurs who do not have access to such financing
through banking channels, nor personal wealth. The geographical
coverage of the pilot ME scheme was initially confined to Bangui. The
proposed extension of the scheme would also cover MEs in the Bossangoa
area, where VITA has already been active, and in Bambari. Preliminary
sociological and economic field studies suggest that good potential for



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
micro-enterprise development and adequate infrastructure exist in these
two major provincial towns and neighboring rural areas. VITA will
continue to implement the ME program in collaboration with US Peace
Corps and Canadian OCSD Volunteers as appropriate under a management
agreement between the Government and VITA with terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
7.          The ME component would provide investment credit and working
capital, as well as technical and management support services to viable
MEs in all productive sectors. At the beginning of March 1991, some 700
applications had been processed and 380 credits totalling CPAP 42
million were extended, of which 662 went to women entrepreneurs.
Supported activities included food processing and distribution,
livestock, woodworking, transport, tailoring, and handicrafts. Loan
collection so far has been excellent, ith 99X of amounts due recovered.
The Government would conclude contractual arrangements satisfactory to
IDA under which VITA would contihue to provide institutional support,
and technical and managerial advisory services and would make US$0.5
million available for on-lending to MEs on market-based terms and
conditions. The credit risk would be borne by the Government. VITA
would return to the Government at the time of the termination of the
program the amount of US$0.5 million plus interest earned minus losses
from credit operations. It is estimated that during the life of the
project, the program would provide credit to MEs amounting to some
US$3.1 million equivalent that would generate total investment by micro-
entrepreneurs of about US$4.0 million.
8.          The proposed extended ME program in three areas of the
country would require the following estimated development outlays over
an implementation period of about 5 years:
---- US$ million equivalent ---
Total     SPPFIPPF
Program    Funding      Balance
- Lending                            0.5b/       0.1          0.4
(revolving line
of credit)b/
- Equipment, vehicles                0.3         0.2          0.1
- Staff cost, travel,                1.2         0.3          0.9
- Other operational                  0.9         0.2          0.7
expenditures, incl.
commanications, maintenance
Total a/                           2.9a/       0.8S/        2.1a/
at=_=
a/ Incl. physical and price contingencies.
bi Estimated aggregate credit volume of US$3.1 million expected to
generate a total investment by MEs of approximately US$4.0
million equivalent.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
9.          The pilot ME component, while still in an early stage of
implementation, has considerable potential for entrepreneurship
development and employment generation at the grassroots level. A
substantial portion of the operating outlays constitute extension
activities. With relatively low operating costs, the program is
expected to achieve progressively higher self-generated revenues, and
hence higher cost recovery. Lending terms and conditions and the
operations program of the scheme will be reviewed annually to maintain
an effective assistance program. Increased local participation in
project management to achieve longer-term sustainability will be
examined in the Mid-Term Review. Future activities may include
extension of the geograpilical coverage, the introduction of a savings
component, and increased integration of the ME scheme into formal
financial sector activities. Subject to satisfactory results of the
Mid-Term Review, a preparation study for a follow-up operation could be
funded under the studies component.
10.         Based on the genesis and development of, as well as
satisfactory experience with, the pilot program, the Government has
opted for a single-source selection in continuing the ongoing ME program
which is appropriate because: (a) the proposed tasks are a natural
continuation of previous work carried out by the NGO; (b) the NGO has
unique qualifications considering country and sector-specific
requirements; (c) the NGO has gained particular experience through past
work in the country; and (d) a valuable Government-NGO relationship
exists.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CAR - Medium and Long-Term Credit Outstanding by Sector
(in million CFAF)
December 1986-December 1989
Sector                          Dec. 86    Dec. 87    Dec. 88    Dec. 89
Agriculture                           45         73        109         144
Food Processing                     278         231        787         690
Textiles                               -          -          -         315
Wood                                 341        737        483          92
Mechanical & Electrical                -          7           4         23
Chemicals & Paint                      -          -          -           -
Paper                                 10          5                      -
Other Industries                       -          -          -          17
Construction and
Public work enterprises            20          73         70          45
Sub-Total Industry            649       1053        1344       1182
Tradesdomestic                      386         777       1000        1328
Tradesexport                        286         352        380        1394
Sub-Total Trade               672       1129        1380       2722
Water/Electricity                      -         75         25           -
Transport                           177          91        131         120
Hotels/Restaurants                   144        160        156         181
Other Services                        49        181        139         124
Sub-Total Services            370        507         451        425
Other private                      1319        2004       2080        2227
Not classified                       410         93        420         853
Total



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL APRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
ADB/ADF     Appraisal Report, Agricultural Line of Credit to BCAD,
August 1987
ADE, S.A.   "Diagnostic Financier de la Soci6t6 MOURA et GOUVEIA',
July/August 1990
CCC!        Lee prOts de la CCCE aux Initiatives Productrices de Base,
April 1988
CCIA        'Annuaire des Entreprises Industrielles et Comuerciales de
la Rdpublique Centrafricaine', 1989 Edition
Center for  Development Technology, Inc., 'Etude our les mesures
d'incitation aux investissoments", May 1987
CIFPB       "Etude du R6seau Financier en Rdpublique Centrafricain',
Nov. 1989 - Dec. 1990
IhAD        Bouca Rural Development Project, Appraisal Report, Annex 6s
Credit Agricole, August 1989
M4EPSCI/HAC 'Etude sur le secteur informel', March 1990
HEPSCI      "Annuaire de Statistiques Regionales 1988, June 1990
Mock, C.    "Pilot Microenterprise Development Project: Final Project
Design and Initial Operations Decisions", VITA, May 1990
Naur, M.    'Pilot Mlicroenterpr$se Scheme in the CAR for an Enterprise
Rehabilitation and Development Project', July 1989
VITA        Project documents on ME development program
(a) List of Board Members
(b) Audited financial statements 1988 and 1989
(c) Independent Auditors' Report, April 1990
(d)  Project proposal, October 1989
(e) Government-VITA contract, December 1989
(f) Government-VITA contract extension, September 1990



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
WORKING
DOCUMENTS   (a)  Draft subsidiary loan agreement
(b) Draft operational norms and procedures for PFIs
(c) Draft terms of reference of the PU
(d)  Draft terms of reference of banking expert in PU
(e) Draft terms of reference of enterprise development
expert in DDIA



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component
The technical assistance component comprises the following
subcomponents:
1.    Support to the Project Unit (PU) in the Central Bank (BEAC).
Technical assistance to PU necessary for the implementation of the apex
line of credit is presented in paras. 2.04 of the SAR.
2.    Assistance to DDIA.  Support to the MFCIPME will include the
following components: (a) an expatriate expert who will assist the DDIA
in developing the training programs for project participants and
beneficiaries, and for coordinating the studies component. The expert's
responsibilities will also include continued work in support of an
improved enabling environment for private sector activities and
initiatives. DDIA will work in close coordination with existing staff
in the MFCIPME. including the expert funded under the Economic
Management Project. Outline terms of reference for the DDIA expert are
available in the Project File (Annex 3); and (b) incremental operating
cost.
3.    Support to CAPMEA.  The proposed program envisions both short-term
assistance to upgrade existing analytical and advisory capacity and a
longer-term program which wou.d include study of institutional and
operational restructuring to be carried out under the studies
subcomponent. The support program would be closely coordinated with
assistance by UNDPJILO. Assistance to CAPMEA will include the following
components: (a) Financial analyst: A need exists in CAPMEA for a
financial analyst experienced in SME project preparation who is also
capable of training staff. To reduce costs and to begin a more non-
governmental orientation, it is contemplated to recruit an appropriate
professional through non-governmental organizations/volunteer agencies
active in the CAR (e.g. OCCSD, a Canadian-based NGO). The initial
contract period will be for two years with the possibility for extension
for another 2 years. The financial analyst would be a line operational
position reporting directly to the Director-General of CAPMEA; (b)
operational support to relieve CAPMEA's mobility constraints: CAPMEA
counselors have little means of independent transport which greatly
diminishes the incidence of client contact. Therefore, vehicles, in
addition to office equipment, are included; and (c) contributions of 50t
to CAPMEA's incremental operating costs related to project
implementation including training programs.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
IDA Semesters        By Semester    Cumulative       Cumulative Z
1992     I             l.la/          1.1                9.7
II             0.1            1.2              10.6
1993     I             0.4            1.6               14.1
II             0.4            2.0              17.7
1994     I              1.1            3.1              27.4
II             1.1             4.2              36.9
1995     I              1.1            5.3              46.9
II             1.1             6.4              56.6
1996     I              1.1            7.5              66.4
II             1.2            8.7               77.0
1997     I              0.8            9.5              84.1
II             0.8           10.3               91.1
1998      I              0.4           10.7              94.7
II             0.3           11.0               97.4
1999      I              0.3           11.3             100.0
a/ Includes SPPF and PPF refinancing totalling US$1,096,000.



;ER                                                                                                   .,.; - 2                                                                             CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
St            S U D A N           )    r A F R I C A           T                                 TREPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
C   D.                   U                                                                                                 TRANSPORTATION AND POPULATION DENSIT
3t C H A D                     SUDAN               /  9                ,>1.  5                                   45  :---:TRANSPORT ET DENSITE DE POPULATION
E R I A      X        {         9        .t t                               J              <      A;       /--                         wv                 S      f I         \,                                          DENSITY INHADITANTS PER s. .M
)  t-*--  <  N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rb,DENSLIE, HABITANr PAR Km.
/N'  tE 1s11 R ^ L/  7>                                <             . .    9                         gX,, f                        V ^; G i \   8                            R *oflE *I./    )L^: .j LESS n I  O 'MOINSDE 10
\  j'  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         (I~~~~~~~~~~~~RERAN ZONE POPULATION                                                                                 103
CENTRAL   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    N  (.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POPULATION URBAINE3.-0
AFRICAN   REPUBLIC              .-. .                                                                                                                                                                  5.1.7.0
CAMEROON                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.0+
Eongui                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAN SAS ROtOR \PARRC)PARnuiESI*    \ EtH .r4A orO 4 
ZAIRE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~      ~       R
ATONALI  OF                                   J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANDA  ~~~~~~~~ ~BAMFINGUI                          N                                                                                      MSYUESE
7iCONGO                                                                ES*ANDASOAUEED
NDELE  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ MR-~0~~DTDESI..r AD).EUS
\tt -DESROANC0ESECTES4
<   w     j  PEOPLE  S   REP   '                                                                                     SoURCE.essiEDONoE         iENToENEsAtDet^mPUt^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERERRDOSRBOUDAIE
.  I   *   >   <dj    /   o      50         loo       Iso        2D0       250        300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lC. IEIRE60.uuE
HkNT                                                                                                                                               DES MWWE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EAEMRES  S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POTIEDRTEUDOAE
AEROON  I                    .   D OF uTHECOIE
S  U D A N
BDZDLIIAIE;24
D ORO
-               M
-    ..  442                   4..            I          ~                  GU I (407,O/                                                                                                                                      A R
BER RER                                      doT I
SOURCE, BEASO ON GENERAL POPULATION CENSUS OF 1975.
PEOPLE'S    REP                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOURCE. RASEES SUR It- RECENSEMENT OENERAL DE LA POPULATION DE 7F75.
L-AME ROON                         /     OF  THE  CO(                                                                          KILOMETERSOP.  ,dEKMDEREDA. SDP                                                            W-ofT ThRSRORRADRMSEFD B RAmd RI-ft
F-DE CAEPSRE- TI, ddmeRRb-T .dmd M. Et D-P4-O AS..o -S, U.R do d. E
0               Igo               ISO             ~~~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200  .4ER. SOf EPE .151  TIh. RESEE B.A ad PM RheeIoANSE TRESES CS.SEES wO idgmoVED
MILE4
APRIL 1901



