Documnast Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
R-~dN&P-5502-CA
M4EHOfMDUM AND RECQRNDTIOV
OF THE
PIIESIDENT ~OF THE
0             ItiThNA2~~IONAX. vgOPl4Eq ASSOCUI                        --
TOTCTOR
ONA
PROPO$BD_CREIT Ot THlE ~OJ
£QU~AT~qTtous14MLX4
ATOTHXAn
xkylv~~60  2-



Currency Ipulvalut.
Currency UnLit    -       CPA Franc (CFAF)1l
US$ lO           -         FA 253
CPAF i x-Im I 'on   t-8$ 3,953
SDR1.0           -        US$ 1.200
US~ 1.0          -        SDi 0.833
FSdAL Y. --
r3 -             Jaary 1 -December 3i
-uc C .-    Baedes _Ntatas* I          e   -eee AtRe.ona1-
CAPNU'       Centre                             flovomitral  B  7  - -  .
.~~~ - ,, S   -   Centre d'Assis*tuiee aus *etit.es .............. et i(QeMe . & ......re......4s -  .
a~~~~~~                                         .-fo  s  { iXi4  r S)Wi;Y     'f-  
;D .A -irictiop                  pie-1D t- Industriel et Art$wis
- - (Dnctorateof 4tidstr41  nd Artise.aat Deve.o. ..t)
FCC  -   Pr~~jc*t  POrAU4  Cstta
-   PsrtIcifft1* 1 M.ica 1 fntiitut144
PU        Pxic3ctLA Unit ,sa
0~~N            -    m0 r4 ~edi2 -cI ;nT. p' ±
- r    -  -       ;rfl A  .   '   '   i;n  hb_ t 1 '   tt e
> <  ' ,, '_, .;{ _%- .'4  PtC t !r  '- - V t 5 ffi ffi
O_-'   ', .,,Q
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
' ' -r¢' ' 9 t - ' teZ ~~~~~~~ - P At >1 a . :~~~



FOR OFCmAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTRPRISE ReHA ILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowert               Government of the Central African Republic (CAR)
leneficiariess axisting or new enterprises In the private sector and
Institutions Including NGOs supporting private
enterprise development.
Amountt                 SDR 9.4 million (US$11.3 million equivalent).
Tomers                  Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity.
Relending Terms:        The apex line of credit will be channelled through
the Banque des Etats de lAfrique Centrals (lBAC) to
eligible participating financial institutions (PPMs)
at a reference interest rate of 72 p.a., which is the
average remuneration of term deposits. Subloans would
have maturities of up to 12 years Including grace
periods of up to three years and would initially have
an interest rate of 162 p.a. The exchange risk would
be borne by the Government. The lending terms and
conditions for PPI would be reviewed annually and
adjusted as appropriate.
Financing Plan                                    US$ million
I"A11.3
Subborrowers                                           2.4
Participating financial institutions                   0.9
Government                                             0.6
Total Financing                                       15.2
Rate of Returns n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 9411-CAR
bp:t IBRD 18095 RI
This document has a stited disuibution and may be used by ripints only In te peforsm '
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World lank authorlaion.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC.
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Central African Republic for the equivalent of
US$11.3 million on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to help
finance a project to support private mall, medium and micro-enterprises,
as well as technical assistance, training and studies to strengthen
institutions promoting private sector development. Part I of the document
discusses Central African Republic's development problems and prospects,
the key priorities of the reform program at the macroeconomic and sector
levels, and the Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part II of the document
describes the proposed credit.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Background
2.        The Central African Republic (CAR) is a landlocked country, the
size of France, in F  heart of the continent with an estimated population
of some 2.9 million in 1989. With a per-capita GNP of US$419 in 1990, it
belongs to the group of least developed countries. The primary sector,
including agriculture, forestry, and fisheries is the mainstay of the
economy. It accounted for 43 percent of GDP and 41 percent of commodity
exports in 1990 and is estimated to occupy four-fifths of the population.
Mining, manufacturing and utilities (13 percent), construction (2 percent),
and services (41 percent) account for the balance of GDP. Except for life
expectancy at birth which . 50 years is within the average for Sub-Saharan
Africa, the adult literacy tate of 40 percent and a primary enrollment
ratio of 66 percent, the human resource profile for the CAR is below
average for Sub-Saharan Africa.
3.        The CAR's landlocked position, difficult transportation
conditions, sparsely populated area, limited domestic market, and weak
human resource base are the principal constraints to developument of its
economy. Bottlenecks in the routes to the sea through the Congo
(river/rail) and through Cameroon (road/rail) substantially raise
production and inventory costs and reduce export competitiveness. Falling
real producer prices for cash crops, excessive state intervention in
virtually all economic activities, inefficient rural development agencies,
and rapidly deteriorating extension services and rural roads coupled with
adverse external factors led to a drop in agricultural production.
Moreover, unsound public investments, excessive expansion of the civil
service, creation of unviable public enterprises, and expensive borrowing
led in the late 1970s to major external and internal imbalances which were



- 2 -
financed through the accumulation of internal and external arrears. This
provoked substantial declines of both official aid and private foreign
investment, as donors and investors lost confidence in the economic
policies of the Central African Government.
The AdJustment Process
4.        Sustained attempts at moving away from the economic mismanagement
of the late 1970s, which had caused considerable social and economic
dislocation and international isolation, began only in 1982 when the
Government renewed efforts to promote economic recovery. Between 1982 and
1985 the IMP supported a stabilization program with three stand-by
arrangements. Since 1986 a sustained effort at lifting the structural
constraints to growth was initiated, and has been supported by two
structural adjustment credits (SCR 26.3 million SAL I in 1986, and SDR 28.9
million SAL II, in 1988), a US$10 million Technical Assistance II credit
(1985, restructured to support SAL I in 1986), and a US$13.2 million
Economic Management Project (IMP), approved in FY89. The African
Development Bank, the EC, and France, along with other bilateral donors.
have also provided substantial financial support to the CAR's adjustment
effort. In 1987 the IMF provided a 12-month stand-by arrangement and a
first tranche of a three-year arrangement under the Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAP); the second tranche was released in December 1988. A Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) was approved by the Executive Boards of the Fund and
the Bank in May 1990, at the same time as a third-year SAP program was
approved by the Executive Board of the Fund.
S.        Because financial imbalances were substantial, efforts focussed
on reducing the budget and current account deficits first. Through a tight
current expenditure control, the deficit and external current account
narrowed. In parallel to the reduction of these macroeconomic
disequilibria, the Government engaged in a deep structural change of the
economy through a series of measures aimed at a resumption of growth based
on comparative advantage, stimulation of private sector supply response
through the creation of an enabling environment and the retrenchment of the
public sector from commercial and industrial activities. Under both SAL I
and SAL It major structural reform measures were adopteds (i) the prices
and external and domestic trade regimes were l'beralized; (ii) stafflig
plans aere implemented for each Ministry and staff not retained were
encouraged to leave the civil service with a severance package; a wage
freeze in effect since 1982 was also maintained; (iii) the parapublic
sector was rationalized through liquidation or privatizations the number of
public enterprises has been reduced from 52 in 1986 to 35 in 1989. In
addition investment programiing was improved through the introduction of a
rolling three-year investment programmdng.
6.        An important medium-term objective of these macroeconomic and
structural measures was to allow resumption of growth with an Increase in
per capita consumption. However, growth performance was disappointings
Real gross domestic output grew by a mere 1.5 percent per annum In 1984-88,
rising to 2.6 percent only in 1989 compared with a target of 3.1 percent



- 3 -
per annum both under SAL II and the IMP three-year SAF arrangement. With
population growing at 2.6 percent a year, this led to a cumulative decline
in per capita income of around 4 percent over the same period. Overall
price stability was, however, achieved. Consumer prices were virtually
unchanged over the program period, a considerably better performance than
the annual 2.5 percent increase projected under the IMF program. Because of
weak domestic resource mobllization, the Government used expenditure
restraint as the main instrument to effect the fiscal adjustment over this
period. Current expenditure was contained at 13 percent of GDP while
public investment as a share of GDP fell by 4 percentage points from 1987
to 1989 (Table 1).
7.        Fiscal revenue performance weakened in 1989 due to a combination
of both unfavorable terms of trade and weak and unmotivated tax
administration.  The sharp drop in coffee and cotton export prices resulted
in lost Government revenues since export taxes on these commodities were
eliminated. Past efforts to raise revenues have led to continued increases
in tax rates, which in turn have encouraged tax evasion and a shift of
economic activity to the informal sector. Moreover, the slow
implementation of the fiscal reform measures under both SAL II and the 1KV
program coupled with the wesk tax administration led to a fall in the
fiscal tax ratio by one percent of GDP from 1987 to 1989. In spite of
this, the budget deficit (on a commitment basis and excluding grants) was
reduced from 15 percent of GDP in 1987 to 11.5 percent in 1989 thanks to
the strict control over Government spending.
8.        The reduction in the overall fiscal deficit was mirrored in CARes
external position. The current account deficit improved to 15 percent of
GDP in 1989 from 19 percent in 1987 largely as a result of exceptional
export levels for diamonds and coffee in 1989 and lower than projected
Import levels. The scheduled debt service ratio increased from 18 percent
in 1986 to 22 percent in 1989. In view of its heavy indebtedness and Its
adjustment efforts, CAR has been included in the list of debt distressed
low-income countries and is eligible for financing under the Special
Program of Assistance (SPA) and has from substantial debt relief from Paris
Club creditors.
9.        Despite the Government's strong commitment to the overall
adjustment program, implementation of reforms was much slower than
expected. Performance under both SAL I and SAL II showed the persistence
of some structural and institutional deficiencies. Part of the explanation
lies in its weak implementation capacity (and the heavy workload which
program implementation placed on it). This was particularly the case in
the area of civil service reform, restructuring of the major public
enterprises and the adoption of the three-year investment plan. This
resulted in a nine-month postponement of disbursement of the SAL II second
tranche. Moreover, Government preoccupation with short-term crisis
management in the face of unforeseen adverse exogenous factors further
slowed program implementation.



4 4-
10.       The Government's structural adjustment program has fallen short
with respect to ensuring a more fundamental improvement in efficiency and
performance of the civil service, over and above the short-term actions to
contain the wage bill and reduce excessive staff. While these weaknesses
diminish the efficiency of the administration, they have particularly
hampered efforts to strengthen the performance of core government servicess
macroeconomic management, investment programuing, project evaluation and
monitoring, Treasury operations, and customs and tax administration.
11.       Conscious of these institutional weaknesses, however, the
Government has initiated a number of Important measures to address them.
In 1988, it carried out, with IDA finmacing, a diagnostic analysis of the
institutional mandates, capacity constraints, and requirements of the
Ministry of Finance and the Planning Secretariat, which led to development
both of the reorganization and staffing plans for these Ministries, and a
three- year program of priority capacity-building measures. IDA, UND? and
France are supporting implementation of these measures through the Economic
Management Project (EMP) which aims at creating sustainable capacity for
economic policy formulation and management in the core Ministries *while
facilitating implementation of the adjustment program. However, delay in
starting the EMP contributed to the lack of progress in institution-
building under the SAL II program.
The SAL III Program 1990-92
12.       The Government has decided to continue its adjustment program
through a Third Structural Adjustment Program (SAL II), approved in June
1990. The program contains a series of structural reforms, following up on
reform measures initiated since 1986 and supporting a deepenLig of the
adjustment effort in macroeconomic management, civil service efficiency
improvement, public enterprise reform, promotion of private sector
activities, and policy reforms in the key agricultural and transport
sectors. The program places special emphasis on human resource development
and alleviation of the social costs of adjustument. The broad objective of
the program is to achieve an average real growth of about 3.5 percent per
annum.
13.       During 1990 real GDP growth vas negligible, due partly to lower
economic activity and social tensions by the end of 1990. The lower than
expected growth performance was the result of the weak performance of the
agricultural, mainly cash crops, and mining sectors. However, inflation,
as measured by the consumer price index, was close to zero.
14.       The objective for tax revenue was achieved, despite the difficult
economic environment, due to improved tax administration and a clear
political willingness to enforce collection of arrears from large
delinquent taxpayers. However, there was a marked shortfall in non-tax
revenues, as a result of non-distribution of dividends by the Common
Central Bank (BEAC) and non-payment by the Petroleum company of petroleum
tax to the stabilization fund. Current expenditures as a share of GDP was
2 percentage points in excess of program target due to failuxe of the



Government to control the wage bill, scholarships and special funds. Thus,
in spite of lower investment spending, the fiscal deficit (on a commitment
basis and excluding grants) exceeded the program objective (12 percent of
GDP agilnet 10.7 percent of GDP).
Selected Sconomic Indicators
1987      1980      1989       1990     1991
Est.    Pror.
GDP Growth Rate                -2.SS     2.92       2.61      0.72     2.61
GNP Growth Rate                -5.61     2.91       2.8S      0.61     2.7S
GNW/Cap. Growth Rate (US$)    -8.0S      0.31       0.2S     -1.92     O.1S
Flnal Cons./Cap. Growth Rate  -1.91      2.42      -1/52     -5.01     2.7S
Debt Service/XGs               19.51    27.61      22.41     21.21    18.11
Gross Investment/GD?           12.5    10.6X      10.31     10.2X    10.41
National Savings/GD?            8.01    13.1O       9.32      5.42      1.51
Government Revenues/GDP1/      19.22    22.3Z      20.12     18.32'   18.21
Governmeat ExpendituresIGD' 27.12    26.12         23.32     24.3Z    24.32
Budget balanee/GDP 1/          -7.91    -3.81      -3.32     -6.02    -6.12
Budget balance/GDP 2/          -15.02   -13.71    -11.51    -12?12  -11.21
Retail Price Index (1987-100)  100        96         97        96        98
Real Exchange Rate (1987-100)  100        84         73        87        98
Exports GUS Growth Rate        -7.71     -6.81      8.3S      9.01      -2.61-
(Constant prices)
Imports GUNS Growth Rate       -8.7S     -7.31    -1.91       3.62     10.02
(Constant prices)
Curr. Account (mill. US$)3W    -47.5    27.0    -11.1       -62.6    -129.5
Current Account/GDP g/          -4.5     2.51    -1.01      -4.81     -8.92
Current Account/GDP 4/         -19.02   -16.61   -15.21    -17.02    -17.02
1/ Including grants.
2/ Excluding grants.
3/ Including official transfers.
4/ Excluding official transfers.



15.       The fiscal deterioration wee reflected In the external position
In spit. of a alight reduction in imports. Thb current account deficit
(excluding public transfers) rose to 17 percent of GDP, compared vith the
program objective of 15 percent of GDP as a result of a marked fall In
export earnings (13 percent compared to a projected 2 percent). This
deterioration coupled with a shortfall In projected external assistance,
led to an accumulation of an important stock of external (US$36 milltio)
and interasl (US$57 million equivalent) arrears.
16.       Investment Plaina  Public Investment Programming (PIP) and
execution mproved significantly.  lb  adoption of the three-year rolling
nvestment programidng system helped the Government rationalize its
Investment expenditures with greater emphasis an rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing capital stock. The PIP remains, however, largely
financed and driven by donors' objectives and preferences, with limited
Government participation to channel donors' support within the overall
macroeconomic framework and sector strategies. In the transport sector,
closer Government and donor coordination has recently been established to
ensure that Investments fit the sector's strategy. For other sectors
Government has been slow in defiAing appropriate strategies to allow a
better match of donors' objectives with lts own. Moreover, Government's
capacity to link the investment program to the recurrent budget is still
weak.
17.       In parallel to its efforts aimed at restoring macroeconomic
balances, the Government took a number of structural measures agreed upon
under SAL III. In the agricultural sector, a rural development strategy
provides for a shift from the single-crop approach to extension and
research to a broader-based approach that takes better account of farmers'
actual production systems and needs.  It is being first introduced in the
cotton zone where SOCADA, the cotton area marketing and development agency
will be split into an industrial enterprise which will market and process
cotton, and an extension service agency covering the entire range of
farming activities. The new extension methodology will be tested in a
pilot area starting with the 1901-92 crop year. In parallel, a plan of
action will be formulated to restructure the coffee area development agency
(ADICAP), to introduce the national rural development strategy in the
country's second major agricultural zone.
18.       The adjustment program for the coffee and cotton sub-sectors has
reduced producer prices and intermediation margins for coffee by 40 percent
and 16 percent respectively for the 1989-90 campaign. The cotton sector
improved its financial performance by reducing intermediation costs, and
enhancing productivity, as a result of which production costs fell by about
one-third. A system of flexible producer pricing agreed upon under the
Cotton Sector Adjustment Program (Credit 1836-CA) and SAL I1 is being put
in place for coffee and cotton. Under this system a guaranteed floor price
is announced prior to the beginning of each crop year, and farmers receive
a support based on actual market developments. Implementation of this
system became necessary given the substantial decline in world market
prices for these crops and the tight Government budget constraint whLch



-7
necossitated a reduction In producer prices and the reduction of the
differential between producer prices and vorld market prices through a
reduction in operating costs of the parastatals to charge of marketing with
a vlow to privatizing their commrcial and Industrial activities. Under
both SAL I and II, the Government liberalized the marketing of all
agricultural and livestock products thus expanding the potential market for
food crop producers who responded favorably to the enhanced Incentive
environment.
19.       To stimulate privato sector activities, the Goverament initiated
a  eries of Institutional Incentives following Its disengagement from
Industrial end commrcial activity.  The measures Included improvent in
the investment climato through a rationalization of the lncentivos
framework. It promulgated a new investment code, revised road transport
taxes and commissLons, sbiplified the Institutional and regulatory
framework and abolished import licensing and quotas. An agency to promote
8KLs development, CAPMIA, was put in place and will be further strengthened
under the proposed project. In addition, prices were liberalized for all
but 8 essential comaodities. By mid 1991, the time of the SAL III second
trsnceh release, the prices of these products will all have been
liberalized with the exception of sugar which will remain governed by a
twinning system of imports to local production. Other measures include the
start-up of the *one-stop' Investment window and reorganisatice of the
Chamber of Commerce. Moreover, the Goveroment, with IDA's assistance
undertook a study of the constraints on credit availability to the private
sector with a view to initiating a process of strengthened financial sector
intermedition. The Government will adopt an action plan (SAL III second
tranche release condition), t'ie major elements of which are to restructure
the banking system and bring monetary and credit policies more In line with
market conditions, arA to further liberalize the regulatory environment.
Substantial progress has already been made in this area. BEAC, with the
support of IDA, has initiated a set of measures to reform its credit and
monetary policies and strengthen banking supervision for the union.
20.       In the area of public enterprise restructuring, the Government is
continuing its divestiture and restructuring program. Thirty-five
enterprises rem^in In the state portfolio (ten of which provide a public
*         service rather than engage In any co mercial or industrial activity).  Of
these, four are currently being put up for privatization and a number of
those remaining in the State portfolio will be operating through
performance contracts, the first of which was signed in December 1989 with
the electricity company. Based on experience gained in this field, the
Government undertook to enact a law by mid-1991 establishing the legal and
institutional framework that should guide relations between the parapublic
sector and itself. The Government will carry out a management audit of
Petroca, the petroleum company and a new legislation for petroleum
procurement, satisfactory to IDA, has been drafted. The recommendations of
the audit will be implemented under SAL III.
21.       Civil service roforms  Since the early 1980s, the Government has
been aware of the necessity to reform its over-staffed and largely



-8-
ineffective civil sorvice. Supported by SAL I and II, Important measures
vere taken to refora the administration. Results have been substantial,
especially considering the political sensitivity of the reform. Between
1987 and 1990 the total number of employees on the payroll was reduced by
over 3,000. Of these, 725 left under the early retirement program and 600
are awaiting a compnsation to leave the service. Overall, the net
reduction In budgeted positions Is oetiated at 1,700. Rowever, efforts
initially have concentrated on reducing the wage bill. Remedial medium-
tem measures to improve civil service performance through a clearly
defined personnel policy, career gad performance management and statutory
refoto are being undertaken under SAL III and the Economic Management
Project.
The Medium-Term Outlook
22.       Growth prospects are still limited for 1991-92 owing to falling
exports, f agile flscal situation and social tensions. Growth for 1991-92
may approximate population growth (2.6 percent) compared to 0.7 percent in
1990. Imports of goods and non-factor services are expected to increase in
real terms by 10 percent and 8 percent for both 1991 and 1992 owing to 4n
increase in investment-related imports, a result of an increase in the
investment to GDP ratio from 10 percent of GDP in 1990 to 12 percent in
1992. Exorts of goods and non-factor services are projected to fall in
1991 by 2.6 percent before recovering to 3 percent in 1992. As a result,
the external current account deficit (net of public transfers) would remain
high at 17 percent of GDP for both 1991 and 1992 before falling to 15
percent by 1995 as exports recover slowly while imports fall down on line
with GDP growth.
23.       On the budgetary front, the Goveroment will need to increase its
tax revenues ratio from 12 percent of GDP In 1990 to 14 percent of GOP by
1992 and contain current expenditure at 12.5 percent of GDP by 1992. The
revenue target should be attainabse in view of the fact that the tax and
custom administrations, fully ccmputerized. are in much better position to
assess tax liabilities and ensure collection and an import surveillance
company has been retained. Current expenditure restraint, however, is
going to represent a challenge in 1991. The Government accepted a package
with the trade unions for a wage increase estimated to cost ChAF 2.6
billion (12 percent over the wage bill target under SAL III). Assuming the
wage increase does not go beyond the CFAF 2.6 billioA, the fiscal deficit
mould also remain high at 11 percent of GDP in 1991 before falling to 10
percent in 1992.
24.       Given the poor growth prospects and the accumulation of internal
and external arrears, the CAR will still need substantial balance of
payments support and substantial debt relief in the coming years. During
1991-1995, CAR is projected to have balance of payments financing needs
averaging some US$ 300 million per year. Based on current trends, some US$
230 million of financing needs are expected to be covered by concessional
grants and loans. The resulting gap would have to be financed through debt
relief and extraordinary balance of payments support.



-9-
Central Development Issues
25.       In spite of the progress made to date In creating a favorable
enabling environment for a resumption of growth and its rich natural
resource endowments, CAR's current economic situation remains precarious
and the country faces several development constraints. These include the
budget and the balance of payments dependent on large concessional capital
inflows, deficient domestic resource mobilization, an extremely weak human
capital base and administrative capacity and poor physecal infrastructure.
26.       The adjustment process is taking place in an unusually dlfficult
exte.4al environment. The vulnerability of the economy Is accentuated by
its inability to diversify its exports. CAR still relies heavily on few
primary commodities (coffee, cotton, timber and diamonds), the price
fluctuations of which hit hard the economy, exacerbating the already tight
savings constraint. Solutions to the CAR's structural problems can thus be
achieved only gradually. Real growth over the medium-term will have to
come from new sources, notably the export of non-traditional crops, such as
foodstuffs and other crops ecologically suited to CAR and the export of
light manufactures. There is a favorable climate for the production of a
diversified range of food crops and livestock. The major part of the
country's natural resources potential has remained untapped due to high
transport costs, a relatively unskilled labor force, scanty infrastructure,
previously cumbersome regulations and credit limitations. The need to
generate higher rates of growth is a pre-requisite to improve the socio-
economic situation to absorb uew entrants into the labor force and reduce
existing unemployment especially among the urban graduates. Employment
opportunities in the modern sector have been declining throughout the 19808
due to the low economic growth and the restrictions on hiring in the civil
service. Although no reliable data are available, there appears to be a
sizable unemployment and underemployment particularly among the youths
especially now that the civil service is no longer the employer of last
resort. The problem of low growth prospects and under/unemployment of the
nation's youth has become one of the Government primary concerns.
27.       The export price shocks have severely undermined Government
efforts to improve internal and external imbalances. For 1991, the
prospects for growth are limited owing to a continued decline in exports.
The budget and the extet fl current account will therefore continue to rely
on foreign savings in the form of concessional loans and grants. The build-
up of arrears is having a negative effect on growth. In order to reduce
this negative impact, further concessional debt relief as well as
additional external assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors is
required. In the meantime, the Government has only the fiscal Instrument
at its disposal to strengthen macroeconomic, and especially financial
management. Expenditure control through proper expenditure and Treasury
accounting procedures should remain a priority. For this, now that both
customs and tax administrations are linked through an integrated
computerized system, the Government should show a strong resolve to ensure
that the systems are used fully and effectively.



- 10 -
28.       The CAR human resource base has been neglected.  Fiscal
restraint, the structural adjustment program, the lack of political will to
invest in human capital development and years of neglect have resulted In
the absence of any clear sectoral strategy and inadequate delivery of
health and educational services. The previous structural adjustment
programs have begun to correct this si.uation, in part by reducing the
share of wages in total budgetary expenditures. A strategy for education
has been agreed upon with IDA which aims at iaproving the quality and
efficiency of the primary education system, strengzhening management of the
sector with a focus on adequate funding for non-personnel expenditures.
The strategy for the health sector is under preparation. Its major
objective aims to improve the coverage of basic curative and preventive
health services, to rationalize human and financial resource utilizatlon in
the sector, and to improve regional participation in health service
planning and cost recovery.
29.       Under SAL III and in order to protect the gains already made in
the education and health sectors, special efforts are being made to protect
the funding of human resource development as public expenditure management
is reformed. Efficiency gains made within these sectors will be used to
improve and extend service delivery. In addition, given pressure from
population growth and the need to increase access to schooling and health
services, the share of the Government's budget allocated to essential
social services can be expected to increase over the medium term, with
consequent increases in personnel and infrastructure. Human resource
development will thereforel be privileged in terms of expenditure protection
and reallocation efforts, as well as essential investment programming.
30.       Associated with this, greater emphasis needs to be placed on
poverty alleviation. While policies pursued under previous SALs were
essential to restore internal and external balances, the social costs of
adjustment were not taken into account explicitly. The data necessary to
formulate social policies are inadequate, and the human capacity and
procedures to integrate social considerations into adjustment and
development policies are as yet absent. Recognising that the
sustainability of adjustment could be endangered by inadequate attention to
social dimensions of adjustment and development, the Government
incorporated into its Letter of Development Policy for SAL 1I1, a far-
reaching set of objectives in the areas of human resource development,
employment creation and support for the participation of underprivileged
groups. It will also build up the capability of carrying out a series of
important social policy studies using as a basis an extension system of
household surveys. This program is being supported by the forthcoming
Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project.
31.       The CAR also confronts a number of challenges on the
environmental front, such as deforestation and poaching. To strengthen
envLronmental protection, the Government, with IDA's assistance through the
%Ltural Resource Management Project (approved in May 1990), has undertaken
a program of policy and institutional reforms in the forestry and wildlife
sector, coupled with institutional strengthening of the Forestry N(nistry,



- 11 -
a forest inventory, an agro-forestry pilot sub-project, and a dense forest
integrated management sub-project that focusses on wildlife conservation.
In parallel, the Government has requested external assistance for the
preparation of a Tropical Forest Action Plan that aims at formulating a
national development strategy for the forestry and wildlife sector.
Bank GrouP Operations
The Composition of Past Bank LendinR
4          32.       As of March 31, 1991 23 IDA Credits have been approved to CAR,
totalling US$360 million equivalent. Of this, about US$205 million
equivalent was lent for investment in, and rehabilitation of, the
transport, education, energy, and agricultural sectors, and US$155 million
for structural adjustment, adjustment of the cotton sector, and for
technical assistance in support of economic management.  Total
disbursements are around US$240 million equivalent. Total commitments
during FY90-92 are expected to be in the order of US$191 million, as
compared to US$104 million in FY87-89. A US$62.0 million Transport Sector
Project, US$19.0 million Natural Resource Management Project, and a third
Structural Adjustment Program of US$45.0 million were approved during FY90.
Since 1986, the Bank's assistance strategy has emphasized polLey-based
lending. Its main thrust is to support the Government's adjustment efforts
through lending operations and focused economic and sector work. Four
fast-disbursing loans have been approveds SAL I in September 1986, a Cotton
Sector Adjustment Operation in July 1987, SAL II in June 1988, and SAL III
in June 1990.
33.       Given CAR's relatively weak administrative capacity and its lack
of trained manpower, technical assistance (TA) will continue to be needed
for the foreseeable future, though increasing emphasis needs to be given to
building local institutional capacities. TA projects approved in 1982 and
1985 began to build up project evaluation and planning units, and helped to
define policy reforms in the parastatal sector and in the civil service,
which were subsequently integrated into the adjustment programs. Howover,
management and administrative problem limited the development Impact of
these projects. Under the Economic Managewent Project, the Government
adopted a strategy for deployment of TA and strengthened coordination among
its financial partners through appropriate assistance and training, while
building local capacity in the key economlc management ministries.



- 1q 
Lending Program FY87-90
US$ Million
Board Date        Amount        Disbursed
Adiustment Operations
SAL 1                            09109186           30.00          33.55
Cotton Sector Adjustment         07/07187           15.00          15.37
SAL II                           06109188           40.00          38.09
SAL III                          06121190           45.00          31.89
Energy
Energy                           01110189           18.00          12.73
Rural
Natural Resource Management      05122190           19.00           3.28
Transport
Transport Sector                 04/24/90           62.00           7.39
social Sector
Education Rehab. & Development .12115/87            18.00           6.02
Public Sector Management
Economic Management              12/13188           13.20           4.44
Country Lending Strategy and Priorities
34.       The Bank's priority In the Central African Republic has been to
establish equitable and sustainable income growth. Policy dialogue has
focused on reestablishing macroeconomic equilibria through structural
adjustment, investment In human resource development and sectoral
operations. In addition to. poley -dialogue and advice, the Bank has
actively promoted aid coordination and been very-active in gathering
additional support for the country through the Special Program for Africa
and organizing and leading donors' meetings. The Bank's assistance
strategy over 1Y91-1Y96 will continue to emphasize (i) policy-based lending
to support macroeconomic adjustmeat and improved public sector management;
and (ii) development of.the Central African Republic *s long-term
development potential, particularly human.resources, infrastructure,
environment and poverty alleviation.
35.       The.Central African Republic,faces major constraints to achieving
these objectives-. .Some of the key.-constraints to growth.are being
addressed through structural adjustment, namely--budgetary and fiscal
management and the development of a rational public investment program
which takes into account thebcountry's absorptive capacity. Nonetheless,
the CAR's efforts at removing these key constraints will continue to be
hampered for years to come by weak institutions and a largely unskilled



. 13
humn resource base. However, Government coautment to reform I  strong
and La reflected In the quality of policy dialogue wlth IDA.
36.       SD expects to put ln place a program to assist the Government in
addressing the Central African Republic'* key development constraints.
This assistance strategy will consist of a base case program of
institution-building projects, high priority iAvestment projects and a
self-standiag social dimenslons of adjustment program which address long-
term development lssuse, and which will serve to complement the
macroecoaomcL and aectoral pollcy measures, adopted in the context of the
Government's structural adjustment program. The lending program FY91-MY94
would consist of two credlts a year (FY91), and will increase to three
credits a year (MY92-FY94), amounting to a total investment of about US$190
millon. Thli program willainclude instLtution-buLldLag and investment
operations which will aim at building up agricultural services and
improving the management of forestry resources through the definitLon and
implementation of a forest uMnagement plan based on sound conservation
principles; sector programs focusing on overall sector lnaettuent,
instltutlonal strengthening, and priority recurrent expendltures5 and
social sector programs to develop basic soclal servlces, Improve investment
and expendLture patterns In health and education, strengthen statistical
capaclty for soclal data collectlon and analysis, and priorLty actlons for
vulnerable groups, aimed at addressing the social costs of adjustment.
37.       The proposed operations will assist the Government translate
policy dialogue into meaningful reforms. In industry, SAL efforts to
strengthen private sector activity and domestic financial intermediation
will be complemented by the promotion of private enterprise creatlon. The
proposed Enterprise Rehabilitation and Development Project (FY91) aIms at
promoting and financing private enterprises to increase output, employment,
and income in both the formal and informal sectors. The project iacludes
an innovatlve pilot miero-enterprise promotion program which is already
being implemented, and places emphasi on providing assistance to women
entrepreneurs. The social dimensions of adjustment and development project
(FY91) would support the GoverAment's efforts to integrate the social
dimensions into its adjustment and development policies and to develop
appropriate social sector strategies through the establishment of an
institutional system for soclo-economic policy formulation and
coordination.
38.       Additional support would be provided through investment
operations in key sectors. In agrLculture, efforts will be made to build
up key credit and extenslon services and improve forest managemant through
the proposed Agricultural Institutions (FY92), Rural Development and
National Livestock (PY93R) projectss in health, sector strategy and
critical primary service delivery systems wlll be strengthened and
improvement will be made in central management, prganiLation and regource
allocation through the proposed Health Sector project (FY92); in
infrastructure, provision will be made for a sound framework for urbanh
development and decentralizatlon, and measures will be taken to alleviate
CAR's isolation through substantial strengtheniag of the telecommunications



- 14 -
sector through the proposed Municipal Development project (PY93R), and the
TSleccmuanlcations project (MYA)s in education, IDA will continue to
support the Government's efforts to reorient its education strategy toward
a more effective response to the nation's real manpower needs through the
Education IV project (FY94)t and, In eners, a second energy project Is
tentatively planned for PY92 which will address structural :mpediments to
ensure efficient and cost-effective delivery of power In the country.
39.      A follow-up operation to SaL ISI is planned in Y93 to assist the
Central African Republic to complet its program of structural adjustment
provided both the Bank and the Fund are satisfied with the overall
aacroeconamic and financial perforxmace. Moreover, this operation will be
prepared in coordination with other donors in the contest of the Special
Program for Assistance to Debt-Distressed Countries.
Aid Coordination
40.       The Central African Republic receives assistance from a large
number of donors, who provide both Investment and policy-based support In
the form of credits and grants. The Government's weak administrative
capacity implies that the responsibility for assuring that foreign aid is
allocated to priority areas and avoiding duplication of efforts will lie
mainly with the donors. The Bank has taken the lead in mobilizing donors'
support to CAR, notably by co-chairing the 1987 and 1990 Donors' Round
Tables on agricultural and transport sector strategies respectively. The
lank has also co-chaired the recent Geneva Donors' Round Table to mobilize
extraordinary balance of payments support to the CAR in view of the
financial difficulties it encountered in 1990 and the lower than expected
external assistance under the special Program of Assistance (SPA).
Although aid coordination has greatly mproved in recent years, greater
efforts need to be made to ensure that assistance to the country is not
donor-driven but addresses the country's priority development needs,
Recent agreement to hold sectoral meetings and hold consultations among
donors are steps in the right direction.
Coordination with the IMF
41.       The Bank and the IKM  have worked in close collaboration In the
preparation and design of the structural adjustment program and the
medium-term macroeconomic and financial strategy. To this end. IDA joined
in the IMF negotiations with the authorities in March 1990 of a PFP and a
third-year SAY covering the period 1990-92. Discussions on the possibility
of an IMP program of assistance to the Central African Republic are
currently still going on.
Criteria for Evaluating Progress
42.       T.e Government's abillity to achieve its medium-term objectlves of
sustainable growth with equity will be tested over the years up to 1995.
Critical to the achievements of this objective is Government's ability to
resolve the short-term liquidity crisis and in the near-term reduce the



. 1S a
budget deficit to levels that can be fin nced In the absence of
extraordinary budgetary and balance of payments support. improved Internal
resouree mobilliation and expenditure control will remain the hallmark of
mediu-term macroeconomic policy. Of crucial importance to the overall
level of Government expenditure is its composltion. The Government has In
the past found it easier to cut investment spending. Investment levels are
at too low a level to induce the required growth and therefore the
Goveronmet ill need to increase it over the medium-term. This will In
tur  mply that expenditure control will have to be exercised particularly
rigorously on current expenditure through proper expenditure and Treasury
accounting procedures and providing for the-urgent clearing cf arrears.
43.        In the area of structural reforms, strong and rigorous
implementation of the structural reforms measures under SAL III and
particularly the adoption of the legal and Institutional framework for
public enterprises, improvement of public sector mmnagement, by putting In
place an integrated budget and financial control framework, the completion
of the civil service reform and particularly the adoption of civil service
statutes to provide a framework for personnel policy, career and
performanc management to improve human resource capacities within the
Governmeat. This will be particularly important in the Planning and
Finance Ministries which are at the heart of economic policy formulation
and the allocation of financial resources.
SuumsE Assessment
44.       After a period of economic mismnagement of the late 1970s, which
caused considerable social and economlc dislocation and international
isolation, the Government of the Central African Republic has made
sustained efforts at promoting economic recovery vith assistance from the
country's major partners. In 1986, the Government adopted a more
appropriate adjustment program which aled at setting the basis for
achieving positive real growth, while containing the fiscal and external
current account deficits within a sustainable limit. Substantial progress
has been achieved in correcting the macroeconomic imbalances since 1986.
At the macroeconomic level, fiscal and current accounts as a share of GDP
have been reduced from their 1980s levels. At the structural level, the
*Government has continued to disengage itself from comercial and industrial
activities and reduced its intervention in the regulatory framework by
eliminating a number of price and trade distortions and creation of
Incentives for private sector promotion.
45.       The Central African economy remains highly vulnerable to
fluctuations in the international market for its main exports--cash crops,
timber and diamonds. The Central African Republic has a very weak human
resource base which translates in very weak local capacity, and health and
education indicators are among the lowest in Africa. Furthermore, the
public administration is deficient and as a result project implementation
is constrained by lnstitutional and management bottlenecks. Finally, poor
infrastructure, high transport costs, a limited domestic market remain
major obstacles to sustained growth. The Government will have to take



- 16 -
decisive up-front actions ln order to lmpsove internal resource
mobilization and expenditure control thereby ensuring that momentum is
maintained In areas where progress hbo already been made.
PART II - THE PROJECT
46.       Backtround.  The buslness environment in CAR, stifled for many
years, was considerably biproved under the structural adjustment process.
Under SALe I and II, the Government simplified and rationalized the
Institutional and regulatory framework for business, Including substantial
price decontrol and trade liberalization, abolition of Import quotas and
promulgation of an investment code. Recent reforms at the regional central
bank (Banque des Itats de l'Afrique Centrale, BEAC) have reduced
distortions in Interest rates and resulted In better supervision of banks.
Further improvements under SAL III include the adoption of an action plan
to reform the financial sector and measures to support private sector
development and eshance the investment climate.
47.       Reliable data on the industrial sector in CAR is scarce but
Industry is estimated to contribute about 10 to GNP, of which about half
is In manufacturing; the sector is sall but dynamic, particularly informal
firms. On the one hand, CAR still suffers from inadequate $nfrastructure
and lack of a trained work force but, on the other, the investment climste
and enabling policy environrent are improving and, as a result, It is
expected that investment in industry will grow from about 3.61 of GDP in
1990 to 5.2S In 1993. With a population of 2.8 million people spread ower
a territory of 625,00 km2, CAR's markets are small and wLdely dispersed.
In fact, industrial development has been concentrated in the Bangul area
where one survey concluded that there were about 30 firms In the modern
industrLal sector (with 1,100 employees), owned mainly by foreign firms
the informal sector by contrast is estimated at over 1,200 unlts (with
about 2,300 employees). Most industrLal enterprises, in fact, are small
and in the textlle, agro-industrial, metal, mechanLcal and wood sectors, or
in gold and diamond mining.
48.       Proiect descriptlon.  The proposed project wlll be the first
supported by IDA to stimulate private development and reform the fianmcial
sector in CAR and is a key component of its strategy for the country. The
project is estimated to cost US$15.2 million and would includes (a) an
apex line of credit (US$7.7 mlllion) through BEAC to participating
financial institutions (PIle); (b) a micro-enterprise development program
(US$3.4 million) to be implemented by an NGO; (c) technical assistance
(US$2.5 million) for project management and strengthening of private sector
promotionaI agencies; (d) a training program for enterprise management and
project evaluation (US$0.9 million); and (e) project preparation and other
studies (US$0.7 million).
49.       The apex line of credit would be open to all finani al
institutions satisfying eligibility criteria. BEAC would channel funds to
PMIe at a reference interest rate of 71 per annum, which is currently the



- 1i -
average remuneration rate for term deposits.  Sub-loans would finance up to
851 of sub-project costs and would have an initial interest rate of 162 per
year in line with market conditions, and could have maturities up to twelve
years, including grace periods of up to three years. This rate is
substantially positive in real terms. The exchange risk would be borne by
the Government. Terms and conditions would be reviewed annually and
revised as necessary in light of prevailing economic and financial
conditions.  Credit under the micro-enterprise component would finace up
to 75? of sub-project cost. Financial charges, which would include
interest, risk premium, and fees for technical and management advisory
assistance, would range between 2-4Z monthly for up to 24 months, which Is
-'ecnsidered appropriate given the higher risks and administration costs for
this type of lending. The financial charges would be reviewed annually to
ensure continued adequacy.
50.       ProJect implementation.  BEAC, as the apex organization, would be
responsible for the management of the line of credit through a project unit
to be set up, and would channel funds to participating financial
institutions which would meet financial and managerial standards. The
Directorate of Industrial and Artisanal Development (DDIA) in the Ministry
of Finance, Trade, Industry, and Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises would
be the coordinating and managing agency for the technical assistance,
training, and studies components. A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
headed by the Minister of Economics, Planning, statistics, and
International Cooperation would ensure overall project coordination.
Technical assistance would support project implementation through funding
of expatriate expertise, incremental operating costs, and equipment and
vehicles in implementing agencies. The proposed technical assistance is
essential to ensure effective project management and mitigate potential
risks; it has been designed in light of the experience under IDA's Economic
Manasement Project and UNDPIILO's assistance to CAPNEA. The
micro-enterprise component would be managed by Volunteers in Tecbhnc&l
Assistance (VITA), a US-based K00, and would consist of a revolving fund
for credit, institutional support, technical and management advisory
services and training. We are satisfied that these arrangements will
ensure effective project implementation.
51.       Project obJectives.  The principal objective of the project is to
promote and finance viable private enterprises with a view to increasing
output, employment and income. In line with CAR's development objectives,
it would: (a) support creation of new and rehabilitation of existing
enterprises; (b) help implement the financial sector reform program,
emphasising both institutional and policy aspects; (c) improve financing
terms by emphasizing market responses and provide business advisory
services and training; (d) strengthen investment promotion; and (e) support
micro-entrepreneurs.
52.       Project desilgn.  The project is the culmination of preparatory
work by the Government, assisted by IDA, extending over a two-year period.
The apex line of credit derives from experience under operations in other
countries and from project preparation focused on financial sector reforms



- 18 -
and on establishing an enabling regulatory environment in the framework of
structural adjustment. It was kept deliberately small to avoid tying up
funds in the event that the business climate does not evolve as anticipated
but IDA would entertain requests for early renewal in the event of fast
drawdown. Institutional and financial arrangements were designed with a
view to achieving sustainability and replicability. The micro-enterprise
component is based on a pilot program funded under an SPPF and PPF
assistance. These were instrumental in testing innovative approaches to
reach down to the grassroots level, design solutions consistent with
demonstrated needs, and ensure high loan recovery rates. The training
program is pragmatic and would provide basic business and management
training for loan beneficiaries, and project analysis and preparation for
investment promotion and financial institutions.
53.       Lessons learned from previous IDA involvement. As this is the
first project of its kind in CAR, lessons have been derived from siamilar
operations elsewhere, the Economic Management Project, two free-standing
technical assistance projects (PCRs No. 9144 and 9151, December 14, 1990)
and OED's study entitled 'Free-standing Technical Assistance for
Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa' (Report No. 8573, April
19. 1990). In line with lessons learned on apes lines of credit, the
project takes place In the wake of SAL reforms aimed at improwing the
financial sector and rationalizing the business environment. The project
also sets clear criteria for the participation of banks to ensure adequate
margins for risk and returns, with periodic reviews to permit revisions to
terms and conditions as necessary. Term financing at market-oriented
lending terms through the apex system will help develop a more responsive
and competitive financial system in support of sustained expansion of
private sector activities. In line wLth OED's findings and
recommendations, the project also emphasizes the need for both short- and
longer-run institution building, close upstream cooperation with
implementing agencies, timely nomination of key staff and flexible training
programs. In order to ensure timely and effective Implementation,
supervision will include regular monitoring and a mid-term review. The
Government is fully committed to this project and has already taken key
decisions.
54.       Rationale for IDA lnvolvement.  IA has played a key role In
assisting the Government to restructure the economy, re-orient development
policies and formulate strategies for the private and financial sectors.
The proposed project complements these policy reforms initiated under the
three SALs and is a logical extension of them; it seeks to stimulate a
supply response in the productive sectors and thus contribute to growth.
Within this context, IDA's involvement is important to further promote
entrepreneurship and distribute the benefits of development. The
micro-enterprise component, for example, has been conceptLalized on the
country experience and technical expertise of NGO0, which should ensure its
success. Moreover, this component targets women as potential entrepreneurs
and seeks to distribute benefits by reaching areas beyond Bangui which
offer potential for growth. The apex line of credit will be instrumental
in providing restructured banks with resources and training to better serve



- 19 -
private sector needs. It should be noted that on April 1, 1991, CAR became
a member of IFC; IFC has as yet no operations in the country and the
proposed project is not expected to conflict with IPC/ID policy
objectives and programs.
55.       Agreed actions.  During negotiations, agreement was reached on
the following: (a) the main features of the apex lins of credit, Including
market-based terms and conditions to be reviewed annually and criteria
under which financial institutions would participate in the project; (b)
the micro-enterprise schema including a wider range of activities and
broader geographic coverage, and terms of agreement with the NGOt (c) an
annual evaluation of the investment climate and investment promotion
activities, with revisions to the agencies' programs as necessary; and (d)
institutional arrangements, including the establishment of the project unit
and the need for demand-driven training programs both for businessmen and
staff of executing agencies. Establishment of the Project Coordinating
Committee is a condition of effectiveness. Conditions of disbursement
would be: (i) the signing of a Protocol of Cooperation between the
Government and BEAC; (ii) the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between 8EAC and the PPI in question before a participating financial
institution can draw on project funds for onlending; (iii) approval of the
project unit's statement of operational policies and procedures, its
establishment with competent staff and recruitment of a banking expert for
it; and (iv) recruitment of an enterprise development specialist and
designation of a qualified counterpart in DDIA.
56.       Environmental assessment. Appraisal of subprojects by PMIs would
include an assessment of any significant environmental Impacts, using
whenever appropriate IDA's Industrial Guidelines. The studies component
provides funding for environmental assessment reports, as needed.
Environmental concerns, including occupational health and safety, will be
stressed in training programs on basic business management for
entrepreneurs and staff of existing agencies.
57.       Program obiective categories.  The project supports the
Government's antipoverty strategy by reducing unemployment, generating
employment and income, particularly for poorer segments of the population
and those living outside the capital area In the informal and formal
sectors. It addresses private sector development urier the main project
components; It also seeks an appropriate role for the public sector through
better project management and strengthening of a limited number of public
agencies. The training component is consistent with IDA's approach to
human resource development.
58.       Project benefits.  The proposed operation represents IDA's first
private sector development project in the country and is expected to
provide sustainable socio-economic benefits. It will help revitalize the
private sector and support trade liberalization and retrenchment of the
Government from the productive sectors, which forms the core of the
country's adjustment and growth. An improved policy environment, combined
with greater access to term financing for business should ensure a supply



- 20 -
response by the private sector, improve the operating ef..iLency of firms
and in the process promote economic growth. The project would help exploit
domestic entrepreneurial potential, includting women, and help mltigate the
adverse social effects of structural adjustment. Finally, the project
would support the ongoing financial sector reform aimed at further
liberalizing the regulatory environment and bringing monetary policies
including interest rates more in line with market conditlons. A more
competitive and responsive financial system will help improve resource
mobilization and allocation.
59.       Risks.  Potential risks of this first apex operation in the
country include the possible reluctance of banks to extend term flnancing
that may result in slower than anticipated disbursements. The Government
may have difficulty in sustaining the institutional and regulatory changes
necessary for effective project implementation.  Increased cooperation
between the Government and the business community may not materialize as
anticipated on investment promotion. These risks have been minimized
through project design, including adequate lending margins for PPIs and
institution-building measures for project management and training.
60.       Recomendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend
that the Executive Directors approve it.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
may 8, 1991



EU~A
Paso 3 of I
CEITUAL APRICAM IZIUSLIC
RNTERPUISE REAILITATION AND DEVELOPMT PROJECT
ESTIKATED COSTS AND PIRWNCIEG PLAN
gstimated Costs*                          W-f--- 'US$ million equivaleft ---
Local       Vorean    Total   I of Total
Subproject financing (Investments)        2.4          5.3         7.7      S5
ME promotion program                       1.8          1.6        3.4        22
Technical assistance                       0.7          1.8        2.5       16
Training                                   0,3          0.6        0.9         6
Studies                                    0.1           6         0.7        5
Total Costs                          5.3         9.9        15.2      100
* net of taxes
Vinancina Plan
IDA                                       1.4          9.9        11.3       74
Subborrowers                             2.4            --        2.4        16
Participating financial institutions      0.9                      0.9         6
Government                                0..6--                               4
Total Pinancins                     5.3          9.9  JA;- 15.2;      100
Rate of Returns n.a.,



lap 1 Of 2
CENeRAL AFRICAN IEUIC
iENTRPRISE PREAILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCURDIENT NETNOI AND DISLURSGEETS
Procurement Element                Procurement Mfthod               Total
ICB               LCB          Other
---------(US$ mIllion) --*--
Apex sub-loans                                            7.7       7.7
(5.0)1I   (5.0)AI
Micro-enterprise (ME)                                     0.8       0.8
subloans                                                (0.4)a1   (0.4)11
aunagement services                                      1.7        1.7
for the NS program                                      (1.7)kl   (1.7)kI
Consultant services,                                      2.3       2.3
technical assistance.                                   (2.0)Sl   (2.0)gI
and training
Incremental operating                                     1.0       1.0
costs                                                   (0.5)     (0.5)
Equipment and vehicles                     0.4            0.2       0.6
(0.4)         (0.2)d/   (0.6)d4
SPPF/PPP refinancing                                      1.1       1.1
(1.1)     (1.1)
TOTAL                                0.4          14.8       15.2
(0.4)        (10.9)    (11.3)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Standard commercial practice; contracts for goods exceeding US$0.75
million equivalent would require ICB. The appraisal mission did not
identify any subproject qualifying for ICB.
bl NGO VITA.
c/ In accordance with IDA guidelines.
d/ Three quotations.



ags 2 of 2
Catepor
Subproject financing                       852 of subproject cost
(Apex line of credit)
75Z of subproject cost
(micro-enterprise program)
Equipment, vehicles, management            1002 of expenditures
services for the ME promotion
program, technical assistance,
and training
Incremental operating cost                 1002 of eligible operating
expenditures accounting for 50?
of incremental operating costs.
Estimated Disbursements                     FY (US$ million equivalent)
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Annual                               1.2al  0.8   2.2   2.2   2.3   1.6   0.7   0.3
Cumulative                           1.2    2.0   4.2   6.4   8.7  10.3  11.0  11.3
al Includes SPPF and PPF refinancing totalling US$1,096,000.



SCHEDULE C
Page 1 of 1
CENTRAL AFVRICAN REPUBLIC
ENTERPRISU REHABILITATION AID DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tlmetable of Xes Project Processina Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:       18 months
(b)  Projects prepared bys                Government with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA missions                    Nevember 1989
(d) Appraisal missions                    November/December 1990
(e)  Negotiations:                        April 1991
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:       September 1991
(g)  Relevant PCRs and PPARss              one



SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of 1
Run Tim: 04/23/91 at 14410.29
Status Of Ink iuD  Operations IQ CENTRAL AFRICAN REBIC
FBUR     - Sunmry Statismt Of Loans dad IDA Credits
(LUA data as of 3130191 - Ns data a of 04/23/91)
Awmnt in US sillion
lless cancellations)
Ln  or       Fiscal                                                                               Undis- Closin
Credit NO.     hear  Rorrower                       hrpose                     Bak         IDA    horsed  bte
Credits
16 Crdits(s) closed                                                                      172."
C16810-CAR    1986   CENTRAL AFRICAN RPUBLIC        MATL. LIVC                           11.90       3.27 0630m92
C18CR         198    CEBTR  AFRICAN REPBLIC         EDUCATION III                        18.00      13.07 12131194
C19710CM      1989   CENMRL AFRICAN REPUBLIC        ECNIST                               13.20       9.49  12131/94
C1980wCAR    .1989   CENmTA AFRICAN REPBLIC         am                                    80         5.47 0     94
C21260-CA     1990   CR  AFRICN REPUBLIC            TRANlil   SEPOR R TZ00                          56.05    1  96
C2138C        1990   CENTML AFRICAN REPILIC         RAT lREU  RC   T                     19.00      16.48 06130197
C21620-CA(S) 1910   CENA AFRICUA  REBULIC           SAL III                              45.00      16.23 12/31/91
TOTAL umber Credits     7                                                                 187.10    120.06
TOTALIIs                                                                  360.04
of uhich repid                                                            2.14
TOTAL elmd by lank & -I1A                                                 357.91
A_at sold
of. uftih repad
TOTAL udisbursW                                                                      120.10
*  Nt yt ffeciK
Appvp, Rlepaiynmts,  d Outstading balance represent both active and inactive Los am d Credits.
R)Indicate  forally reise  Cio  jate.
ISJ indites SL/SEAL L     an  its.
The Net  ppro   and and Repaymts a  bistorical value$ all othr are mret valu.
th e     ayim  EffKti file. Closing dates u   bs  upn the Loan Dpartmt offical data ad ar not take
fro    a TIkBudget file.



C1sen tra   fia  R1epbi
- Ba  Cose Ssnmoaro -
aln Economi Ilcdiaors
BaWs on Constnt Prlce  and
Exchang Rt
1086    1967    181       180      1090    18011
P Growh" Rate                           6.2X    -2.      2.91s    2.s    0.7t       Mlt
Gov Growth Ru                           8.711  -2.1    8.1N    2.81   -2.511   8.81
GY/Cap. GrOwh Ra   USQ)                 1.01   -6.01t    1.1   -4.X1   -4.1         1.1
Prt'. Cons./C.pito Grow" Rae           -0.4    -1.11    2.41    .1.1    -5.011    2.7X
Based on Current Price  and
Exchang Rates
Debt Servic  (milItons US1) 1/         88.8    38.9    64.8    48.1    47.6    809.
Debt Servics/XS                        17.6X   19.51   27.01   22.41   21.21.   18.21
Debt Service/GOP                        8.41    8.7X    6.0,      4.516    1.7s    2.7
Debt Srvice/Govt. Revenue              28.7X   85.8a   40.61   85.21   85.8X   22.0X
aross n vstment/oOP                    12.21   12.51   10.61   10.81   10.21   10.41
Domestic Savongs/GOP                   -1.71   -2.BX   -1.51   -4.61    -2.71   -2.51
National Savings/GDP                    5.6x    8.01   18.01      9.81    6.41    1.51
Public Sevings/GOP                      2.51    8.8X    6.1X    5.51  4*.          0.41
Pubic InvestmentGODP                    9.7X   10.51    6.0s    ?l    8.41   86.81
Private Savings/GOP                     8.1X    4.2X    4.91    8.61       1.81     1.1X
Private Investment/GOP                  2.4X    2.01    1.1X    2.41S    1.7X    2.11
Ratios Pub./Priv. Investment            4.0     5.5      4.7      8.6      5.0      4.6
Government Revenues/GP  sa/            11.7X   12.11   12.41   11.9X   12.21   18.21
owernment Rewnue/GDP  Bb/              16.41   19.23   22.81   20.1#   1.81S   16.25
Govt. Expenditures/GOP                 26.51   27.1   25.11   28.81    24.81   24.85
Budget Current Balanco/GOP $a/         -0.41   -1.81   -1.11   -1.6S   -1.#   -4.8X
Cverall Balance/ODP $a/               -18.6X  -15.0X  -18.71  -11.61  -12.1X  -11.21
Exporft ONFS aOrwth Rate              -11.45   -7.71  -4.81        .81    9.61   -2.0S
(Constat Prices)
Exports ONFS/GDP                       18.7X   16.8X   17.81   19.11   17.21   15.0s
Import ONFS Growth Rate                 5.7s   -6.71   -7.81   -1.11    8.61   10.01
(Conant prices)
imports OWS/OP                        82.6      8.7X ". 20.1    80.61   80.21   27.J
Curr. Account (mill. US$)             -05.5   -47.5    27.0   -11.1  -4.6  -120.6
Carr. Ac". (mill. USI)  2/           -163.0  -108.8  -168.1  -104.1  -221.6  -246.1
Current Account/GDP                   -4.0    -4.01    2.55   -1.01   -4.6S  -4.0
Current AccounGDP 2/                  -16.51  -10.01  -16.61  -15.21  -1T.01  -17.01
1/  Includtn  IP, and dfter Preach debt forgiveneo  from 1969 on.
2/ Excluding public transfers.
8a/ Beor  reants.
8b/ Including greats.
Source: Offic il Government statistics, and Sta  estimates end projeetions.



IBRD 18095F
NIGER                                                                                                                                                    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
tCARS                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
SUDAN                                                                          TRANSPORTATION AND POPULATION DENSITY
a C H ^ D   z               g              oR  r                             t   --fy---- TRANSPORT ET DENSITE DE POPULATION
N I G E A I A  ~  ~        /    \DENSSY, INHABITANTS PER SQ. KM
/       ,j                                                                                                                                     DENSITE, HABITANT PAR KA&'
06 413)        ~~~~LESS THA9 S Si MOMO DC S S
CE  TRAV, ~~~~~~~~~~~                                         VA    A  GA            i         555401~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FS  ZONE MPOULATION   ...
) CAMESOON          AFRICAN  REPUBLIC    7-0 -
rpR  -         ZAIRE-
w   2      /" ~~CONGO| |0999 940901 \,                                                        ,!Nee>                   ~    S ~       txajz>     
540 \SNODi..-                                                                                                                                                      I-.
CH~  D
CAMEROON
,S/  /                          20                                                                                                  U D A N
HA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I ~~~~~o  111,EM                               Ygo - 
OF THE                                     ONIMRS                                          ft .d- ~~~~~~~~~~~ b -k~~~~* 0~   '4
CAMEROON  co                                              KIL                                                         pllv.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -V~~
c"  .6 Tw                          /t'
O  io     100           130           200                .~~~~~~~QO   /tpfT  W~Wft*-~Fp  p
I,     " t* .-M
Ottli  RR'0  ROSA  V                                                                     ZAIRE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PM 18



