Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT No 20695
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-22540)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.3 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ERDP)
June 27, 2000
Private Sector Group (AFTPS)
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 708.2 = US$ I
US$ 1.00 = SDR 0.7518
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           African Development Bank
BEAC          Banque des Etats de lAfrique Centrale
(Bank of Central African States)
BICA          Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale et Centrafrique
BPMC          Banque Populaire Marocco-Centrafricaine
CAADE         Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat
CAPMEA        Centre d'Assistance aux Petites et Moyennes Enterprises et a l'Artisanat
CAR           Central African Republic
COBAC         Commission Bancaire d'Afrique Centrale
(Regional Banking Supervision Commission)
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DIAD          Directorate of Industrial and Artisanal Development
IDA           International Development Association
ILO           International Labor Organization
NGO           Non Government Organization
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PCO           Project Coordinating Committee
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SAL           Structural Adjustment Program
SME           Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
VITA          Volunteers in Technical Assistance
Vice President:    Calisto Madavo
Country Director:    Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:    Andre Ryba



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               I
4.. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    7
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      12
9. Partner Comments                                                                     14
10. Additional Information                                                             14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000464                                       Project Name: ENT REHAB & DEVELOP
Team Leader: Andre Ryba                                   TL Unit: AFMCM
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Dale June 27i 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ENT REHAB & DEVELOP                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-22540
Country/Department: CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/11/88                                Effective:                     02/12/92
Appraisal:  11/08/90                                  MTR.
Approval:  05/30/91                                Closing:                      12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT. OF CAR/MCI; BEAC; VITA; CAPMEA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Serge Michailof                            Ismael Serageldin
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba                                   lain Thornton Christie
Team Leader at ICR.   Andre Ryba                               Rolf Glaesser
ICR Primary Author:   Faustin-Ange Koyasse and
Oliver Campbell White
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoiy, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HU
Sustainability: HUN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: HU
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Following previous economic programs, the Enterprise Rehabilitation and Development Project (ERDP)
was designed to support the Third Structural Adjustment Program (SAL III). SAL III, approved in June
1990, contained a series of structural reforms, following up on measures initiated since 1986 and
supporting a deepening of the adjustment effort, aimed at achieving an average real growth of about 3.5



percent. These measures included helping to promote and develop the private sector.
Following its disengagement from industrial and commercial activity, the Government initiated a series of
measures to stimulate the private sector. These measures included the promulgation of a new investment
code, revised road transport taxes and commissions, a simplified institutional and regulatory framework for
business, and the abolition of import licensing and quotas. An agency was put in place to promote the
development of small and medium-size enterprises (SMEs). In addition, prices were liberalized for all but
8 essential commodities and it was planned to eliminate all price controls with the exception of sugar.
Other measures included the start-up of a one-stop investment window and the reorganization of the
Chamber of Commerce. With IDA's assistance, the Government undertook a study of the constraints on
credit availability to the private sector with a view to strengthening financial sector intermediation.
Meanwhile, growth prospects for 1991-1992 were limited owing to falling exports. Indeed, given the poor
growth prospects and the accumulation of internal and external arrears, the country was expected to need
substantial balance of payments support and substantial debt relief at least for the period 1991-1995.
Against this background, the principal objective of the project, as set out in the MOP, were to promote and
finance viable private enterprises with a view to increasing output, employment and income. In line with
the CAR's development objectives, the project was expected to: (a) support the creation of new and
rehabilitation of existing enterprises; (b) help implement the financial sector reform program, emphasizing
both institutional and policy aspects; (c) improve financing terms by emphasizing market responses and
provide business advisory services and training; (d) strengthen investment promotion; and (e) support
micro-entrepreneurs.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although there were some changes in the component structure and management arrangements, the basic
objectives of the project remained unchanged until early 1996 when the Bank had decided that, unless the
Government acted promptly on actions agreed during 1995, the project would be cancelled. Any actions
were overtaken by social disturbances in the first half of 1996 and, by mid- 1996, the Bank was considering
restructuring the project so as to use the available balance under the credit for emergency rehabilitation
assistance to private enterprises and the banks. However, discussions with the authorities were halted by
the co-called third army mutiny (see below).
3.3 Original Components:
The project - for a total amount of US$15.2 million of which US] 1.3 million was to be funded under the
IDA Credit - was designed to have 5 components:
1.     An Apex Line of Credit (US$7.7 million) the largest component (50.7%) of the project - to allow
commercial banks to extend credit for financing fixed assets and working capital to eligible existing and
new enterprises in the productive sectors of the economy.
2.     Micro-Enterprise Development Program (US$3.4 million) - to promote and finance
micro-projects through a line of credit, institutional support, and technical and management advisory
services, with emphasis placed on providing assistance to woman entrepreneurs;
3.     Technical Assistance (US$2.5 million) - to support the management of projects, and the training
and strengthening of private sector promotion agencies.
- 2 -



4.     Training Program (US$0.9 million) - to enhance project evaluation and enterprise management
capabilities.
5.   - Project Preparation and Other Studies (US$0.7 million) - to carry out sub-project feasibility,
preparation, and sector studies relevant to enterprise development.
The apex line of credit, which was initially supposed to be managed by the Banque des Etats de l'Afrique
Centrale (BEAC), was to be open to eligible participating financial institutions. The exchange risk was to
be borne by the Government. Terms and conditions to financial institutions and to borrowers were to be
reviewed annually and revised as necessary in the light of prevailing economic and financial conditions.
BEAC, as the apex organization, was to be responsible for the management of the line of credit through a
project unit to be set up, and would channel funds to participating financial institutions which were to meet
financial and managerial standards. The Directorate of Industrial and Artisanal Development (DIAD)
within the Ministry of Finance, Trade, Industry, and Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises was to be the
coordinating and managing agency for the technical assistance, training, and studies components.
Technical assistance would support project implementation through funding of expatriate expertise,
incremental operating costs, and equipment and vehicles in implementing agencies. The proposed technical
assistance was considered essential to ensure effective project management and mitigate potential risks
identified in the light of the experience under IDA's Economic Management Project and UNDP/ILO's
assistance to the Centre d'Assistance aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises et a l'Artisanat (CAPMEA), a
unit of I)IAD.
The micro-enterprise component was to be managed by Volunteers in Technical Assistance (VITA), a
US-based NGO.
A Project Coordinating Committee (PCO) headed by the Minister of Economics, Planning, statistics, and
International Cooperation was to ensure overall project coordination.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was declared effective on February 12, 1992. Due to difficulties in project start-up, only the
micro-enterprise component became active at that time. The other components could not be launched until
August 1994, three years after IDA Board approval. By that time, the project, in practical terms,
comprised three components:
1.    The Apex Line of Credit. BEAC had refused to house the apex line of credit and so
responsibility for accounting and financial management was assigned to Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
des Dettes de l'Etat (CAADE), which later became the Direction de la Dette after its restructuring and
integration within the Ministry of Finance in 1997. CAADE's responsibility included both the ERDP
overall and the refinancing of investment projects presented through the commercial banks and involved: (i)
verifying eligibility criteria of investment projects; (ii) refinancing of investment projects besides the
commercial banks; (iii) follow up of implementation of projects.
2.     Capacity Building, which was the responsibility of CAPMEA. Technical assistance was aimed
at: (i) the planning and delivery of a training program on the promotion of SMEs and aimed specifically at
entrepreneurs, and personnel of CAPMEA and the Ministry; (ii) capacity building to strengthen CAPMEA
ability to prepare investment projects and to support enterprise managers, SMEs, groups of artisans, small
business promoters, and advisers, and others involved in handling a range of documentation (including
statutory instruments, internal regulations, market studies, technical and financial feasibility studies, and
- 3 -



credit applications). A series of studies was also envisaged to support research on private enterprise
development requirements in CAR.
3.     Assistance to Micro-Enterprises, responsibility for which was assigned to VITA including a
renewable line of credit, technical advisory management services for micro-projects and training activities
for promoters. Through a contract signed in March 1992 with the Government, VITA was assigned
responsibility for managing the program for financing micro-enterprises. The principal aim of the
agreement was to continue a project which had been designed and piloted by this NGO. Although its
management was autonomous, VITA had to be integrated within the overall PARDEP umbrella.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Some potential risks were identified at appraisal: (i) the possible reluctance of banks to extend term
financing that may result in slower than anticipated disbursements; (ii) the government may have difficulty
in sustaining the institutional and regulatory changes necessary for effective project implementation; (iii)
increased cooperation between the Government and the business community might not materialize as
anticipated on investment promotion.
At the time of project appraisal, it was considered that these risks had been minimized through project
design, including adequate lending margins for participating financial institutions (PFIs) and
institution-building measures for project management and training. The project was the culmination of
preparatory work by the Government, assisted by IDA, extending over a two-year period. The apex line of
credit derived from experience in other countries and from project preparation focused on financial sector
reforms and on establishing an enabling regulatory environment in the framework of structural adjustment.
It was kept deliberately small to avoid tying up funds in the event that the business climate did not evolve
as anticipated but IDA would entertain requests for early renewal in the event of fast drawdown.
Institutional and financial arrangements were designed with a view to achieving sustainability and
replicability. The micro-enterprise component was based on a pilot program funded under an SPPF and
PPF assistance. These were instrumental in testing innovative approaches to reach down to the grassroots
level, design solutions consistent with demonstrated needs, and ensure high loan recovery rates.
However, the political risks of instability in a period of uncertain transition towards democracy, marked by
a succession of governments in the context of a series of social and political claims and accumulating fiscal
deficits, were seriously underestimated.
In the event, although the project objectives were laudable, they were unachievable under the prevailing
economic and socio-political conditions, and the significant delay in project commencement was indicative
of the capacity and other problems, described elsewhere in this report, which were to beset this project.
Hence, the inevitable conclusion that design and quality at entry were poor.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Unsatisfactory. Although the Credit Agreement had been signed on July 12, 1991, it was not until August
1994, some 5 months after the original date foreseen for the mid-tern review, that all components of the
project became operational. The project was officially launched in Bangui on November 23, 1994. The
delay in getting started was due to: (i) the time taken to nominate suitable persons who would be
- 4 -



responsible for the different components; (ii) the refusal of BEAC to house the apex line of credit and the
time needed to take the decision to find an alternative and to make the necessary amendments to the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) relating to the replacement of BEAC by CAADE as the executing
agency for this component, and (iii) the time taken to recruit and validate consultancy contracts and to
specify the terms of reference for those responsible for managing and administering the project.
The significant delay in start-up reflected the underlying problems which beset the project. Despite
remedial efforts the project failed, even partially, to meet its objective.
4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Apex Line of Credit: After the apex unit (CAADE) was put in place, subsidiary loan agreements were
signed with two of the three commercial banks: Banque Populaire Morocco-Centrafricaine (BPMC) on
October 7, 1994 and Banque Intemationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale et Centrafrique (BICA) on
November 17, 1994. The third bank, the Union Bancaire en Afrique Centrale withdrew because of concern
at the credit risk that it would have had to assume; that bank expressed the desire to see a guarantee facility
established.
Of five investment proposals processed through BPMC and BICA, only one was transmitted to CAADE
for approval. That single application had several informational gaps and was returned for further
information; it did not obtain financing. A World Bank supervision mission in February 1995 noted that
many of the applications submitted to the banks lacked balance sheets for the past three years, a cash flow
projection, and explanation of the uses of the funds requested. A study, undertaken by an independent firm,
that reviewed 10 files showed that the applications were inconclusive and it recommended the suspension of
the apex line of credit.
On the other hand, besides the perceived lengthy procedures and complex instructions for the credit
applications, the Government, at the request of economic operators, considered that the prevailing interest
rate (16 percent) was too high and recommended a revision to a lower rate (as low as 10%). However, the
failure of the line of credit cannot be attributed entirely to the interest rate which compared favorably with
rates for similar loans elsewhere in Africa, particularly in the informal market, and reflected the risk and
administration cost.
No amount was ever disbursed under this component of the project and, as it could not disburse as
designed, the apex line of credit was suspended in July 1995 and not reactivated.
2. Capacity Building:
(i) Training Program: CAPMEA, the unit responsible for the training component was slow to develop
and implement the training program. Indeed, the Bank supervision mission in August 1995 reported that
this component had been a failure. However, when eventually a training program was prepared and
adopted, it was considered pragmatic and was expected to provide basic business and management training
for loan beneficiaries, and project analysis and preparation for investment promotion and financial
institutions. Although rather late in the program, 25 persons from CAPMEA and the commercial banks
received training in project evaluation.
Senior personnel participated in study tours and seminars: (a) in 1995, several members of the coordinating
committee and the project manager attended a seminar in Canada on project planning and control; (b) and
VITA staff received training, including attendance at a seminar in the United States in 1993 on
-5 -



entrepreneurship, a training of trainers program in Dakar in April 1995, a workshop in Tunis in June 1995
on business management, a seminar in Bangladesh in October 1995 on microfinance, a conference in Kigali
in March 1996 on microfinance, a seminar in Bamako in April 1996 on the informal sector, as well as
several work visits to Chad.
(ii) Studies: Several studies were undertaken that were aimed at developing the business environment but
they did not lead to any conclusive action. These studies covered: (a) the legal constraints to loan recovery
by financial institutions; (b) the setting up of a guarantee fund; (c) the investment code; and (d) market
gaps in CAR.
CAPMEA was restructured in 1993, following which a new director was appointed in January 1994. It
was hoped that the new structure would enabled CAPMEA to extend the scope of its services to develop
promotional activities and advisory for entrepreneurs. Equipped with motorcycles, specialists from
CAPMEA did, for a limited time, display new vigor in their efforts to identify projects, carry out financial
analysis, and provide training on aspects of SME commercial and financial management. A few
applications were directly financed by the primary banks. However, this momentum was halted when the
CAPMEA offices were destroyed during the uprising in May 1996. The relocation of CAPMEA following
the destruction of its offices did not allow it to continue its activities under this component. The revenues
from CAPMEA's operations were insufficient to sustain it and some 80% of its budget had to be met by
Government subsidy. Proposals to privatize CAPMEA, to create a guarantee fund, and to create a
counterpart fund were unconvincing and were abandoned.
All planned studies had been completed by February 1996 and, in March 1996, the Govemment and the
Bank agreed that CAPMEA's performance had been very weak and its staff were demoralized, and that
support for studies and for training under the project would be discontinued with effect from April 1996
until the Chamber of Commerce had been restructured and it had established a study/training unit.
3.    Assistance to Micro-Enterprises: Credit distribution activity had started with a pilot phase, from
January 1990 to September 1991, managed by VITA. During the pilot phase, 703 loans totaling FCFA 90
million (US$130,000) had been distributed. More than 70 percent of the credits were to the agricultural
sector, 473 loans were to groups who guaranteed repayment, and 425 loans were extended to women.
Also, up to April 1991, the loan recovery rate was over 98 percent. Given these good results, the first
contract under this credit was awarded on a sole source basis to VITA. From 1990 through the first
quarter of 1993, over 4,000 loans totaling US$1.6 million were granted, with repayment rates at around 90
percent. By early 1995 there were some 6,000 micro-entrepreneurs borrowing for investment and working
capital needs from a revolving fund of about US$500,000 (interest rates 2-4 percent per month) with
recovery rates still above 90%. By end December 1997, and excluding loans distributed during the pilot
phase, the micro-credit component had distributed 6,255 loans totaling FCFA 1,149 million for 4,142
micro-enterprise projects. 2,600 (42%) of the loans were to women for an aggregate amount of FCFA 430
million (37%). Until the departure of VITA, the loan recovery rate was 90% .
In addition to financing the micro-enterprises, entrepreneurs also received support in terms of management
advice
However, in 1994, there was a drop in demand instead of the expected continued increase in the number of
loans. This could be attributed to several factors including growing social unrest, the FCFA devaluation,
and VITA coming towards the end of its contract with uncertainty about the future. The Government, in
addition to demanding financial management data from VITA, decided to extend VITA's contract for a six
month period (January-June 1995) and to use that time to recruit a new NGO through international
- 6 -



competitive bidding. The bidding process necessarily took time but further delays occurred partly because
of the different approaches proposed by the various bidders and also because of a misunderstanding over
the award of the contract. Also, the Bank questioned the validity and transparency of the process. This
delay adversely affected the distribution of micro-credits and slowed down this component of the project.
VITA's contract eventually ended on December 31, 1996 and the balance of funds was transferred to
Government. The change in management had serious consequences, and malpractices and fraud ensued.
Despite some implementation problems, the sheer number of loans under this component show that, during
the period 1991-95, it served relatively well the informal micro-entrepreneurs who constitute the majority
of the private sector in the country.
4.3 Net Present Value/lEconomic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Some limited institutional development took place under the project, notably in CAPMEA and with local
personnel who worked with VITA. Much of this has been lost but the individuals who were trained and
those who gained experience under the project are still available to apply their knowledge. However,
overall the project failed to have a measurable impact on institutional development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During 1992-94, successive Bank supervision missions reported on the deteriorating socio-economic
conditions in the country that severely impacted on the Government's management capacity and project
implementation during the start-up period of the project. The whole 1991-94 period was marked by strong
union demands and political claims and a chronic budgetary deficit resulting in large domestic and external
arrears. Also, a new Government took office in CAR in late 1993 and associated administrative changes
added to delays. As a result, until late 1994 only the micro-enterprise component was active and even that
suffered from poor political and economic/financial macro conditions that affected new credit extension and
loan recovery that had previously performed encouragingly during its pilot phase.
Armny mutinies occurred during the life of the project, the first in April 1996. They caused physical
damage to assets and during the second, in May 1996, virtually all PARDEP documents in Bangui were
destroyed. Because of the serious security problems in CAR and the destruction caused by three successive
mutinies, Bank supervision of PARDEP was rendered impossible throughout 1997 and 1998 and the audits
required under Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were not performed.
Disbursements of Credit funds were suspended from April 1997 until June 1998 under the general
suspension of IDA's disbursements in CAR. In view of lack of progress in restructuring the project,
compounded by the supervision and audit difficulties, disbursements under the Credit were formally
suspended on 29 December 1998 until a full audit of the project could be completed, all misused Bank
funds returned, and a final decision taken on the future of the project. The project was closed in December
1999.
-7 -



The largest component of the project, the apex line of credit, had been designed and prepared on the basis
that BEAC would be the implementing agency. In the event, protracted discussions between the
Government and BEAC, that had ensued since the signing of this Credit, concluded in September 1993 that
BEAC would not administer the apex line of credit. The Government proposed instead to retain CAADE
as the implementing agency. This required an amendment to the legal documents for this project. In
addition, disbursement conditions for the apex line of credit had to be fulfilled: (i) subsidiary loan
agreements between CAADE and each participating financial institution; (ii) approval of the project unit's
statement of operational policies and procedures by CAADE and IDA; (iii) establishment of the project unit
in CAADE; and (iv) signing of a Cooperation Agreement between the Government and CAADE with terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. These legal and administrative matters necessarily took time to prepare
and to process. Also, CAADE had no specific implementation experience and this necessitated: (i) the
recruitment of technical assistance to strengthen CAADE's institutional capabilities so as to ensure
adequate project execution; and (ii) additional training to CAADE staff under the ERDP training
component.
In addition to the increasing weakness of the financial sector, demand for credit under the apex line of
credit was very low. Whilst this is partly attributed to the interest rate (which was considered too high by
entrepreneurs and insufficiently attractive to the commercial banks), the impending and then actual
devaluation of the FCFA in 1994 also contributed to investor uncertainty and increased risk aversion.
Comments from Government representatives and the private sector indicate that Bank staff did not listen
enough to the commercial banks and potential borrowers. Bank staff resisted the idea of the apex line of
credit being subsidized which is what the various interested parties in CAR had proposed. Also, the banks
had stated their doubts that the line of credit would work. Of the three commercial banks in CAR, only two
participated and one of those was weakened by the liquidation of its main foreign shareholder. During the
project start-up period, 1992-94, successive Bank supervision missions noted the deteriorating condition of
the financial sector. By May 1995 it was apparent that the deterioration of the banks' situation was
impacting on the apex line of credit component both in terms of demand and loan processing because of the
banks' reluctance to lend long-term to SMEs and to take on risks under the prevailing uncertain economic
conditions. By that time, Bank staff had concluded that the distressed condition of the financial sector
meant that the apex line of credit had very little chance of working. This view was reinforced by an
independent study in early 1996 which found that only 2 of 10 projects thus far processed under this
component of the project were potentially viablc. Typically, there was a lack of financial data or estimates
which rendered it impossible to assess profitability. Discussions with the commercial banks concluded that
there were few formal SMEs and that, whilst some bankable projects might exist, they were usually for
very small loan amounts and the promoters of these projects were generally unable to furnish the requisite
accounts and financial information. A Bank mission in March 1996 was able to convince the authorities to
restructure the project, according to the recommendations of the previous mission in December 1995, which
included withdrawing the apex line of credit and instead enlarging the micro-enterprise component. The
third army mutiny, which resulted in longer lasting social unrest than the previous two, prevented this
restructuring.,
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Generally speaking, many of the delays arose through factors within Government control. For example:
(1) Although BEAC eventually decided not to act as implementing agency for the apex line of credit,
discussions with the Government extended over three years. Those discussions should have been concluded
much sooner, especially as BEAC had made it clear in correspondence in November 1991 that it did not
- 8 -



want to participate in the project.
(2) CAPMEA had long-term structural operational and financial problems which persisted throughout
1991-94 (only late in 1994 were a new director general and a financial/management expert appointed).
(3) There were unexplained complications and delays early in 1995 regarding the extension of VITA's
contract for a 6-month period. Months of indecision resulted in an interruption to credit extension under
the micro-enterprise component and, despite a decision taken in late 1994 to go to international competitive
tender for the contract to manage this component from July 1, 1995, terms of reference had still not been
prepared by May 1995. That delay was repeated when the Government decided to extend VITA's contract
a second time, to end 1995. The uncertainty created by these delays led to unrest and anxiety among both
management and staff at VITA and to friction and unfortunate reactions from both sides. Thus, following
the downturn in 1994, there was a further decline in the perfornance of the micro-finance component,
hitherto the only successful component. In November 1995 the bid evaluation process for the new contract
was completed but the National Tender Board (NTB) (the Commission Nationale des Appels d'Offres et
Marches de l'Etat), responsible for the bidding process, had neither requested a no-objection nor awarded a
contract, and it was unclear if the VITA structure would be kept or modified. The authorities in Bangui led
a new firm to believe that it had been selected. However, in the opinion of Bank staff, the three bids
received were not comparable and the evaluation was not objective. Discussions between the Government
and the Bank took place and it was agreed that the evaluation process was unsatisfactory and incomplete.
Given the limited alternatives that the situation presented at that time, the Bank advised the Government to
urgently review the position and consider renegotiating with VITA or close the component. The
Government delayed its decision, principally because of differences in views between different ministries.
(4) Although an action agenda had been agreed between the Government and the Bank in July 1995 to
restructure and revitalize the project, ERDP came to a virtual standstill by the beginning of 1996. The
deadline of December 31, 1995 had passed without any concrete results to work upon. Despite the
micro-enterprise component yielding some results, it became evident at that time that, due to the difficulties
in operating the apex line of credit and insufficient project ownership, capacity, and commitment, the
project would have to be canceled.
(5) The delay in the selection and appointment of an auditor for the project.
Project coordination was a major problem, not only because of the various implementing agencies involved
but also with responsibilities for different components scattered between several Government ministries.
Observing this over time, the Bank recommended to the Government in May 1995 that, in order to speed up
decision-making and accountability, a project director be appointed to replace the coordinating committee.
This was raised again with the Government in March 1996, when this recommendation was accepted.
Whilst the new arrangement held hope for improvement, progress was halted by the deteriorating security
situation. Subsequent events showed that there was insufficient consultation and coordination with the
Bank and that Bank procedures were not understood.
Not only was the process for selecting a manager for the micro-enterprise component poorly managed
throughout 1995-1996, after it was decided to go to intemational tender, the subsequent management
arrangements proved disastrous, The assistant director under VITA assumed responsibility for managing
the micro-enterprise component after the departure of VITA at the end of 1996. In late 1998, the Bank
became aware that, in response to complaints from employees of the micro-enterprise component of the
project, the Prime Minister has appointed a control team to investigate the unit. Although the control team,
among other actions, performed a mini-audit of the operations of the micro-credit component, the Bank was
not consulted on the team (neither its composition - all civil servants - nor on its terms of reference) as
required under section 4.01 of the DCA. The control team's report provided evidence of a serious misuse
of funds: funds had been diverted for the personal benefit of employees of the project and others through
the use of fictitious loans or by fraudulently imputing credit extended to clients of the project. In addition,
-9-



there was evidence that the director of ERPD had ordered the manager of the micro-enterprise component
to transfer funds on a monthly basis to cover salaries and other expenses of ERPD after the Bank had
closed the project's special account and had asked for the suspension of all operations. As a result, the
Minister of Commerce ordered the cessation of all activities under the micro-enterprise component, the
delivery to Government of all its assets (physical and financial), and the appointment of a control team as
the new management with a mandate to develop ways to revive the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There was an unnecessarily long delay in preparing the training program and preparing terms of reference
for studies. Although this was attributed to the need to restructure CAPMEA, it did not fully explain the
lack of effort to get this component under way sooner.
Whilst the management of the micro-enterprise component was generally satisfactory, successive Bank
missions noted the slackness of VITA staff in carrying out training in order to build local capacity to run
this component without external technical assistance. This weakness was only remedied rather late in the
day by which time the institutional arrangements were in some disarray.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no problems related to project costs and financing.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
None of the project components has sustained its activities. Whilst the micro-enterprise component
recorded some success in terms of the number of loans, outreach to women, and high recovery rate, the
costs of administering the component were relatively high, with revenues only covering about 60% of
overheads. Even before the management change which led to the eventual collapse of this component, it
was recognized that, for the foreseeable future, there would be a persisting inability to become financially
self-sufficient and that external support would be needed.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Due to the project's unsatisfactory perfornance, the transition to a without-project situation was never
reached.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
This project was the first of its kind in CAR. Whilst the MOP stated that lessons had been derived from
similar operations elsewhere, the risk assessment appeared not to have been done well enough during
appraisal: (i) there was no mention of the economic and political risks and it appears that the risks that
socio-political tensions, which were already evident before the project was approved, would inhibit private
sector development and could undermine implementation were not recognized; (ii) Government commitment
to the project was weak throughout; (iii) capacity was a serious constraint and, although training and
institution building were included in the project, this limitation was underestimated, particularly in view of
the number of implementing agencies and Government ministries involved; (iv) successful implementation
- 10-



of the apex line of credit depended on a sound financial sector. The commercial banks were neither
commercially nor technically ready to support the apex line of credit component. In fact, the financial
sector was weak with several banks having been liquidated and the remaining commercial banks
unenthusiastic about the project; (v) the institutional arrangements for the apex line of credit were defined
but were not finalized before credit effectiveness; and (vi) this was the first operation of this type in CAR.
Experience of apex lines of credit elsewhere in Africa was limited but had indicated the likely difficulties of
implementation.
In addition to the apex line of credit, project preparation left too much to be dealt with later. Work on
developing the training program and determining the studies that would be required, as well as specifying
the operating procedures and terms of reference that would be needed to be developed, should have been
identified during project preparation.
In hindsight, it appears that the Bank did not take sufficient account of the views of the financial
institutions and the private sector who had urged the Bank to consider a subsidized interest rate for the
apex line of credit. Potential borrowers had expressed their view that the proposed rate was too high, while
the margin for the commercial banks was unattractive given their already excess liquidity position.
7.2 Supervision:
During the period before the various project components were operationalized, there was undue allowance
for the causes of delay and over-optimism about the outcome of the project. From 1995 onwards, Bank
missions were critical of the Government's commitment to the project and recommended project
cancellation but action to restructure or cancel the project was slow. There are indications that there was
slowness in delivering no-objections which would also have contributed to the delays in project execution.
This may be partly explained by the several changes in Country Director and Task Manager that occurred
after the project was approved. Nevertheless, Bank personnel did carry out an adequate series of
supervision missions and made strenuous efforts to try to make the project work. The Bank assisted in
arranging training and in organizing a round-table event on private sector development in CAR. At the
local level, the Bank's Resident Mission organized regular monthly meetings with those responsible for the
various project components and, on several occasions, made proposals to the Government for restructuring
and salvaging the project.
The number of changes of country director and task manager (there were three task managers during the
course of the project) should be noted as a contributory factor affecting the Bank's responsiveness in
dealing with this unsatisfactory project, as was the slow recognition of weak Government ownership of the
project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The fundamental weaknesses in design and preparation (evidenced by: (i) lack of recognition of the risk of
socio-political instability; (ii) insufficient attention to the views of the commercial banks and economic
operators; (iii) the absence of agreement with BEAC to implement the apex line of credit; (iv) the length of
time it took to declare the project as launched; and (v) the slow response to the Borrowers' perceived
inertia) lead to the inevitable conclusion that, overall, the Bank's performance was unsatisfactory. The
considerable efforts made during supervision to place the project on track, which were thwarted by the
mutinies, do not alter this conclusion.
- 11 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government did not participate sufficiently in project preparation. Hence, arrangements for managing
the apex line of credit were unresolved for several years after the credit approval, and work on training for
capacity building and on studies to support private sector development only began several years into the
project. The Government could - and should - have done more to organize these components.
7.5 Governmnent implementationpeiformance.
The Government did not pay sufficient regard to overall project management and coordination, the
timeliness of project execution, and the regular production of reports on the progress of the various
components.
Under section 5.2 above, several examples are provided of delays due to Government inaction and
indecision. In fact, the records show that, throughout the project, there was a very slow response from
Government to - and decisions - on the recommendations of successive Bank missions and that the Bank
had repeatedly to take the initiative to prompt Government to deal with delays and the attendant issues.
Annual audits of the project were required under the DCA. Audits reports were only undertaken for 1995
and 1996. Audit reports for 1997 and 1998 have not been provided to IDA.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Given the prevailing conditions under which it had to operate, VITA managed the micro-entrepreneur
component fairy well. The post-VITA management of this component was a disaster, marked by
incompetence and fraud which occurred in the context of a lack of interest from the authorities (until the
control team was set up).
The other components of the project were never satisfactorily managed.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Ownership of and commitment to the project were weak throughout the project. The complex nature of the
project demanded a high level of determination and coordination that was not forthcoming. Overall
borrower performance is thus rated as highly unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
(a)    Private sector development will take place only if the socio-political and macroeconomic
environment and sector arrangements are conducive. Hence, this type of project should not be launched
when there is uncertainty about the necessary conditions for investment and business.
(b)    (i) Critical stakeholders (in this case the Government ministries, banks, business associations,
leading entrepreneurs) should be involved in designing and setting up well thought through project
implementation arrangements. (ii) The arrangements for managing the credit should be discussed, agreed
and finalized before the submission for project approval so that satisfactory arrangements are in place for
overall project coordination. (iii) For this type of project, the commercial banks should participate fully in
- 12-



the design and preparation, including contributing to the assessment of credit demand, and drawing up and
agreeing the operating policies and procedures to be adopted. The latter should include interest rate policy,
agreed evaluation criteria, and the source(s) of economic and other data to be used for the evaluation of
loan applications.
(c)    (i) The Bank should not assume that necessary implementation capacity will be developed and put
in place after credit effectiveness. (ii) Adequate capacity should be identified and, if necessary, project
preparation should include training on Bank procurement and disbursement procedures and other project
requirements. (iii) A project management information system, with indicators to measure the impact of the
project on poverty (including social and gender aspects), should be included at appraisal and functioning in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank and Borrower by credit effectiveness.
(d)    (i) For a training component to contribute to sustainable capacity building, it should be delivered
early on in the project. (ii) This means that a training program should be developed as part of project
preparation and not be left to the implementation stage.
(e)    The experience of the micro-entrepreneur component showed that a micro-credit project can work
and can contribute significantly towards gender equality but that achievement of long-term financial
sustainability takes time and required close management and supervision.
(f)    When a project is repeatedly performing unsatisfactorily, as was this project, the Bank should act
sooner to cancel it, and not hold on in anticipation that the credit available might be used to support
financing needs in the same sectors.
- 13 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is the unabridged text of the Borrower's comments on the project:
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE ,DES FINANCES,                REPUBLIQUE
CENTRAFRICAINE
DU PLAN ET DE LA COOPERATION                                 Unite - DignitN - Travail
INTERNATIONALE
MINISTERE DELEGUE A L'ECONOMIE, AU PLAN
ET A LA COOPERATION INTERNATIONALE
CABIN ET
COORDINATION
DIVISION DES PROGRAMMES ET PROJETS
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PARDEP
CONTRIBUTION DU GOUVERNEMENT
PRESENTATION
Introduction
1/ Rappel des objectifs et structures du PARDEP
2/ Degre de realisation des objectifs
3/ Forces et faiblesses de l'execution du projet
4/ Performance des Experts de la Banque Mondiale, des autorites et responsables locaux
du projet.
5/ Perspectives pour les op6rations futures
Conclusion
- 14 -



Introduction
Dans la perspective de la preparation du rapport d'achevement du PARDEP par la Banque Mondiale
suite a la decision de cloture du projet, le Gouvemement Centrafricain est amene a faire part de son
point de vue. Cette contribution s'articule autour des points ci-apres souleves dans la lettre
n°306/2000/RRlFAK/bdn de la Banque adressee au Gouvernement le 17 Avril 2000.
1 - Rappel des objectifs et structures du PARDEP
Le Projet d'Assistance a la Rehabilitation et au Developpement des Entreprises Privees a ete concu par
le Gouvemement suite i la Table Ronde des bailleurs sur la promotion du secteur prive en Republique
Centrafricaine. Ce projet a ete mis en place grace a I'accord de credit signe le 12 Juillet 1991 avec 1'
Association Intemationale de Developpement pour un montant de DTS 9.400.000 soit environ 7
milliards de FCFA.
Conformement aux dispositions de l'accord de credit (annexe 2), le PARDEP avait pour objectif de
promouvoir la croissance economique en vue de reduire le chomage en accordant des moyens financiers
pour d6velopper les entreprises privees et faciliter l'acces au credit aux micro-entreprises.
Pour atteindre cet objectif, quatre grandes composantes ont ete envisagees 'a savoir:
- La realisation des etudes de faisabilite, des etudes sectorielles et preparatoires,
- L'assistance technique pour la gestion du projet, la formation et le renforcement des
organismes de promotion du secteur prive,
- Le programme de promotion de micro-entreprises,
- La ligne de credit APEX logee dans les banques commerciales pour financer les
immobilisations et les fonds de roulement des entreprises eligibles.
De toutes ces composantes du PARDEP, seul le programme de promotion de micro-entreprises et la
ligne APEX ont connu un debut d'execution.
A propos de structures du projet, il y a lieu de rappeler que la composante micro-entreprises qui a
fonctionne de maniere autonome a et confiee a l'ONG Vita sur la base d'un contrat d'operateur tandis
que pour la ligne APEX, aucune disposition expresse et serieuse n'a e  prise pour assurer la gestion du
projet. Cette ligne a ete geree par tatonnement dans un premier temps par un comite de coordination
sans mandat precis et dans un second temps par une direction nommee pour assurer la gestion du
projet.
2 - Degre de r6alisation des objectifs
Comme nous I'avons souligne ci-dessus, deux composantes seulement ont ete amorcees avec un niveau
de realisation qui laisse a desirer compte tenu des difficultes dont certaines seront evoquees dans le
point suivant. Mais l'on doit retenir que les activites du projet n'ont pas couvert toute la periode d'
execution du projet tel que defini dans l'accord de credit. En effet, I'accord qui a ete conclu le 12 Juillet
1991 devait normalement expirer en juin 1998, soit sept ans pour permettre de mesurer l'impact reel du
projet. Malheureusement le projet n'a connu qu'une duree de vie limitee parce qu'il n'a fonctionne que
- 15-



pendant quatre ans, de 1992 A 1996.
3 - Forces et faiblesses du projet
a) Les forces
La dynamique du projet PARDEP provient des objectifs qui lui sont assignes et qui, pour le
Gouvernement, devaient en principe jeter les bases de la promotion du secteur prive avec comme effet
induit, la relance de 1'economie et la lutte contre la pauvrete.
A 1'epoque de la mise en place du PARDEP, le tissu economique de la Republique Centrafricaine avait
besoin d'etre renforce pour un nouveau decollage. Le PARDEP etait donc tout indique pour ce soutien
tant souhaite pour appuyer non seulement les entreprises existantes mais aussi celles en creation.
En effet, le volet Micro-entreprise, seul volet ayant reellement fonctionne, a permis A un certain nombre
de beneficiaires constitues majoritairement de femmes, de developper des activites generatrices de
revenus.
Dans 1'ensemble, les beneficiaires sont globalement satisfaits comme le confirme le rapport d'
evaluation du Bureau d'Etude BERETEC.
b) Lesfaiblesses
Le PARDEP des sa conception, portait en elle les germes de son echec. En effet, ce projet a et elabore
unilateralement par les Experts de la Banque Mondiale et mis en oeuvre sans prise en compte reelle du
contexte socio-politico-economique particulierement difficile de la Republique Centrafricaine entre
1991 et 1993.
L'article 3 de l'accord de credit consacre A 1'execution du projet indique dans sa section 3.01 que 1'
emprunteur execute le projet sous la coordination generale d'un comite de coordination.
Cette disposition reste pourtant muette sur la structure du comite de coordination et ne definit pas plus
ses modalites de fonctionnement. Cette situation a donne lieu A des improvisations prejudiciables a 1'
execution du projet.
Le Comite de coordination comme la Direction du projet etaient composes d'agents non prepares A
gerer un tel projet. Ces deux structures ne disposaient d'ailleurs pas de mandat precis. Pour un projet d'
une telle importance, on aurait souhaite que les structures de gestion et les modalites de recrutement
soient definies A l'avance. Cela aurait permis d'eviter la cooptation systematique des fonctionnaires
pour gerer un projet et laisser ainsi place au systeme de recrutement base sur appel A candidatures
repondant aux criteres de profil et competence requis.
La troisieme insuffisance est liWe A la legerete de l'etude sur I'adhesion des Institutions Financieres
Participantes (IFP) au projet et I'adaptation du projet au contexte economique centrafricain. Tout porte
aujourd'hui A croire d'une part que les banques primaires n'avaient pas e  suffisamment sensibilisees
pour donner leur appui et accepter de prendre des risques pour soutenir les entreprises centrafricaines
qui ne manqueront pas de contribuer A leur essor. D'autre part la non objection prealable de
WASHINGTON sur un dossier A financer, ou encore la centralisation des procedures de decaissement
au niveau du siege de la Banque ont constitue autant d'entraves A l'execution du projet. La ligne APEX
n'a pas marche A cause de ces facteurs qui ne sont pas limitatifs.
- 16-



Par ailleurs, le mecanisme de suivi prevu par le projet n'a pas ete efficace. Dans l'accord de credit, il
est prevu un systeme d'evaluation du projet base sur le principe d'audit (art.4 clauses financieres) A la
fin de chaque exercice. Normalement, les premieres evaluations des activites du projet devaient deceler
tres t6t des indicateurs d'une mauvaise gestion et des difficultes liees au contexte de l'epoque et
proposer des solutions. La suspension intervenue en 1997 c'est-A-dire, apres quatre ans d'exercice, n'a
retenu pour cause essentielle que les troubles socio-politiques que le pays a connu en 1996.
II a donc fallu attendre le resultat de l'audit realise en 1999 pour mettre en evidence la mauvaise gestion
comme cause de clbture du projet.
II convient de rappeler que l'audit effectue par le Cabinet Calan Ramolino & Associes fait suite A la
mission de contr6le decide par le Gouvemement et dirigee par l'Inspection Generale des Finances
aupres de la Direction du projet. Le resultat de cet audit devrait permettre de disposer des informations
fiables sur la gestion des comptes du PARDEP et d'envisager la poursuite ou non des activites. On note
par ailleurs que le rapport d'audit n'a pas precise le niveau des responsabilites, conformement aux
objectifs definis dans ses termes de references.
Malheureusement, sans une concertation approfondie prealable des deux parties sur les conclusions de
l'auditeur, la Banque annon,ait dejA l'intention de cloturer le projet. S'il est vrai que la section 6.03 de
l'accord de credit prevoit des cas d'interdiction pour l'emprunteur d'effectuer des retraits, la decision
de suspension etait beaucoup plus justifiee par les troubles de 1996-1997 connus par notre pays,
circonstance exceptionnelle qui avait tout le merite d'une attention particuliere de la Banque Mondiale.
Non seulement la mise en oeuvre tout comme l'elaboration du projet n'a pas tenu compte du contexte
institutionnel et politique A l'epoque de la Republique Centrafricaine, on constate que la decision de
cl6ture a ete prise hors contexte en frappant un pays en situation de post conflit.
Enfin, le Gouvemement Centrafricain continue de s'interroger sur la competence reelle et l'efficacite de
l'appui de l'Assistance Technique, dont la presence n'a pas permis d'eviter les derapages constates tout
le long de l'execution du projet.
Aujourd'hui, la Republique Centrafricaine doit compter dans son encours de dettes le credit PARDEP
qui n'a pas servi aux objectifs poursuivis. La Banque, en decidant d'annuler le reliquat du projet, et en
reclamant le remboursement des montants dont l'utilisation n'a pas et conforme ainsi que le reglement
des creances echues, rentrera totalement dans ses droits, augmentant les charges du budget centrafricain
en l'absence de contrepartie reelle.
4 - Performance des Experts de la Banque Mondiale et des Responsables locaux du projet
Les Experts de la Banque Mondiale ont con,u et elabore le PARDEP, en s'appuyant sur des modeles
qui ne sont pas forcement adaptables A tous les pays et certainement pas au n6tre.
Au sujet des Experts de la Banque Mondiale responsables du projet, on peut penser au vu du resultat
obtenu et des conclusions de l'audit, qu'ils n'ont pas ete attentifs et ont manque de vigilance pour
donner I'alerte A temps devant certaines derives constatees dans la gestion du projet et certainement pas
au notre.
Les autorites centrafricaines, quoique n'ayant pas ete associees au processus d'elaboration du
- 17 -



PARDEP l'ont malgre tout accepte, car de prime abord il semblait prendre en compte les besoins du
moment. II etait necessaire de proceder a une verification prealable de l'adaptabilite de ce modele de
projet aux realites centrafricaines.
Concemant les autorites et responsables locaux du projet, il y a lieu de repenser les structures de
gestion de projets finances par la Banque par la definition d'un cahier des charges et la determination
des criteres de recrutement des agents d'execution et de gestion des projets.
5 - Perspectives pour les operations futures
Fort des lecons tirees de l'echec des programmes passes, le Gouvemement souhaite une necessaire
evolution des attitudes dans le sens d'une meilleure prise en compte du contexte national. Les mesures
suivantes listees ci-dessous sans &re exhaustives devraient utilement participer A la realisation de cet
objectif.
*      L'ensemble des programmes et projets devront etre menes dans un esprit de partenariat
veritable, qui suppose le dialogue et la concertation et une plus grande implication des cadres
nationaux, maitrisant mieux les realites socio-economiques locales, dans le processus d'
elaboration et de la mise en oeuvre de ces programmes, or le PARDEP, comme beaucoup d'
autres projets de la Banque Mondiale ont ete con,us par ses Experts au mepris des realites des
pays. La modelisation a constitue un facteur de risque important dans l'elaboration et 1'
execution de ces projets. Chaque pays a ses realites socio-politico-economiques differentes qui
doivent etre pris en compte pour limiter les risques endogenes.
La conception des projets futurs doit s'accompagner de la mise en place d'un dispositif de
contr6le, faisant intervenir les deux parties en presence, A savoir le Gouvernement
Centrafricain et la Banque Mondiale. Cela permettra de prendre A temps les mesures
necessaires.
*      Le Gouvemement devra etre implique dans la verification des decaissements, qui seront
fonction des resultats.
*      Les gestionnaires des differents projets devront desormais rendre compte au gouvernement, par
le biais respectif du Ministere de Tutelle, et du Ministere de l'Economie, du Plan et de la
Cooperation Intemationale.
Les modalites de recrutement de l'Assistance Technique devront etre revues dans leur ensemble
pour que les resultats soient A la hauteur des couits y relatifs.
Conclusion
La prise en compte de ces idees va certainement assurer le renforcement de la viabilite et l'efficacite des
projets finances par la Banque Mondiale en Republique Centrafricaine. Cela doit s'operer dans un
esprit de participation active du pays et une confiance mutuelle.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 18 -



Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No written comments from the private sector but oral comments are reflected in sections 3-7.
10. Additional Information
Project Documentation
CAR suffered from a succession of civil disturbances in 1996 and 1997 which resulted in severe physical
damage and loss of life. Most of the project files were destroyed and, as a result, this ICR has been
prepared on the basis of incomplete information. The lack of several audits is also attributable to this
situation.
Background Information to this ICR
This is the implementation completion report for the Private Enterprises Rehabilitation and Technical
Assistance Project (PARDEP) financed by IDA Credit No 2254-CA in the amount of SDR 9,400 million
(US$ 11.3 million). The credit was approved by the Board of IDA in May 1991 and the Development
Credit Agreement was signed on 12 July 1992. Disbursement under the Credit were suspended between
April and June 1990 and finally suspended on 29 December 1998. The project was formally closed on 31
December 1999.
This ICR was prepared under the supervision of the Task Team Leader, Andre Ryba, by Faustin-Ange
Koyasse and Oliver Campbell White, with support from Andrea Vasquez.
To prepare this report, Faustin-Ange Koyasse undertook a mission to Bangui between 23-30 April 2000.
During his visit to Bangui, he met the principal policy makers involved in the management of PARDEP,
notably Messrs Jacob Mbaitadjim, Minister for Economy, Planning and Intemational Cooperation,
Theodore Dabanga, Minister of Finance and Budget, and Jean-Baptiste Koyassambia, called Ziayoro,
Minister of Commerce, Industry et Private Sector Development. He also had useful meetings with persons
responsible for various components of the project, employers' representatives, the Chamber of Commerce
and Industry, the managing directors of the banks, businessmen, and with Deputy Desire Kolingba,
This report takes account of the main conclusions from the discussions held with the above officials and
businessmen during the mission. Certain important features relevant to the history of the project make
reference to various aide-memoires, some audit reports, and project supervision missions. However,
despite the availability and willingness of the authorities and experts, the mission could not obtain other
information (such as financial statements) necessary for a full assessment of the project as the documents
had mostly been destroyed during the mutinies.
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
:i Indi ca00ton lMatix    1   i0  :  Proted in last PSR                  'Atual/Latest Estimate
Output Indicators:
in4:  0   i ctr t rXlndd*j0ix   i       Procted in last PSR               Actual/LatEstimate
Number of micro-enterprise loans                                                     6,255
Number of projects to which facility was                                             4,142
extended
Total value of micro-enterprise loans                                          FCFA 1,149 million
Number of women to whom loans were                                                   2,600
extended
see Note
Note: A logframe matrix was not prepared for this project; nor were performance indicators established
and monitored. The above data are all that could be readily gleaned from the project files
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)  App___isal__  ___u_lfLatest   Percentage__of
Appraisal     ActuaUlLatest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ million   _
1. Subproject financing (Investments)                    7.70
2. ME promotion program                                  3.40
3. Technical assistance                                  2.50
4. Training                                              0.90
5. Studies                                               0.70
Total Baseline Cost                                     15.20             0.00
Total Project Costs                15.20             0.00
Total Financing Required                 15.20             0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NC8          Other        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.40         0.20          0.00          0.60
(0.00)        (0.40)       (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.60)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         12.50         0.00         12.50
Apex subloans                (0.00)        (0.00)        (9.10)       (0.00)        (9. 1 0)
Micro-enterprise (ME)
subloans
Management services for
the ME program
Consultant services,
technical assistance,
and training
4. Incremental operating      0.00          0.00         1.00          0.00          1.00
costs
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.50)        (0.00)        (0.50)
5. SPPFIPPF refinancing       0.00          0.00         1.10          0.00          1.10
(0.00)       (0.00)        (I. I 0)      (0.00)        (1. I 0)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.00          0.40         14.80         0.00          15.20
(0.00)       (0.40)       (10.90)        (0.00)       (11.30)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
- 21 -



1. Works                        0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                        0.00            0.00          0.29           0.00           0.29
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                     0.00            3.83          0.00           0.00           3.83
Apex subloans                   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Micro-enterprise (ME)
subloans
Management services for
the ME program
Consultant services,
technical assistance,
and training
4. Incremental operating        0.00            0.00           0.36          0.00            0.36
costs
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
5. SPPFIPPF refinancing         0.00            0.00          0.90           0.00           0.90
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00            0.00          0.06           0.00            0.06
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         0.00           3.83           1.61          0.00            5.44
_________________________       (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing Plan at Appraisal:
Local             Foreign               Total
IDA                                   1.4                  9.9                 11.3
Subborrowers                          2.4                                       2.4
Participating financial               0.9                                       0.9
institutions
Government                            0.6                                       0.6
Total                                 5.3                  9.9                 15.2
Actual/Latest Estimate Project Financing:
-22 -



IDA                                                                              5.45
Subborrowers
Participating financial institutions
Government
Total
Source: Project files.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation       Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification mission         2    Sr. Ind. Operations Officer,
(June 1989);                        Consultant (sociologist),
resident representative
Preparation mission            3    Sr. Ind. Operations Officer,
(November 1989)                     Consultant, resident
representative
Preparation/Pre-appraisal      4    Sr. Ind. Operations Officer,
mission (April-May 1990             consultants, resident
representative
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal (November            6   Sr. Operations Officer,
19390)                              Legal Advisor,
Disbursement Officer,
Financial Sector Specialist,
Consultant
Negotiations (April 91)
Supervision
November 91                    3   Fin. Sect. Spec.                       S                  S
(Consultant), ME Spec.
(Consultant), Sr. Economist
May 92                         2   Sr. Economist, Division Chief,         S                  S
April 93                       3  Financial Sector Specialist             U                  U
(Consultant), Economist
(Consultant), Sr.
Economist/Industrial Specialist
November 93                    2   Financial Analyst Consultant,          S                  S
Sr. Economist
August 94                      2   Financial Analyst Consultant,          S                  S
Sr. Economist
February- March 95             2   Consultant, Operations Analyst        U                  U
July 95                        3   Consultant, Operations Analyst,       U                  U
Division Chief
December 95                    2   Operations Analyst                    U                  U
I  Team Leader                            U                 U
February 99                     1  Team Leader                            U                 U
ICR
April 2000                     1   Program Officer
-25 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              98.8                       172.7
AppraisaVNegotiation                    27.6                        57.0
Supervision                            134.8                       246.0
ICR                                     12.0                        33.9
Total                                  273.2                       510.2
-26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OSector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
M Financial                               OH OSUOM *N ONA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
N Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Gender                           O H OSU*M O N O NA
F Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank performance                                  Rating
M Lending                                            OHS OS OU *HU
N Supervision                                        O HS OS   Ou   OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS   *  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
X Preparation                                        OHS OS   O  U  * HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
I lmplementation agency performance                  O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
M Overall                                            OHS OS  O U * HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Enterprise Rehabilitation and Development (ERDP), Staff Appraisal Report, May 8, 1991
2. Enterprise Rehabilitation and Development Project, Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President of the International Development Association to the Executive Directors, May 8, 1991.
3. Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports of Supervisions Missions.
4. Aide-memoire of ICR mission (April 2000).
5. Correspondence on file.
- 29 -



