Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2254 CA
(Enterprise Rehabilitation and Development Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 12, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2254 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1991, between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
by Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between BEAC, on behalf 
of the Borrower, and Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs), certain proceeds of 
the Credit will be onlent to said PFIs, on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
(C)
by Investment Agreements to be entered into between PFIs and Investment 
Enterprises, certain proceeds of the Credit will be onlent to said Investment 
Enterprises to finance Investment
Projects, on the terms and conditions set forth in said Investment Agreements;
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BEAC" means the Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale;
 
(b)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Credit Guidelines" means the detailed circular issued by the Borrower 
through BEAC and satisfactory to the Association, outlining the terms and conditions 
and the appraisal format for the use of the proceeds of the Credit by PFIs in the 
Borrower's territory;
(d)
"Investment Agreement" means an agreement between a PFI and an Investment 
Enterprise to make a Sub-loan;
(e)
"PFI" means Participating Financial Institution, i.e., a financial 
institution, established and operating in conformity with the banking laws of the 
Borrower, which will enter or has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the 
Borrower, through BEAC;
(f)
"Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made, or proposed to be made, by a PFI 
to an Investment Enterprise, pursuant to an Investment Agreement, for an Investment 
Project out of the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit relent to a PFI under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(g)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a PFI proposes to 
make or has made a Sub-loan;
(h)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(i)
"Protocol" means the agreement between the Borrower and BEAC, referred to 
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, through BEAC, and a PFI pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"CAPMEA" means Centre d'Assistance aux Petites et Moyennes Entreprises et 
 l'Artisanat, an agency established by the Borrower to promote private sector 
initiative and SMEs in the Central African Republic;
(m)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated June 
Page  3
6, 1989 and July 6, 1989; July 16, 1990 and July 26, 1990; and dated March 25, 1991, 
and March 28, 1991, between the Borrower and the Association;
(n)
"PCC" means the Project Coordinating Committee referred to in Section 
3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
(o)
"Project Unit" means the Unit to be established by BEAC pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
"MFCIPME" means the Ministcre des Finances, du Commerce, de l'Industrie 
et des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises of the Borrower; and
(q)
"SME" means small- and medium-scale enterprises, whose total fixed 
assets, excluding the value of land and the amount of the Investment Project to be 
undertaken by it, shall not exceed one hundred twenty-five million CFAF and in which 
the total capital share held by the Borrower and any public entity or entities of the 
Borrower shall not be higher than 49 percent.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to nine million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
9,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by a PFI on account of withdrawals 
made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Part A.2 and Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account with BEAC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Association the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn 
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1,
commencing October 1, 2001, and ending April 1, 2031. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 1, 2011, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall carry 
out the Project under the overall coordination of PCC, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, banking, business and trade 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to carry out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
enter into a Protocol with BEAC, acceptable to the Association, pursuant to which BEAC 
shall undertake to fully
assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of said Protocol. To this end, BEAC shall establish and maintain a 
Page  5
Project Unit with terms of reference acceptable to the Borrower and the Association. 
The Protocol shall further provide that BEAC shall on behalf of the Borrower:
(a)
enter into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with PFIs, acceptable to the 
Association and whose financial statements for the previous fiscal year were audited 
and certified by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association, for the purpose of onlending the proceeds of 
the Credit withdrawn under Category (1)(a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The terms and conditions of said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements shall be acceptable to the Association and shall include a reference 
interest rate of 7% per annum or any other rate determined in agreement with the 
Association, and a flexible amortization schedule reflecting the aggregate maturity of 
Sub-loans extended by said PFIs out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)
cause PFIs to enter into Investment Agreements with Investment 
Enterprises, acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, in accordance with the 
criteria and the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
(c)
ensure that a Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall 
obtain, through an Investment Agreement or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, including the 
rights set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) duly perform all its obligations under the 
Protocol and Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Protocol or Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision 
thereof; and
(b)
exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such manner 
as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association; (ii) comply with 
its obligations under
this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, during the last quarter of each calendar year, 
review with the Association: (a) the financial terms (i.e., the interest rate 
structure and amortization period) applicable to Sub-loans and to loans extended to 
microenterprises and shall promptly adjust said financial terms as required by the 
prevailing market conditions and as agreed upon with the
Association; and (b) the annual operations program designed to carry out Part B.4 of 
the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan to the Association for approval, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association an application, in a form satisfactory 
to the Association, together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and 
an evaluation of the Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the Sub-loan, taking into account the criteria set 
forth in Part A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan and 
the terms and conditions set forth in Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and 
(iii) such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section shall be presented to
the Association on or before December 31, 1997.
Section 3.06. (a) In order to coordinate the carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower shall establish a Project Coordinating Committee within the Ministry of 
Planning and, thereafter, maintain it with membership and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultant services, required for Parts A.2 and B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Page  6
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) cause CAPMEA to prepare each year a draft 
work program and related budget and submit them by October 30 of each year to the 
Borrower for its approval; and (b) pay to CAPMEA on the first day of each calendar 
quarter commencing on January 1, 1992, an amount equivalent to one quarter of the 
Borrower's contribution to the annual budget of CAPMEA referred to in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall develop and carry out the microenterprise 
credit scheme referred to in Part B.4 of the Project in accordance with procedures, 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Said terms and conditions shall 
include inter alia: (a) a loan amount to any individual microentrepreneur not to 
exceed CFAF 2,500,000; (b) financial charges (including an administration fee, a risk 
premium and interest charges) at a rate of at least two percent per month; (c) a 
repayment period of no more than 24 months, and acceptable collateral to ensure the 
repayment of loan principal and interest; and (d) a contribution by the 
microentrepreneur of at least 25 percent of the total costs of the proposed activity 
to be financed.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the study referred to in Part 
B.5 (i) of the Project by December 31, 1992; and all other studies referred to in Part 
B.5 (ii) and (iii) in
accordance with a timetable agreed upon with the Association; (b) submit the results 
of said studies as soon as they are available to the Association for its review and 
comments; and (c) promptly implement the recommendations of said studies as agreed 
upon with the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (a) by November 30 of each year submit to the 
Association for its review and comments an annual assessment of the impact of the 
Borrower's policies on the
development of small businesses and on the overall investment climate (including an 
evaluation of the effects of specific laws such as the investment code and the 
legislation pertaining to the promotion of national small businesses); and (b) take 
all necessary measures advisable on the basis of such assessment and the Association's 
review and agreed upon with the Association to improve existing policies and/or the 
small businesses regulatory framework.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause the consultant selected to assist the 
Borrower in the execution of Part B.4 of the Project to:
(a)
keep separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the use of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Category (1) (b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
have the accounts referred to under paragraph (a) above for each fiscal 
year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to the Borrower and the Association not later than three months 
after the end of each fiscal year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
accounts and the audit thereof and said records as the Association shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, no later than March 31, 1994, carry out 
jointly with the Association, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out 
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  7
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project and of each Investment Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it).
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section, including the Special Account 
for each fiscal year, audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
accounts and 
the audit thereof and said records as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditures 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
BEAC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Protocol;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that BEAC will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Protocol;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BEAC or CAPMEA or for the 
suspension of their operations; and
Page  8
(d)
the Credit Guidelines shall have been amended without prior approval by 
the Association.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the PCC has been established.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Planning is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Planning,
   Statistics and International Cooperation
P.O. Box 696
Bangui
Central African Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5208 RC
Central African Republic
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ J.-P. Sohahong Kombet
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods and Services
     for Investment
     Projects:
     (a)  for Sub-loans         4,150,000       100% of amounts
          under Part A.1                        disbursed by
          of the Project                        PFIs
     (b)  for micro-              330,000       100%
          enterprises
          under Part B.4
          of the Project
(2)  Management                 1,210,000       100%
     services for
     Part B.4 of
     the Project
(3)  Consultants'                 830,000       100%
     services
(4)  Equipment and                500,000       100%
     vehicles
(5)  Incremental                  420,000       100%
     operating costs
(6)  Training                     420,000       100%
(7)  Project Preparation          910,000       Amount due
     Advances                                   pursuant to
                                                Section 2.02
                                                (c) of this
                                                Agreement
Page  10
(8)  Unallocated                  630,000
                                _________
          TOTAL                 9,400,000
                                =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental operating costs" means 
incremental expenses incurred for supplies, spare parts, fuel, maintenance and repair 
of vehicles and equipment, and travel for the Project Unit, MFCIPME's Direction du 
Developpement Industriel et Artisanal and CAPMEA. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
in respect of a Sub-loan under Category (1) (a) unless:
 
(i)
the Credit Guidelines have been issued; the Protocol referred to 
in Section 
3.02 of this Agreement has been signed and an investment 
banking specialist 
has been recruited and has taken up his position; and 
the Project Unit has 
been established with staff whose 
qualifications and professional experience 
are satisfactory to the 
Association;
(ii)
the Association has approved the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between 
BEAC and 
the PFI concerned;
 
(iii)
said Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and 
on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement and 
has been approved by the Project Unit;
 
(iv)
the Association has approved the first three Investment Agreements 
made by the 
PFI concerned; and
 
(v)
for any Sub-loan in an amount exceeding CFAF 70,000,000, the 
Association has 
approved the Investment Agreement pursuant to which 
said Sub-loan is made; and
(c)
in respect of Categories (3), (5) and (6) unless a small enterprise 
promotion specialist has been recruited and has taken up his position and a 
counterpart with qualifications and professional experience satisfactory to the 
Association has been designated.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower's efforts to: (i) 
promote economic growth and reduce unemployment by providing financial means to expand 
private enterprises through
restructuring or rehabilitation of such existing enterprises and creation of new ones; 
and (ii) facilitate access to credit for viable microenterprises.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Assistance to Enterprises
 
1.
Financing of Investment Projects to be carried out by Investment Enterprises 
through the intermediation of PFIs.
2.
(i)   Establishment within BEAC of a Project Unit responsible for the execution 
of Part A.1 of the Project and equipping of said Project Unit; and (ii) training of 
Page  11
BEAC's and the PFIs' staff
responsible for carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, in fields related to the 
management of an Apex line of credit and monitoring of the execution of Investment 
Projects.
Part B:
Institutional Building
 
1.
Strengthening the capability of CAPMEA to provide adequate assistance and 
guidance to potential investors in the preparation of Investment Projects.
2.
Strengthening the capability of MFCIPME's Direction du Developpement Industriel 
et Artisanal responsible for managing matters related to the promotion of small- and 
medium-scale enterprises.
3.
Formulation and execution of a training program in subject matters related to 
the promotion of small- and medium-scale enterprises, benefitting in particular: (i) 
the staff of CAPMEA and MFCIPME responsible to carry out Part B of the Project; and 
(ii) beneficiaries of Sub-loans and microentrepreneurs.
4.
Development and execution of an employment generating credit scheme for viable 
microenterprises.
5.
A program of studies including: (i) a legal study to assess existing 
institutional constraints to an efficient recovery of credit extended by financial 
institutions and recommend appropriate means to remove said constraints; (ii) a study 
to restructure CAPMEA and improve its efficiency; (iii) a feasibility study to 
establish a credit guarantee fund; and (iv) the audits required by the Project and 
other selected studies.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
The words "or for Investment Projects" are added after the words "the Project" 
at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)
Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
 
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days; 
or (b) by the date specified in 
Section 3.05 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, 
no applications or requests permitted 
under paragraph (a) of such Section shall have 
been received by the Association, in respect 
of any portion of the Credit, or having 
been so received, shall have been denied; or (c) at 
any time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any item is inconsistent with 
the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes  the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such item which would otherwise have been eligible 
for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit; or (d) after the Closing Date, an amount 
of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association 
may, by notice 
to the Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals or 
requests or to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may 
be, with respect to such amount or 
portion of the Credit. Upon the giving 
of such notice such amount or portion of the Credit 
shall be cancelled."
 
SCHEDULE 4
Page  12
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by The World Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the Central African Republic may be granted a margin 
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and equipment shall be grouped 
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more.
3.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three
reputable suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$750,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
(d)
With respect to each contract referred to in Part A above, the Borrower 
shall ensure that any preshipment inspection required prior to the import of goods 
procured under said contract
shall be applied only in respect of the quality and quantity stated in said contract.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  13
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by The Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
130,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation, 
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the relevant Special Account shall be made by the Association 
when either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
Page  14
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall,promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Part A:
Eligibility Criteria for Investment Enterprises and Investment Projects
 
An existing or a new Investment Enterprise which qualifies as an SME will be 
eligible for a Sub-loan, provided:
1.
it is operating in any economic sector other than real estate development and 
undertakes to use the proceeds of the Sub-loan to finance: (a) the acquisition of 
fixed assets and associated working capital, excluding the acquisition of land; and 
(b) free-standing working capital, if it is operating in a productive sector; the 
Borrower shall ensure that the aggregate of Sub-loans made for freestanding working 
capital shall not exceed an aggregate total of CFAF 300,000,000;
2.
it demonstrates that the proposed Investment Project is both technically and 
financially sound and, when implemented, is likely to lead to efficient and profitable 
operations including a financial rate of return of at least 12% on the projected 
investment. For Investment Projects in an amount exceeding CFAF 130,000,000 
equivalent, an economic rate of return of at least 12% shall be
required.
3.
it meets the following creditworthiness criteria:
 
(a)
except as otherwise agreed with the Association, a debt-equity ratio of 
not more than 4:1, taking into account such proposed Sub-loan; and
Page  15
(b)
a debt-servicing capacity (cash flow to debt service) of not less than 
1.3 over the life of the Sub-loan;
4.
the Sub-loan does not exceed CFAF 200,000,000; and
 
5.
if requested by the PFI, it provides an environmental assessment report showing 
the impact of the Investment Project on the environment and, if necessary, adequate 
measures to be implemented to mitigate any potential negative impact that may result 
from the execution of the Investment Project.
Part B:
Terms and Conditions to be Included in an Investment Agreement Between a 
PFI and an 
Investment Enterprise
 
1.
A fixed interest rate of 16% per annum or such other rate determined in 
agreement with the Association.
2.
A maturity of not more than 12 years, including a grace period of not more than 
three years.
3.
The Sub-loan shall not exceed 85% of the total cost of the Investment Project.
 
4.
The Investment Enterprise shall carry out and operate the Investment Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial 
and managerial standards
and shall maintain adequate records and accounts.
5.
(i)  Goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall 
be purchased at a reasonable price, after price quotations from at least three 
reliable suppliers have been furnished, account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods, and 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor and, in the case of 
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; and (ii) 
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Investment Project.
6.
The Association's right to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of 
the PFI in question or of the Borrower, if the Association shall so request, such 
goods, sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
7. 
(i)  The Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan to 
the place of use or installation; any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods.
8.
Release of all such information as the Borrower, the Association, or the PFI 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project.
9.
The right of the PFI to suspend or terminate the right of the Investment 
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment 
Enterprise to perform its obligations under the Investment Agreement.
