Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
&42-Z Z d'L)-- 7-f'
N 2|leEhJ 4' 1      tol ; 2                                            RepwtNo.  9581-STP
Wl^l;,J'  <1. 4/ X :;4 ,f;i / j e: /|,.  NIi3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
JUNE 4, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Dobras (Db)
US$1.00             =     i298    I982   122D
87    124    140
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =   3.28  feet (ft)
I kilometer (Cm)                0.62  miles (mi)
I square meter (m2)            10.76 square mile (sq mi)
I liter (1)                -   61.02 cubic inches (cu in)
I cubic meter (m3)         =   35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter per capita         =   0.264 US gallons per
per day (lcd)                  capita per day (gpd)
I metric ton (m ton)            2,204.62 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
ADF      -   African Development Facility
AfDB    -   African Development Bank
BNSTP  -   Banco Nacional de Sao Tome e Principe
EA       -   Executive Administrator
EEC      -   European Economic Community - Resident Mission
EMAE   -   Water and Energy Company of STP
FAC      -   Fonds Aide et Cooperation
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -   International Development Association
ILS      -   International and Local Shopping
.RR      -   Internal (Economic) Rate of Return
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
LS       -   Local Shopping
MEF    -   Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOE    -   Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH    -   Ministry of Health, Labor and Social Security
MOW    -   Ministry of Public Works and Environment
PMC      -   Project Management Consultant
SA       -   Special Account
SAP      -   Structural Adjustment Program
SDA      -   Social Dimensions of Adjustment
Si       -   Social Infrastructure Improvement Subprojects
SIF      -   Social and Infrastructure Fund
SOE      -   Statement of Expenditure
STP      -   Democratic Republic of Sao Tor.me and Principe
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Program
EISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTI SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWE3R:            Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and P incipe (STP)
BJENEICIARIES:       Sponsoring agencies comprising central and local government
agencies.
IMPLEMENMNG           Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF) - Fundo Social e de
AGENCY:               Infrastrutura (FSI)
CBEDIT AMOUNT:   SDR 4.5 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
TERMS                 Standard, with 40 years maturity
ON-LENDJNGF           The proceeds of the Credit to finance infrastructure sub-
TERMS:                projects (US$5.0 million) would be passed as grant to SIF. In urn,
SIF would pass these funds to sponsoring agencies, also on a grant
basis; however, in order to cover its administrative costs during sub-
project preparation, apprai.u and implementation, SIF would charge
a fee for its services.
PROJECI               The Project would be implemented through the SIF, which
DESCRIPTIQN:          was created in 1988 by Presidential Decree No. 45/88, as an
autonomous financial institution. SIF is supervised by a Board of
Administrators under the Chairmanship of the Prime Minister. The
proposed project would have the same objectives as the First
Multisector Project, i.e. to provide basic infrastructure, mitigate the
social and economic impact of the structural adjustment process and
generate employment. The proposed project would provide
financing for: (a) infrastructure sub-projects compatible with social
and economic priorities(such as water supply, slum upgrading, and
road rehabilitation); (b) technical assistance; and (c) training.
EOJECT BENEFITS  The social and economic benefits of the Project would be:
AND  RISKS:           (a) provision of urgently needed infrastructure to facilitate private
enterprise and raise living standards; (b) creation of employment
opportunities for the underemployed and unemployed; and (c) cost
recovery to sustain public services. The major risks and the related
measures taken to safeguard against them are as follows: (a) lack of
adequate technical
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
expertise in SIF to appraise and supervise an increasing number of
complex infrastkucture sub-projects (such as slum upgrading). To
off-set this ri3k, pie-investment financing would be available under
the project to finance preparation activities to be carried out by
consulting firms. Training will be provided to private local
consultants, Government agencies and SIF staff on the preparation,
appraisal and supervision of sub-projects. Implementation of
infrastructure sub-projects will be carried out by specialized units in
the various sectoral ministries;
(b) SIF's high administrative start-up costs could continue without
sufficient increase in its revenue generation. To off-set high operating
costs, SIF has adopted a policy of charging the sponsoring agencies for its
appraisal supervisioa and advisory services. This should, in the next two
years, largely off-set administrative costs. In addition, effort will be
made to contain administrative costs by improving efficiency and reducing
staf' recruitment to the minimum necessary.
ECONOMIC          Sub-projects for Infrastructure of more than US$250,000
RATE OF           would have to demonstrate an economic rate of return of at least 12
BIRN              percent.



- ill -
Pmleco Cmsts and FnanIg Plan
(USS million) ,
EstimatedProjet Costs.:          Foreign    Local               Percentage
Costs   Cost      alQl      of Total
Infratructure Sub-projects        5.0        0.9       5.9        77.6
Technical Assistance              0.4        0.2       0.6         7.9
Institional Support               0.4        0.5       0.9         11.8
Unallocated                                  -0                    _U
Total                   6.0         1.6      7.6        100.0
Finwcing Plane                   Foreign    Loal    TlDa        Percentage
of Total
IDA                             6.0         -       6.0         78.9
Government                      _           1
6.0        1.6      7.6        100.0
ESTIMAIED 1TDA DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal Y_a:               EM    EM   EM   EM   EY26
Annual                     0.8       1.1     1.2    1.6    1.3
Cumulative                 0.8       1.9     3.1    4.7    6.0



I)Ev10C.ATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECONDMULSECTOR PRCJE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION .............                                                            1
II. BACKGROUND .I..
A. Recent Economic Policy and Development Objectives.                             I
B. The Social Impact of Reforms.                                                 2
C. Public Services and Infrastructure.                                           2
D. Other Areas of SIF Involvement.                                               4
E. The Financial Sectcr                            .5
F. Investment Program and External Assistance.                                   6
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement.                                                7
H. The First Multisector Project.                                                7
III. THE PROJEC8..
A. Objectives and Project Description Stna.ary  .....................  8
B. Institutional Arrangements: SIF  .............................  8
C. Project Description .....................................  11
D. Community Relations, Promotion and Fund Raising ................  14
E. Project Monitoring .............       ........................   15
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ..................................    16
A. Project Costs and Financing ...............................   16
B. The Terms and Conditions ................................    17
C. Procurement ..................................                               18
D. Commitment and Disbursement ..............................  21
E. Accounting and Auditing .................................   21
V. PROJECT JUSIFICATION  ..................................   22
A. Benefits.s .......................... ................ 22
B. Risks and Safeguards  ..................................   22
VI. AGREEIUENTS AND RECOMMENDATON .                    ........................   23
A. Agreements ................................... 23
B. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness .............        ..............  24
C. Conditions of Disbursement ...............................  24
D. Recommendation ............................... ...  24
This project as well as this report were prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission,
March 1991, by Messrs. George Faillace (Mission Leader), Cesar Queiroz (Sen. Highway
Engineer), and Eric Peterson (Architect Consultant). Messrs. Rene Jarquin and Richard
James (Consultants) assisted in financial analysis. Secretarial support was provided by
Mmes. Mary Fisher and Helen Kofi. Messrs. James Wright and Edwin Lim are the
managing Division chief and Department Director, respectively for the operation.



ANNEXES
1. Organization Structure - Social and Infrastructure Fund (SF)
2. Balance Sheet - BNSTP
3. Action Plan
4. Technical Assistance Program
5. Statement of Policies
6. Sub-project Pipeline and Financial Projections
7. Sub-projed Pipeline - Description
8. Flow Funds
9. Disbursement Schedule
10. DMuments in the Project File



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTISECTOR PROJEC
1. INTIRODLCTION
1.1   The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (STP) consists of two islands in
the Gulf of Guinea, located 250 km west of Gabon. The country occupies an area of
1,000 square kilometers and has a population of 120,000 (1987) and a population growth rate
of about 2.1 percent per year. The island of Sao Tome is by far the largest land area with
858 square kilometers. Thirty-two percent of the population live in the capital of Sao Tome
and other urban areas.
1.2    After 500 years of colonial administration, the country gained independence in 1975.
Agriculture, almost entirely based on cocoa, coconut and oil palm, remained the mainstay of
its economy. Over the past few years, the country has experienced negative export growth,
increasing demand for fGreign exchange to stimulate agriculture and a widening budget
deficit. Facing a rapidly deteriorating economic situation, the Government moved to readjust
its economy in early 1987. A Structural Adjustment Prograrn (SAP) with IDA assistance was
approved in June 1987. The Government de%aded to embark on a second phase of the
structural adjustment program covering 1990-1992 and IDA provided assistance for this
second phase in June 1990. The estimated GNP per capita for 1990 is US$380, compared to
US$310 in 1986 and US$410 in 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Recent Economic Policy and Develoment Objectives
2.1   STP is facing a major task in rebuilding its economy, social programs and physical
infrastructure which have been deteriorating for some time. The combination of failing to
maintain the cocoa estates (rocas) and poor economic policies has resulted in a substantial
decline in export earnings which in turn, has precipitated an economic and financial crisis.
In reacting to this crisis, the Government made a good start in stabilizing the economy during
the past three years. There has been greater fiscal discipline and prudent monetary policy,
which have reduced domestic inflation. The exchange rate was depreciated in real terms by
about 40 percent between mid-1987 and end-1990 and the Government liberalized trade and
prices and eliminated subsidies on imported foodstuffs. Inflation has been reduced from
60 percent in 1986 to 34 percent in 1990. During the la.ter part of 1990 and early 1991, the
adjustment program stalled because of preoccupation with the elections which took place in
January 1991, and a number of key adjustment actions were delayed. In addition, tariffs for
electricity, water, and transport have not been adjusted enough to ensure that they are
covering operating costs. Thus, program targets for 1990 were not met and, as a result, the
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) has not yet become effective. Nevertheless,
agricultural production has started to respond to earlier policy reforms. These and
investmerts in the cocoa sector since 1987 have already led to modest increases in cocoa
production in 1989 and 1990. Food crop production (by about 6,000 small farmers) also
increased, and GDP (of which agriculture represents 30 percent) is estimated to have risen



-2 -
between 1.5 and 2.5 percent between 1988 and 1990, compared to a 1.4 percent decline in
1987. However, the 50 percent fall in international cocoa prices between 1987 and 1990 has
obscured much of the economic gains and increased both the time and the magnitude of the
adjustment required. Nevertheless, there are good long-term prospects for agricultural growth
through more efficient cocoa production, diversification into other exportable crops,
development of food crop production, animal production and possibly fisheries and forestry.
2.2    Over the medium term, the country will continue to face a difficult economic and
financial situation. A second phase adjustment program has been formulated which would
meet the objectives of resuming economic growth and protecting the interest of disawvantaged
groups. The thrust of the program is on improving incentives to increase the production of
traded goods and strengthening key government and support institutions. This involves
maintaining appropriate exchange rate, trade and fiscal policies as well as public sector reform
measures and improved targeting of public expenditure. The program also includes financial
sector reform and private sector development. A key feature is the protection of low income
households from the adverse affects of the adjustment process through improved social
services, employment generation in public works and land reforr..
B. The Social Impact of Reforms
2.3   The adjustment process requires continued containment of public spending; public
sector revenues will not regain recent losses quickly. However, shifts in internal terms of
trade in favor of the rural sector should increase rural incomes. Cocoa estate development,
wage, price and trade liberalization, and land distribution will benefit a number of workers
and smallholders. On balance, adverse social consequences are expected to be limited, and
outweighed by growth and efficiency gains. At the same time, to protect groups negatively
affected by the reforms, the Government has taken a number of measures such as: (a) food-
for-work and free lunches for about 20,000 school children; (b) mininum budgetary
allocations to health and education, and redesigning programs to maximize their impact;
(c) monitoring the program's social impact through a Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA)
Project, that includes developing a data base on the impact of the SAP, and financing poverty
alleviation sub-projects; (d) distributing some unused land, permitting small-building
development diversification of production, and improved supply of foodstuffs fbr both internal
and expert markets; and (e) an orderly transfer of laid-off public workers through a
redeployment fund financed by the African Development Facility (ADF). Finally, under the
IDA financed First Multisector Project the Government established a Social and Infrastructure
Fund (SIF) that supports sub-projects to mitigate adverse short-term effects on the poor,
particularly in the urban areas (para. 3.3 to 3.6); most of the sub-projects financed under the
First Multisector Project and proposed to be financed under the Second Multisector Project
are for public service and infrastructure.
C. Public Sgrvices and Infrastructure
2.4    Halih: After independence in 1975, the Government of STP gave very high priority
to improving health services. Consequently, STP's health indicators resemble more those of
middle-income countries than other sub-Saharan African countries. In the mid-1980s, life
expectancy at birth wa 62 years, infant mortality was 55 per 1,000 live births and over
85 percent of deliveries occurred under medical supervision. However, along with recent
economic declines, health services have been deteriorating. In 1988, the infant mortality rate
increased to 70 per 1,000, only 50 percent of the deliveries occurred in maternity clinics, and



the overall mortality rate increased from 7.7 per 1,000 in 1981 to 10 in 1984 auid 11.5 in
1988. Malaria, which was considered eradicated in early 1980s, surged back drastically in
1985. Immunization against DPT, polio, tetanus and measles were 98 percent, 92 percent,
71 percent and 86 percent, respectively, in 1988 but declined to 88 percent, 85 percent,
62 percent and 57 percent, respectively in 1989. A large number of external donors and
multilateral agencies are now assisting STP with health programs, including IDA through SIF
under the First Multisector Project. However, STP lacks the capacity for effective donor
coordination and preparation of projects based on sectoral priorities. Under the IDA assisted
First M.ultisector Project, the SIF has provided financing and coordination.
2.5    Education: STP has made progress in the expansion of education since independence
in 1975. It has attained near universal enrollment (97 percent) in primary education and over
two-thirds of the school age group attend basic secondary schools. No significant sex bias is
evident. Adult literacy was 57.4 percent in 1981 and it is now estimnated at 66 percent. Buit
the country's educational system is now constrained by adequate budgets. Classrooms are
inadequate-many schools run three short shifts-and most facilities are dilapidated and
educational materials and supplies are very limited. Until recently, when printing and
distribution began under the First Multisector Project, textbooks were virtually non-existent.
Several external donors have provided assistance, for school building rehabilitation and for
teachers' training, but there is no capacity for effective planning, coordination or preparation
of priority projects. In addition, the Government's capacity to manage the educational
program and to administer the school system is very limited. Again, under the First
Multisector Project SIF is assisting to develop this capacity.
2.6    Urban Development: Sao Tome city (the capital) and a few other urbanized areas
have experienced more rapid population increases in recent years due to the migration of
workers from rural areas. The population density in the capital area is currently
1,962 inhabitants per square kilometer. As a result, the deteriorating and overstrained urban
infrastructure has become inadequate for providing essential services such as drinking water,
sanitation, storm drainage, solid waste disposal and roads. Institutional strengthening is
required in all areas; there is virtually no resource mobilization for urban infrastructure.
Some assistance is being provided for water supply and market development under the First
Multisector Project, but much more effort is needed.
2.7    Housfiig: Legislation dating back to colonial days prescribes minimum standards for
housing development. However, these standards require expensive permanent building
materials which are unaffordable to most households and access to infrastructure which is
available only in parts of the capital and in a few other urbanized areas. This has led to the
proliferation of low-cost informal housing developments in urban areas. Other problems
affecting housing development are: shortages of domestic and imported building materials,
high construction costs, and hu of land tenure. More recently, the Government has
attempted to boost housing development through leasehold allocations oV - lots averaging
400 square meters to eligible households. In a few instances, housing c. operatives are being
formed to build self-help housing.
2.8    Water Suppl a  Eneryv: - Empresa de Aqga e Electricidade (E_MA   is a public
enterprise which operates the water supply and energy system in STP. In 1990, EMAE
signed a managemernt contract with Safage (France). Water supply service levels are low and
of poor quality. Only about 15 percent of the country's population is served by house or
patio connections and another 15 percent have access to standposts. In the capital, about



40 percent have house or patio connections and the rest are served by standposts which are
increasingly out of service. Water sources are unprotected and without treatment, and many
ommunicable and water borne diseases are attributed to these problems. Metering is limited
to about 38 percent of connections. Moreover, the accounting system does not separate
collections for water from collections for electricity. EMAE has run an operational deficit for
a long period; however, tariff increases are planned in early 1991 which could eventually
eliminate this deflcit as agreed under SAC II.
2.9    RDad: Sao Tome has about 300 km of roads which are mostly paved; this includes
roads belonging to plantations (rocas). The road network comprises one national highway
between the capital .nd major population centers, three trunk roads and several rural feeder
roads and city streets. The road network serves primarily the northeastern part of San Tome
and links major population centers in that quadrant with the capital. The southwestern part of
thle country has practically no roads. Pavements consists of stone cut from local quarries, and
in many instances, bituminous overlays which were added more than two decades ago. With
a ratio of about 3 km of paved road per 1000 inhabitants, this subsector is relatively well
developed by comparison to countries on the African mainland. However, the almost tctal
neglect of scheduled road rehabilitation in recent years, has severely affected commercial
transport and the movement of people. In many cases road surfaces as well as sub-bases have
been damaged to such an extent that vehicles cannot pass and some shipments of cocoa beans
have to be carried to the port on coastal barges. Under the First Multisector Project, some
modest rehabilitation of feeder roads has taken place. In addition, the African Developraient
Bank is supporting the rehabilitation of the national highway system.
2.10   Environment: Protection of the country's natural resources is an envirornental
priority. Deterioration of infrastructure, especially storm drainage and solid waste disposal
has become an environmental problem. Extensive erosion of road sub-bases and shoulders is
affecting the sorrounding environment, especially where vehicles detour to avoid large holes.
These problems give rise to concern about the future use of the islands' great natural beauty
for tourism. There is also concern about the preservation of natural forest and the
Government has recently completed a forestry inventory and fuel wood supply/demand study
aimed at assessing the country's forestry resource endowment.
D. Other Areas of SIF Involvement
2.11 Private Sector Development: A fundamental aspect of the Government's development
strategy is to open the economy to direct private investment--both foreign and local The
Government intends to take measures to improve incentives, while safeguarding the State's
interests, including those related to land use, environmental protection and tax revenues. It
will also launch a national long-term strategy aimed at finding a niche in the world economy
that would provide diversified export earnings. There are at present, very few private
enterprises in STP and even traditional forms of trade in public markets and through single-
man contractors are far more limited than in other African countries. Food crops grown by
small farmers on newly allocated plots of land are a fairly recent change. Only recently have
the emerging private commercial enterprises been permitted to engage in import and export
trade. The country's limited physical infrastructure is barely able to support this sector.
t jnethele' s, there is strong interest among potential entrepreneurs, cooperatives and the
Government in expanding the private sector and privatizirng many services currently provided
by Government.



2.12   Ag    :ut    1    D    c: Almost half of the country's labor force work on
plantations (rocas). On rocas. extensive areas are cultivated under an organizational
arrangement which has retained many features used in colonial times. Within its boundaries,
a roca is not only the job site of its worke s but it provides them with social services such as
schools, hospitals, housing and basic :nfrastructure. Since colonial times, food availability on
rocas has depended very heavily on imports. All allocations to workers are handled by roca
managers. The rocas' provision of social services, normally the purview of government,
resulted in very weak institutional structures at independence. Nearly all land was
nationaiized at independence and the rocas became public enterprises. In 1976, the Ministry
of Agriculture and Land Reform was created and legislation benefitting plantation workers
was passed. Deficiencies in the administration of the rocas as public enterprises were present
from the beginning but did not become an issue as long as export revenue covered production
expense (before cocoa pricem dropped). Production fell from 10,000 tops a year at
independence to 3,500 tons in 1985. The Government made a start in rehabilitating cocoa and
coffee production in 1988, through the introduction of management contracts with the
expatriate private sector in five cocoa estates (representing 10,000 ha or 40 percent of the
cocoa production area). Recently, three more plantations were leased to the private sector,
with the remaining plantations remaining under direct control of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries. However, there appear to be few incentives for the management firms to
decrease operational costs, and the lease contracts do not provide sufficient incentives to make
the necesssy investments to maintain productivity. Consequently, several possibilities are
being studied to save the cocoa production from further decline, including privatization of the
estates to small holders and medium size planters. This wouidi require formulation of clear
regulations to improve the implementation of land legislation, since at present virtually all
land is owned by the state. While the proposed Second Multisector Project is focussed
exclusively on support for public services and infrastructure, SIF is also involved in the
financing of the privatization of agriz-1ltural activities.
E. The Financial Sector
2.13   The Banking System: The banking system of STP, consists of the Banco-Nacional de
Sao Tome e Principe (BNSTP), which was organized in 1976 as a multi-purpose bank.
BNSTP is the country's central bank, managing external debt and foreign reserves, and
serving as the Government's fiscal agent. In addition Zv0 controlling monetary and credit
policy, it is the sole domestic source of commercial credit, largely for the public sector, and
until recently it provided some development financing. Organized as a subsidiary of BNSTP,
the Caixa Popular (a savings and loan institution) was set up in 1981 to mobilize small-scale
domestic savings and channel them into small-scale productive investment and housing. In
1988, SIF was created to bridge the gap in development financing resulting from the
insolvency at the banking system.
2.14   BNSTP Balance Sheet: The consolidated balance sheets of BNSTP for 1988 and 1989
(Annex 2) reflect both the increased flow of external funds from multilateral institutions and a
continuation of the BNSTP's central bank role in financing the budget deficit through credit to
the public sector. The 50 percent increase in total assets between 1988 and 1989 reflects
primarily the effect of devaluation on foreign currency claims and the increase in claims
against the Treasury as a result of financing the budget deficit. Aggregate loans increased by
only nine percent with the largest share of this increase going to public and parastatal
enterprises which are either in liquidation or nearly bankrupt. Asset growth was largely
supported by comparable increase in multilateral funding and by demand deposits by the



- 6 -
State. Consumer and private sector commercial loans each constitute six percent of total
commercial loans. I/
2.15   BNSTP Portfolio: Loan-loss provisions comprise only 0.7 percent of total
commercial credit exposure, which is totally inadequate by any standard and BNSTP's net
worth of Db 258 million (US$2.1 million) is insufficient to absorb the required portfolio
liquidation of approximately Db 2.84 billion (US$22.9 million). Based on an independent
audit carried out during early 1990, less than US$2.4 million equivalent of the commercial
portfolio is current.
2.16   Einanial Sector Reform and Role of SIF: Given the proolems facing the financial
system, the Government, with technical assistance from AfDB, IDA and IMF, intends to
restructure BNSTP by separating commercial and central banking activities. BNSTP's role
will be limited to that of traditional Central Banking. In addition, the Government has
decided to privatize commercial banking, and allow majority foreign private ownership; it is
presently discussing possible joint ventures with foreign bankers. Although not direcdy
related to the proposed projeta, which covers public sector infrastructure financing, the
establishment of a sound banking system would be important since many of SIF's financial
activities could eventually be carried out by private commercial banks. It is now expected
that the new Government will proceed rapidly with the restructuring of the financial system as
agreed with IDA uwider SAC II. Although in the short-term SIF wDl finance private sector
activities (outside of this project), in the longer term the development of private banking will
cover an increasing amount of private sector needs.
F. Investment rogram and        Assice
2.17   The Government has prepared a three-year public investment program covering the
period 1990-92, focussed on the rehabilitation of existing economic and social
infrastructure. The emphasis is on improving the efficiency and productivity of agriculture
and fisheries. Only those projects that support STP's development strategy and meet
acceptable economic rate of return criteria will be included. To this end, investments in
infrastructure, such as roads, electricity, water and fuel storage facilities, as well as support
services for smallholders, are expected to reduce production and marketing costs and help
diversification into other crops and into other sectors of the economy. STP's annual
expenditure programs will continue to be reviewed by IDA.
2.18   The investment program of the STP Government is highly dependent on concessional
assistance from donors who provide additional resources for capital investment and
rehabilitation of existing plant, equipment and infrastructure. During the period 1975-1979,
external sources financed almost 50 percent of the country's development expenditures, and
by 1987 foreign funds were financing 75 percent. A significant portion of the external
financial support has come in the form of grants. In addition, the country has been able to
borrow on very favorable terms. A major problem regarding external financial support has
been the Government's lack of capacity to coordinate this effort effectively.
IL    Inadequacies in the credit administration function and lack of
collateral or guarantees are largely responsible for defaults in
the consumer and private commercial loan portfolio.



2.19   Further concessional external borrowing is required to support debt rescheduling. On
this matter, the Government has recognized the importance of a cautious approach in the use
of foreign financing and has decided not to accept loans with a grant element of less than
50 percent. The international donor community is expected to react positively to this
mobilization of resources, particularly when the structural adjustment program is fully in
place.
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.20  In this small country, IDA's involvement is critical at this juncture to provide the
infrastructure and public services necessary to support a return to economic growth and to
protect the more vulnerable groups while the structural adjustment program takes effect.
IDA's involvement under the First Multisector Project helped set up an appropriate
mechanism (SIF) to channel external resources to priority development projects.
Furthermore, IDA's lead in the first project encouraged involvement by the international
donor community and is helping to coordinate donor activities. The SIF is now in a strong
position to finance critical development activities, but without additional IDA funds its
development activities would be minimal. Some cofinancing has been secured under the First
Multisector Project, but more is required and this will take time. Additional IDA funds
would allow SIF's development activities to continue and would provide the catalyst to
generate additional sources of finance.
H. The First Multisector Eroect
2.21   Under the First Multisector Project (Credit No. 2038-STP for US$5.0 million,
equivalent approved on June 14, 1989) SIF and IDA identified and appraised a start-up phase
consisting of six sub-projects. This process provided an opportunity to test the appraisal
methodology and initiate on-the-job training of local staff. Each sub-project was supported by
an economic and financial analysis. The start-up phase covered the following pre-appraised
sub-projects: (1) Textbook Printing and Distribution; (2) Education Planning and
Administration; (3) Malaria and Endemic Disease Control; (4) Health Planning and
Management; (5) Water Supply Rehabilitation; (6) Public Market Development. The total
cost of these start-up sub-projects was estimated at US$3.8 million of which SIF's share was
US$2.3 million, or almost one-half of the total IDA credit of US$5.0 million. Approximately
US$0.37 million and US$0.79 million of the credit was allocated for institutional support and
technical assistance. Additional sub-projects were subsequently identified and appraised by
SIF including: (1) Feeder Road Rehabilitation; (2) Essential Drugs; (3) Power Plant
Rehabilitation; (4) Meat Packing Plant (private sector); (5) Construction Materials Plant
(private sector); and (6) a micro-enterprise Footwear Factory (also private sector). The total
cost for this second group of sub-projects is US$0.9 million of which SIF's share is
US$0.75 million. Thus, to date total committed credit funds amount to about US$4.2 million
or about 85 percent of the credit. As of April 30, 1991, total disbursements amounted to
US$2.2 million.
2.22   Good progress is being made in implementing practically all on-going sub-projects,
and supervision work by SIF is proceeding as planned. Some delays, however, have occurred
in the implementation of the Water Supply Sub-project, (due to delays by the responsible
Ministry in setting up the Project Implementation Unit) and in b-e implementation of two
productive sector projects, because of lack of decision by the Government to provide private
promoters with long-term lease or outright ownership of two Government-owned plants being



.8-
privatized. The First Project also served to highlight the weakness of the sectoral
Ministries and agencies and the correctness of having a well-managed intermediary provide
the needed support, pending the institutional strengthening of Ministries and agencies. Thus,
after only a short period of project implementation, SIF's operations the First Multisector
Project are making a significant contribution to STP's development. Since some domestic
inputs are utilized, the sub-projects are also expected to have significant indirect employment.
In addition to these employment benefits completed sub-projects are producing substantial
direct benefits to underprivileged groups (textbooks in primary and secondary schools, malaria
control and essential drugs, for example).
111. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Proiect Description Summary
3.1    The proposed Project would have similar goals to the First Multisector Project and be
in direct support of the country's development objectives (see para. 2.1). First, it would
support essential public investments in infrastructure, such as roads, power and water supply,
which are necessary to increase the productive potential of the economy. It would also
strengthen public sector agencies responsible for the provision and maintenance of critical
infrastructure, and improve the local technical capacity to prepare and implement
infrastructure improvement sub-projects. Second, it would continue to support households
most vulnerable to the adverse effects of the adjustment process. This latter objective would
be accomplished through direct employment generation, the improvement of living conditions
in low income urban areas and the improvement of other social services. The proposed
project would provide financing for: infrastructure sub-projects compatible with s3cial and
economic priorities (such as water supply, slum upgrading and road rehabilitation); and
technical assistance funds to prepare sub-projects and for institutional strengthening.
B. Institutional Arrangements: SIF
3.2    General: With support from the First Multisector Project (SDR 3.9 million) which
became effective in February, 1990, the Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF) was set up as an
autonomous institution to channel credit and other funds to finance sub-projects under
specified criteria. The proposed project would also use SIF as the channelling mechanism.
Sub-projects would be presented to SIF by sponsoring agencies Z/ appraised by SIF and
implemented either by the sponsoring agencies or other qualified units. SIF would provide
assistance in all phases of sub-project development, including the pre-appraisal stage, and
monitoring of the entire process. Without this wholesaling mechanism, several separate small
projects and programs would be necessary, which would be less cost-effective for the
Government and for external donors supporting improvements in social services and
infrastructure.
3.3     Establishment. Organization and Management: The SIF was created by Presidential
Decree No 45/88 of December 23, 1988. As defined in the Decree, the SIF has
administrative, technical and financial autonomy in the following areas: (i) resource
mobilization on behalf of STP from the international donor community; (ii) promotion of its
2L    "Sponsoring agencies" are all types of beneficiaries in the public sector who enter into
a sub-project arrangement with SIF (e.g. water utility, sectoral ministries etc.).



services among potential sponsoring agencies in STP; and (iii) appraisal of sub-project
proposals. SIF would ensure effective and equitable use of these funds through strict project
design and social targeting. SIF's organizational structure (Annex 1) consists of:
(a)    a Board of Administrators composed of a chairman and four members
(established by its own bylaws, rules of procedure and policies) which
oversees the operations of the Fund, appoints its Executive Administrator
(EA) and department heads and approves the funding of sub-projects;
(b)    an Executive Administrator who implements the policies established  by the
Board and manages all Fund operations; and
(c)   four departments that carry out the work of the Fund, each managed by a
department head reporting to the EA. The Promotion Department is
responsible for the promotion of SIF to potential sponsoring agencies and fund
raising from the international community. The Sub-project Development
Department is responsible for the technical and economic evaluation of sub-
project proposals. The Administration Departmnent is responsible for all
administrative functions, including procurement and contracting, and the
Finance and Accounting Department is responsible for all financial
management functions.
3.4   The SIF is now fully staffed and equipped. In addition to the EA, SEF has ten
professional staff specialized in finance, economics, engineering, and accounting. The staff
are dedicated, adequately trained and capable of carrying out its functions. To cover the
planned increase in the volume of operations under other possible projects, agreement was
reached with SIF during negotiations to hire by December 31, 1991, an agricultural specialist
to assist in the appraisal of agroindustrial, agricultural and small animal production sub-
projects (see footnote 5). It was also agreed that the EA will present to SIF's Board and to
the IDA by October 31, 1991, and each October 31 thereafter, his recommendation for a
rolling three year training program to continue the upgrading of staff skills and a program on
its implementation. Concurrently, he would present an action plan for the suceeding calendar
year, for the recruitment of consultants on a short-term basis to fill gaps in SIF's capabilities
and to provide on-the-job training. Under the First Multisector Project, a Project Management
Consultant (PMC) has been recruited to work for SIF on a fixed term basis. The PMC is
providing support to the Executive Administrator in the following main areas:
(i) organization of the departments, including local recruitment, collaboration with NGOs and
retention of specialists from abroad; (ii) supervision and training on sub-project appraisal;
(iii) compliance with monitoring and reporting requirements; and (iv) assisting in developing
policies and operational procedures. In addition, the PMC assists the EA in the supervision
of any specialist consultants recruited on an as-needed basis. Under the proposed project the
PMC's services would be phased out over the first year of project implementation.
3.5   SIF maintains separate financial records on its operations. As under the First
Multisector Project, SIF would handle financing approvals and administration, disbursement
authorizations and would maintain adequate accounting and information systems. While
considerable progress has been made in setting up the above systems, SIF needs to further
strengthen its procedures for loan administration, accounting, management information
systems and general record keeping. During negotiations aerameni was reached with SIF on
a plan of action for implementing the above improvements (Annex 3). Technical assistance
and training would be made available under the proposed project for such purposes and for
sub-project appraisal and supervision. (Annex 4).



- 10-
3.6    Statement of Policies: The policies that govern SIF's operations are set forth in its
draft Statement of Policies (Annex 5). It specifies (in more detail than stated in the decree
creating SIF) among other things that: (1) SIF's objectives in financing social, inf&astructure,
and productive sector projects; (2) the type of sub-project that SIF would finance; (3) criteria
for sub-project approval and financing; (4) the terms and limits of financing; (5) criteria for
setting fees and other charges; and criteria for possible financial intermediation, including
eligibility criteria for financial intermediary participation. The Statement of Policies as
presently drafted would form a satisfactory basis for SIF's channelling of funds to the selected
priority sectors under the proposed project. Agreemnt on the draft Statement of Policies was
reached with the Government and SIF during negotiations; any subsequent modification would
require prior IDA concurrence. Approval of the Statement of Policies by SIF's Board of
Administrators and the Government would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.7    SIF Financial Position: SIF's cash-flow, income statement and balance sheet
projections are presented in Annex 6. These projections have been based on SIF's total
pipeline of sub-projects (economic, social and infrastructure) expected to be financed through
1994. The results of these analyses are summarized in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: SIP's Financial Poection Indicators (1991-1994)
(US$ thousands)
Actual
(unaudited)                   Projections
i198     122       1221      1992    1993    1292
Balance Sheet Ratios /
Average Total Assets (ATA)           392       877     1,713     2,625   4,463    6,542
Average Portfolio                     10        55       413       925   2,360    3,762
Average Equity                       385       819     1,611     2,444   2,973    3,539
Annual Growth in Total Assets (%)      0       221        72        43       89       24
Income Statement Ratios
Gross Spread/ATA (%)                n.a.       n.a.        5         6        7        5
Administrative Expenses/ATA (%)       17        13        14         9        6        4
Gross Earnings/ATA (%)              n.a.       n.a.       13        13       10       15
Net Profit/Average Net Worth(%)        0         0         3         6        7       20
al    Private sector lending started during 1991; total assets before this time consist mainly of capitalized
start-up costs and some fixed assets.
n.a.   Not applicable since income generation begins in 1991.



- 11 -
3.8    Based on these projections SIP would be adequately capitalized by early 1993. SIF's
administrative costs as a percentage of average total assets, while initially high at 17 percent,
would drop to 4 percent by 1994 as a result of a sharp increase in its lending operations, and
contaimnent of operating expenses. SIF would begin to generate a positive net income in
1991, and would be able to cover its administrative costs fully without the need of additional
grant financing (except for institutional technical support) by 1993. Funding for loans to the
private sector would no longer be capitalized by SIF after 1993. Instead, the Government
would charge SIF, an interest rate for these funds. SIF, in turn, would receive a spread on
the on-lent funds to cover its administrative costs, risk premium, and profit. By the end of
1994 the institution would be well along the way to becoming financially self-sufficient, and
would begin to provide some funding with its own internally generated resources.
C. Project Description
3.9    Nature of Sub-projects to be Financed. Provided submitted proposals comply with
SIF 's selection criteria (para 3.16), financing would be made available for the sub-projects
related to the construction or rehabilitation of water supply systems, sanitary and storm
drainage, solid waste management, urban roads, small priority works, urban upgrading, and
small power projects.
3.10   SIF's infrastructure sub-project pipeline for the 1991-1993 period (Table 3.2 below)
consists of four sub-projects under preparation with total investment costs of about
US$5.4 million. SIF with IDA assistance identified these sub-projects and they are currently
at preliminary or final design stagel/. For the smalllhydroelectric power sub-project tender
documents have been drafted. It is expected that preparation work for all the sub-projects
would be completed in six months time.
l/A more detailed description of these infrastructure sub-projects and their costs are
given in Annex 7



- 12 -
Table 3.2: SIF Infrstructure Sub-proJect Pipeline 1991-1993 Al
Estimated
Total Cost
CUSS millions)
Slum Upgading: Provision of basic                 1.3
Infrastructure in an old settlement
in the capital (under preparation);
Priority Roads Rehab: Rehabilitation              2.4
of about 130 km of priority rural
and urban primary and secondary roads
(under preparation);
Small Priority Works: Repair of pavements,        0.8
side walks and drainage structures and small
community facilities (under preparation);
Small Hydroletric Power: Rehabilitating of        0.9
a min-hydro plant which supplies power to
capital (prepared)
Total                                       5.4
aL    Includes only sub-projects prepared or under preparation to be financed under the
proposed Second Multisector Project.
3.11 The exact amount to be financed for each type of sub-project cannot be determined at
this time. Agreement was reached with SIF during negotiations, that by November 30, 1991
and by November 30 of each subsequent year, SIF would present for IDA's comments and
concurrence, a list of proposed sub-projects for the next year together with a summary
description of the financing required and the sponsoring agencies. In addition, SIF would
submit to IDA the financial projections (cash flow, balance sheet and income statement) for
the following three years. IDA's review would ensure that there is a reasonable balance
among the various categories and that investments in sub-projects under each category are
consistent with the total investment agreed under the annual Public Expenditure Reviews
(PER).
3.12 SIF would finance about US$5.0 million worth of multi-sector sub-projects over the
three-year commitment period FY 1992-1994. The disbursement period may add another two
years, because any sub-projects approved in the third year of SIF's operations may take as
much as two years to implement. Employment generation from the appraised sub-projects
under the First Multisector Project was estimated at 850 man-years; a similar number is
expected under the proposed project. The number of expected beneficiaries is expected to be
in the range of 8,000 to 10,000. Considering the volume and characteristics of potential sub-
projects which are already in SIF's "pipeline" (Annex 7), these estimated levels of
employment and benefit generatiGn may well be exceeded.



- 13 -
3.13   Financing Criteria: SIF flnancing would take into account the nature of the borrower,
the financing amount, the purpose of the financing, sustainabiity of the program or sub-
project through cost recovery from the end user and changes in general economic conditions
over time. Particular attention would be given Ly SIF to ensuring close coordination between
its lending policies and operations and the country's Structural Adjustment Program.
3.14   Agreement was reached with the Government and SIF during negotiations that sub-
projects would be financed by SIF on a grant basis, (up to 80 percent of total project costs)
without recourse to onlending, given the lack of tradition of cc-. recovery in STP for public
services (pars. 3.27), but provisions would be incorporated in sub-project agreements for a
gradual introduction of cost-recovery. 4/ Nevertheless, in order to cover its administrative
costs during sub-project preparation, appraisal SIF will charge a one time up-front fee of
2 percent of the grant amount plus a 3 percent processing charge semi-annually on
disbursement made for the relevant six-month period.
3.15   Review Limits: Under the First Multisector Project, all sub-projects up to an
aggregate cost of US$2.1 million were submitted to IDA for review. In addition, all Social
and Infrastructure Sector projects required prior review by IDA. Given SEF's proven project
preparation and appraisal capacity it is now proposed to raise these limits. Therefore, under
the proposed project only Social Infrastructure sub-projects for over US$150,000 in total cost
would be submitted to IDA for prior review and approval prior to signing of the relevant
financing agreements. SIF would, however, need to present a summary description of the
sub-project and of the sponsoring agency, including procurement procedures and description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed. Given that four relatively large Sub-projects
amounting to about US$5.4 million are under preparation (but not yet appraised) by SIF with
IDA assistance (Table 3.2) and that only about US$0.5 remains still to be identified, it is
expected that only two or three sub-projects would not be reviewed by IDA.
3.16   Sub-proiect Selection and AlDraisal Criteria: In order to establish eligibility for
fmancing by SIF, sponsoring agencies will be given advice on how to meet the appraisal
criteria for sub-projects. Submitted sub-project proposals will be categorized into those for
which a rate of return calculation is feasible and those for which it is not. Sub-projects
costing over US$250,000 would have to demonstrate a rate of return of at least 12 percent.
Under the First Multisector Project agreement was reached with the Government and SIF that
except for this distinction regarding the rate of return calculation, basic appraisal criteria for
all sub-projects would include the following: (a) the sub-project shall meet social needs
compatible with national development; (b) sub-project work or services shall be completed
within three years; (c) labor-intensive methods shall be used to the maximum extent and
capital-intensive methods shall be avoided; (d) the sub-project shall be technically feasible and
financially viable; (e) appropriate consideration shall be given to the technical and managerial
capability of the sponsoring agency; (f) sub-project proposals shall reflect least-cost solutions;
(g) existing capital assets shall be utilized to the maximum extent; and (h) sub-project
4/    Sub-projects sponsored by EMAE, the country's utility company responsible for the
supply of water and electricity, will be financed on a grant bases, in view of the
company's existing institutional weaknesses and operating budget deficit. As the
company's situation improves, mainly through the ongoing assistance of Fonds Aide
et Cooperation (FAC), SIF's lending policy with regard to sub-projects in which
EMAE is the sponsoring agency would be reviewed. Moreover, cost recovery
through improved rate setting, billing and collection practices would be incorporated
into all appraisals of EMAE sub-projects, whether financed by grants or loans.



- 14 -
proposals shall address and solve environmental concerns. Under the First Multisector
Project SIF prepared Operational Procedures Guidelines for project appraisal and supervision.
These Guidelines contain: (i) the basic methodology followed by SIF in appraising sub-
projects based on the methodology used by the Bank for similar projects; (ii) country-specific
parameters that will be used to evaluate sub-projects; (iii) the typical format to be used for
appraisal reports; (iv) recommendations for supervision and monitoring; and (v)
environmental impact assessment. The Guidelines have been reviewed by the Bank and are
considered satisfactory; however, the criteria for assessing environmental impact will be
expanded.
3.17   Environmental Assgsment in Sub-project Appraisal: While the above Guidelines are
considered satisfactory, SIF's capacity for making environmental impact assessments would be
expanded significantly. If required, more detailed analysis would be carried out by outside
experts. Agreemeng was reached at negotiations that SIF will implement improved guidelines
for environmental assessment by October 31, 1991.
3.18   Sub-proiect Implementation and Supervision: Agreement was reached between the
Government and IDA under the First Multisector Project on the following supervision issues:
(a) the sponsoring agencies will make all procurement decisions, provided agreed procurement
procedures have been followed (see para. 4.8); (b) construction projects carried out by private
contractors will be under the supervision of a competent civil engineer; (c) government units
would carry out construction and other required supervision, provided the qualifications of the
supervising government personnel or consultants are satisfactory to IDA; and (d) self-help
projects will be monitored periodically by an independent party with appropriate
qualifications, who can certify progress and results.
D. Community Relations. Promotion and Fund Raising
3.19   Community Relations: In the past, aid provided by the Government or internatical
donors was usually considered by the public to be free. Because of th.s, water supply systems
have suffered from inadequate collections of revenue, and capital improvements have been
deferred until they could be financed through donor funds. In a more recent case, plots of
land were allocated to a few households for housing construction, but no plans were made to
collect even modest taxes or fees from the new leaseholders.
3.20   SIF policy is departure from this, very much in line with ongoing economic reforms.
In order for SIF to achieve lasting improvements in social and economic conditions, the
target beneficiaries would need to be made aware of the importance of greater financial
discipline by public agencies. This would require intensive community relations work by the
EA and his staff. The role of SIF as an intermediary, i.e. as a source of technical and
financial aid, rather than a purveyor of free goods and services should be clarified, while the
role of sponsoring agencies as community-based implementers of their own sub-projects
should be emphasized. Community relations work would address target beneficiaries to
determine community priorities and establish systems for maintaining new investments.
3.21   The information campaign and the promotional activities of SIF would be similarly
extended to the emerging private sector. The spontaneous and very positive reaction of the
existing private enterprises and other aspiring entrepreneurs under the First Multisector
Project demonstrates the timeliness of SIF's outreach to the private sector. Under separate
support, SIF will encourage private initiative by facilitating the entry conditions for those



- 1s -
capable of starting a business or converting an unprofitable public sector operation into a
profitable private one. SI
3.22  EMuRaising: Considering the current .hortcomings in coordinating the activities of
donor organizations, SIF is in an ideal position to maintain liaison with multinational and
bilateral sources. To date, several donors and NGOs, such as the African Development
Foundation (USA), the Cooperative Housing Foundation (USA), Shelter Afrique (AfDB),
GTZ (Germany), Carefrance and the EEC have expressed interest in participating in SIF
program. The OPEC Fund and the Gulbenkian Foundation (Portugal) are participating in
cofinancing a large Water Supply Sub-project for Sao Tome and a Textbook Sub-project
nationwide. Cofinanced sub-projects fall under the same appraisal criteria, rules and
procedures as all other sub-projects but separa'e sub-project accounts would be kept by SIF.
3.23  In order to stimulate further interest from bilateral donors and :aternational
agencies,   a Launch Workshop is being financed under the First Multisector Project in
September 1991. The purpose of the workshop would be:(a) to provide information about the
project to multilateral organizations, donor agencies, Government agencies, and the private
sector; (b) to inform these groups on the work being done by SIF, its policies, procedures,
and conditions of its lending; and (c) to encourage bilateral donors and financial institutions to
provide funding to cofinance sub-projects, or to set up separate lines of credit for specific
purposes, all within the established framework of SIF's Policies and Regulations.
E. P.iect Monitoring
3.24   Monitoring of Effectiveness and Results: The Board of Administrators has the
primary responsibility for monitering the development of SIF and ensuring that sub-projects
conform to the objectives and criteria agreed to by IDA and the Government. Most
importantly, the Board assures that SIF's resources are reaching target beneficiaries and
achieving the desired socio-economic impact.
3.25   The Executive Administrator and his staff prepare and submit to the Board semiannual
reports on progress in all areas of SIF operations. Progress is measured vis-h-vis an agreed
action plan for the period under review. Formal reporting is in addition to the Executive
Administrator's regular reports at the Board meetings. Progress reports indicate, inter-alia,
basic data on the number of people actually employed through SIF-funded sub-projects, the
estimated cost per job created, the results achieved through new social programs and actions
taken to provide for the sustainabilitv of new programs and physical improvements; where
appropriate, cost recovery would be included. During negotiations agreement was reached
with SIF that it will furnish the semi-annual progress reports to IDA within thirty days of the
end of each semester.
3.26  In order to verify that SIF operations are reaching target beneficiaries and are
achieving the expected socio-economic impact, the Board will conduct periodic qualitative
surveys through an independent source, such as a local NGO or a consultant. These surveys
would be funded through the IDA Credit and made available to IDA, along with the Board's
plan for corrective action. In addition, the Government and SIF would conduct a mid-term
E/    A separate agriculture project, under preparation, will address a series of policy
constraints to agriculture sector development, in particular the land reform
legislation, and will also include a line of credit component for private sector
lending.



- 16-
review in conjuction with IDA during the last quarter of 1993 to assess progress in carrying
out the project. Agrement was reached with SIP and the Government on the timing and
scope of the mid-term review.
3.27   Cost RecoveEy  There is at present, virtually no tradition of cost recovery in STP for
public services. Full cost recovery would be a long-term goal in light of current economic
conditions. The introduction of cost recovery would be gradual through carefully measured
provisions in sub-project agreements, with sponsoring agencies. TDis would meet the dual
objective of generating operating funds to sustain new programs and make improvements and
gradually to modify attitudes towards public services. Consequently, the sub-project
agreements referred to in para.4.5 would incorporate specific requirements for cost recovery,
customized to fit each sub-project. The introduction of cost-recovery through tariffs
adjustments will be part of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program to be supported
under SAC II.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Project Costs and Financing
4.1   Based on the demand for infrastructure sub-projects expected during the next 3 years
(para. 3.10), and on an assessment of SIF's capacity to appraise and supervise them, the
estimated total cost of the proposed project, including technical assistance, is US$7.6 million
equivalent. Overall SIF expects to finance about 80 percent of sub-project costs which would
represent the foreign costs. Table 4.1 below shows the expected total project costs and
financing plan of the proposed project.



- 17 -
Tabel 4.1 ProJect Casts and Flnandng Plan
(USS million)
Foreign  Local          Percentage
EIQiect Costs:                 Costs   Costs  IA!    of Total
Infrastructure Sub-projects       5.0   0.9   5.9       77.6
Technical Assistance              0.4   0.2   0.6        7.9
Institutional Support             0.4   0.5   0.9       11.8
Unallocated                       0.2    _       2      -2.7
Total                     6.0   1.6   7.6      100.0
Financing Plane               Foreign Loca  QltaI      Page
IDA                             6.0      -    6.0      78.9
Government                                    1 1,6  L6L
6.0   1.6   7.6      100.0
4.2   The total estimated project cost of US$7.6 million would be financed through a
US$6 million IDA credit to the Government of STP. The Government would contribute
US$1.6 million equivalent, or about 21 percent of total Project costs. This contribution
would be in the form of salaries paid to local staff employed by SIF and other contributions to
specific infrastructure sub-projects.
B. The Terms and Conditions
4.3    Amount and Terms: The proposed credit of US$6.0 million equivalent should
provide US$5.0 million for grants for infrastructure sub-projects US$0.8 million for technical
assistance and institutional support and US$0.2 million would be unallocated. The credit
would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and 10 years of grace. The
Government would transfer the resources for grants to SIF, who would pass these on for
financing specific infrastructure sub-projects. As a Condition of Credit Effectiveness the
Government and SIF would execute a Subsidiary Administration Agreement, acceptable to
IDA, for transferring the IDA Credit to SIF.
4.4    Review Limits: Sub-projects would be financed consistent with SIF's Statement of
Policies. For sub-projects with total costs of over US$250,000 or more, an economic rate of
return would be calculated by SIF. To be accepted for financing those subprojects would
have to show on IRR (economic) of at least 12 percent. Based on SIF's appraisal
performance under the First Multisector Project, the review-limit for IDA for infrastructure
sub-projects will be increased to US$150,000 (para. 3.15). Prior IDA approval would be
required for all sub-projects above the review limit. In addition, selected sub-projects below
the review-limit would be teviewed on a post-appraisal basis by supervision missions.
4.5   SWubEiect Agreements: Under the First Multisector Project, SIP prepared draft
Sub-project Agreements between SIF and sponsoring agencies. The Agreements incorporate
all terms and conditions to be observed by parties for each sub-project. The content of these
Agreements was reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory. Among other things, the



- 18 
Agreements pertaining to social and infrastructure subprojects incoqrorate specific
requirements for cost recovery and institutional improvements.
4.6    Once approved, each sub-project would be eligible for a mobilization advance equal to
10 percent of the sub-project cost, upon signing ef the Sub-projec. Agreement. SWF would
advance this amount promptly to the sponsoring agency to cover initial payments to
contractors, NGOs, suparvising engineers, specialists, etc. Subsequent progress pakyments
would be made by SIF on the basis of a percentage of works completed, go-ds procured or
services provided. Progress payments would be released upen reueipt of written certiticion
by the agreed supervising entity and the sponsoring agency, that the contracted work, goods
or services have been performed satisfactorily up to the stated percentage. Ten percent of
progress payments would be retained until final completion of the works, goods or services,
as evidenced by the aforementioned documentation.
4.7   Technical Assistance: The technical assistance; and institutional compouent project
would include direct technical assistance and training to SIF, private local consultants,
agencies and Ministries in project preparation, appraisal and a supervision (Annex 4). It
would also include the hiring of specialist fotreign consultants in Management Information
Systems, accounting and financial plannirng, record keeping, project economic analysis and in
other technical disciplines as required. In addition, the institutional support component would
include the preparation and launching -of promotional campaigns, leaflets, manuals, brochures,
working meetings with potential entrepreneurs and executives, courses and seminars inclusing
economic and financial appraisal of Agricultural sub-projects. Dealed terms of reference for
these consultancy service are available in the project files. Under the First Multisector
Project SIF purchased the necessary computer and other office equipment, but some
replacement and upgrading of equipment to handle the expected larger volume of work would
be needed. Salaries of SIF's staff would not be financed under the proposed project.
C. ProQualr
4.8    Three of the four identified sub-projects are still under preparation and final cost
estimates are not yet available; therefore, the criteria for procurement set down below, may
require modification once the final cost figures for each sub-project have been established.
The procurement will be planned for each sub-project depending upon its type and size and
will generally follow the guidelines set below:
Civil Works
(i)   ICB procedures for contracts exceeding US$300,000;
(ii)   LCB procedures for contracts between US$50,000 and
US$300,000;
(iii)   Local shopping with minimum of three quotations for contracts below
US$50,000;
(i)   ICB procedures for contracts exceeding US$200,000;



- 19 -
(ii)   LCB procedures for contracts between US$50,000 to US$200,000;
(iii)  Local shopping with a minimum of three quotations for contracts
below $50,000;
4.9   Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.2 below. A very large
proportion of procurement for works would be small in terms of contract sum (less than
US$75,000), short in terms of implementation (less than one year) and scattered in of
1;ation. All LCB procurement would be open to foreign contractors and would be conIsistent
with Bank's Guidelines on Procurement and would at the minimum include: (i) local
advertisement in the STP Giovernment Gazette and on public radio, and all bid openings
would be public; (ii) no preference to state owned enterprises; (iii) bidding documents would
specify the criteria for bid evaluation; and (iv) contract awards would be made to the lowest
evaluated bidder. Prioc review by IDA would be required for all civil works and goods
contracts which exceed US$200,000 and US$150,000 respectively. In order to assist SIF in
carrying out this project, consultants would be required. Such consultants would be selected
in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines for the use of consultants.



- 20-
Table 4.2: Summaa of Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ '000)
,Procurwement Method bl
faQxeLt Catego1emen         1LX      LO        Li    Qcib           IQKI
Sllb-Projects
Equipment                600      400      200       -          1,200
(500)    (300)   (200)                (1,000)
Civil Works            2,500    1,500     500        -          4,500
(2,500)    (850)   (250)                (3,600)
Engineering, Supervision,  -                 -    400             400
T.A. and Consultants                            (400)           (400)
.ubtotal               3,100    1,800      700     400          6,100
(3,000)  (1,150)   (450)   (400)        (5,000)
Ingitutional Sonrt           -        -        -    700             700
(400)          (400)
Technical Assistance                   -        -    600             600
(400)          (400)
Subtotal                                         1,300           1,300
(800)          (800)
naloated                               -        -       -           200
(200)
7,600
(6,000)
it    IDA share in parentheses.
hi    Procurement arrangements are tentative and are based on past experience.
The arrangements will be reviewed upon completion of sub-project design.



- 21 -
D. QCmitment and Disbursem
4.10   The IDA credit would finance 100 pe, cent of eligible sub-project expenditue up to
80 percent of total sub-project costs. With regard to the Institutional Support and Techial
Assistance categories of project costs, IDA would disburso 100 percent of local and foreign
expenditures (including payments to all consultants), but only 50 percent of SIF's incremental
operating costs (such travel connected with training, etc.).
4.11  The total amount of IDA financing is expected to be committed in three yeas. There
is no disbursement profile for STP for this type of project, other than experience under the
on-going First Multisector Project. The flow of funds is shown in Annex . The
amounts of disbursements by quarter over a period of six years are shown in Anonea 9. No
disbursements would be made against land costs or taxes and duties levied in STP.
4.12 To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account (SA) would be established for SIP in
US dollars. Upon Project Effectiveness, an advance of US$500,000 would be deposited Into
the SA on receipt of a withdrawal application. The Special Account would be replenished on
the bases of withdrawal applications with relevant supporting documents and bank account
statements.
4.13   Withdrawal applications for items under US$10,000 would be accompanied by a
Statement of Expenditures (SOE) in which all eligible sub-project experlitures on behalf of
sponsoring agencies would be detailed.
E. Accounting and Auditing
4.14   As required under the First Multisector Project SIF maintains consolidated project
accounts for the entire project and detailed accounts for the lines of credit established for
sponsoring agencies upon approval of their sub-projects. The accounting system has been
installed with technical assistance from consultants who also operated the system initially
while training local staff. Similarly, the sponsoring agencies will be required by SIF to
establish appropriate accounting systems through corresponding provisions in the Sub-project
Agreement. SIF will assist the sponsoring agencies through its Finance and Accounting
Department in organizing their accounting systems.
4.15   SIF's Finance and Accounting Department will prepare quarterly and annual budgets,
advise the Treasury of STP regarding disbursement forecasts and complete disbursement
applications required for the release of IDA Funds.
4.16   AgLcment was reached during negotiations that independent auditors acceptable to
IDA will be appointed to carry out audits of the Special Account and of all of SIF's accounts.
This audit report will be furnished to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Under the First Project, SIF's first audit report on the 1990 accounts is due on June 30, 1991.
Submission of a satisfactory audit report of these accounts would be a Condition of Credit
Effeiveness.



- 22 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. B3enefits
5.1    Bnefits: Social and economic benefits of the Project would be: (a) provision of
urgently needed infrastructure to facilitate private economic activity and raise living standards;
(b) creation of employment opportunities for the underemployed and unemployed; and
(c) progress towards cost recovery to sustain public services.
5.2    Benefits to Target Beneficiaries: SIF supported sub-projects would benefit several
groups of beneficiaries. The first includes those who would find employment directly through
the works or services created by sub-projects; in some cases, these employment opportunities
may be of limited duration (e.g. in civil works construction), while in other cases they may be
more permanent (e.g. in the administration of programs supported by SIF). The second
group would include those who benefit from the completed sub-project (e.g., families living
in low income settlements upgraded or water supply rehabilitated through the project). The
working-age group of the population is growing, without a commensurate increase in
employment opportunities outside agriculture. Many reports point to worsening conditions in
access to safe water, drainage, and solid waste management; improvements in these areas
under the project would have significant health benefits.
5.3   Institutional benefits of the Project would be: (a) efficiency in utilizing available
resources to ach.eve tangible results in the shortest possible time; (b) on-the-job training
opportunities for locally recruited SIF staff under the guidance of experienced consultants in
key operational areas; (c) improvement of government units responsible for infrastructure and
road services; and (d) coordination of the activities of the donor community in STP.
B. Riska and Saft ards
5.4    The major risks and the related measures taken to safeguard against them are:
(a)    the lack of adequate technical expertise in SIF to appraise and
supervise an increasing number of complex infrastructure sub-projects.
To off-set this risk, pre-investment financing would be available under
the project to support preparation activity to be carried out by
consulting firms. Training would be provided to private local
consultants, Government agencies and SIF staff on preparation,
appraisal and supervision of infrastructure sub-projects.
Implementation of infrastructure sub-projects will be carried out by
specialized units in the various sectoral ministries;
(b)    SIF's high administrative start-up costs could continue without
sufficient increase in revenue generation. To off-set operating costs,
SIF has adopted a policy of charging the government agencies for its
appraisal supervision and advisory services. This plus the commercial
interest rate changed on loans for
private sector sub-projects should, in the next two years largely off-set
administrative costs. (Cash-flow projections, indicate that SIF would begin to
pay the Government for funds on-lent to the private sector, taking into account



- 23 -
the need to provide SIF with a solid capital base). In addition, every effbrt is
being made to contain administrative costs by improving efficiency and
reducing staff recruitment to a minimum.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agements
6.1    During negotiations, assurances were obtained with respect to the following:
(a)    with the Government of Sao Tome and Principe, that it will:
(i)    adopt the Statement of Policies for SIP, and that any
subsequent modification would only be made after IDA's
authorization (para. 3.6);
(ii)   conduct together with SIF and with IDA a mid-term review of
the project during the last quarter of 1993 (para. 3.26).
(b)    with the Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF), that it will:
(i)    hire by December 31, 1991, an agriculture specialist to assist in
preparing and supervising agricultural sub-projects and retain fixed-
term consultants (para 3.4);
(ii)   submit to IDA on October 31, 1991, and each October 31 thereafter, a
rolling three-year training program for SIF's staff and an action plan
for the suceeding calendar yesr for recrutiment of short-term
consultants (para 3.4);
(iii)   prepare a plan of action for implementing improvements in loan
administration, accounting, management information systems and
general record keeping (para. 3.5);
(iv)   beginning November 30, 1990 and by November 30 of each
subsequent year, submit to IDA for its comments and approval, its
proposed action plan covering its operations (including financial
projections) for the following twelve months (para. 3.11);
(v)   to modiFv by October 31, 1991, SIF's Operational Procedures
Guidelines to take into account in more detail the criteria for assessing
the environmental impact of sub-projects (para. 3.17);
(vi)   submit to IDA within 30 days at the end of each semester progress
reports covering all areas of SIF operations, including information on
the effectiveness of financed sub-projects (para. 3.25);



-24 -
(vii)  appoint independent auditors acceptable to IDA, to carry out audits of
SIF and of its Special Account, such audit to be furnished to IDA
within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 4.16);
B. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
6.2   The following are conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   that the Government and SIF have approved the Statement of Policies
(para. 3.6);
(b)   execution of the Subsidiary Administration Agreement, satisfactory to
IDA, between the Government of Sao Tome and Principe and the
Structural and Infrastructure Fund for transferring the IDA Credit to
SIF (para. 4.3);
(c)    Submission of a satisfactory audit report of the 1990 accounts and of the
Special Account set up under the First Multisector Project (para 4.16).
C. Conditions of Disbursement
6.3    Before signing of relevant sub-project agreements, prior review and approval by IDA
of: (a) each Social Infrastructure sub-project with a total estimated cost of US$150,000
quivalent or more (para 3. 1), and compliance of all sub-projects sith SIF's policies and
procedures as approved by IDA (para 3.16).
D. Recommendation
6.4   Subject to agreement on the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit
of SDR 4.5 million (US$6 million equivalent) to the Government of the Democratic Republic
of Sao Tome and Principe.
AF41N
June 4, 1991



- 25 -
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCEPE
SECOND MULTISECTR PROJECrT
Internal Organization: SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
BOARD OF ADHINISThATOIS
|EXECUTIVE AMUNINSTRAT0R
Fund          Finance and               Fund            Subproject
Administration      Accounting             Promotion        Evaluation and
Department       Department              Department      Hanagemeat Dept.
AF41N
May 10, 1991



DE    ltIC REPUtLIC Of W0 TME AND PWIKCIPE
SACO  XACIOAL K SAO 0TOE
COMPAATIVE  AANCE SHEETS
(Dabre oillions)
ASSETS                             1983      19B9                       LIAILITIES                     1938     1939
foreign Curruny Assets                                                           Foreign Currency Claim
........................                                                        ............................... ....
foreign Currency Accounts                      620      138S                     Foreign Banks                  344      678
foreign Currency Acceonts                      137       164                     Convenio Agreeents             1S6       227
Bilaterat Credits                              413        7S8                   Dir. Ext. Ban  Firnacing         341     S14
IMF Position                                     S         9                     lpen L/C  FX Transations      1331     2296
Other                                            0          0                    International Borring Acc   970    13458
Otbers                          173      426
Sshtotal                              1175      2316                                                  ---------.----
S"htotal              12048    17601
Oamestic tLiquid Asets
0Demstic Curreny Oigations
Cah                                              1         1                     .........
Claim  on Treasury                             478      1360                    Curreny in Circulation           6S      538
Demnd Slan es                                    6         a                    ler Deposits                     120      134
---  - - - ---  -                     O..  em_nd Deposits            1241     1283
S"htotal                               485      1369                    Deposits from State             S57      1362
Other Credits                   122      129
Stiotal                250S     346
Private Sector                                 559       866
Pic Enterpriso                                2216      238                     Acceumlated Depreciation         43       48
Treasury                                      5842      617S ........
........ ...........
Sbotael                               8617      9429                    Provisions       aeral lew       19       58
flimd Assets
Other Liability Accosts
Property. Eqd _.st, Lasehold                   122       124                    .........
Invstment Pbic Enterprises                       9         6                    Inteml Trasit Accoutnt          456      83S
Treasury Participation ISITP                     4         9                    Debitt/Credits                 18w      2967
--  --- - ------- ..                  Loss on fX Salsation            619     1092
Subtotal                               135       139
Subtotal              2933    4914
Other Assets
----- - - --  - ------ -.                                                       Capital Accountt
Inteal trmit Accounts                          672       286                    -.--.-
Sebits/Credits                                1268      2166                    Paid-In Cqpitat                  75       75
Oper. Recali Accounts                            0       136                      etatined EarninP              146      163
Gain fM tevel.                                S496     1048                     Earnin  for teriod              S        22
Subtotal                              7438     13074                            Subtotal                302      260
TOIAL ASSETS                           17850     26327                    TOTAL LIAMILITIES 1 CAPITAL   17850   26327
unuuuamua.u                                                      aauuuaasauommaasau                                    3.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
ACTION PLAN OF MAY. 1991
RESPONSIBIT
Task Description                         SIF      MEF    IDA       OTHER         START        FINISH       COMMENTS
DATE         DATE
I.Review SIF's Decree-Law               X                                       Jan '91       June '91
1.1 Submit Proposed Revision Decree-Law                                        June '91     July '91
to 9DA for comments                                   X
2. Review of Policy Staement            A                                        Jan. '91     June '91     Being rviewed by IDA
2.1 Submit to IDA for comments                                                 Sept.'91     August '91
3.PaRtion Regulations Productive Sector    X              X                      Jan.'91      April '91    Complded
Laiding.
3.1 Submit to IDA for comments         X                 X                     April '91     May '91
3.2 Approval by SIP Board              X                                       June '91      Dec.91
4. Adi of Accounts                       X                         Extenal       March '91    June '91     Extenal Auditon have
4.1 Submit to IDA                                                 audito:s.    June 30,'91               completed the field work.
S.Hire Consultant for generl record      X                                       April '91    June '91
keeping mlmagement.
5.1 Hire Consultant to dcvelop managenent   X                                  April'91      June '91
infonration system                                                                                                                       X
5.2 Submit copsdsu  s report to Bank                                           June'91       July '91                                       o  :
for info and comments.                                X                                                                                  _
-                         L   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _          -~~~~o 



DE3MOCRATJC REWUKC OF SAO T            AND PRICE
SECOND MULTI-ECMRo PROa1c
ACnION PLAN OF MAY. 1991
RESPONSf
Ta  Dmiptio                              SIP    P         I       rO ER          START        FINISH D     COMMENTS
DA71B        DATE
6. Develop Data Bank on all Sub-projcts  X
finaned  by SIF to be used for reporting and                                     June '91     Oct. '91
for MIS.
7. Plan Agricultu  Unit in the Project
De_partmcn.                            X                                       March '91    Aug. '91     Agriuurl consutant
7.1.Hire Agricultura Specialist for Agric.  X                                    July '91                 asisting SIF to plan the                0
Unit.                                                                                      Dec. '91     Unit.
8. Prepare Lach Worshop.                X                                       April '91    May '91      Complete.
8.1.Hire consultant.                    X                                       April '91    April'91     Complted.
8.2.Poepare Workshop Docwmens.          X                                       April '91    May '91      in prog.
8.3.Review of documents by Bank.                          X                     May '91      June '91     in progres
8.4.Sad out iiaions.                    X                                       July '91     July '91
8.5 Carry out LAunch Workshop.          X                                       Sept. '91    Sep. '91
0
"ax



DEMOCRAllC REPUEUC OF S&O TOME ARNDI
SECOND MULJTSECTOR PROET
ACTION PLAN OF MAY. 1991
RESPONSIBLMr
Task Deciptin                          SIF      MEF    IDA       OTHER        START        FINISH      COMMENTS
DATE        DATE
9.Complia,e with conditions of
effivenes.
9.1.Daft Subsidiary Administration     X       X                             July '91     Aug '91
9.2.Reviow of Subsidiary Agreemxxt by                   X                    Aug '91      Sept '91
IDA.
93.Ratification of Subsidiay Ageement  X       X                             Aug '91      Sept '91
by SIF/MEF.
9.4 Approval by SIPs Board of the              X                                          Sept '91                                         '0
Stta of Nlicies                                                                                                                          t
0
I 



DENOCRATIC REPLILIC OF SAD TONE AND PRINCIPE
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCITURE FUND
(Institutional Technical Asistance Program, 1992-1996)
PROJECTED GOALS AND ACTIVITIES
.................... ........................................ ,.............................................................................. .... ...................  . ....
OBJETIVES/SUSJECTS          ACTIVITIES                           RESULTS                             INPUTS                       TOTAL FINANCING
(US#)
I                              .                                   -                                 I
Technicat assistance          Contract consultants                Establishment of SIF              Professionals with expe-                     160,115
for institutional             for short-term                      as a developoent                  rience in develotpent finance
md operational                assigiuents. including              institution based on solid         institutions, finance, lending,
mpq2rt.                       design of financial                 administrative  nd                and financial intermdistion
intermediation procedures.         organizational5 ard                in general. It is iqioptant
technical capabilities            that the consultants ha e
experience with operational
procedwres, orgamization, and
saguement of develo  nt
funds.
c
II                            II                                  II                                tIi
...                           ---                                 ---                               .... . .
laprove SIF's existing        Contract consultants                Nigher levet of coapetence        Professionals with                          139.230
project pr paration and       for short-term  assiwments          in SIF to identify                acadmeic training in
evaltuation, and usper-       to provide training                 assist in preperation,            project analysis  with knouledge
vision capacity for both      in specific areas,                  appraisat and supervision         of internal rate of return
econ mic and social                                              of sub-projects.                   calculation ard analysis of socio-
infrastructure                                                    Specifically, greater             economic benefits.
sib-projects.                                                     coxqetence in handting            Professionals knowledge ble
sub-projects in agriculture       in agriculture credit
and in carrying out                nd appraisal of such
ecOnomic analysis of              projects.
sub-projects.
Same objectives as above.    On-the-job training                  SIF's and sponsoring              Experts in the various                      139.230
to be corplie  nted by             agencies, capacity will            technical fields subject
short-term sGmfnars                be strengthened by direct          of these seminars.
(about two per year)               participation in these             Specialties in econamic                                                :D.
to reinforce professional          training seminars,                 and financial analysis of                                            0
staff's knowledge in                                                  sub-projects. Experience
sib-project preparation                                               in training methods.                                                _X
appraisal  nd supervision. 
Specifically, training
mould concentrate in
agricultural and in social
Infrastructure sub-project
appraisal.
If



fROJECTED MOKLS AND ACTIV'TIES
........................ ............................................... ..................................................................................................................................................___
OBJETIVEUSUBJECTS           ACTIVITIES                           RESULTS                             INPUTS                       TOTAL FINANCING
(USt)
Technical assistance to       Consultants to advice               To consolidate SWF's               Experts in accounting                        69.615
SIF's accounting and          SIF periodically in                 computerized accounting            and in record keeping
finance department.           accounting and finanmial            system to enable it to             systems particuLarly,
matters and in ways to              handle an ever-increasing         computerized systems.
keep iproving its                  volume of operations.Prepare
accounting and HIS system          financial projections
particularly as che volume          and periodic balance sheets
of operations increases.           and income statements.
Particular emphasis wilt
be placed in ieproving SIF's
financial prograning
capability.
Amwual audit.                 Carry out the required              Cotplete the audit on a            Qualified international                      69.615
annuat audit of SIF's               timely basis and review           auditing firm.
accounts and operations.           of SIF's operational systems.
with reco mendations on
needed improvements.                                                                                   L
IV                            IV                                  IV                                IV
Improvement of SIF's          Carrying out improvements in        Further improvements in            Consuttants with experi-                     69.615
Adcinistration Depart.        data processing and                 SIF's central management           ence and training in
in record keeping system           inforcation and record             computer informotion  ystem
and cont.ols.                       keeping system.                   as applied to financial
Asystem capable of coping         institutions.
with an ever-increasing
volume of operations.
(The basic system was
implemented under the First
Uultisector Project).
V                             V                                   V                                  V
Assistance to SIF             Replacement of some                 To improve the efficiency          Four new or upgraded                         64,974
in maintaining its office    depreciated computer euip-           of SIF's persomnel.                computer and related pieces
computer equipment,           ment and amernization of                                               of equipment per year.
updating its software         other equipment.                                                                                                                             oo
and other equipment.
0
Same as above.                Acquisition of additional           Guarantee constant supply of       New generator, spares                        25,000
emergency generator.               electricity. The existing          and installation costs.
generator is presently
working on a full-time basis,
and a back-up system is
urgently needed.



- 32-                                  -ne 4t    o 
,.   j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a.3o
3:   ~ Q
*~ i:
*   :g     E    
. n > @.11
*             o       a 
e e f - .I
* a.
.           _.
* . e 
*  _   .              a
. F .             .~Qu
*    .  
*    a                a    
*   -    .a  
i,  i,                  a   B



Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
- 33 -
April 16, 1991
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME MND PRINCIPE
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE FUND
POLICY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER I
General
Article 1. The Social and Infrastructure Fund -- SIF (Fondo Social y de
Infraestructura -- FSI) is an autonomous State agency whose objective is to
promote flows of domestic and external resources to finance social, economic
and infrastructure development projects or subprojects.
Article 2. The objective of ths SIF is to promote public or private sector
activities that improve living standards in the areas of health, education and
housing and develop basic infrastructures, thereby minimizing the effects of
structural adjustment measures.
Alticle 3. The objective of the SIF is to promote both the regional and
national development of productive processes in Sao Tome, especially in
economic subsectors that can make greater use of natural resources, stimulate
job creation, generate foreign exchange, r omote efficient import
substitution, and expand private investmer .
Article 4. The objective of the SIF is to ensure optimum utilization of the
State's own resources, in line with the Government's development plans and
programs.
Article 5. The objective of the SIF is to ensure coordinated and systematic
application of the resources allocated to social and economic development and
infrastructure subprojects that encourage the inhabitants to remain in their
native regions, and stimulate productivity and employment.
Akticle 6. The SIF is intended to operate as a financial intermediary and
link between international organizations providing loans or grants and
national institutions sponsoring or managing social sector and infrastructure
subprojects, and the beneficiaries of economic subprojects.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
- 34-
Article 7. The objective of the SIF is to provide financial support for
research or studies on the design and implementation of subprojects, and
direct support for procurement operations, to ensure that the goods and
services required for project execution are acquired in an efficient and
timely manner.
Article 8. In accordance with its basic law and statutes, the SIF will
provide financial and technical support to subproject beneficiaries either
directly or by channeling its resources through the national financial system
once appropriate financial institutions have been established.
Artig12 9. The SIF will work together with the Government of Sao Tome and its
institutions to promote and consolidate a market economy, the privatization of
enterprises, the titling, possession and exploitation of land, foreign
investment, and the reorganization and strengthening of the nation's financial
system.
Artigle 10. The SIF will act as the Government's agent in identifying,
negotiating and managing resources, from external or internal sources, that
may be allocated to it as the proceeds of loans, budgetary transfers or
grants.
CHAPTER II
The Government's Strategy for the SIF
Article 11. The Government has established the SIF as an autonomous agency so
that it can:
(a)   Channel and administer external resources earmarked for projects
in the social and economic sectors and in infrastructure.
(b)   Act as a development institution by providing loans to private
sector beneficiaries either directly or through financial
intermediaries.
(c)   Function as a financially solid and operationally efficient
institution, capable of maximizing the financial and human
resources available for project execution. To this end, the SIF's
lending operations must have the kind of financial support
structure that enables it to maintain a healthy financial position
and to be a reliable, creditworthy channel for external and
domestic tesources.
AriCle 12 To achieve the objectives set out in the preceding Article, the
Government is resolved to implement the following policies and strategies:



Annex 5
Page 3 of 10
- 35 -
(a)   To avoid any overlapping resulting from the creation of similar
instruments to the SIF in other central government organizations
or decentralized agencies.
(b)   To create the necessary conditions for the establishment of viable
banking institutions to channel SIF resources so that, once these
are in place, the SIF can also operate as a second-tier financing
instrument providing loans to the economy.
(c)   To avoid making the SIF directly responsible for payments of
interest and principal on international loans until it is
adequately capitalized. This will largely be achieved through
repayments of its loans for economic projects, financed with the
proceeds of international loans, and through capitalization of its
net operating receipts.
(d)   To provide initial support from the budget or by making loans or
grants to cover the SIF's administrative and capital investment
costs, the medium-term goal being for the SIF to meet these costs
from its own funds.
(e)   To support the SIF's self-funding policies and strategies, for
which purpose it must ensure that its loans and grants are
provided on appropriate terms and conditions that will enable it
to cover its operating costs and capitalization.
(f)   To enable the SIF to make decisions on financing projects on the
basis of technical and financial criteria, without any external
interference that might compromise the attainment of its
objectives or its financial position.
(g)   To support the SIF by providing it with qualified staff, selected
on merit, who will be encouraged to remain in the organization by
attractive salaries and benefits and opportunities for study,
training and promotion, which will be on a competitive basis in
light of performance.
CHAPTER III
Resources
Article la. The SIF will have its own permanent capital in addition to the
funds it manages, which shall not be employed for any other purpose than the
attainment of its objectives. SIF resources may come from the following
sources, among others:
(a)   Resources initially provided by the Government from the proceeds
of IDA Credit 2038-STP, and the relevant counterpart funds.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
- 36 -
(b)   Resources from loans, grants, transfers and contributions that may
be received in the future, either through the Government or
directly by the SIF.
(c)   Repayments of loans to support economic subprojects financed under
Multisector Project I (IDA Credit 2038) or the proceeds of other
loans from international financing institutions where it is agreed
that repayments may be capitalized.
(d)   Earnings generated by the SIF in the form of service charges for
nonreirbursable financing or interest on its loans for economic
projects; any surplus of earnings over administrative costs must
be capitalized.
Article 14. The SIF is an institution of indefinite duration; therefore, to
ensure its continued existence, it will lend on proper banking terms and
conditions, i.e.:
(a)   It must apply service charges for financing social and
infrastructure subprojects, and charge interest on its loans for
economic subprojects.
(b)   It must require adequate guarantees from its borrowers so as to
minimize possible losses from bad debts.
(.)   lt must seek to maximize the returns on its net assets; for this
reason, and to ensure the necessary quick access to its funds,
these assets must be held in the form of bank deposits.
CHAPTER IV
Activities to be Financed
Article 15. In pursuit of its objectives the SIF will help finance social
subprojects, such as:
(a)   In the field of health, subprojects designed:  (i) to control
malaria and endemic diseases; (ii) to improve hospital services;
(iii) to acquire and distribute medicines; and (iv) in a general
sense, to improve health services and strengthen sector
institutions; priority should be given to subprojects designed to
control malaria and improve the nutrition status of the
population.
(b)   In the field of education, subprojects intended to reduce
illiteracy and improve schooling, such as: (i) construction of
new schools or rehabilitation of existing ones' (ii) acquisition
and distribution of textbooks and educational materials;
(ii$) equipping of schools, and (iv) in general, all subprojects



Annex 5
Page 5 of 10
- 37 -
that strengthen the different levels of education and expand and
upgrade professional/vocational training in Sao Tome.
(c)   In the social sector as a whole, subprojects designed to minimize
the economic impact of structural adjustment and reinsert workers
in economic activities.
(d)   In the area of infrastructure, subprojects involving the
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of highways and
feeder roads, the provision and maintenance of water supplies,
environmental sanitation works, construction of markets, urban
renewal, basic housing and tourist infrastructure, and, in
general, subprojects that meet basic needs and stimulate
productive activity in Sao Tome.
(e)   In the economic field, subprojects economic subsectors
and related activites, that promote optimum utilization of
natural resources and creates employment.
CHAPTER V
Items that may be Financed
art1.cle fi. The SIF will use its resources to finance civil works, equipment
and materials, operating costs, studies and research, and technical
assistance, among others.
Article 17. The SIF will use the net resources generated by loan repayments
and the results of its operations to support its principal credit lines and
meet the need for local counterpart funds, and to provids additional financial
assistance for social and infrastructure subprojects.
j3ticle 18. The SIF shall not make loans for the acquisition of used machinery
and equipment belonging to other parties, and will not finance the purchase of
land or buildings, except as part of the management of specially earmarked
funds, involving no credit risks for the SIF that might affect its operating
results.
rticle 19. The SIF will help strengthen business activities, giving priority
to fixed assets and permanent working capital; as far as possible, it must
ensure that the current working capital needs of economic subprojects are met
by the beneficiaries.



Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
- 38 -
CHAPTER VI
Strategies for Financing Economic Subprojects
Article 2Q. To achieve its objectives the SIF will carry out the following
activities, among others:
(a)   Either directly or through financial intermediaries, the SIF will
finance technically and financially viable projects in the private
sector that are oriented toward creating, expanding and improving
productive capacity, especially in small and medium-sized firms.
(b)   It will ensure that smaller businesses have access to the credit
and technical assistance required to prepare and implement
subprojects.
(c)   It will encourage the financial intermediaries to help
beneficiaries prepare feasibility studies and implement
subprojects; and if required provide technical assistance
aimed at improving the technical and financial analysis of
the subprojects submitted for its consideration.
(d)   It will support the financial intermediaries in promoting,
preparing and appraising subprojects, as well as their supervision
and monitoring.
(e)   It will promote studies ard research designed to yield greater
knowledge of economic sectors and subsectors, so as to establish
policies and design programs and financing arrangements.
(f)   It will provide technical assistance to beneficiaries to help
implement the economic subprojects.
CHAPTER VII
Financial Terms and Conditions
ArtJije 21. The SIF will provide financing for social and infrastructure
subprojects on a nonreimbursable basis, including the service charges which,
as funds manager, the SIF must apply to the total financing for each
subproject.
Artiele_22. The SIF's loans to finance economic subprojects will be modeled on
the features and conditions of reimbursable bank loans; thd SIF's lending
guidelines must therefore include the following criteria, among others:



Annex 5
Page 7 of 10
- 39 -
(a)   Maximum limits shall be established for financing fixed assets and
working capital, separately and in combination, for a given
subproject.
(b)   Maximum limits shall be established for individual beneficiaries
and groups of beneficiaries, or companies; these amounts may vary
from one SIF credit line to another.
(c)   Minimum financing amounts shall be established for subprojects,
depending on the credit line in question.
(d)   For each credit line, minimum beneficiary contributions shall be
established according to the size of the subprojects; these
contributions shall not be less than lOX of the total cost of the
subproject. This provision shall not apply to special credit
lines designed to encourage micro- and small businesses, where
project costs may be financed up to 100l.
Article 23. The SIF must avoid concentrating its funds in a small number of
subprojects, and hence must observe the lending regulations of the National
Bank of Sao Tome and Principe as regards the maximum amounts of financing
permitted to individual beneficiaries or groups of businessmen with a common
interest in one or more subprojects.
&rticile24. The SIF shall establish, for each credit line, requirements
regarding the guarantees to be provided by beneficiaries in favor of the SIF
in order to ensure that loans are repaid. Even in ceses where the feasibility
studies clearly demonstrate the technical and financial viability of the
subproject, the SIF must always ask for guarantees.
Article 25. The SIF must always require that the guarantee include the goods
being financed from its loan. It must also require additional pledges to make
the guarantee at least 1201 of the loan amount.
Article 26. The SIF may accept as guarantees fixed assets in the form of
machinery and equipment, private urban and rural properties, agricultural
production, industrial or agroindustrial finished products, and stocks of raw
materials that can be easily handled and sold.
Ari&cle 2Z. The SIF may accept fiduciary guarantees issued by individuals or
banks, including those issued under guarantee arrangements, when it is shown
that the beneficiaries cannot provide their own guarantees.
Article 2.  The SIF may not accept as part of any guarantee goods that are
leased or where the use and enjoyment of the said goods, under any legal



Annex 5
Page 8 of 10
- 40 -
regime, does not give the beneficiaries the right of ownership and hence the
legal power to dispose of the goods in question.
Articl 29. Loans shall be denominated in local currency or foreign exchange,
according to the arrangement for each credit line. Where loans are
denominated in dobras but disbursed in foreign exchange, payments of interest
and principal shall be made in dobras. For loans denominated in foreign
exchange these payments shall be made in the same currencies. If necessary,
the Government shall cover the exchange risk on SIF operations.
hztl.le 30. The interest rate to be paid by beneficiaries on loans in dobras
or foreign exchange shall be established for each line of credit in accordance
with the interest rate policies of the National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe,
and as agreed with the international financial institutions, where
appropriate. The SIF must also observe the regulations laid down by the
NBSTP, in its capacity as manager of the nation's financial system, on such
matters as portfolio limits and arrears of interest, among others.
hXtfJ2 31. Loan reimbursement periods shall be established for each credit
line and applied according to individual subproject requirements. In no case
must these periods exceed 15 years, including a maximum of 5 years' grace;
reimbursement periods must be different for fixed assets, permanent working
capital and current working capital.
CHAPTER VIII
Criteria for Subproject Selection
rt.Sicl 32. The following criteria must be applied in the selection of
subprojects to be financed:
(a)   For the social and infrastructure sectors:
(i)      the subprojects must be consistent with national medium and
long-term programs and plans, and specifically with the
Government's Public Investment Program;
(ii)      the subprojects chosen must directly benefit the majority of
the population and at the same time produce the largest
economic impact. For this purpose, project analysis must
establish thresholds for social and economic benefits and
lead to a priority ranking of projects in light of the funds
available.



Annex 5
Page 9 of 10
- 41 -
(b)   For the productive sectors:
(i)      the subprojects must conform to the Government's sector
priorities;
(ii)      the return on the subproject must be equal to or greater
than the minimum internal rate of financial return to be
established by the SIF. The threshold for this rate shall
be the weighted interest rate on the loans, plus a certain
percentage of the opportunity cost of the beneficiaries' own
funds, where appropriate.
(iii)      the subproject's payment capacity must be positive from year
three onwards, regardless of the total -race period applied,
which may be up to five years.
CHAPTER IX
Provisions Regarding Financial Intermediaries
Artigle 31. For the lending operations conducted through financial
intermediaries, the SIF shall seek the participation of the largest possible
number of institutions, thereby avoiding any concentration of financing in a
single intermediary, unless there is no alternative.
Articlg 34. To act as a financial intermediary, an institution must sign a
participation contract with the SIF specifying the requirements to be met and
the conditions and commitments to be fulfilled for the loans to become
effective.
Articlg 35. The financial intermediaries must have the resources to guarantee
both their participation in cofinancing the subprojects and the total lending
risk, and must be able to make timely payments of interest and principal on
the loans to the SIF should the beneficiaries not meet their obligations.
Artiale 36. The financial intermediaries must have the minimum organization
required for promoting, appraising and supervising subprojects, managing their
loan portfolios and ensuring repayment.
ArticIe3Z. Intermediated subprojects will generally involve cofinancing of
the loan component of the total cost of the subproject. For this purpose an
agreement will be signed regarding the structure of the financial
intermediaries' participation in the loan, for each credit line.



Annex 5
Page 10 of 10
- 42 -
ArtLcle 3a. When it is necessary to encourage the intermediaries to
participate in fLnancing lnvestment subprojects, or when the beneficlaries
lack adequate funds, the SIF may finance the entire loan and even the total
cost of the subproject, as specified for a glven credlt llne.
ArtLcle 39- The interest rate paid by beneficiaries on intermediated loans
must conform to the criteria for interest rates established in these
regulations. An interest rate differential shall be applied for the financial
intermediaries, together with a margln to enable the SIF to cover its
operating costs and establish reserves.
Article 40. The repayment periods and grace periods to be applied by the
financial intermediaries shall be determined according to the same criteria as
used by the SIF for its direct loans.
CHAPTER X
Final Provisions
Article 41. The SIF must periodically evaluate its operations, the performance
of the financial intermediaries and the results of the subprojects financed;
it shall then recommend such adjustments as it finds appropriate in order to
achieve its objectives.
ArtLcle 42. These regulations shall be complemented on all points that do not
co.ntradict them by the specific regulations for each credit line, and shall
take effect once approved by the competent authorities.



- 43 -
DEMOCRATIC REPUALIC OF SAO TONE & PRINCIPE                          Annex 6
FUND FOR SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE (CIF)
MJLTISECTOR PROJECT                                     Page  1 of 5
PIPELINE, ECONOMIC SW-PROJECTS
(In Thoussndb)
....................................................................................
ESTINATED
TOTAL COST   BENEFICIARY  FINACING
IOf SU8 PPOJ P^RTICIPATION  BY SIF     I
PROFILE OF SUB-PROJECTS          - --------                   .    . .
No.                                           I  USS                USO         USD  I
A ESTIMATES NULTI I.
I PROJS APPROVED SY ADNIN.COUNCIL
1 Cermfca                                            320            128         192
2  Zapeteroa                                          38              6          32
3  Enchidos                                          1SO             60          90
Sub-Total:         508            194          314
II  PROJECTS UIDER EVALUATION
1 Tomato Sauce                                       100             25          75
2  Bakery Rehabilitation                              35              5          30
3  Ananas (Pine)                                      SO              7          42
4  Combustible (fuel)                                 99             47          52
5  Arsl                                              193            182           11
6  Plantation of Banana  Pau                          1t              1           11
Sub-Total:         488            267          221
III PROJECTS WITH GOOD PROSPECTS
(For immediate evaluation)
I Equipment PES                                        7              1           7
2  Piriheira Animal Center                            50             10          40
3  Talho En Angulares                                 27              4          23
4  Fishing Assoietion in Angolares                   SO             12          38
5  Angolares mini-market                              20              3           17
6  Santa Cruz Foundation                              40              7          33
Sub-Total:          194            37          158
........... ...........................
SUB-TOTAL MULTI SECTOR I (A)        1,190 I          498          693 |
BROUGH ESTIMATES
I. PROJECTS WITH GOOD PROSPECTS
1 Pepper Plantation                                  200            100         100
2  Bird house in Angolares                             8              0           8
3  Guest House                                       267            134          133
4  Guest House                                       140             56          84
5  Pig Farm                                          106             42          64
6  Ofl/Seboaria                                      460            230         230
Sub-Total:        1.181           562          619
It. PROJECTS WITH GOOD PROSPECTS
Hog Raising/Agric. Association                      156             23         133
2  Angolares Agric. Association                      105             16          89
3  Heladeres Construction                             40              2          38
4  Agricola Noandi-Noandi                             15              0           15
5  Sta Luzia partial rehab.                           38              2          36
6  Rehab. of vills Conceicao                         157             24          133
7  Poultry Farm Villa  adalen                          3              0           3
Sub-Total:         514             67          447
...................................................................................



- 44 -
DEMOCRATIC REPUWLIC OF SAO TONE & PRINCIPE                         Anrex 6
FUIO FOR SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE (SIF)                           Page 2 of 5
MULTISECTOR PROJECT
PIPELINE, ECONOMIC SW-PROJECTS
(In Thousands)
...................................................TOTA ...COST. S .....C .....FINA .CI .G
ESTINATED
TOTAL COST BENEFICIARY FI"^hCIN
OF SUB-PROJ PARTICIPATION  BY SIF
PROFILE OF SUS-PROJECTS
No.                                          IU                  USo         USDI
III IDENTIFIED SUB-PROJECTS
I Chanellfng of Mwnuel Jorge                        182            27         155
River for frrigartfon
2  Catching, processing and                         223            56         167
coi_ercialization of squids in
local and *xternal markets
3  Construction of repair garage                    328            82         246
4  Production of cardboard & paper                  136            20         116
5 Production of smelt souvenirs                       3             0           3
6  Rehab. of olive oll factory                       40             2          38
7  Poultry Comercallization                         119            18         101
8  Construction of a clinic center                   32             2          31
9  Artisanal Fisheries                              14             2          124
10 Ir m-oua processing  and                         205             51         154
Cofferclalization
l1 |Cttructfon of a private                          60              6          54
health clinic
12  Construction of private pouwr                     75             8          68
generator
13  Cowmercial building construction                 149            22         127
14  Rehabilitation of poultry                       876            576         300
production facility
15  Construction of Bakery                             S             0           5
16 Plantation of fruit trees and                     61              6          55
animl raising
17 Purchase of fishing boat & Equip                  27              1          26
18  Fishing Equipment                               269             67         202
19 Livestock promotionC4 coeponents)                 174            26         148
20  Construction of a hog house                        1             0           1
21  Importation of poultry eggs                       19             0          19
22  Livestock support                                  0             0           0
23  leportation of edibles (food)                     68             7          61
24  Restaurant to sell food/drinks                     9             0           9
25  Rehab. of Cobo Duco (partly)                      26             1          24
26 Purchase of boats & equipments                    83              8          74
27  Construction of a Poultry Farm                     3             0           3
in Villa Madatena
Sub Total:       3,319         1,008       2,308
................................
SUB-TOTAL MULTI SECTOR 11 (S)       5 014          1,637       3 374
GRAND TOTAL WS.B): |     62U           2,135       4 067
gsansus --------wu*.gsuwuu g- uu-m                                   -au u



- 45 -
DEMOCRATIC REPUILIC OF AO TONE & PRINCIPE                            Ann x 6
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE FUND (SIF)                              Pag  3 of 5
IULTISECTOt PROJECT
PIPELINE SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE SU8 PROJECTS
(In thousnds)
...............................................................................
TOTAL COST UENFICIARY FINANCING BY
SW-PAOJ.   PARTICIPATION      fSI
TYPE OF SUS*PROJECTS
No                                           USD           USD           USD
.. .............................. ........... ............  ..,.....
ESTIMATES MULTI I
A. SOCIAL SUB-PROJECTS
1. PROJECTS APPROVED BY
TNE ADMIN. COUNCIL
1 Education Text Books                       783             s9          694
2 Education Plaming and Management            208            39          169
Inforustion Consultant
3 Hea1th - Malaria and Endsmic                719            53          666
Discae Control
4 Health - Pluning & Management               170            30          140
5  *otth - Essential Drugs                   410            171          239
Sub-Total A:        2290 1         382 1        1908 I
.   ..............................
B. INFRASTRUCTURE SUB-PROJECT
I Water Supply Sector                       1700           1100          600
Rehabititntion  Sub-ProJect
2 Nunficipt Market                            267             0          267
3 Road RehabIlitation, Equipment              142           122           20
and Spare Parts
4 Road Rehab/Raw Materials                     90             0           90
---------------------------------------
Sub-Total 8:        2199 1        1222          977 1
TOTAL MULTI I. (A + B):        4489           1604         2885 I
MULTI 11 ESTIMATIONS
A. INFRASTRUCTURE SU8-PROJ.
I Priority Rods Inprovmwnt                  2400            200         2200
2 Smtll Priority Works                       800            200          600
3 Slum UpgradIng                             1300           200         1100
4 Small Hydroelectric Plant                   850            50          800
S Other Sub-Projects                         800            500          300
-- - - 1.O...........................-0
SUB-TOTAL MULTI SECTOR 11         6150 |         1150 |       5000 |
C. PROPOSED HEALTH EDUCATION PROG
I Malarfi Education                         3000              0         3000
2 Other Health                               1000             0         1000
3 Educeaton                                  1000             0         1000
.......................................
0000                      5000
TOTAL MULTI I + II.       -5639          2754         1288S
urn. .muaminuuuaauuuuuaauuuSu3USuuUUUUUUU_UUUUEUUUUU I .uuaaauasuuau IU----------



- 46 -
DEMOCRATIC REPUSLIC OF SAO TONE AND PRINCIPE                   ANNEX 6
SOCIAL AND INFRASTRUCTLRE FUND  (SIF)                     Page  4 of  5
SECOND NULTI SECTOR PROJECT                              g
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
SIMARY CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
........... ....................... ....................  
(USS THOUSANDS)
......................... ........................................................ ,X...............
ITEM                      1991       1992   |   1993   |  1994        199f  |  1996      TOTAL
........ ............... .................. .................................................. X"^...........................................
CASH INFLOWS
Drawdoin Line  of Credit (finrncing)    2,929           3,357       5,426    3,359    3,018    1,166        19,255
Drawdown Lines ot Credit(inst.support         290         317         326       325       180       170      1,608
Earnings (Interest and Comfislons)            223         330         530    1,261       967       901       4,212
Lon Rpaymnts                                    0           0           0        88       139      415         642
Governwent's Grant Contribution               2S1         415           0         0         0         0        666
..  ................................. .............................................................................................. 
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                          3,693        4,420 |    6,282     5,033    4,305 | 2,652 |   26,384
CASH OUTFLOWS
Sub-Project Ffnncing                        2,929       3,357       5.426    3,359 1 3,018    1,166         19,255
Adhinistrative Expeses,                       231         247         257       270       283      300        ,5U88
Inst. t.a., Buitding & Equipmnt               184         195         207      205       195       185       1.171
Interest Paymnts                                0           0           0        68       112       91         271
....................................... ........................................I................... ....... .... 
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                       | 3.345       3.799       5.890 | 3,902 | 3,608 |  1,742 i   22,86
CASH INFLOW LESS OUTFLOW                 I    349 |       6201       392 |  1,131 |    697 |    910 |    4,098
..........................................................................................................
ACCUMULATED CASH                         |    349 |       969 |    1,361 | 2,492 | 3,189 | 4,098 |    8,196
INCOME STATEMENT
..................
(USS Thousands)
I-Actual (twaudited)l ... ::::--.......Projections ----- .----------------
ITEM                   1  1989    1990     1991                 1        1993   11994  1995    196
..................................................................................................................
Interest Income                          I      O           01         891    155 1    3681    6001            5611   501
Interent Expense                         I      01         22           0         01      67       2601        3001    200
Gross Spread                             I      MI)1      (22)1        89 1    155 |    301 I    340 1         261 1   301
..................................................................................................................
Comfissions and Other Fees                      1          12         127       175       162      662         410      200
Drawdown Lines of CreditCinst.Support)    191             468         290       317       326      325          180     170
Government Grant                                0          21         251       415         0         0           0       0
Administrative Expenses                        68         106         231       247       257      270         283      300
Other Operating Expenses                       14          49          10        12        11        13          15      15
Inst. Tech. Assist.                           107         287         159       170      182       180         170      160
Loan Loss Provisfon(3% of portfolio)            0           0          22        31       109      123         119      106
Depreciation                                    0          26          34        34        34       36           40      4S
Taxes                                           0           0           1         1         2        2           2        3
................................................... ..............................................................................................
Net Profit                               I      21        (11)l        50 1    152 1    194 1    703 1         2221    42
RATIOS
Gross Spread as   of ATA                       (0)         (3)          5         6         7         5           4       4
Administrative Costs as X of ATA               17          13          14         9         6         4           4       4
Gross lncomeas o       ofATA                    0          (1)         13        13        10        15           9       6
Not Profit as X of Aver. Net Worth              1          (1)          3         6         7        20           5        1
(1)TotaL Income as X Av*.C&sh,Lown&Ad           3           6          34        26        19       27           18      13
(2)interest Income as X Ave.Cash,Loans          0           0          14        12        13        13         11        9
(3)Intorest lxpene as  Ave.Loan Pays           na           n          no        no         5        9           10       6
(1)-(3)                                        na           na         na        no        14        18           9       6
W2)-CS)                                        na           no         na        no         8        4            1       3
....................................................................................................................



- 47 -
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TONE AND PRINCIPE                          ANNEX 6
SOCIAL AD INFRASTRUCTURE FUND  tSIF)                             Page  5 of 5
SECOND NULTI SECTOR PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
BALANCE SHEET
.............
(USSthousands)
I-Actual (unaudited)|------------- -- Projections .--.-.-------------...
............ ........................    ........................................   ............................................................................................... 
ASSETS                I FY1989 I    1990        1991   1 1992  1 1993  I  1994  I   1995   1 1996
..... .... .. ............. . .. .. . . . . ... . . . ... . .. .. . . . . .. . ... . . .. . . .. . .. .
CASh AND OTHER LIQUID ASSETS
Cash nd Banks                                24         223         240      478       467    1,247       1,750   2,335
Advances to Suppliers nd Contractors          10         80          10      120       103       100        110      121
Other Advances                                 0         20          10        11       11        12         12       13
Inventory                                    13          11          13       13        13       13          13       13
Subtotal Short-term Assets         47        335         213       621      594    1,371       1,885   2481
............................................................................
LOANS AND OTHER FINANCING
Loans (private sector)                        0           0         727    1,047    3.645    4,102        3,962   3,r,5
Accumulated Provisions                         0          0          22       53       163      286         404      511
Subtotal Loans          0           0        705       994    3,482    3 816       3.558   3,034
FIXED ASSETS
Building                                       1          1          73       73        73        73         73       73
Equipment                                   115         193         229      229       229      229         229      229
Capitalized Expenses                        190         658         948    1.265    1,591    1.916        2.096   2,266
Construction in Progress                      0          32           0        0         0         0          0        0
Equipment in Transit                         40          72           0        0         0         0          0        0
Less Depreciation                             0         (30)        C64)     (97)    (130)    (163)        (196)   (229)
Subtotal Fixed Assets       347         926       1,187    1,471    1,764    2,056        2,203   2,340
......................................................................... ......................................................... 
TOTAL ASSETS               |   393 I    1,261        2.165 | 3,086 | 5,840 | 7?243 2         7645   7,855
LIABILITIES
.............. ..................................... ......................................................................................
SHORT TERM LIABILITIES                                       j                    I
Supplier's Short term Credits                 5           7         107      110       171       30          30       30
Accounts Payable to Governent                  3          O          45       56        30        12         12       10
Other Accounts Payable                         0          O          45        0        15         5          5        5
............................................................................ 
Subtotal Short-Term Liabilities          81          7|       197       166 |    216       147          47      45
LONG TERM LOANS                                 I         0           0        01  2,598    3, 143        3,143  3,143 |
CAPITAL AND RETAINED EARNINGS
Capitalized Credit Funds                    382 |    1,242 |    1.675 | 2,312 | 2,638 | 2,963 |    3,143   3.313
Govermnent Capital Contribution               0 1        21         251 1   415          0         01         01       0
Retained Earnings                              2         (9)j        42      193       387    1,090 |    1,311 | 1,354
............................................................................ ...................................... 
NET WORTH      385       1 254 1    1 968 | 2 920 | 3 026 | 4,053 1    4,455 1 4,667
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH        393      1.261       2.165    3,086    5,840    7,243        7645 I 7,855
RATIOS
Current Ratio                                 6          45           1        4         3       29          40       55
Total Debt/Equity                             0         0.0         0.1      0.1       0.9      0.8         0.7      0.7
Annual Growth in Total Assets 0X)              na       221          72       43        89        24          6        3
Avergeg  Loans & Advances/ATA(X)              3           7          24       35        53       58          51       44
Average Equity/Ave LoansgAdvances(X)    3,839         1,485         390      264       126       94         112      133
Average total Assets (ATA)                  393         827       1,713    2.625    4,463    6,542        7.444   7,750
Average Loan  and Advances                    10         55         413      925    2,360    3,762        3,804   3,424
Average Equity                              385         819       1,611    2,444    2,973    3,539        4.254   4,561
Average Cash,Loans and Advances              34         1N9         644    1,284    2.833    4,619        5,302   5,466
Average Loans Payable                          1          1           0        0    1.299    2,871        3,143   3,143
............................... .......................................................................  .......
NOTES:
1- Detsi1ed results of the financial projections are available in the project files.
2- The financial projectIons are based on SIF's pipeline of sub-projects which extends only to 1994.
for this ieason not fneoe appears to drop for 1995 and 1996.
3- It is asswmed that financing for institutional support for SIF under the First Nultisector Project
will continue through 1994.
4- The foltlwing Dobra/USS exchange rates have been assumed: 1991:178; 192:183.5;
1993:189; 1994:198.6; 19M:208.7;and, 1996:221.8.
5- It is assumed that Sf wilt bein to pay interest to the Government on on-lent funds to the private sector
beginnfng In 193. Assuwptions on tese and conditions of the subloans are In the project file.



- 48 -                       Annex 7
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Page 1 of 18
SECOND MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
Introduction: This Annex describes the following sub-projects which are
under preparation by SIF:
1- Rehabilitation of the Hydroelectric Plant at Guegue;
2- Upgrading of Riboque/Lucumi Area in Sao Tome;
3- Rehabilitation Of Priority Roads Sections; and,
4- Priority Urban and Rural Roads Works.
xxxxxxxxxxxx
Sub-project: REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE HYDRO-ELECTRIC
PLANT AT GUEGUE
Sponsoring Agency: Empresa de Agua e Electricidade (EMAE)
Direc9ao de Induistria, Energra e Turismo (DIET)
Background:
1.         Public electrticity is provided by the state-owned utility, Empresa de
Agua e Electricidade (EMAE). Total installed capacity is about 6 megawatts, of
which 2 megawatts have been supplied from hydroelectric resources (Contador
and, in the past, Guegue), and 4 megawatts by diesel sets operating on imported
fuel. The total number of consumers is approximately 12,000. Present operational
capacity of about 3,500 kW covers almost 100 percent of peak demand, but leaves
no reserve capacity.
2.         The power sector suffers from high losses, estimated at over 20
percent, and is frequently unable to satisfy consumer demand because of
breakdowns in the generating equipment, particularly the diesel sets.
Increasing demand for power, estimated to grow by about 10 percent p.a., makes it
essential for EMAE to rehabilitate and/or install new generating equipment to
provide the approximately 5-10 MW required in the next five years. Although the
capital investment required for diesel generators is lower and technical planning for
installation is less sophicated than for a hydroelectric plant, the reliability of diesel
generating equipment is substantially lower than that of hydroelectricity.
Furthermore, diesel consumption of imported fuel and spare parts imposes a severe
drain on the country's scarce foreign exchange reserves and results in relatively
high operating costs.
3.         Hydroelectric potential in S. Tome is estimated to be 10 times the
currrent level of generation. Increased exploitation of these resources should
reduce foreign exchange outflows, lower the cost of electricity to the consumer,
and improve the reliability of electricity supplies. The City of Sao Tome suffers
daily from energy black outs and shortages making it almost impossible for the



- 49 -                             Annex 7
Page 2 of 18
sustained development of light industry to take place, and thus inhibiting the
economic recovery process in Sao Tome.
4.          The most cost-efficient means of simultaneously increasing the
supply of electricity and reducing the cost of producing it is through the
rehabilitation of existing generating capacity and the reduction of system losses to
a more acceptable level of around 10 percent p.a. The diesel fuel used to replace
the lost power from Guegue is estimated at US$133,000/year at international
prices.
5.         The Utility. A team of foreign management consultants has been
introduced to manage the utility for 4-5 years, financed by the French Cooperation
(FAC) as a first step towards the restructuring and tehabilitation of EMAE and to
secure continuity of management by national staff once the management contract
finishes. In this regard, FAC have also given a grant of FF10 million to assist
EMAE, over the next few years, in installing and operating a computerized billing
system. New electricity meters have been provided by the EEC.
6.         Guegue Hydroelectric Plant. Constructed in 1945 on the River
Manuel Jorge, some 7 km from the City of Sao Tome in the south of the North East
quadrant of Sao Tome Island, Guegue, with an installed capacity of 180 kW has
been out of operation since February 1985. The basic construction is a small
gravity dam with the central overflow and two manually operated valves, one for
scouring and one at the inlet to the canal. The water passes along an open canal of
trapezoidal cross-section at a gradient of 1:1000 to a settling tank. After this there
is a rectangular section in the more inaccessible mountainous area followed by a
further trapezoidal section leading to the forebay ternk. The forebay tank also has
two valves. one for scouring and one as inlet to the penstock. The penstock is 120
metres long, 450 mm in diameter and has a head of 50 metres. The penstock
feeds a horizontal-axis turbine/generator unit. The reservoir is silted up with stone
and other debris that has either fallen in or been carried down by the river. The
two valves work only with difficulty and leak badly. The canal is badly cracked in
many places resulting in significant water loss. The settling tank is in a reasonable
condition by shows some signs of cracks and the scour valve leeks. The forebay
tank and its two valves all lose considerable amounts of water. The penstock also
shows deterioration. The Francis turbine is ancient (1944), broke down in February
1985 and has been inactive since. The coupling between the generator and the
turbine is broken, and the inlet valve to the turbine leaks and shows significant
corrosion in the runner blades.
7.          In 1990, a request was made to IDA and the Sweci&h Development
Agency (SIDA) to finance the rehabilitation of Guegue, through balance of payment
support funds under the First Structural Adjustment Credit. Although approval for
this was given, owing to slippage in the timetable for the preparation of the bid
documents on the one hand and the country's more urgent demands for the import
of essential foodstuffs, these funds have now been exhausted.
8.          In the meantime the bid documents have been prepared and cleared
with IDA Procurement Specialists, and IDA as Administrator of the SIDA Funds has



- 50-                                 Annex 7
Page 3 of 18
approved the use of a supplementary grant for this purpose. Given the dslay in the
preparation of bid documents, however, we must expect that costs have increased
and the Minister-Coordinator of the Economic Area (under whose jurisdiction falls
DIET and EMAE) has asked if there is a possibility of SIF co-financing this project.
9.         This sub-project meets SIF's selection criteria for Category Ill.
Sub-oroiect Description
10.        Obiective. To vehabilitate the Guegue Hydroelectric Plant to increase
the supply of reliable, less expensive energy to S. Tome City, thereby enabling the
new managers to increase EMAE's revenues.
11.        Scope. The works to be performed include a new penstock, a new
turbine-generator unit, one 6kV switchgear with circuit breakers and transformer,
the rehabilitation of the 6kV aluminum aerial distribution line, and all associated civil
works. In addition, the reservoir will be cleaned of sediment and the waterways,
spillways, forebay and sliding gate will be rehabilitated. The power house and
associations domestic water supply and sewage systems will be placed. The
estimated time for completion of works is 10 months.
12.        Location and Environment. The site is under the jurisdiction of EMAE,
and as this is a rehabilitation of an existing plant, no adverse environmental impact
is expected.
13.        Estimated Cost. The estimated total project cost is around
US$850,000 equivalent. The estimated local component of US$124,000 would be
spent mostly on local labor and local materials used .n construction. The estimated
foreign cost is US$726,000. See Table 1 for details.
14.        Financing. Financing would be through the Second Multisector
Project; however, there is a possibility of obtaining a SIDA Grant which would
cover about 50% of all costs. The project design, and preparation of bid
documents have been paid for out of the IDA Economic Rehabilitation Line of Credit
(Cr. 1590-STP).
15.        Economic Rate of Return. Approximately 16.5 parcent with a fuel
price of $0.8/per kW hour; however if the fuel price increases to $0.10/per kW
hour, the ERR goes up to 21 percent.
16.        Colt Recovery. The payback period is estimated to be 6-7 years.
17.        Imolementation Schedule:
Preparation of Bid documents ............. March 1991
Invitation to bid .....................   July 1991 1/
Receipt of Bids .....................   September 1991
Contract Award .....................   December 1991
Completion of works ..................... October 1992



- 51 -                           Annex 7
Page 4 of 18
18.        Benefits and Risks: The main benefit of this sub-project would be
assured new and less expensive energy supply to the City of S. Tome, thereby
creating a decent working enviroment for civil servants, the majority of whom are
currently suffering in stifling offices, and enabling the gradual rehabilitation of
existing old run-down plant. A further benefit would be to encourage the
development of small scale light industry. With the advent of the new expatriate
management team to run EMAE no major risks are foreseen.
Doc. Guegue/jre
May 10, 1991



- 52 -                        Annex 7
Page 5 Of 18
TABLE 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
COST TABLE
Subproject: Guegue Hydro-electric
Plant/Rehabilitation
TOTAL COSTS
--------------------      Percentage
COMPONENT          LOCAL      FOREIGN    TOTAL of Base Cost
Civil Works
- new works          18,000    42,000     60,000     8%
- repair works       72,000     168,000    240,000    319%
Subtotal             90,000     210,000    300,000    38%
Electromechanical works
- turbine            -          100,000    100,000    13%
- generator                    35,000     35,000     4%
- penstock                     35,000     35,000     4%
- shut-off device    -          10,000    10 :00     1 %
- 6 kV switchgear
+ transformer      -          60,000    60,000     8%
- control panel +
dist. board        -          70,000     70,000    9%
- installation       34,000     136,000    170,000    22%
Subtotal             34,000     446,000    480,000    62%
Total Base Cost      124,000    656,000    780,000    100%
Risk Contingency Allowancel/    70,000     70,000
Total Subproject Cost    124,000    726,000    850,000
11 The risk contingency allowance due to difficult transportation conditions
to S. Tome.



l TME  - IEII. OF UEE NINI-I(l PLANT.                         T - ASE CASE
ECONMtIC ANALSIS
------------
YEAR                                         0              1               2             3              4             5              6- 30
OUVFLOWS                                 800000         16000           16000         16000          16000         16000          16000
INFLOAS                                 200000         112915          112915        112915         112915        11291S         1t291S
CAS  FLOW                               -600000         96915           96915         96915          96915         96915          96915
EIRR   )                                  16.UX               note: a new diesel tmit is installed in year 16.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
TEAR                                         0              1               2             3              4             5              6    30
OUTFLOWS                                 800000         16000           16000         16000          16000          16000         16000
INFLWS                                       0         114791          114791        114791         114791        114791         114791
CASH FLOW                               -800000         98791           98791         98791          98791         96791          96791
FIRR (X)                                  11.93X                                                                                                             w
-
INPUTS - BAISE CASE.
... .. ............ ..................... . .......
RERA. COSTS Y1 ( )USS                    80W00                FOOT1OTES:
O LHYDERO (XIINWST)                        2.00X              ...........
DIESEL INESTNENT COSTS                   200000               The RE* on lts or fvorable assptions frm  the bas cae
DIESEL FIXED O1N cOSTS                                        would vary a fotlo.:
(C OF INEST)                              6.00X                                                            rate of return etwrn I
FUEL COSTS (US S/IKH)                     0.08                Econolcal nalyl analysis:                    ......................
ECUOMICAiL LIFE (II1BRO: 30 YRS, DI0 YRS)                     incr. fuel to 0.1 rost to 0.10                  20.63
ECONOMICAL LIFE (DIESEL: 15 YRS)                              decr. fuel to .01 cost to 0.05                  10.01
AVERAGE EEVUE                                                 Incr. hydro few. to 1.0 .                       11.69
(US S/INH)                                0.14
PLANT FACTOR DIESEL (X)                   S0.00X
DISTRIBUTION LOSSES                       20.00%              Financtal analyss:
INSTALLATION                                180               incr. avr. reveu to 0.20                       18.38
(KW)                                                          decr. avr. reeu  to 0.12                        9.65
PLANT FACTOR H1DM0 (I)                   65.00%
'a'



-54-
.  ..      S                                 .                         ,, *.                .      .      I        '-
_.___. -  -Annex 77
_4ves
_    Coto X in  _                            Rioo 65ManuPlAJorge CH                          y          pl-nt
r                    0 65 Mw 3.1 GWh~ ~ ~~0                   Ne   hdrpoerpln
o4                                                                   Lo Maue J27tX     CHt 
D.    Old  diesel0 oweW  plantan
o C_  ~~~~~~   ~~Ri Abd CH 3                               ooQ
1. Mw82  W
o                                             SC R         YA    2000 CH  old
gO    Old      IGIJRoEr 3loe 
ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  kV -'ITRBTIne. NETwO
L2~~~t    sc^ts.                              SAO  TOME  Y~~~~~~lt.lieAR20
===_==={~~~~~~~~~6kVlne l
#gr*                     *'10    Old   hydropoweFIIrE pln
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                             e        yrpwrpai



-55 -                       Annex 7
Page 8 of 18
EMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
Subproject: Upgrading of Riboque/Lucumi Area in Sao Tome
Background:
1.   Current conditions in Sao Tome and Principe create a
need and an opportunity to pursue new approaches to urban
development, particularly housing. STP's capital city of Sao
Tome (population 20,000 in 1981) has experienced rapid
growth in recent years due to increased inmigration from
rural areas as well as from small towns. New data does not
exist, but it is estimated that the population of "greater
Sao Tome" is now 35,000. Migration is expected to remain
high becaua.. of the continuing labor surplus found at
present in the smaller towns and the plantation sector. A
high fertility rate in Sao Tome (2.8% per year) also
contributes to growing pressure on the existing inadequate
urban infrastructure and basic services. In addition, the
country faces an economic and financial crisis precipitated
by a substantial decline in export earnings, which led in
1987 to the adoption of a comprehensive Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP). In order to mitigate the social
and economic impact of economic decline and structural
adjustment, IDA is supporting a Multisector Project designed
to develop social programs as well as income and employment
generating opportunities for low-income households.
2.   The Government of Sao Tome and Principe (National
Housing Directorate, or DNH) is planning to upgrade the
existing low-income settlement known as Bairro
Riboque/Lucumi near central Sao Tome. The population is
estimated to be approximately 5,000, with about 1,400
families. Riboque/Lucumi is not a squatter settlement, but
informal subdivision of existing parcels during recent years
has resulted in haphazard development and overloaded
infrastructure. Latrines are rare, and septic systems
practically non-existent. In addition, lack of maintenance
of the rudimentarv water supply, and site drainage and
circulation networks has exacerbated already unhealthy
living conditions. The lower Lucumi area floods regularly
and standing surface water is common. Women and children
spend inordinate amounts of time walking to and from the few
working water taps and waiting in line to fill cans and
bottles. Infrastructure conditions are such that even a
limited intervention, such as the repair of the existing
water supply, would have an immediately salutary impact on



- 56                      ~~~~~~~~Annex 7
- 56 -                              Page 9 of 18
health and socio-economic conditions, as well as being
highly visible.
3.   Although infrastructure conditions are substandard, the
social fabric appears to be well-knit and stable. The
Government (DNH) proposal calls for the active participation
of the community, particularly women, who traditionally
remain in the neighborhood during the day. Participation
would include choosing locations for infrastructure, the
management and maintenance of public facilities, labor and
possibly other contributions during implementation.
Residents would be organized into continuing groups in order
to progressively improve the neighborhoods over the long
term.
4.   The project meets SIF's criteria for category II
subprojects.
Subgroject DescriDtion
5.  The government's objectives for this project include
(a) the improvement of living conditions, particularly
sanitation and hygiene, and (b) the support and promotion of
employment and income generating activities. The specific
objectives of the proposed project are the provision of
needed and affordable services to the urban pcor with
maximum cost recovery, strengthened institutions and policy
1ramework capable of accommodating continuing urban growth.
7.   ggove: Preliminary assessment of needs suggests that
the project would include the provision of a new water
supply and/or rehabilitation of the existing supply,
sanitary system(s), personal hygiene facilities, solid waste
disposal points, surface water drainage, circulation
network, fire control system, erosion control, street
lighting, and required equipment for solid waste removal and
fire protection.   Displacement of existing structures to
accomodate infrastsructure improvements, if required, would
be kept to a minimum.
8.   Location and Environment: The proposed settlement is
relatively old and is within a 10-minute walk of central Sao
Tone (see attached location map, and consists of privately-
owned parcels ranging widely in size. Most parcels are
owner-occupied, and the owners have entered into mostly
informal arrangements with tenants to occupy land,
structures, or both. The structures facing the main road
leading to town house active small craft and service
enterprises. Off-site water supply infrastructure is
inadequate, and is to be addressed in a parallel water
supply subproject under Multisector I. The site drainage
problem at Lucumi requires further analysis to determine



Annex 7
Page 10 of 18
whether new off-site drainage installations are required.
This will be addressed in project preparation. An
Environmental Impact Assessment will be a part of project
preparation.
9.   Estimated Cost: The estimated total project cost is
US$1.25 million equivalent. The estimated local Component of
US$0.5 million would be spent mostly on local labor and
local materials used in construction. The estimated foreign
cost component is US$0.75 million.
10. Economic Rate of Return: Economic rates of return will
be determined under SIF-financed preparatory studies to be
carried out in the second half of 1991.
11. Employment Generation: About 250 man-years; average
cost per man-year generated is approximately US$960
equivalent.
12. Cost Revovery: Several large components of project cost
will not be recovered from the beneficiaries, such as site
drainage and retaining walls that are necessitated by virtue
of road construction which was done after settlement
consolidation. Water supply costs will be capitalized and
recovered through rates where house and patio connections
are provided. Customarily, public taps and water are
provided free, but cost recovery mechanisms for recovering
capital and operating costs are to be established under the
project. Public baths have in the past charged fees, and
this custom will be revived for such services.
13. Implementation Schedule: Preparation work is expected
to take five months, and be completed by December, 1991.
Construction is expected to require two years.
14. Benefits and Risks: Immediate benefits of the project
include the improvement of living conditions--particularly
with regard to public health--for about 5000 people. Long-
term benefits are expected to be derived from the experience
gained by STP's fledgling sector institutions. It is
expected that the project will help establish criteria for
identifying and developing new areas for low-income
settlement and help to find ways to provide affordable urban
services to lower-income families with maximum cost recovery
and to offer encouragement and technical assistance to help
people manage the construction and improvement of their own
houses and sanitary facilities. The project is also
expected to help Government begin to articulate sound sector
policies in relation to actual projects, and to further
develop and refine such policies.



- 58 -                       Annex 7
Page 11 of 18
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT II
Subproject: Rehabilitation of Priority Road Sections
Background
1.   Sao Tome and Principe has about 300 km of roads which
are mostly paved; this includes roads belonging to
plantations (rocas). The road network comprises three
national highways between the capital and major population
centers, several secondary and feeder roads, and city
streets. The road network serves primarily the northeastern
part of Sao Tome and links major population centers in that
quadrant with the capital. The southwestern part of the
country has practically no roads. Pavements consist of
stone cut from local quarries, and in many instances,
bituminous overlays which were added more than two decades
ago. At a ratio of about 3 km of paved road per 1000
inhabitants, this subsector is relatively well developed by
comparison to countries on the African mainland.
2.   The almost total neglect of scheduled road
rehabilitation works in recent years, however, has severely
affected commercial transport and the movement of people.
In many cases road surfaces as well as pavement underlayers
have been damaged to an extent where vehicles can only pass
at high operating costs and extremely low speeds, thus
hampering transportation in general, and in particular
shipments of cocoa beans from some plantations to the port.
Eroding bases and shoulders have become extensive enough to
also raise environmental concerns, especially where vehicles
tend to detour to avoid large potholes. Responsibilities
for road works depend on the source of funds and on whether
new construction, maintenance or bridges and drainage
structures are involved; this fragmentation of activities
has contributed to the existing problems. Road construction
and rehabilitation works are also affected by the country's
foreign exchange shortfalls preventing the importation of
bituminous materials and spare parts for construction
equipment.
Alternatives to Execute Road Works
3.   The deterioration of primary roads varies from
stretches which have become nearly impassable to stretches
showing normal wear-and-tear; required actions to improve
primary roads condition vary accordingly from reconstruction
and major rehabilitation to seal coats and routine
maintenance. Some road sections are made of traditional cut



- 59 -                         Annex 7
Page 12 of 18
stone pavements which could be repaired using local labor
and local materials. The stone cutting and setting skills
which were once used to pave Sao Tome's roads are now scarce
in the country but still available through craftsmen on the
island of Cape Verde and offer special training
opportunities between these two developing countries. A
National Transportation Study, financed by AfDB and
substantially completed, included global field surveys
leading to an inventory of the road system, and
recommendations on a scheduled and prioritized road
maintenance and construction program. Regarding secondary
and feeder roads, appropriate construction and
rehabilit4tion methods minimizing import expenditures are
being proposed; this would be carried out with ILO technical
assistance and UNDP financing, to rehabilitate about 12 km
of paved roads in the south and 20 km of unpaved roads.
District maintenance units and contractors would be required
to adhere to appropriate engineering standards, emphasizing
labor-intensive over capital-intensive methods. There is an
urgent need to establish a road maintenance capability in
the country; this could be accomplished through small
contracts with local enterprises, as is being implemented in
Guinea-Bissau. However, cost effective execution of major
road rehabilitation and reconstruction will require the use
of contractors selected on an international competitive
basis.
Ongoina and Proposed Road Proiects
4.   Road projects in STP include a project underway
financed by AfDB for rehabilitating sections of primary
roads, as well as a proposed project to reconstruct the S.
J. Angolares-Ribeira Peixe Road:
(a) Rehabilitation of Primary Roads: This is an
ongoing project financed by ADF to rehabilitate about
82 km of primary roads. It also includes preparation
of a transportation master plan and roads signing and
marking. The project started in May 1989 and is
expected to be completed in 1992, at a total cost of
about $7.2 m. Technical assistance is being provided
by BCEOM (France). A public enterprise, 'Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Unit" (UMRE), was
specially established under the Ministry of Social
Equipment and Environment (MESA) to implement the
project, including carrying out the road works. The
road equipment ordered by UMRE is expected to arrive in
STP in mid 1991, and road rehabilitation would start
shortly thereafter.
(b) Reconstruction of S. J. Angolares-Ribeira Peixe
Road: This project proposed to finance by ECC would
reconstruct this 19-km road, at an estimated cost of
1.3 m Ecus; studies are to start in mid 1991, and
physical construction is expected in 1992-93



- 60 -                       Annex 7
Page 13 of 18
5.   In addition to the road works included in the projects
mentioned in (a) and (b) above, the Government of STP,
through its Ministry of Social Infrastructure and
Environment (MESA), is planning to rehabilitate about 130 km
of priority paved and unpaved road sections, and to
establish a road maintenance capability in the country by
encouraging the private sector participation. This will
contribute to provide adequate roads in STP, thus
facilitating the transport of goods from ports and
production areas to the markets, which will result in lower
cost of living.
Sub2rolect Description
6.   The Government's objectives for this project include
(a) the improvement of paved and unpaved road network
condition in the country, resulting in lower transportation
costs; and (b) the support and promotion of employment and
income qenerating activities through increased participation
of the private sector in road works. The specific
objectives of the proposed project are the rehabilitation of
about 130 km of priority paved and unpaved roads, including
bridges and drainage structures, and strengthened
institutions and policy framework capable of accommodating
continuing road maintenance.
7.   ScoDe:  Preliminary assessment of needs suggest that
the project would include the rehabilitation of about 130 km
of priority rural and urban sections of the primary and
secondary road networks on the islands of Sao Tome and
Principe. It is anticipated that displacement of existing
structures to accommodate infrastructure improvements would
not be required.
8.   Location and Environment:  Specific location of road
sections to be maintained and rehabilitated will be
determined in project preparation, based on the inventory of
the road system carried out under the AfDB-financed National
Transportation Study, and economic analysis using the HDM3
and EBM models. It is anticipated that the project will not
have any significant long-term negative impact on the
environment. Positive impacts will include better erosion
control, and lower vehicle emissions as a result of reduced
fuel consumption on roads in better condition.
9.   Estimated Cost:  Total project cost is estimated at
$2.4 million, and project preparation will be financed by
SIF in 1991. The estimated local component of $0.4 million
would be spent mostly on local labor and local materials
used in construction. The estimated foreign component (85%
of total cost) is $2.0 million.
10. Economic Rate of Return: Economic rates of return will
be determined under SIF-financed project preparatory studies
to be carried out in the second half of 1991. The minimum



- 61 -                      Annex 7
Page 14 of 18
rate of return for a component to be included in the project
is 12%, with most works expected to exceed 30%.
11. Imolementation Schedule: Preparatory work is expected
to take four months, and be substantially completed by
December, 1991. Major road rehabilitation is expected to
require two years (1992-94), while road maintenance
contracts would be signed with small/medium enterprises for
one-year periods. A tentative timetable to prepare this
subproject is:
(a) submission of proposal by consultant: June 30,
1991.
(b) draft contract and proposa'l sent to the Bank for
comments/no objection: July 15, 1991.
(c)  Bank's comments, no objection:  July 30, 1991.
(d) study start up: August 30, 1991.
(e) consultant's inception report, and general
procurement notice sent to the Bank for publication:
October 30, 1991.
(f) draft final report, including bidding documents:
December 30, 1991.
(g) Government and Bank comments: January 30, 1992.
(h) final report and bidding documents: February 15,
1992.
12. Benefits and Risks: Immediate benefits of the project
include reduction of transportation costs, decreasing cost
of living in STP. Long-term benefits are expected to be
derived from the experience gained by STP infrastructure
institutions: established criteria to procure road works on
ICB basis, and management of road maintenance and
rehabilitation contracts. The project is also expected to
help Government articulate sound road subsector policies,
and to further develop and refine such policies, through a
strengthened road institution. The main risk is that the
implementation capability of the executing agencies may be
overtaxed in the short run, leading to implementation delays
and difficulties in supervision and financial control.
However, the SIF is established with a competent staff, and
this will alleviate the problem of weak implementation
capacity of Government agencies.
cq d8.u



Annex 7
- 62 -                       Page 15 of 18
DEMOCATIC REPUBLIC OF SAQ TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT II
Subproject: Priority Urban and Rural Small Works
Backaround
1.   In relation to the physical dimensions, demographics
and the size of the economy of Sao Tome and Principe, its
infrastructure .s, by and large, more highly developed than
in many countries of the African mainland. This heritage of
the past is a great asset which can be used to the country's
advantage. The solidity of much of the infrastructure is a
distinct characteristic of traditional construction methods
and has enabled the country to subsist through the economic
decline and lack of maintenance of recent years.
Nevertheless, neglected maintenance in the past has led to a
state of advanced disrepair in most of urban and rural
infrastructure in the country. The dilapidated
infrastructure has become extensive enough to also raise
environmental concerns, especially where erosion or water
contamination is a problem.
2.   Urban Infrastructure:  The street network in the City
of Sao Tome and other centers show considerable amount of
distress. There are numerous potholes which hinder the
traffic flow and contribute to further deterioration by
permitting moisture ingress in the subgrade during the rainy
season. Roadline marking is absent and most informatory and
regulatory signs are in a state of disrepair. Stagnant
water in several locations have contributed to aggravate the
health crisis caused by increased number of malaria cases.
Overgrown vegetation and non-existent or broken down
sidewalks force women and children to frequently use the
trafficked lanes, which is a potential cause of accidents
and loss of human lives.
3~. Rural Infrastructure: The rural road network in STP
shows considerable amount of distress. There are numerous
potholes which hinder the traffic flow and contribute to
further deterioration by permitting moisture ingress in the
subgrade during the rainy season. Roadline marking is
absent and most informatory and regulatory signs are in a
state of disrepair. Overgrown vegetation and non-existent
or washed away sho"1'rs pose a safety hazard to vehicles
and pedestrians, P_-tly women and children.  Most of the
rural network of standpipes is non-operational. Many
communicable and water-borne diseases affecting the
population are attributed to a shortage of potable water and
essential drainage and sanitary services. Women and



- 63 -                         Annex 7
Page 16 of 18
children spend inordinate amounts of time walking to and
from the few working standpipes. Infrastructure conditions
are such that even a limited intervention, such as small
works to improve water supply, drainage and road safety,
would have an immediately salutary impact on socio-economic
conditions.
4.   Responsibilities for social urban and rural
infrastructure works depend on the source of funds and on
whether new construction, maintenance or rehabilitation are
involved; this fragmentation of activities has contributed
to the existing problems. Timely execution of
infrastructure works is also affected by the country's
foreign exchange shortfalls preventing the importation of
construction materials and spare parts for construction
equipment.
Suboroject Descrintion
5.   The Government's objective for the Priority Urban and
Rural Small Works subproject is to address the most urgent
of the above needs, with special emphasis on employment
generation. The specific objective of the proposed project
is to execute labor-intensive works of high visibility, high
social and economic rates of return, which can be
implemented in the shortest possible time to alleviate
problems of unemployment and immigration to urban centers.
Employment generated would be about 1,600 m-m.
6.  Scope:  Preliminary assessment of needs suggest that
the project would include the following activities:
(a) urban infrastructure maintenance and
rehabilitation. The subproject would concentrate on
the repair of pavement, sidewalk and drainage
structures, pavement surface dressing to improve riding
and seal cracks, :-sion control, road markings to
improve safety, arid repair of community facilities. A
contract for solid waste collection and disposal could
also be considered under this subproject.
(b) rural infrastructure maintenance and
rehabilitation. This subproject would concentrate on
the correction of those deficiencies in priority rural
areas which are not included in other projects, such as
the AfDB financed road rehabilitation project and the
road sections proposed for rehabilitation under NS-II.
The main activities in this subcomponent would include
pothole patching, repair of shoulder and drainage
structures, erosion control, drain desilting and
cleaning, trench reinstatement, and rehabilitation of
rural standpipes ("fontenarios" ou "chafarizes"). It
is anticipated that displacement of existing structures
to accommodate infrastructure improvements would not be
required.



- 64-                        Annex 7
Page 17 of 18
7.   Location and Environment:  Specific location of
priority maintenance and rehabilitation works will be
determined in project preparation, based on the most urgent
needs. It is anticipated that the project will not have any
significant long-term negative impact on the environment.
Positive impacts will include better erosion control, and
lower vehicle emissions and breakdown as a result of patched
roadways.
8.   Estimated Cost:  Total project cost is estimated at
$0.8 million, and project preparation will be financed by
SIF in 1991. The estimated local component of $0.2 million
would be spent mostly on local labor and local materials
used in construction. The estimated foreign component (70%
of total cost) is $0.6 million.
9.   Economic Rate of Return:  Although difficult to
compute, all activities included in this project will have
high economic and social rates of return, and will also be
highly visible.
10. Proiect Preparation: The Directorate of Civil
construction (DCC-MESA), with SIF support, will be
responsible for the detailed preparation of this subproject.
DCC, the implementing agency of this subproject, will
prepare with SIF assistance, terms of reference and letter
of invitation to select a consultant firm to provide
technical assistance to DCC in carrying out this task. The
TA main objectives will be to select priority works, and
carry out the relevant design, cost estimates, contract
packages, bidding documents, bid evaluation, and contract
management and supervision. The contract packages will be
compatible in size and geographical distribution with the
capability of the local construction industry (local and
foreign contractors established in STP). The bidding
documents should be prepared to let contracts on local
competitive bidding basis (The experience gained with the
Social and Infrastructure Relief Project-SIRP, Cr. 2020-GUB
under implementation in Guinea-Bissau would be considered
for use in STP). The preparation tasks (Phase I) for this
sub-project(up to the preparation of bidding documents)
would be carried out by consultants financed under the First
Multisector Project (MS-I). TA for contract management and
supervision would be in a second phase to be financed by MS-
II. Phase I TA would cover a 3-month period and, on a
indicative basis, would include a full time civil engineer
expatriate consultant, and the following staff recruited
locally: surveyors (2), draftsmen (2), computer operator
(2), secretary (1), assistant technicians (2); office and
field equipment and materials would include: light vehicles
(2), computers (2), levels (2), copier, office and field
supplies. The total cost is estimated at $7
0,000 equivalent.
11. Im2lementation Schedule: Preparatory work is expected
to take four months, and be substantially completed by



- 65 -                          Annex 7
Page 18 of 18
December, 1991. Priority works contracts would be prepared
for execution in relatively short periods (normally less
than a year) by small/medium enterprises. A tentative
timetable to prepare this subproject is:
(a) submission of proposal by consultant: July 30,
1991.
(b) draft contract and proposal sent to the Bank for
comments/no objection: August 15, 1991.
(c) Bank's comments, no objection: August 30, 1991.
(d) study start up: September 30, 1991.
(e) consultant's inception report, and general
procurement notice sent to the Bank for publication:
November 30, 1991.
(f) draft final report, including bidding documents:
January 30, 1992.
(g) Government and Bank comments: February 30, 1992.
(h) final report and bidding documents: March 15,
1992.
12. Benefits and Risks: Immediate benefits of the project
include improved living conditions, particularly with regard
to public health, for the urban and rural poor. Long-term
benefits are expected to be derived from experience in
identifying small priority works with high social and
economic return. Also valuable will be the experience
gained by STP infrastructure institutions in established
criteria to procure and manage contracts on LCB basis. The
rain risk is that the implementation capability of the
executing agencies may be overtaxed in the short run,
leading to implementation delays and difficulties in
supervision and financial control. However, the SIF is
established with a competent staff and will alleviate the
problem of weak implementation capacity of Government
agencies.
cq so-2b.u.



- 65 -
An,ex 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTI-SECTOR PROJECT
flow of funds Diagrao
M4T3         ~IDA COANS
.           .
U1S8P Governwmen
(Mlnlstry of EconoWy and Finnce)
SIP
Grants fore                                   Loans or Loans plus Grnts fort
-$oclil Aseitance Progroam                     -economi Infrastrucure tmprovows  
-physical Infrastructure IXprow    tj               rlvt $ctor) 
-^R  >    Loans/Grant. dlebure.snto
- - - - - Loans repsyint.
AM4IN
May 10, 1991



- 67 -
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MfUL7T-SECITOR PRQaI
Disbursement Schedule a/
Cumulative Disbursements
(USS million)
Quarter Ending              Appraisal Estimate       A2gr. Estimate %
E=2
September                                  0.0                      0.0%
December                                   0.3                      6.0%
March                                      0.6                     10.0%
June                                       0.8                     13.3%
FY93
September                                  1.0                     16.7%
December                                   1.3                     21.7%
March                                      1.6                     26.7%
June                                       1.9                     31.7%
FY94
September                                  2.2                     36.7%
December                                   2.5                     41.7%
March                                      2.8                     46.7%
June                                       3.1                      51.7%
EY95
September                                  3.5                     58.3%
December                                   3.9                     65.0%
March                                      4.3                     71.7%
June                                       4.7                     78.3%
EF
September                                  5.0                     83.3%
December                                   5.4                     90.0%
March                                      5.8                     96.7%
June                                       6.0                     100.0%
a/     Credit effectiveness is assumed in October 1991.



- 68 -                           Annex 10
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTISECTOR PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.
A.           Etude Sectorielle des Etablissements Humains
A Sao Tome et Principe, Centre des Nations Unies
pour les Etablissements Humains (Habitat)
(June 1990)
B.           Relatorios de Missao Technicas Sobre A Implantacao
do Sistema de Contabilidade, Fundo Social y de
Infraestrutura, Lisbon (1990/1991)
C.           Planeamiento Financeiro 1991-1993, Fundo Social y de
Infraestrutura (April 1991)
D.           Relatorio Anual y Contas - Segundo Exercicio Janeiro/
Dezembro 1990, Fundo Social y de Infraestrutura
E.           Compte Rendu de Mission (17/01/91-08/02/91), EMAE,
Sao Tome e Principe (February 12, 1991)
F.           Financial Statements, Social and Infrastructure Fund
(SIF) 1989/1990
G.           Terms of Reference, Management Information System
Development, SIF
H.           Terms of Reference, General Record Keeping, SIF
I.           Terms of Reference, Sub-project Preparation Upgrading
Riboque Settlement
J.           Terms of Reference for Environmental/Assessment,
Upgrading Riboque Settlement
K.           Regulations, Line of Credit for Private Sector Support,
Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF) (April 1991)
L.           SIF's Sub-project Pipeline and Detailed Financial
Projections by Rene Jarquin and Richard James -
Working Papers (February 1991)
M.           Bid Documents, Guegue Hydroelectric Plant Rehabilitation



