Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18084
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTISECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2280-STP)
June 25, 1998
Water and Urban 2
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dobra (Db)
US$1.00 = Db6,970(atclosing,December31, 1997)
US$1.00 = Db 140 (at appraisal, 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVILATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        African Development Bank
AFD         Agence Franqaise de Developpement
EC          European Community
EMAE        Empresa de Agua e Energia (Energy and Water public utility)
EIB         European Investment Bank
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
EU          European Union
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
GNP         Gross National Product
INDES       Institute for Economic and Social Development
MESA        Ministry of Social Equipment and Environment
MSP         Multisector I Project
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP         Structural Adjustment Program
SEDA        Swedish International Development Agency
SIF         Social and Infrastructure Fund
STP         Sao Tome and Principe
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
URRA        Unidade de Reabilitaqdo da Rede de Abastecimento de Agua
(Water Supply Network Rehabilitation Unit)
URRIL       Urban Project Implementation Unit
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:    Hasan Tuluy, AFCl5
Sector Manager:      Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Team Leader:         Leslie Pean, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTISECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 2280-STP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE.i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.11
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity ................................1............... 
B. Background ................................................1
C. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives ...................      ............................2
D. Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................2
E. Implementation Record .......3........................................3
F. Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................5
G. Project Sustainability ................................................6
H. Bank Perfornmance.                                                                                 6
1. Borrower Performance.                                                                              7
J. Assessment of Outcome.                                                                             8
K. Future Operation ...............................................8
L. Key Lessons Learned ...............................................8
PART II. TABLES
Table I - Summary of Assessments ...............................................                     10
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits ...............................................                 12
Table 3 - Project Timetable ...............................................                          12
Table 4 - Loan/Credit Disbursements ...............................................                  13
Table 5 - Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...............................................  13
Table 6A - Project Costs ...............................................                             14
Table 6B - Project Financing ...............................................                         15
Table 7 - Economic Costs and Benefits (pre-appraised sub-projects) ........................................ 15
Table 8 - Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                  16
Table 9 - Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................               19
Table 10 - Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                  19
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - BORROWER'S COMMENTS
ANNEX 2 - LAST MIssIoN'S AIDE MEMOIRE
MAP - IBRD No. 27245
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBL][C OF SAo TOME AND PRtNCIPE
SECOND MULTISECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 2280-STP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Multisector
Project in SAo Tom6 and Principe (STP) for which Credit 2280-STP in the amount of SDR4.5
million (US$6.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 27, 1991, and made effective on
December 18, 1992.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1997, one year after the original closing date.
It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on January 28, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Leslie Pean, Task Manager, and George Faillace,
Consultant, and reviewed by Mr. Hasan Tuluy, Country Director, AFC 15 and Letitia A. Obeng,
Sector Manager, AFTU2. The Borrower provided comments that are included as an annex to
the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began dluring the Bank's supervision mission in June 1997. It
is based on materials in the project files and interviews with IDA staff involved in the project's
preparation and implementation. The Borrower's views are reflected in this report, a draft of
which was discussed with the Borrower during a field mission in October 1997.



ii
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTISECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 2280-STP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Sao Tom6 and Principe adopted, in 1987, a comprehensive Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP) supported by two Structural Adjustment Credits from the International
Development Association (IDA). The first ]DA Structural Adjustment credit was approved in 1987
(US$4.0 million plus US$3.0 million from the Special Facility for Africa), and the second in 1990
(US$9.75 million equivalent). The first phase of the SAP made short-term progress to move Sao Tom6
and Principe (STP) from a centrally planned to a market-based economy. The second phase (1991-96),
supported by IDA and donors, emphasized reduction of the public sector and a growing role for the
private sector.  Aside from stabilization measures, it addressed structural reforms such as land
distribution, privatization of public enterprises, and financial sector reform.  Unfortunately, the
fundamental changes sought in the economy were not achieved, because of political instability and
excessively expansive fiscal and monetary policies.
2.    The Government also took measures to protect the vulnerable groups most affected by the
adjustment process. IDA supported this through the Economic Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
(Cr. 1590-STP, 1985). This project was designed to remove critical physical constraints to production
through small investments in agriculture, fisheries, transport, and energy as well as studies, technical
assistance (TA), and training. In response to the need for further assistance, IDA approved the First
Multisector Project (MSP) in mid-1989 and the Second Multisector Project in June 1992. The First
Multisector Project sought to mitigate the social and economic impact of economic decline and structural
adjustment by generating income and employment opportunities for low-income households through
investments in the social and basic infrastructure sectors.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The objectives of the Second Multisector Project (Cr. 2280-STP) were to: (a) mitigate the social
impact of economic decline and structural adjustment; (b) improve the Borrower's basic infrastructure in
order to promote private economic activity; (c) help generate income and employment opportunities for
low income groups; and (d) increase local technical capacity for implementing infrastructure
improvement projects.
4.    Project objectives were clearly stated, responding correctly to the difficult economic and social
conditions in the country at that time. A CAS (country assistance strategy) did not exist when the
project was being prepared. The infrastructure development program was well defined, but the
mechanisms for achieving the social objectives were less clearly articulated. Given the country's
fragile institutional infrastructure, project implementation was demanding for the Borrower. As the
Government was unable to make its counterpart contributions, IDA agreed to increase its share of the
project's operational costs and the Credit Agreement was amended accordingly.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS



iii
5.    The physical achievements of the project are significant. The rehabilitation of the Guegue
Hydroelectric Power plant, the upgrading of the low income settlement of Riboque Lucumi, and the
execution of small priority works and repair of secondary roads are some examples of projects that
benefited all together an appreciable share (70%) of the population of Sao Tome. These physical works
were executed by the private sector for a total of US$6.81 million, representing 75% of the total
expenditures of the implementing agency, INDES (Institute for Economic and Social Development).
Incremental private sector activity occurred in spite of the fact that a line of credit to be channeled to the
private sector through commercial banks was dropped from the project because of delays in financial
sector reforms. In addition to helping decrease the percentage of the population living in slum
settlements, the project helped to create 350 jobs, thereby distributing income to the population in the
neighborhoods affected by these activities. Also, INDES strengthened its capacity to develop and
implement infrastructure improvement projects and several Government units concerned with land
management, housing and road maintenance improved their technical capacities.
6.    The Second Multisector Project was funded with the intention of accompanying the transitional
period of structural refonn with income and employment creation as well as social and economic
infrastructure. The objective was to improve living conditions and to create the capacity to deliver such
services through an efficient executing agency. Of the four components, three in the narrow sense
achieved what they were set out to do. However, contrary to expectations, the structural reform did not
take place and the economic situation continued to worsen. As a result, jobs and income generation could
niot be sustained because the economy did not pick up and public revenue did not improve, jeopardising
future operation and maintenance of the facilities (unless communities are willing to finance maintenance
themselves). The project outcomes are therefore unlikely to be sustainable.
7.    The project was completed within the original cost estimate of US$7.6 million, except for some
health-related components (US$0.45 million) of the urban slum upgrading sub-project that will be
completed under the ongoing Health and Education Project (Cr. 2343-STP).
8.    Key factors that negatively affected the achievement of major objectives were: (i) low
commitment from Government to the operation, particularly in the first three or four years of project
implementation; (ii) weak institutional capacity in the Government units involved in the project and
cumbersome administrative procedures; (iii) delays in the payment of counterpart funds and lack of
autonomy of the implementing agency (INDES) which impacted on the efficiency of its operations.
9.    The Bank's performance during project identification is rated unsatisfactory because some of
the institutional problems that were apparent under the First Multisector Project, such as the
management autonomy of INDES, were not dealt with. Preparation and appraisal performance are
rated satisfactory. However, the Bank should have defined and quantified the project's social
objectives more clearly, indicating how targets in the social area were to be achieved through
investments in hardware. Project supervision was satisfactory; at least two annual supervision missions
were carried out and almost continuous long-distance advice and support was given. Repeatedly during
supervision missions and from headquarters, the Bank addressed the issues of counterpart funding and
government support. Despite these efforts, Government was not responsive and the counterpart
funding problems persisted. On the other hand, frequent changes in Task Managers, adding up to a
total three different managers throughout implementation, and the Bank's reorganizations contributed
to lack of continuity in project support and negatively affected the project's supervision.
10.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during preparation but deficient during
implementation due to declining commitment. Evidence of this is found in the dismissal of the
implementing agency's managing director. The Government has changed directors three times, and has



iv
failed to pay its counterpart contributions. Despite wavering government support the executing agency
has carried out its obligations satisfactorily and implemented sub-projects efficiently.
11.   Overall project outcome is consideredl satisfactory.
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS L]EARNED
12.   Preparation of a follow up project vvas canceled after the Bank and the Borrower could not
agree on a new structure for the implemeniting agency i.e., an autonomous, private-sector led unit,
better equipped to manage social infrastructure operations than INDES. There are no plans for a
follow-up operation at this time.
13.   Lessons learned for future projects in the sector include:
(a)   In a small country such as So Tome and Principe, contract management agencies such
as the Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF), or its successor the Institute for Economic and
Social Development (INDES), can be a good mechanism for implementing small-scale, multi-
sectoral investment projects, provided that the agency has sufficient operational and financial
autonomy; operates under a contractual relationship with the Government; uses a market
approach in its operations, without Government interference; has the freedom to recruit its
own staff and pay them adequately; and can generate revenues from its operations. In
designing a multisector operation with this kind of implementation structure, it is important to
agree on the rules of the game early on, well before negotiations.
(b)    A  multi-sectoral program  intended to tackle social issues through infrastructure
investments runs the risk of focusing its efforts on the physical aspects of the program, i.e. the
execution of civil works, at the expense of the software aspects (poverty alleviation,
employment creation, income generation, etc.). To avoid this tendency, it is necessary to set
realistic targets for achievements in the social sector, and to clearly map out programs and
interventions that will lead to reaching these targets. This is especially important in small
economies such as Sao Tome and Principe, where donor-financed projects tend to be small
and few in number.
(c)    The project could have benefited from a mid-term review which would have been helpful
to restructure the project and make the necessary adjustments to deal with the worsened
macroeconomic reality of Sao Torne and Principe.
(d)    Although there was complete consensus from the Borrower and the Bank to use
US$450,000 to carry out studies to prepare follow up projects, it should have been made clear
that this consensus did not represent a commitment on the part of the Bank to finance a follow
up project. In order to assure that the Borrower will not feel that expenditures on future
project preparation are reducing financial resources available for current activities, it is
recommended to include in a specific line item for studies that could identify and lead to a
follow up operation.
(e)    The Bank should have paid rnore attention earlier to the conflictual relationship between
INDES and the Government, and should have pressed the issue of the independence and
autonomy of INDES as a criterion for its continuous involvement in the provision of
development assistance. Such a proactive stance would have contributed to a shared
understanding and prevented the deterioration of the situation.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
SECOND MULTISECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 2280-STP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEVV FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Name                          .     Second Multisector Project
Credit Number:                      Cr. 2280-STP
RVP Unit                      .     AFRICA Region
Country                       .     Sao Tom6 and Principe
Sector                       .      Multisector
B.    BACKGROUND
1.    Sao Tom6 and Principe (STP) is a small, two-island country in the Gulf of Guinea, with a
population estimated at about 145,000, a third of whom live in urban centers, including the
capital city of Sao Tome (population of 20,000). On gaining independence in 1975, the country
inherited an economy based exclusively on agriculture and geared almost entirely to the
production and export of a single crop, cocoa. In the early years of independence, the country
faced a steadily deteriorating economic situation. Declining cocoa production, a diminishing
supply of foreign exchange, un-economic public investments and a rising public debt caused the
Government to embark, in early 1987, on a structural adjustment program (SAP), which was
supported by IDA through two structural adjustment credits (SAC, 1987 and 1990). While some
progress was achieved under the SAP, economic stabilization was elusive and self-sustaining
growth was not attained. In addition, the lowest income groups were negatively affected by the
adjustment program.
2.    IDA supported the Government's efforts to protect disadvantaged groups of the
population against the negative impact of economic decline and adjustment, through the
Economic Rehabilitation and Modernization Project (Cr. 1590-STP, 1985). This credit, the first
IDA operation in the country, aimed to remove critical physical constraints that had developed as
a result of the economic crisis, through small investments in agriculture, fisheries, transport and
energy, and the provision of technical assistance and training. Support for these types of
investments continued through the First Multisector Project or MSP (Cr. 2038-STP, 1989).
3.    The MSP sought to mitigate the social and economic impact of the economic downturn
by generating income and employment opportunities for low-income urban and rural households
through small investments in the social and infrastructure sectors. The project also sought to
support the emerging private sector with lines of credit. An important aspect of the MSP was the
establishment of a Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF), conceived as a pragmatic mechanism to
channel external financial resources to social infrastructure development projects.



2
C.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The objectives of the Second Multisector Project (Cr. 2280-STP) were to: (a) mitigate the
social impact of economic decline and structural adjustment; (b) improve the Borrower's basic
infrastructure in order to promote private economic activity; (c) help generate income and
employment opportunities for low income groups; and (d) increase local technical capacity for
implementing infrastructure improvement projects.
5.    Achievement of these objectives was supported by the construction and/or rehabilitation
of social infrastructure. The project provided financing for: (a) social infrastructure
improvement projects (sub-projects) that included the construction and rehabilitation of water
supply systems, sanitary and storm drainage systems, solid waste management services, urban
roads and streets, and electricity generation and distribution systems; and (b) institutional
development by providing technical assistance and staff training to strengthen local capacity to
identify, appraise, prepare and monitor the implementation of sub-projects.
6.    Project objectives were clearly stated and responded to the difficult economic and social
conditions in the country at that time. They were also consistent with IDA's country assistance
strategy. The infrastructure development program and implementation arrangements were well
defined, but the mechanisms for achieving the social objectives were less clearly articulated. As
a result, their pursuit turned out to be difficult for all parties, including the Bank and the
Borrower. Given the country's fragile institutional infrastructure, project implementation was
demanding for the Borrower and its executing agency, SIF. Halfway through the project, the
Credit Agreement was amended to provide for an increase in IDA's share of financing SIF's
operational costs, as the Government had problems to reliably provide its counterpart
contributions. Main risks identified at appraisal were (i) a shortage of adequate technical
expertise in SIF to appraise and supervise relatively complex infrastructure projects; and (ii)
SIF's high operational costs and an insufficient increase in revenue generation to offset them.
D.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The physical achievements of the project are significant. The rehabilitation of the
Guegue Hydroelectric Power plant, the upgrading of the low income settlement of Riboque
Lucumi, and the execution of small priority works and repair of secondary roads are some
examples of projects that benefited all together an appreciable share (70%) of the population of
Sao Tome. These physical works, executed by the private sector for a total of US$6.81 million,
represent 75% of the total expenditures of the implementing agency, INDES. The remaining
25% financed studies, training, audits and project management activities. Incremental private
sector activity occurred in spite of the fact that a line of credit to be channeled to the private
sector through commercial banks was dropped from the project because of delays in financial
sector reforms. In addition to helping decrease the percentage of the population living in slum
settlements through the Riboque/Lucumi sub-project, the project helped to create 350 jobs,
thereby distributing income to the population in the neighborhoods affected by these activities.
Also SIF strengthened its capacity for developing and implementing infrastructure improvement
projects and several Government units concerned with land management, housing and road
maintenance improved their technical capacities.
8.    Despite these concrete achievements, the overall economic context has had an adverse
impact on the project. At the time of project approval, Sao Tome and Principe was facing the



3
major task of rebuilding its economy, which had been deteriorating for some time. The project
intended to alleviate the social impact of the Structural Adjustment Program during the transition
period by providing improved basic infrastructure, generating income and employment and
increasing local technical capacity. However, the original hopes of reforming macroeconomic
imbalances within a stable political enavironment have not materialised, and the project's
achievements, namely institutional development, generation of income and employment and
capacity building, are not sustainable. From this perspective, the project did not succeed in
meeting its first objective which was to mnitigate the social impact of the adjustment process.
E.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
I. Social Infrastructure Improvement Projects (Sub-projects)
9.    A start-up phase of four priority sub-projects, jointly identified by INDES and IDA
before Credit effectiveness, allowed for a quick initiation of disbursements. This program
consisted of: (i) the rehabilitation and expansion of the Guegue hydroelectric plant; (ii) the first
phase of the upgrading of the Riboque/Lucumi peri-urban area in Sao Tome; (iii) the
rehabilitation of secondary roads; and (iv) priority urban and rural small works. Total estimated
cost of the four sub-projects was US$5.4 million, of which IDA financed US$5.0 million or 83%
of the Credit. The four sub-projects supported, in various ways, the objectives of employment
and income generation, alleviation of poverty and improvement of living standards, and
promotion of private economic activity. The following paragraphs summarize implementation
details:
10.   Rehabilitation of the Guegue hydiroelectric plant. This sub-project provided for a new
penstock, turbine generator, high-voltage switchgear, rehabilitation of an aerial distribution line,
and associated civil works. The project was satisfactorily completed at a cost of about US$1.7
million as compared to the appraisal estimate of US$0.9 million. The increase in cost was the
result of additional works needed to improve the physical facilities of housing the plant. The
refurbished plant was put into service in early 1994. The successful and timely completion of
this component is attributed to good quality design and construction work by the electrical and
civil engineering contractors, and effective monitoring by INDES. Although a maintenance
program was included in this package, adequate maintenance of the plant remains an area of
concern.
11.   Upgrading of the Riboque/Lucuini Urban Area. This sub-project involved the provision
or upgrading of basic infrastructure in an urban slum area, including water and electricity supply,
latrines, community washing facilities, (Irainage improvements, footpath rehabilitation and the
like. The project suffered delays due to problems in getting designs approved, preparing an
environmental impact study, and developing a cost recovery mechanism. The first phase of the
project (design work, tender documents and work on the eastern part of the settlement) has
remaining drainage works yet to be completed due to a shortage of funds of US$450,000, which
were used to finance preparatory studies under the then-proposed Multisector III Project. The
remaining drainage works of the first phase and the second phase (works on the western part of
the settlement) of this sub-project will be financed under the Malaria component of the IDA
Health and Education Project (Cr. 2343-STP).
12.   Rehabilitation of Secondary Roadls. This sub-project was designed to improve about 60
kms of secondary roads, complementing an ongoing AfDB-financed Primary Roads



4
Rehabilitation Project covering about 82 kms of roads. The project was successfully completed
by private contractors within about 10 months, at an average cost of US$32,000 per km,
considerably lower than the US$90,000/km cost experienced by AfDB. The quality of the works
was good, the contractor and supervising engineer performed well, and INDES managed the
implementation of the program effectively. Lack of maintenance remains a problem and has, for
the donor community, become an issue of concern that will condition further investments in the
sector.
13.   Priority Urban and Rural Small Works. The implementation of this sub-component,
designed to execute labor-intensive works with high social and economic rates of return, and to
be carried out through small contracts with local contractors started very slowly. The main
problem was preparing an inventory of needed repairs and effectively supervising the execution
of the small-scale works. Eventually, a number of small works in urban areas, including simple
repairs to sidewalks, street lamps, etc. were successfully executed for an amount of US$800,000,
slightly less than estimated at appraisal.
14.   Other demand-driven infrastructure investments not identified at appraisal were prepared
and appraised by INDES during project implementation. These include sites and services project,
water supply and drainage, a community infrastructure project and the rehabilitation of the Sao
Tom6 Hospital. These were valued at about US$0.5 million and were financed by other donors.
15.   In addition to these investments, INDES has conducted several pre-investment studies
and infrastructure project designs, some of which have led to projects financed by other donors.
For example, project-financed studies for the rehabilitation of the port and airport in the island of
Principe resulted in investments of about US$2.0 million financed by the Agence Francaise de
Developpement (AFD). These were completed in 1997.
II. Institutional Development
16.   INDES' capacity to identify, prepare, and manage the implementation of infrastructure
investments was successfully strengthened under the project. An excellent monitoring and
evaluation system was also set up under the project. As a result, INDES built a strong reputation
among the donor community for being able to follow up on project implementation and get things
done. In addition, two units in the Ministry of Social Equipment and Environment (MESA) - the
Department of Environment and Territorial Planning, and the Housing Institute - were
strengthened. MESA developed a strategy for a cadastral and land information system for the
country and set up cadastral surveys. Technical assistance provided to the Housing Institute
helped define a housing policy and action plans for low-income housing developments. In
addition, the Housing Institute gained practical experience - through the Urban Project
Implementing Unit (URRIL) - in the rehabilitation of low income urban settlements.



5
F.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TIHE PROJECT
L Factors Subject to Government Control
17.   Lack of commitment. Initially, during project preparation and appraisal, the Government
was strongly committed to the project. However, when a new Government took office in January
1991 (before Credit effectiveness), support for the project began to weaken, even though IDA
supervision missions carefully explained the project's objectives and design to the new
Government officials. Also at that time, the Government removed the Managing Director of the
executing agency (SIF) and, after a long delay, replaced him by a new Director who did not have
strong political support. These events, as well as bureaucratic obstacles, disrupted project
processing and delayed effectiveness by about one year. Although the organizational structure
and responsibilities of SIF (later INDES) were well-defined and appropriate regulations,
guidelines and procedures were firmly put in place, the Government did not clearly understand
the role of the implementing agency and continued to view INDES with suspicion openly
criticizing the agency for operating outsicle the bureaucracy. This lack of support continued after
the 1995 elections when the Managing Director of INDES was again replaced. Although weak
Government commitment to the project affected INDES staff's morale, the impact on project
implementation was marginal. Government did not interfere with the appointment of other key
staff at INDES and the agency maintained sufficient autonomy to function efficiently.
18.   Weak administrative capacity. Weak institutional capacity of Ministries and other
Government agencies involved in the project, and cumbersome administrative procedures,
particularly with respect to procurement, resulted in long implementation delays. Delays of
several months in obtaining the results of bid evaluations and other technical reports; for
example, were not unusual.
19.   Delays in the provision of counterpart funds. As a result of persistent budgetary
shortfalls and weak budgetary management, the Government did not regularly pay its share of the
operational costs of INDES (its counterpart contribution to the project). As a result, INDES staff
were not paid on time (or not paid at all) and operational expenses were not reimbursed. This
impacted on staff morale and slowed project implementation. Eventually, IDA agreed to increase
its share of financing operational costs, from 50% to 70% through December 31, 1993, 65%
through December 31, 1994 and 60% thereafter, subject to agreed ceilings. The Credit
Agreement was amended accordingly. ]NDES functioned efficiently and eventually built up a
portfolio of contracts financed from other external sources, so that its operational costs are now
paid almost exclusively from project handling fees. This is expected to continue for the
foreseeable future.
II. Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
20.   Salaries of INDES staff were considerably higher than those in the public sector, but
about in line with the private sector from, where most of the staff were recruited. This became a
contentious issue in mid-1995 when INDES management approved a salary adjustment, the first
since 1991. The Government intervened and rejected the proposed salary increases and this was
perceived as evidence of lack of support for the project. In retrospect, INDES should have been
more cautious about the timing of the salary adjustment, particularly when agency autonomy was
a sensitive but unresolved issue.



6
21.   The situation deteriorated further in early 1996 during preparation of the Third
Multisector Project, when the Bank argued that INDES, as then structured, could not adequately
perform its expanded functions of managing small-size labor-intensive works implemented by
small contractors and needed to be restructured into a privately-run agency, along the lines of the
AGETIP model. The Government and the Bank were not able to agree on a structure for the
implementing agency and further preparation of the new project was canceled.
G.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   The project would have been sustainable if the overall economic environment had
improved as envisaged at the beginning of its implementation. In particular, an improved general
economic situation would have offered the possibility of carrying out the follow-up maintenance
for the physical achievements. However, the worsening economic situation negatively affected
the project, thereby jeopardizing the outcome that otherwise would have been highly satisfactory.
The achievement of project objectives is satisfactory but in light of the overall economic
situation, these satisfactory outcomes are unlikely to be sustainable. The social achievements of
the project can be sustained only if the infrastructure constructed or rehabilitated under the
project is maintained and funding is obtained for additional infrastructure investments. Lack of
maintenance is the real issue. With respect to road construction and rehabilitation, a road
maintenance unit was set up but it remains inoperative for lack of funds. Similarly, efforts have
been made by communities to ensure the upkeep of the upgraded infrastructure, through
community contributions or through water and electricity tariffs, but this system is in its infancy
and needs to be strengthened to become viable. Therefore, the long-term sustainability of these
investments and their social impact is quite unlikely. Achievements in terms of employment and
income generation are sustainable if additional work becomes available in the construction sector,
either in maintenance or new construction. Therefore, sustainability in all cases largely depends
on the success of the economic recovery and the availability of financial resources needed to pay
for new investments and their maintenance.
23.   The sustainability of institutional achievements of the project are uncertain. INDES has
established itself as a dynamic, competent organization, capable of accessing financial resources
and of developing and monitoring the implementation of infrastructure development projects.
1NDES has already received funding to implement projects under OPEC and the French
Cooperation. Further evolution in the way INDES operates is expected when the economic
situation of the country improves and new investments come along. In the longer term, INDES'
role is likely to shift to facilitating access to donor funds for communities, local governments and
NGOs, and to monitoring the implementation of investment projects (i.e. as contract management
agency).
H.    BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   The Bank's performance during project identification is rated unsatisfactory because
some of the institutional problems that were apparent under the former project Multisector I
such as the management autonomy of INDES were not dealt with. Preparation and appraisal
performance are rated satisfactory. However, the Bank should have defined and quantified the
project's social objectives more clearly, indicating how targets in the social area were to be
achieved through investments in hardware. Project supervision was satisfactory; at least two
annual supervision missions were carried out and almost continuous long-distance advice and



7
support was given. On the other hand, frequent changes in Task Managers, adding up to a total
of three different managers throughout implementation, and the Bank's reorganizations
contributed to lack of continuity in prcoject support and negatively affected the project's
supervision.
25.   Bank staff and consultants providled an unusually high level of technical support to the
Government and the executing agency (SIF/INDES) during project implementation. However,
more efforts should have been made to excplain the role of the executing agency to Government
officials in the early stages of project implementation (1991) when a new Government took
office, in order to secure commitment to the project. Also, stronger arguments might have been
used in 1995 to convince the Government of the need to change INDES from a quasi-
Government entity into a fully autonomous, private-sector contract management agency. As it
turned out, the Bank and the Government could not agree on a new structure for INDES and the
proposed Third Multisector Project was canceled in early 1996. A year later, the Government
revised its position on the issues of autonomy and private sector management of INDES;
however, by that time, the macroeconomic conditions in Sao Tome had deteriorated to such a
point that funding for a new operation was' no longer a viable option.
1.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   During preparation, the Borrower fully supported the project's scope and design,
including SIF as the implementing agency. However, when the new Govennment took office in
January 1991, commitment to the project waned, the director of SIF was replaced and Credit
effectiveness was delayed by more than a year. Subsequently, the Government did not make
counterpart funds available (mainly to fintance INDES' staff salaries) for almost a year, and as a
result the Special Account was frozen. Thlis not only affected staff morale at INDES, but also the
pace of project implementation. The Borrower's performance during the first three or four years
of implementation was clearly deficient.
27.   However, following the change in Government in 1995, the relationship between the
Government and INDES improved, thanks in part to the persistent efforts of the Bank's
supervision team. Government support for INDES became stronger, especially during the last
year of implementation. Toward the credit closing date, the Government seemed to have
reversed its position on the issue of autonomy and private-sector management for INDES, and
INDES was becoming the executing agenicy for several donor-funded projects. This is a good
step forward and has also provided INDES with the opportunity to fund most if not all of its
operational expenses from handling fees collected from the funding agencies.
28.   INDES correctly maintained consolidated project accounts as well as individual sub-
project accounts, and operated the Special Account. The accounting system, installed by
consultants who operated the system initially while training local staff, was adequate. Independent
auditors carried out annual audits of project accounts, including the Special Account, and audit
reports were submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year, es required. INDES
prepared quarterly and annual budgets, advised the Treasury regarding disbursement forecasts and
completed disbursement applications for ihe release of IDA funds. INDES reported regularly to
IDA on the status of project implementation and financing.



8
29.   Given the good performance of INDES throughout most of the project implementation
period (in spite of wavering Government support), the Borrower's performance overall is rated as
satisfactory.
J.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.   The infrastructure program was implemented as planned; institutional objectives were
largely achieved, particularly with respect to the implementing agency INDES; and most of the
social objectives were at least partially attained, with the exception of mitigating the social impact
of adjustment which was only achieved in the areas covered by the sub-projects. Institutional
achievements concerning INDES are sustainable, provided the Government sticks with its recent
position that INDES should be an autonomous contract management agency. More generally, the
sustainability of project achievements in the areas of poverty alleviation and improvement of
living conditions is threatened by budgetary problems that do not allow for the maintenance of
social infrastructure. In spite of this somber assessment, overall project outcome is judged
satisfactory.
K.    FUTURE OPERATION
31.   Preparation for a Third Multisector Project was initiated in November, 1994, with a PPF
advance of US$250,000. In addition, about US$450,000 was used from the budget of the Second
Multisector Project, pending approval of a supplementary PPF advance. Because government
interference in the decision-making and management of INDES has hindered INDES' operation
during this project, the Bank proposed converting INDES into an autonomous, private-sector
contract management agency to carry out civil works projects. However, the Borrower and the
Bank could not agree on a new structure of the agency, leading to the cancellation of this
operation from the lending program. A follow-up operation is not planned at this time. Some of
the studies completed for the preparation of the Third Multisector Project were later used by
other donors to finance the execution of infrastructure-related activities.
L.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   Key lessons learned from the project's implementation are:
(a)   In a small country such as Sao Tome and Principe, contract management
agencies such as the Social and Infrastructure Fund (SIF), or its successor the Institute
for Economic and Social Development (INDES), can be a good mechanism for
implementing small-scale, multi-sectoral investment projects, provided that the
agency has sufficient operational and financial autonomy; operates under a
contractual relationship with the Government; uses a market approach in its
operations, without Government interference; has the freedom to recruit its own staff
and pay them adequately; and can generate revenues from its operations. In designing
a multisector operation with this kind of implementation structure, it is important to
agree on the rules of the game early on, well before negotiations.
(b)   A multi-sectoral program intended to tackle social issues through infrastructure
investments runs the risk of focusing its efforts on the physical aspects of the
program, i.e. the execution of civil works, at the expense of the software aspects
(poverty alleviation, employment creation, income generation, etc.). To avoid this



9
tendency, it is necessary to set realistic targets for achievements in the social sector,
and to clearly map out programs and interventions that will lead to reaching these
targets. This is especially important in small economies such as Sao Tom6 and
Principe, where donor-financed projects tend to be small and few in number.
(c)    The project could have benefited from a mid-term review which would have
been helpful to restructure the project and make the necessary adjustments to deal
with the worsened macroeconomric reality of Sao Tome and Principe.
(d)    Although there was complete consensus from the Borrower and the Bank to use
US$450,000 to carry out studies to prepare follow up projects, it should have been
made clear that this consensus did not represent a commitment on the part of the Bank
to finance a follow up project. ][n order to assure that the Borrower will not feel that
expenditures on future project preparation are reducing financial resources available
for current activities, it is recomnmended to include in a specific line item for studies
that could identify and lead to a f5ollow up operation.
(e)    The Bank should have paid. more attention earlier to the conflictual relationship
between INDES and the Government, and should have pressed the issue of the
independence and autonomy of INDES as a criterion for its continuous involvement in
the provision of development assistance. Such a proactive stance would have
contributed to a shared understanding and prevented the deterioration of the situation.



10
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
MULTISECTOR II PROJECT
(Credit 2280-STP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. TABLES
TABLE 1- SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Obiectives       Substantial     Partial     Negligible   Not applicable
(10          (10           (10          (V)
Macro policies                                      LIF            E1             1
Sector policies                       ED            EI             111          W5
Financial objectives                  E]            EI             Lz I
Institutional development             Em            m               C          [I
Physical objectives                   LI                           LI          El
Poverty reduction                     LI             L                         LI
Gender issues                          L I           LI            EL          E
Other social objectives               LI              W            LI          LI
Environmental objectives              EM                           LI          [IC
Public sector management                             LI            LI          LI
Private sector development              FIL                        LI             ]
Other (capacity building)              LI            LI            LI



11
B. Project sustainability          Likely              Unlikely          Uncertain
(1)                 (1)               (V)
C. Bank performance                Highy
satisfactory        Satisfactory       Deficient
(I)                 (1)               (V)
Identification                      LO                    E                 W
Preparation assistance              [                    E I]
Appraisal                           [a                   [2 
Supervision                                              l m               F
D. Borrower performance 
satisfacton         Satisfactory       Deficient
(/)                  (/)               (/)
Preparation                            ]                [                   0]
Implementation                                                             [ ] E
Covenant compliance
(counterpart funds)                  L]                  D 
Operation (if applicable)                                K]                K]
E. Assessment of Outcome      Higly                                          Hi
satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactor
(])            V )             LI )
ED    m                        FO               E



12
TABLE 2 - RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
PrecedingOprdn 
15905IP-Economic              Removal of physical constraints         1985                     Completed
Rehabilitation and Modernization
Following operations
2343-STI-Health and Educadon   Help reverse the decline in health and  1992                     Under Implementation
education and support malaria eradication
TABLE 3 - PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification (Executive Project Summar)
Preparation                                                          10129/90                10129190
Pre-Appraisal /Appraisal                                             03/08//91               03/14/91
Negotiations                                                         06/04/91                06104/91
Board Presentation                                                   06/91                   06/27/91
Signing                                                              08/91                   01/10/92
Effectiveness                                                        10/91                   12/18/92
Project Completion                                                   12/31/96                12/31/97
Loan Closing                                                         12/31/96                12/31/97



13
TABLE 4 - LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ millions)
June 1992                         0.00                    0.80                             0
June 1993                         0.69                    1.90                            36
June 1994                         3.58                    3.10                           115
June 1995                         5.17                    4.70                            1
June 1996                         5.71                    6.00                            95l
June 1997                         6.17                    6.00                           103
December 1997                     6.34                    6.00                           106
March 1998                                                6.00
TABLE 5 - KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Constructloil
Mini- Hydroelectric plant (Project Expanded)        1          1,700      1             1,700
. Secondary Roads                                   I          2,400      1            2,400
Upgrading Low Income Settlement                     1          1,300      1             1,990
Rehabilitation of Central Hospital                  1            150      1              150
Small Priority Works                                8            800      8              700
Sites & Services (Vila Femanda)                     1           200       1              250
Subtotal     13         6,550      13            7,190
Community Facilities
Water Supply for small communities                  2             50      2               24
Community infrastructure (Boa Entrada)              1            40       1               76
Subtotal     3             90       3             100
Studies and sub-project Preparation
Evaluation Hydro Potential                          1             50      1              110
Bridge Rehab. Needs                                 1             30      1             N/A
Capacity Building Seminar for Small Contractors     1             30      1               20
Community Development                               1             60      1               60
National Electrification                            1            250      1              250
Electrification Needs Principe                      1            120      1              100
Design Contadora Hydro Access Road                  1            154      1               40
Design Priority Street Repairs 1/                   1            90       1               20
Design Secondary Roads 1/                           1           281       1              100
Design Rehab. Airport Principe                      I           N/A       1               50
Design Rehab. Port PrHncipe                         I           N/A       1               20
Consulting Services Preparation Multi III           1           242       1              350
Subtotal     12          1,327     12            1,120
Institutional Development
Cadastal and GIS Planning- MESA                  1             51      1               57
Housing Policy and Strategy- MESA                1             50      1               92
Institutional Support and TA for INDES           1            210      1              760
Subtotal     3            311      3              909
Totals     31         8,278      31            9,319
1/ Scope of design reduced as Multi III canceled.



14
TABLE 6A - PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Millions)
Start-up sub-projects
Mini Hydroelectric Plant (c) 1/       0.10     0.80     0.90     0.26     1.40     1.70
Secondary Roads                       0.20    2.20      2.40     0.20    2.22     2.42
Upgrading Low Income Settlement (c)   0.40     0.85     1.25     0.19     1.80     1.99
Small Priority Works                  0.20     0.60     0.80     0.15    0.65     0.80
Demand-Driven Projects
Sites and Services (Vila Fernanda)     2/       2/       2/      0.05    0.20     0.25
Water Supply (Sao Marcal)              2/       2/       2/      0.00    0.02     0.02
Community Facilities                   2/       2/       2/      0.02    0.06     0.08
Rehabilitation of Sao Tome Hospital    2/       2/       2/      0.05    0.10     0.15
Studies
Evaluation Hydro Potential (c)         2/       2/       2/      0.00    0.11     0.11
Bridge Rehab. Needs                    2/       2/       2/      N/A     N/A      N/A
Capacity Build. Sem. for Small Contractors   2/  2/      2/      0.00    0.02     0.02
Electrification needs Principe (c)     2/       2/       2/      0.00     0.10    0.10
National Electrification (c)           2/       2/       2/      0.00     0.25    0.25
Sub-project preparation
Design Contadora Hydro Access Road     2/       2/       2/      0.00    0.04     0.04
Design Priority Street Repairs         2/       2/       2/      0.00    0.02     0.02
Communities Facilities                 2/       2/       2/      0.02    0.04     0.06
Design Secondary Roads                 2/       2/       2/      0.00    0.10     0.10
Design Rehab. Airport Principe         2/       2/       2/      0.00     0.02    0.02
Design Rehab. Port Principe            2/       2/       2/      0.00    0.05     0.05
Preparation Multisector m                2/      2/       2/      0.10     0.25     0.35
Unallocated (for Misc. Sub-projects)         _---=---                              ---
Subtotal          0 0.90     5.00     5.90     1.19    7.55     8.74
Institutional Support - MESA            0.05     0.27    0.32     0.00     0.15     0.15
Oper. Expenses Support- INDES           0.45     0.13    0.58     0.14     0.51     0.65
Technical Assistance - INDES            0.20     0.40    0.60     0.00     0.25     0.25
Subtotal            0.70     0.80     1.50    0.14     0.91     1.05
Total  1.60     5.80     7.40     1.33    8.46     9.79
1/ Project scope expanded
2/ Not identified at appraisal
(c) Co-financed



15
TABLE 6B - PROJECT FINANCING
(IYS$ Millions)
IDA                            -         6.0        6.0        -         6.50      6.50
Government                     1.6        -         1.6       0.43        -        0.43
INDES                          0          -          0        0.14        -        0.14
Cofmancing                     -          0          0         -         2.26      2.26
TOTAL:    1.6          6.0        7.6       0.57      8.76       9.33
TABLE 7 - ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS (PRE-APPRAISED SUB-PROJECTS)
31                               psa
1. Mini- Hydroelectric plant                   17%                          19.0%
2. Roads                                  greater than 12%               Not Available
3. Upgrading Low Income                    Not Available                 Not Available
Settlement
4. Small Priority Works                    Not Available                 Not Available



16
TABLE 8- STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Credit        3.01(b)       C           01/92    The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary  Complied
Administration Agreement with INDES under
terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association
Credit        3.02          C           01/92    Procurement of the goods, works and services    Complied
required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule I to the Project
Agreement.
Credit        3.04          C           01/92    The Borrower shall not permit INDES'       Complied.
Statements of Policies to be modified without
the prior consent of the Association.
Project       2.04          C           01/92    INDES shall manage each sub-project .in    Complied.
Agreement                                        accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 of
the Project Agreement.
Project       2.05(a)       C           01/92    INDES shall, at the request of the Association,   Complied.
Agreement                                        exchange views with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations
under the Project Agreement and under the
Subsidiawy Agreement and other matters
relating to the Purposes of the Credit.
Project       2.05(b)       C           01/92    INDES shall promptly inform the Association    Complied. INDES informed the
Agreement                                        of any condition which interferes or threatens to  Association of the lack of performance
interfere with the progress of the Project, the  of its Board of Directors, and with IDA
accomplishments of the purposes of the Credit  took actions to try to correct this
or the performance by INDES of its obligations   problem. An amendment to INDES'
under the Project Agreement and under the  Decree Law (Decreto Lei 19/89 and
Subsidiary Agreement.                     20/89) was approved by the
Govemment on December 7, 1994, to
enable INDES to operate more freely.
The change was only partially
successful in reducing interference.
Project       3.01          C           01/92    INDES shall carry on its operations and    Generally complied. However,
Agreement                                        conduct its affairs in accordance with sound  management decisions were hampered
administrative and managerial practices under    by the non-performance of the Board of
the supervision of qualified and experienced  Directors. This situation was corrected
management assisted by competent staff in  in the last 2 years.
adequate numbers.
Project       3.02          C           01/92    INDES shall at all times operate and maintain    Complied
Agreement                                        its plant, machinery equipment and other
property and make the necessary repairs
thereof.
Project       3.03          NC          01/92    INDES shall take out and maintain with    Not complied. The only insurance
Agreement                                        responsible insurers, or make other provision  company in STP is a bankrupt
satisfactory to the Association for insurance  parastatal company. Private insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall   companies cannot operate in the
be consistent with appropriate practice.  country. INDES' attempts to obtain
insurance abroad proved to be
unfeasible because of the high
premiums.
_                .                                                                        ..~- 



17
Project       3.04(a)        C           01/92    INDES shall conduct its operations in       Complied
Agreement                                          accordance with its Statements of Policy and
shall not modify such Statements without prior
consent of the Association.
Project       3.04(b)        C           10/91    INDES shall modify not later than 31 Oct. 1991   Complied.
Agreement                                          its Operational Procedures to include
assessment of environmental considerations in
a manner acceptable to the Association.
Project       3.05           NC          12/91     For purposes of Part B of the Project, INDES  Not applicable. In agreement with the
Agreement                                          shall eriploy not later than December 31, 1991,  Association, the contracting of such
an agricultural specialist to assist in preparing    specialist was canceled given that the
and supervising INDES' agriculture sub-    institution was (following the
projects                                   amendment of its statutes no longer
involved in direct lending to the private
sector. Instead, a Civil Engineer was
hired to assist in the monitoring of
infrastructure sub-projects.
Project       3.06           NC          10/91     For purposes of Part B of the Project, INDES  Not applicable as the three year
Agreement                                          shall, by October 31, 1991, and each October    horizon proved too long. Training and
31 thereafter present to the Association a  use of consultants was discussed and
rolling three year training program for its staff   agreed with supervision missions on a
for the succeeding three years and an action  year by year basis.
plan for the succeeding calendar year for
employrnent of short-term consultants to fill
any existing gaps in INDES' operational
capabilit:ies.
Project       3.07           C           12/91    INDES shall fully implement not later than  Not fully complied within the time-
Agreement                                          December 31, 1991, all tasks required under the  frame set. Improvements in
action plan, to improve its loan and grant  accounting and record keeping, for
adminislration, its accounting and record  example, only took place after the
keeping practices and its management       deadline.
information systems.
Project       3.08(a)        C           11/91     Beginning on November 30, 1991, and not later  Not fully complied. INDES carried out
Agreement                                         than each November 30 thereafter, for the    sub-projects pre-identified during
duration of the Project, INDES shall furnish to   preparation of the Multisector n I
the Association for comments and approval: (i)   Project. However, demand driven sub-
its business plan for the following calendar  projects were discussed in detail with
year, including a list of the proposed sub-  supervision missions prior to approval.
projects together with a summary description  INDES subsequently requested formal
thereof, the financing required; and, (ii) its  no-objections from the Association for
financing projections for the succeeding three    all demand-driven projects. INDES
years.                                     carried out periodically short-term and
long-term financial projections
including detailed cash-flow
projections. These are reviewed and
adjusted as required during the
supervision missions.
Project       3.08(b)        C           11/91    INDES shall carry out business plans as     (see above comment)
Agreement                                          approvecl by the Association.
Project       3.09           C           01/92    INDES shall, following the end of each six-  Complied.
Agreement                                          month pe:riod, submit to the Association a
report describing its operations.



18
Project       3.10           C           01/92    INDES shall carny out no earlier than       Not fully complied. A review of
Agreement                                          September 30 and no later than December 31,    performance of INDES and the Project
1993, jointly with the Association and the  was carried out in the context of the
Borrower, a mid-term review of the progress  preparation of a Third Multisector
made in carrying out the Project.          Project. It was at this point clear that a
significant change in INDES' structure
was in order, by converting INDES
into an AGETIP-type institution. This
concept was rejected by the
Government in power at that time
Project       4.01(b)        C           01/92    INDES shall:                                Complied with all clauses.
Agreement                                          (i) have its records , financial statements for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles by independent
auditor acceptable to the Association; (ii)
fumish to the Association as soon as available,
but not later than six months after the end of
each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for each such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (ii) fumish
to the Association such information conceming
said records accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof as the Association
shall request.
Project       4.01 (c)(i)    NC          01/92    For all expenditures with respect to which  Generally complied. However, when
Agreement                                          withdrawals from the Credit Account were   the Govemment ffiled to make its
made on the basis of statements of expenditures  counterpart contributions, INDES used
INDES shall: (i) maintain or cause to be   Bank fund from the Special Account
maintain in accordance with sound accounting   for operational expenditures which
principles records and accounts reflecting such   should have been financed by the
expenditures.                              Govemment.
Project       4.01(c)(ii)    C           01/92    INDES shall: ensure that all records evidencing   Pending
Agreement                                          such expenditures are retained until at least one
year after the Association has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal was made.
Project       4.0 1(c)(iii)  C           01/92    INDES shall enable the Association          Complied
Agreement                                          representatives to examine such records.
Project       4.01(c)(iii)   C           01/92    INDES shall ensure that such records and    Complied
Agreement                                          accounts are included in the annual audit
referred to in para. 4.0 1(b) and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year
together with the procedures and intemal
controls involved in their preparation can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawal.
-                 .     - .        =. .... ..  ....



19
TABLE 9 - BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Through Appraisal                                            28.0                                             73.0
Appraisal-Board                                               8.6                                              19.8
Board-Effectiveness                                           7.8                                             22.6
Supervision                                                  32.4                                            119.3
Completion                                                    5.7                                              19.6
Total                                       82.5                                            254.3
TABLE 10 - BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Sde rtisication               05/92           1            8                                    ________10190  1  _  m
Srparation                    10190 =91                    1
Pre-Appraisal/ Appraisal      03/91          2             1Tm, E
Supervision                  05/92           1             8                  FA                  2            I             2
Supervision                   09/92 31                     15                 FA                  2            I             2
Su ervision                  02/93           1             :10                FA                  2 5_                       2
Supervision                  03/93           1             7                   D
Supervision                   06/93          1             .6                 FA                  2            S             2
Supervision                   081/93 615                                      FA                  2            I             2
Supervision                   01/94          1             15                 FA                   I           I
Supervision                  06/94           I             116                FA                  S            S
Supervision                  01/96           2             115              1TIL, FA              S            S
Supervision                   10196          I             7                  FA                  S            S
Supervision                  05/97           1             7                  FA                  S            S
Supervision                   10/97          1             7                  FA                  S            S
- Last SPN Mission       1   12/97   -       I             7                   m TTsL             S
CON -      Consultant                                         I - Minor Problem
EC -       Economist                                         2 - Moderat Problem
EN         Engineer                                          3 - Major Problemn
FA -       Financial Analyst                                 S - Satisfactory
PO -       Project Officer
TTL -      Task Team Leader
D          Disbursement Officer



Annex 1
Page I of 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
GOVERNMENT COMMENTS ON THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR THE SECOND MULTISECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT 2280-STP
The following conclusions can be drawn from an analysis of the document prepared by the World Bank
on the programs and projects implemented under the Second Multisector Project (SMP):
a)    The SMP was executed very satisfactorily, as is demonstrated by the fact that most subprojects
were implemented on schedule, while the Credit was also fully disbursed, i.e. there were no components
that were not executed. The experience derived from implementation of the First Multisector Project was
a determining factor in the improved management of the SMP.
b)    The SIF, which in August 1994 became the INDES, consolidated its capital, skills, prestige and
confidence vis-a-vis the Government, World Bank and other development partners, such as the AFD and
the OPEC Fund, which financed projects for execution by INDES in the total amount of $4,515,000.
The following points should, however, be made:
1.    The conversion of the SIF into INDES was a gain in itself: its management structures were
slimmed down and made more flexible, leading to more autonomous and efficient management. The SIF
Managing Director (Director of INDES) became Chairman of the Board of Directors, which ensured that
that body met regularly, as indeed it does, unlike what happened before.
Nonetheless, for lack of political will at the right time, INDES lost a great opportunity to adapt
more effectively to the "winds of change." By not allowing INDES to become an AGETIP-type
organization (a model that has been a great success in many developing countries), the Government in
1995 in practice damaged the agency; its action not only resulted in the cancellation of the Third
Multisector Project, which at the time was at an advanced stage of preparation (SAR completed), but had
an immediate financial impact on INDES, which had advanced $446,155.15 from Multisector I and
Multisector II for the preparation of Multisector III.
It should be pointed out that the present Government has already indicated on a number of occasions its
great readiness to reopen the AGETIP issue, and sets no preconditions for resolving the matter. It would
therefore be beneficial if the Bank clarified whether it is still possible to turn 1NDES into an AGETIP-
type agency.
2.    Para. 19 of the ICR mentions the salary adjustments in INDES decided by its Board on 4/28/95.
The ICR's criticisms are not on target, in that one very important fact is omitted: the salary adjustments
received the Bank's "no objection" in fax WBKS3764 FAXX2432 of 5/25/95, which means that the
provisions of the Credit Agreement were complied with. The rejection of the increases by the then
Government was incomprehensible and entirely inappropriate, since the Government was represented on
the Board of INDES, which unanimously approved the salary increases.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
The ICR also mentions that in 1991 the Managing Director of SIF was removed for political reasons. On
this point, we reaffirm that he left at his own request for the reasons that he gave at the time in his
resignation request, a copy of which is in the Bank's files.
4.     The replacement of the Managing Director of INDES at the end of 1995 without prior
consultation with the Bank was a serious violation of the Credit Agreement. However, the Bank, normally
so quick to pronounce on the legality of Borrower actions, remained remarkably silent in this case; a
silence that first allowed an illegal action and subsequently validated it. This was an unfortunate
proceeding by the Bank, and it had an immediate adverse impact on INDES, since the signal sent was
that, in certain circumstances, the law (the agreernent between the parties) could be broken with impunity.
5.    As part of several measures taken by its ]Board to reduce operating costs, INDES reduced its staff
by releasing 6 people between March 1996 and May 1997. This significant step resulted from the decline
in the agency's activities as a consequence of the cancellation of the Third Multisector Project.
6.    The ICR does not comment on the feasibility of a new INDES program that could result from the
transfer to INDES of the balance of the funds from the Health and Education project, to finance malaria
eradication projects. This possibility is now being studied by the relevant authorities at the Bank; all the
information requested by the Bank has been provided and the Government will therefore await the
outcome, which it trusts will be favorable, especially as the Bank has given signs in this sense.
Lessons To Be Drawn
-      -INDES is in a unique position as regards its capacity to manage multisectoral projects,
particularly in the infrastructure and social areas; efforts must therefore be made to continue its existence.
-      Since it is apparent that the best form of management for INDES would be an AGETIP-type
structure, steps should be taken to effect this change.
-     A Credit Agreement should be scrupulously respected. Violations of any of its provisions by any
of the contracting parties should not be passed over in silence, otherwise the entire Agreement is
undermined.
To sum up:
The Second Multisector Project achieved its objectives and had a direct, immediate and positive impact
on the lives of the beneficiaries as a result of the improvements made through the Riboque/Lucumi
projects, the rehabilitation of the Guegue hydroelectric plant, rehabilitation of secondary roads, priority
works and pilot projects.
The project beneficiaries are now living in better conditions, and this is unquestionably a matter of great
pride to us all.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
AIDE-MEMOIRE
SAO TOME, AND PRINCIPE
SUPERVISION MISSION
SECOND MULTISECTOR PROJECT
December 9 - 12, 1997
1.    Mission Composition and Objectives A World Bank supervision mission led by Mr. Leslie
Pean visited Sao Tome in order to study procedures for allocating the remaining funds earmarked for the
Malaria Eradication component of the Health and Education Project (Credit 2343), totaling $3,100,000,
as follows: Ribogue/Lucumi Urban Sanitation sub-project, US$539,000 (Second Multisector Project);
Consolidation of storm water run-off works at Quinta de Sto. Antonio, $161,000 ; and Ponta Mina, Vila
Maria S. Gabriel, Pantufo and Praia Melao drainage works, $2,400,000. The mission coordinated its
activities with the mission for Health and Education Project, led by Ms. Tonia Marek, which was also in
the country.
SUMMARY OF THE WORK PERFORMED BY THE MISSION
2.    After considering the Government's request for the reallocation of surplus funds from the Health
and Education Project (see Annex 1) and confirming that some US$3,500,000 were available for this
purpose, the mission conveyed IDA's non-objection in principle to Mr. Acacio Bonfim, Minister of
Finance and Planning. The Minister gave the mission a letter addressed to Mr. Hasan Tuluy (see Annex
2) asking that the Malaria Eradication component be extended for one year, along with an Action Plan
and a schedule for implementation of sub-projects by INDES indicating the complementarity between the
latter and the Malaria Control project.
This Aide-memoire describes the legal framework and defines procedures to facilitate the
execution of the activities mentioned in para. 1 above. The background to this process is set out in Mr.
Tuluy's reply to the Minister (see Annex 3). The mission confirmed that funds were available to cover the
costs of the sub-projects referred to above, and asked that a contract management agreement for this
purpose between INDES and the Ministry of Health be prepared and submitted to the Bank.
3.    The mission visited Vila Maria, S. Gabriel and S. Marcal, in which drainage works have been
implemented under the Health Project, and noted that adjacent areas have not benefited from such
projects despite their dense population and the incidence of malaria. Consequently, drainage works in
new areas such as Ponta Mina, Pantufo and Praia Melao are among the sub-projects which the
Government will undertake under the Malaria Eradication project.
The particular feature of these works is that they have been undertaken in a swampy part of the
city in which the houses have been built on columns because of the accumulation of water during the
rainy season, as a result of the lack of main drainage channels. This water creates a favorable
environment for mosquitoes, and hence for malaria, in an area which it is estimated has some 20,000
inhabitants.
4.    The mission met with the INDES technical team working on the Riboque/Lucumi project and the
URRIL coordinators to check on the following aspects of project implementation:
a)    preparation of specifications
b)    updating of the execution schedule



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
5.    The mission noted that the original execution schedule was no longer current, since the first steps
(preparation of bidding documents) had been pllanned for October/November. To enable the sub-projects
to be implemented in accordance with the revised schedule (see Annex 3) and in order not to conflict with
the spirit of the two Credit Agreements (Credit 2280, Multisector Project, and Credit 2343, Health and
Education), which close on December 31, 1997, the mission decided, in conjunction with the Minister of
Finance and Planning and the mission for the Health and Education Project, to extend the closing date of
the Malaria Eradication component of Credit 2343 until December 31, 1998.
6.    Next Steps
a) After discussion with the Disbursements Division, the mission will inform INDES from
Washington regarding the possibility of opening a special account with an advance of 15% of the total
cost of the works to be executed. The mission will also let 1NDES know whether disbursement requests
signed by its Executive Director can be submitted directly to Washington.
b) Credit 2343 will close as planned on December 31, 1997, except for the Malaria Eradication
sub-project; in this connection, the World Bank will send a formal "non-objection" in response to the
Government's request for the extension referred to above, and the component will remain open for
another 12 months until December 31, 1998, with a total budget of $3,100,000, as per para. I above.
c) In the contract management agreement the Ministry of Health will authorize INDES to utilize
the proceeds of the Credit directly, as per paraLs. 1, 2 and 5 a), to facilitate implementation of the sub-
projects mentioned above.
d) INDES will forward the management agreement made between itself and the Ministry of
Health.
7.    Supervision of the implementation of the sub-projects, namely Riboque/Lucumi urban sanitation,
and consolidation of storm water run-off works in the districts of Quinta de Sto. Antonio and Ponta
Mina, Vilka Maria, S. Gabriel, Pantufo and Praia Melao, will be performed by Mr. Leslie Pean, task
manager for the Second Multisector Project.
Sao Tome, December 12, 1997.
For INDES                                      For the Mission
Anastacio Oliveira               Leslie Pean                Tonia Marek
Acting Executive                 Task Manager               Task Manager
President



o30                                           640                                                                   NIGER                           7'24                                  728
BURKINk-   '
<C r)  NIGERIA   I c~  SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
z~~~~~~
-PnieMkol6                                                          /JPR                                              C P
Guadalupe                                                                        * CAMEROON
0              Sarilao
Amaro                                         EQUATORIAt GUINEA 
Neves           -                           0                                                         G                             1 O44       0      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
-                              LISSAO TOME                         SAO TOME &  -          _--      V*
Santerem    B                                           PRINCIPE                        (                  -        RIVERS
-o   Baba0                                           ~~~~~~~~GABON
O'20'        Espr0nta                        PenteFrstesr o 0I20                                                                                                      ---    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
Magdolena0                     _
Born 
60m0-                                                               CONGO,
aTRINDADE         -                                       720
-Bomn B.. Island
Sao NicolauO       -                Pinheira BI
Zampolmao                              - -                                                                                                                      M
Lemba0                  ,,Sntano                                                                                                                                   .Cs -olheira                80o Monte
- -    Stol. Rita
Ponta Puradad
Bindoo-                                                                                                         I  140                                                                                                140'
oCruzeia             0 Ribeira AIlonso
oCruzeiro          -Ponta do Sol                                                                                         0Gaspar
-010,                                                                  -                              010                                                           Santo Ant6n  o0  oSta.Mmocilenp  _
Sac Jtoaa                                                                                                          Mateas0                 OPortinho -e
des Angoloreso                                                                                             oSanto Cristo                                    Abo
OSnoCruz                                                                                          -Santo                   Sat  rsa 0Ah
S. Jaaquimo      0Trindade,          -   Novo Estrela-
Dona Agusto                                                                                               So fundoo
0                                                   - francisco ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~0a Fuda     Nitreira-
Perserveranoa                                                                    Mantero         Anselmo Andrade
1'36'                    0                                                                              '36'-
Poraela
de Lumiar                                                 Ribeira Fria
car~~~~~~~~~
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
000                       Roles Isldnd
SAO   TOME                                                                                                    0Nueves Ferreira
05                 1 0
,_._._._._,_._._._._.                         o      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
KILOMETERS
The boundaries, colors, denominations                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                     1'32                                                                                                    1'32'-
and any other infornsotion shown on
>1      this map do not imply, on the part of                   RIVERS                                                           0    1    2    3    4    5
c        The World Bank Group, any jodgment                                                                                          'Bone ,d. Jq.ew
Cc0      on the legol status of any territory, or               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)                                         KILOMETERS                                 kiond                                           C
any endorsement or acceptance of
_'       such baosdorie, ,
-o              6'30                                             640'                                                             7'20'                               7'24'                                 7281
(5                                                                                                                    __________________________I______________



