Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2280 STP
                   (Second Multisector Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                 FUNDO SOCIAL E DE INFRAESTRUTURAS
                      Dated January 10, 1992
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2280 STP
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 10, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and FUNDO SOCIAL E DE
INFRAESTRUTURAS (SIF).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
(the Borrower) and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement), the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,500,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that SIF agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary administration agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SIF, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be granted
to SIF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Administration Agreement; and
      WHEREAS SIF, in consideration of the Association's entering
Page  2
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, in the
General Conditions (as so defined) and in the Preamble to the
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Beneficiaries" means residents of Sao Tome and Principe
deriving benefits from Subprojects directly or indirectly and who
are adversely affected by the current economic conditions and/or by
the economic stabilization measures taken by the Borrower;
      (b)   "Project Period" means the period beginning with the
Effective Date and ending with the Closing Date;
      (c)   "SIF Operational Procedures Guidelines" means the
procedures guidelines adopted by SIF on November 6, 1989, as
modified with the consent of the Association;
      (d)   "Sponsoring Agency" means any governmental and non-
governmental entity which proposes to carry out, or is carrying out,
a Subproject; and
      (e)   "Subproject Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between SIF and a Sponsoring Agency for the purposes of
carrying out a Subproject and under which SIF agrees to provide
financing on a grant basis out of the proceeds of the Credit.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. SIF declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and managerial practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. SIF shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Administration Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SIF shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Administration Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 2.04. SIF shall process and manage each Subproject in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.05. (a) SIF shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Administration Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   SIF shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by SIF of its obligations under this
Page  3
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Administration Agreement.
      Section 2.06. SIF shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acqui-
sition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of SIF
      Section 3.01. SIF shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and managerial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. SIF shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
managerial practices.
      Section 3.03. SIF shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. (a) SIF shall conduct its operations in
accordance with the SIF Statement of Policies, and shall not modify
the SIF Statement of Policies without the prior consent of the
Association.
      (b)   SIF shall modify, not later than October 31, 1991, the
SIF Operational Procedures Guidelines to expand its procedures
regarding assessment of environmental considerations in a manner
acceptable to the Association.
      Section 3.05. For purposes of Part B of the Project, SIF shall
employ, not later than December 31, 1991, an agricultural specialist
to assist in preparing and supervising SIF's agriculture projects,
with qualifications, experience and responsibilities acceptable to
the Association.
      Section 3.06. For purposes of Part B of the Project, SIF
shall, by October 31, 1991, and each October 31 thereafter falling
within the Project Period, present to the Association a rolling
three-year training program for its staff for the succeeding three
calendar years and an action plan for the succeeding calendar year
for the employment of short-term consultants to fill any existing
gaps in SIF's operational capabilities. SIF shall implement in a
timely manner such training program and employment action plan, each
as modified to take into account comments of the Association.
      Section 3.07. SIF shall fully implement, not later than
December 31, 1991, all tasks required under an action plan,
acceptable to the Association, to improve its loan and grant
administration, its accounting and record-keeping practices and its
management information systems.
      Section 3.08. (a) Beginning November 30, 1991, and not later
than each November 30 thereafter falling within the Project Period,
SIF shall furnish to the Association, for its comments and approval:
(i) its proposed business plan covering its operations for the
following calendar year, including a list of proposed Subprojects
together with a summary description thereof, the financing required
therefor and the names of the relevant Sponsoring Agencies, and (ii)
its financial projections (including cash flow projections, income
statements and balance sheets) for the succeeding three years.
      (b)    SIF shall carry out such business plan as approved by
the Association.
Page  4
      Section 3.09. SIF shall, within 30 days following the end of
each six-month period, submit to the Association a report describing
SIF's operations, including the extent to which each Subproject is
achieving its objectives.
      Section 3.10. SIF shall carry out, no earlier than
September 30, 1993 and no later than December 31, 1993, jointly with
the Association and the Borrower, a mid-term review of the progress
made in carrying out the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) SIF shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   SIF shall:
            (i)    have its records (including those for the
                   Special Account), accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                   of its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the audit
                   thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, SIF shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Association has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                   Account was made;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
Page  5
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SIF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                   terms; or
           (ii)    the date four years after the Closing Date.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SIF of
this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For SIF:
            Fundo Social e de Infraestrutura
            Proca do Independencia
            Caixa Postal: 408
            Republica Democratic de Sao Tome
              e Principe
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FUNSOI                    289
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
Page  6
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SIF, or by SIF on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
its Executive Director or such other person or persons as the
Executive Director shall designate in writing, and SIF shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                   FUNDO SOCIAL E DE INFRAESTRUTURAS
                   By /s/ Aderito d'Apresentacao dos Ramos
                                         Authorized Representative
                           SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local competitive bidding:
      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or
less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Local shopping:
      Goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Direct Contracting:
      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amounts and to exceed the equivalent of
Page  7
$25,000, may be procured by direct contracting from suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part C:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $150,000, and each contract for
works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $200,000, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association, pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d),
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association, pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist SIF in carrying out the Project, SIF shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                  Policies and Procedures for the
                Execution of Part A of the Project
I.    Subproject Identification and Appraisal
1.    Proposals for Subprojects may be initiated or sponsored by
governmental entities, communities, cooperatives and other non-
governmental entities. Proposals for Subprojects shall identify the
type of Subproject, describe the works, goods or services to be
financed and identify the Sponsoring Agency and the Beneficiaries.
2.    SIF shall process the proposals for Subprojects received in
accordance with the SIF Operational Procedures Guidelines.
3.    SIF shall:
            (i)    identify and promote the development of
                   Subprojects;
Page  8
           (ii)    screen and appraise Subprojects;
          (iii)    identify sources of funds additional to the
                   proceeds of the Credit to expand the number of
                   Subprojects financed by SIF; and
           (iv)    monitor the implementation of Subprojects.
4.    Basic appraisal criteria for all Subprojects shall include the
following:
            (i)    the Subproject shall meet social needs
                   compatible with national development;
           (ii)    the Subproject shall be expected to be completed
                   within three years;
          (iii)    labor-intensive methods shall be used to the
                   extent possible;
           (iv)    least cost methods of implementation shall be
                   used and, where applicable, existing capital
                   assets shall be utilized to the extent possible;
            (v)    the Subproject shall be technically feasible and
                   financially viable;
           (vi)    appropriate consideration shall be given to the
                   technical and managerial capability of the
                   Sponsoring Agency; and
          (vii)    the Subproject shall address environmental
                   concerns and propose solutions.
5.    For all Subprojects with an estimated cost equivalent to
$250,000 or more, an economic rate of return of at least 12% shall
be demonstrated, as well as commercial soundness and availability of
markets, where applicable.
II.   Terms and Conditions of Subprojects
1.    Subprojects shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit only on a grant basis. The amount of grants from the Credit
for any Subproject shall not exceed 80% of the estimated cost of
such Subproject, unless the Association otherwise agrees.
2.    Each Subproject may require a mobilization advance of 10% of
the estimated cost of the Subproject to be paid upon signing of the
Subproject Agreement. Subsequent payments thereafter shall be made
on the basis of a percentage, acceptable to the Association, of
works, goods or services procured, and shall be evidenced by written
documentation thereof. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, retention of 10% of the estimated cost of the Subproject
shall be paid upon completion of the Subproject, as evidenced by a
certificate of completion, acceptable to the Association.
3.    SIF shall be entitled to charge a fee to the Sponsoring Agency
(to be included in the cost of the Subproject) consisting of: (a) an
up-front fee not to exceed two percent of the Subproject grant
amount, and (b) a semi-annual processing fee equal to no more than
three percent of actual grant disbursements for the relevent six-
month period.
III.  Subproject Approval
1.    All Subprojects shall be approved by the Board of
Administrators of SIF. In addition, any Subproject with a total
estimated cost of $150,000 equivalent or more shall require the
prior approval of the Association.
2.    When presenting a Subproject to the Association for approval,
SIF shall furnish to the Association an application, in a form
Page  9
satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a description of
the Sponsoring Agency and an appraisal of the Subproject, including
procurement procedures and a description of the expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    The first request by SIF to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account in respect of each Subproject which is not subject to prior
approval by the Association shall contain a summary description of
the Subproject and the Sponsoring Agency, including procurement
procedures and a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
applications for Subprojects must be presented to SIF, and, if
required under paragraph 1 above, to the Association, on or before
December 31, 1995.
IV.   Subproject Agreements
1.    The Sponsoring Agencies selected to carry out the Subprojects
shall promptly enter into Subproject Agreements with SIF, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to which
SIF shall, inter alia, obtain rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and SIF, including the rights of SIF
to:
            (i)    require the Sponsoring Agency to carry out and
                   operate the Subproject with due diligence and
                   efficiency and in accordance with sound
                   technical, financial and managerial standards
                   and to maintain adequate records;
           (ii)    require that: (A) the goods, services and works
                   to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
                   shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 1
                   to this Agreement; and (B) such goods, services
                   and works shall be used exclusively in the
                   carrying out of the Subproject;
          (iii)    inspect by itself or jointly with
                   representatives of the Association, if the
                   Association shall so request, such goods and the
                   sites, works, plants and construction included
                   in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and
                   any relevant records and documents;
           (iv)    obtain all such information as the Association
                   shall reasonably request relating to the
                   foregoing and to the administration, operations
                   and financial condition of the Subproject and,
                   if appropriate, to the benefits to be derived
                   therefrom; and
            (v)    suspend or terminate the right of the Sponsoring
                   Agency to the use of the proceeds of the Credit
                   upon failure by such Agency to perform its
                   obligations under its Subproject Agreement with
                   SIF.
2.    SIF shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association and its interests; (ii) comply with its obligations
under the Subsidiary Administration Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
