                           Document of
                       The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR2158



     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-46950)



                             ON A

                             LOAN

          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION TO THE

               PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                            FOR A

SECOND TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT



                       December 18, 2012




               Sustainable Development Department
                       China and Mongolia
                       East Asia and Pacific
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2012)

                          Currency Unit=RMB
                         1.00 RMB = USD 0.16
                         USD 1.00 = 6.24 RMB

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 – December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB        Asian Development Bank
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
ATC        Area Traffic Control
BCR        Benefit-Cost Ratio
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
DBO        Design-Build-Operate
EA         Environmental Assessment
EMP        Environmental Monitoring Plan
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
ISR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
JBIC       Japan Bank for International Cooperation
KPI        Key Performance Indicator
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MEB        Municipal Engineering Bureau
MTR        Mid-Term Review
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objectives
QER        Quality Enhancement Review
TA         Technical Assistance
TMG        Tianjin Municipal Government
TUDEP1     Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project
TUDEP2     Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project
TUDIG      Tianjin Urban Development Investment Group Corporation
WWTP       Wastewater Treatment Plant


         Vice President:            Pamela Cox, EAPVO
         Country Director:          Klaus Rohland, EACCF
         Sector Manager:            Mark Lundell, EASCS
         Project Team Leader:       Suhail Jme’an, EASWE
         ICR Team Leader:           Suhail Jme’an. EASWE
         ICR Primary Author:        Songsu Choi, Consultant
                                       CHINA
               Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
  Annex 5. Review of the Preparation of the Resettlement Action Plan ......................... 28
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower’s ICR ........................................................................ 30
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35
  Annex 8. Project Photos................................................................................................ 36
  MAP: IBRD 39681
A. Basic Information
                                                           Second Tianjin Urban
Country:               China           Project Name:       Development and
                                                           Environment Project
Project ID:            P040599         L/C/TF Number(s): IBRD-46950
ICR Date:              12/04/2012      ICR Type:         Core ICR
                                                         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument: SIL                Borrower:
                                                         CHINA
Original Total
                   USD 150.00M Disbursed Amount: USD 147.25M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:    USD 150.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agency: Tianjin Municipal Urban Rural Construction and
Transportation Commission
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: Not Applicable

B. Key Dates
                                                                        Revised / Actual
    Process             Date            Process         Original Date
                                                                            Date(s)
Concept
                    04/16/2002      Effectiveness:       03/10/2004       03/10/2004
Review:
                                                                          05/11/2007
Appraisal:          12/23/2002      Restructuring(s):
                                                                          04/14/2011
                                    Mid-term
Approval:           05/20/2003                                            08/11/2006
                                    Review:
                                    Closing:             06/30/2010       06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                Low Risk
Bank Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                       Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings           Borrower              Ratings
                     Moderately
Quality at Entry:                        Government:         Satisfactory
                     Satisfactory
Quality of                               Implementing        Moderately
                     Satisfactory
Supervision:                             Agency/Agencies:    Satisfactory

                                            i
Overall Bank          Moderately          Overall Borrower     Moderately
Performance:          Satisfactory        Performance:         Satisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
   Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                            Indicators                                 Rating
    Performance                                  (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                Quality at Entry
Project at any time    No                                               None
                                                (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at                             Quality of
                       Yes                                              None
any time (Yes/No):                              Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                       Moderately
Closing/Inactive
                       Satisfactory
status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                               10                 13
General transportation sector                                  20                 35
Sewerage                                                       45                 50
Sub-national government administration                         25                  2



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development             14             10
Municipal governance and institution building                      14             10
Pollution management and environmental health                      29             30
Urban services and housing for the poor                            29             45
Water resource management                                          14              5

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:          Pamela Cox                        Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:        Klaus Rohland                     Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:          Mark R. Lundell                   Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:     Suhail J. S. Jme'an               Songsu Choi
ICR Team Leader:         Suhail J. S. Jme'an
ICR Primary Author:      Songsu Choi



                                               ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Enhance the efficiency and equity of urban wastewater management and transportation
systems, and thus facilitate the sustainable development of Tianjin and serve as a model
for other cities in China.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There was no change to the PDO during project implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                  Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                   Values (from                            Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised Target
                                                     approval                             Completion or
                                                                         Values
                                                    documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in overall percentage of wastewater collected and treated in Tianjin city proper.
Value
quantitative or               25%                          75%             75%                 80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved              April 2003                May 2003           May 2007             June 2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target slightly exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Increase in traffic mode sharing for bus system.
Value
quantitative or                6%                          12%             18%                 21%
Qualitative)
Date achieved              April 2003                May 2003           May 2007             June 2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target
                                                                 Formally     Actual Value Achieved
                                             Values (from
    Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised         at Completion or
                                                approval
                                                               Target Values        Target Years
                                              documents)
Tianjin Drainage Sector: Improve drainage system and wastewater treatment facilities.
                Improvement of drainage collection systems in Nanjiaowai, Fukanlu, and Nanbeicang
Indicator 1 :
                areas
Value                                                                         Drainage systems in
                                          Drainage Works
(quantitative   N/A                                                           designated areas have
                                          Completed
or Qualitative)                                                               been completed.
Date achieved           April 2003             May 2003                               June 2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                                     iii
Indicator 2 :     Construction of Shuanglin Wastewater Treatment.
                                                                  Shuanglin
Value                                         Shuanglin           WWTP was
(quantitative     N/A                         WWTP Meeting        cancelled in the N/A
or Qualitative)                               Discharge Standards 2011
                                                                  restructuring.
Date achieved             April 2003               May 2003          April 2011          June 2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Rehabilitation of Dagu Canal
                                              Dagu Canal
Value                                         Rehabilitated with                 The canal was dredged
                  Dagu canal filled with
(quantitative                                 Landfill meeting                   and sediment safely
                  sediment
or Qualitative)                               Environmental                      disposed
                                              Standards
Date achieved              April 2003              May 2003                                  June 2012
Comments
                Water and sediment quality monitoring for Dagu Canal is ongoing periodically. Monitoring
(incl. %
                results show substantial achievement of applicable national standards.
achievement)
Tianjin Transportation Sector: Improve traffic flow, pedestrian safety, and public transport facilities.
Indicator 4 :   Construction of Jinzhonghe Interchange
Value                                         Jinzhonghe
                No interchange, Traffic
(quantitative                                 Interchange                           Targets Achieved
                bottleneck
or Qualitative)                               completed
Date achieved             April 2003                May 2003                                 June 2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Improvement of 300 intersections with an Area Traffic Control (ATC) System
                                              200 ATC
Value                                                             ATC was
                                              Intersections
(quantitative   Slow Bus Speeds: 15 km/hr.                        cancelled from                N/A
                                              Functioning
or Qualitative)                                                   the loan
                                              Properly
Date achieved             April 2003                May 2003          April 2011             June 2012
Comments
                 Although the ATC contract was cancelled, Tianjin through its own funding completed
(incl. %
                improvements to over 300 intersections.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Development of Bus Priority Corridors
                                              Bus Priority
Value
                                              Corridors
(quantitative   Slow Bus Speeds: 15 km/hr.                                          Target Achieved
                                              Functional: Average
or Qualitative)
                                              Speed 25 km/hr
Date achieved             April 2003                May 2003                                 June 2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                   iv
Suburban Sewerage: Hangu Wastewater Management: Improve the collection and treatment of industrial and
municipal wastewater in Hangu City.
Indicator 7 :     Construction of Hangu Drainage Collection
                                                 Collection and          Target was
Value
                  Collection System in          pumping system          dropped in the
(quantitative                                                                            N/A
                  Disrepair                     works completed         second
or Qualitative)
                                                (self-financed);        restructuring
Date achieved              April 2003                May 2003              April 2011            June 2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Construction of Hangu Wastewater Treatment Plant
                                                                                               Plant
                                                  Wastewater treatment                         operating
Value                                            plant completed and                           as planned
(quantitative      No wastewater treatment plant plant is under
or Qualitative)                                  commissioning with
                                                 Class I-B.

Date achieved                 April 2003                   May 2003                                     June 2012
                   The Hangu WWTP has been upgraded to meet class 1B standards to meet the higher
Comments
                   output demands of the ECO-City. Daily flow is 50,000m3/day on average.
(incl. %
achievement)

Institutional Development: Improve the transportation and wastewater sector structure to promote greater
efficiency.
Indicator 9 :     Drainage Sector Study
Value             Incoherent structure and
                                                Institutional reforms
(quantitative     regulation for wastewater                                              Targets Achieved
                                                in wastewater sector
or Qualitative)   sector
Date achieved             January 2003               May 2003                                   June 2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Transportation Sector Study
                                                Bus Network Plan
Value
                  Inefficient public bus        Optimized: Routes,
(quantitative                                                                            Targets Achieved
                  management system             Terminal, and
or Qualitative)
                                                Depots
Date achieved             January 2003               May 2003                                    June 2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                    v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
       Date ISR
No.                               DO                                IP             Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1    06/10/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                                0.00
  2    12/30/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                                0.00
  3    06/29/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                                1.50
  4    12/30/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                                6.18
  5    06/21/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                                6.49
  6    05/11/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                        15.20
                                                  Moderately
  7    01/16/2007    Moderately Satisfactory                                                 17.96
                                                Unsatisfactory
                                                  Moderately
  8    06/27/2007    Moderately Satisfactory                                                 21.24
                                                Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately              Moderately
  9    12/20/2007                                                                            23.83
                        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
 10    03/13/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                         41.97
                          Moderately              Moderately
 11    04/27/2010                                                                            67.49
                        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
 12    02/12/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                         98.89
 13    03/24/2012    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                        127.50

H. Restructuring (if any)

               Board            ISR Ratings at                Amount
                                Restructuring               Disbursed at
Restructuring Approved                                                    Reason for Restructuring &
                                                            Restructuring
   Date(s)      PDO                                            in USD        Key Changes Made
                                DO              IP
               Change                                         millions
                                                                       Made changes to project scope
                                                                       to accommodate changed
                            Moderately Moderately
  05/11/2007        N/A     Satisfactory Unsatisfactory
                                                                 17.96 priorities; reallocated loan
                                                                       proceeds; and extended closing
                                                                       date by 12 months.
                                                                       Made changes to project scope;
                                                                       reallocate Loan proceeds;
                             Moderately     Moderately                 update name of project
  04/14/2011        N/A                                          98.89
                            Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory              implementing agency; and
                                                                       extend closing date by 12
                                                                       months.




                                                     vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Cities in China have been undergoing rapid growth since the start of the 1980s,
driving the country’s economic growth. Chinese cities’ economies have been growing
consistently over 10% per year in real terms. This facilitated, and was in turn supported
by massive infrastructure and housing investments allowing most Chinese cities to
reverse the physical deterioration suffered during preceding decades of urban neglect, and
attain an adequate level of overall urban infrastructure and housing by the late 1990s. In
contrast to the general improvements, a few urban issues have grown or newly emerged:
environmental pollution, traffic congestion, and inequity.

2.     Tianjin, the fourth largest city in China, is a good representation of the
achievements and issues of other large and growing cities in the country. Tianjin’s GDP
grew by about 15% in 2003, and has since accelerated to an average growth of 17% per
year from 2001-2010, with the economy of the Coastal District, the new growth area,
growing by an average 24% during the same decade. The built-up area of the city
expanded from 487 km2 in 2003 to 687 km2 in 2010. Along with it the urban road
surface increased from 55 km2 in 2003 to 92 km2 in 2010, but it was far outpaced by the
increase in the number of motor vehicles, which increased more than two-fold from
540,000 in 2003 to 1.6 million in 2010.

3.     Urban transportation and water pollution had been emerging as major issues,
alongside others, from the late 1980s. In fact, they were among the main focus of the
predecessor project, Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project (TUDEP1).
The project, which was implemented from 1993 to 2001with an IDA Credit (#23870) of
US$100 million, was rated highly satisfactory partly due to the high quality of
implementation and its innovations introducing a market-based resettlement system,
competitive and autonomous public bus system, and modern landfill – which were
successfully introduced under the project and became national models for other cities.

4.      Being an industrial center in a water-scarce region, Tianjin has been leading the
way for China in wastewater management, and had set a goal of treating 85% of
wastewater within Tianjin city proper by 2010. At the time of appraisal the water
treatment rate was barely 50%, but Tianjin had obtained financing from the Japan Bank
for International Cooperation (JBIC) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to expand
an existing wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and build two new ones to reach their
goal. Sewers to collect the wastewater and one additional WWTP to complete the
sewerage master plan at time of appraisal were remaining to be built.

5.     The major part of untreated wastewater not only from Tianjin, but also from
Beijing and intervening locations in the Hai River basin was released into the Dagu Canal,
which flowed through Tianjin and then discharged into Bohai Bay. A Bank loan
approved in 2001 for the Second Beijing Environment Project whose major component

                                            1
was wastewater management, and the commitment of GEF financing of a proposed Hai
Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management project, presented an opportunity
to clean up and reclaim the Dagu Canal.

6.      Urban traffic volume and congestion have been growing rapidly as a result of
increasing economic activities and personal incomes along with resulting expansion of
urban areas and automobile fleets. Environmental pollution has been an inevitable
byproduct of rapid industrial growth that was the principal component of the country’s
economic development. While the growth of air pollution has been arrested or reversed
in many cities, water pollution remains a serious and growing issue and its control has
been moving higher up China’s national policy agenda. Among the growing inequity
issues, a visible aspect was the contrast between the fast improving urban infrastructure
in the central city areas and the slow-improving or even deteriorating services in outlying
formerly rural or semi-urban areas which are developing as they host the major part of
industrial expansion and burgeoning migrant population.

7.     Rationale for Bank Involvement. These major urban issues and opportunities at
the time of preparation and appraisal of the project (2001-2002) presented an acute need
as well as an opportunity to build upon the successful interventions under TUDEP1.
Hence the project was considered a potentially effective element to showcase and
implement the overarching theme of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2003-
2006, which was to “facilitate rural-to-urban transition and sustainable development.?

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.      The project development objective as stated in the project appraisal document
(PAD) is: “The project will help develop and carry out physical and institutional
measures that would enhance the efficiency and equity of urban wastewater management
and transportation systems, and thus facilitate the sustainable development of Tianjin and
serve as a model for other cities in China.?

9.     Key performance indicators as stated in the PAD are:

          Urban Wastewater Management Coverage: Collection and treatment of
           wastewater from 80% of the central city and first 150,000 m3/day of
           wastewater in suburban towns; average income in districts served 15% lower
           than areas already served at the project start;
          Water Reuse: Use of about 20,000 m3/day of reclaimed wastewater for urban
           uses, and 600,000 m3/day for agricultural purposes;
          Road Transportation: Travel time to cross selected points;
          Public Transportation: Increase in the modal share of buses.




                                            2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

10.     The project was restructured twice, once in May 2007 and again in April 2011.
The original PDO remained unchanged through both restructurings. In the first
restructuring, Tianjin and the Bank agreed that the original key indicators were unwieldy
and difficult to monitor. This referred mainly to the difficulty of obtaining data on per
capita incomes of beneficiaries and on the travel time to cross selected spots. The key
indicators were thus simplified into two, and remained unchanged in the second
restructuring:

          Percentage of wastewater collected and treated: 2010 target 75%;
          Modal share of passenger traffic for public transportation (bus and metro):
           18% in 2010.

11.     As a result of the second restructuring, the following changes were made to the
project: (i) changes to the scope, description and location for some components; (ii)
extending the closing date of the project by 12 months to June 30, 2012; (iii) reallocating
Loan proceeds among various categories; (iv) increasing the disbursement percentage for
the Works categories to 100% retroactive to June 1, 2010; and, (v) changing the project
implementing agency to reflect organizational changes within the Tianjin Municipal
government. The changes did not have an impact on achievement of the PDO, but they
did increase the total project cost from US$303.1 million to US$371.4 million.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12.     The project was intended to improve the overall wastewater management and
transportation system effectiveness with broad benefits for Tianjin’s residents and
businesses. Wastewater management was also expected to benefit downstream farmers
and fisheries, and innovations under the project were expected to serve as models for
other cities of China.

13.     The benefits were expected to impact lower income groups more because a larger
part of the wastewater and storm water drainage improvements would be located in
suburban areas with a higher percentage of low income residents. Likewise, the
improved bus services would principally benefit low- and middle-income groups because
they tended to comprise a larger percentage of the ridership.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

14.    The nine components of the project were divided into three categories:
environmental, transportation, and technical assistance, as follows:

Environmental Components

A) City Drainage and Sewerage. Total cost: US$77.6 million or 23.1% of the total
project cost. This component included construction of storm water drains, sanitary

                                            3
sewers, and pumping stations in Nanbeicang and Fukangnanlu areas, complementing the
wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) being financed by JBIC and ADB; drains and
sewers in the South Suburb (Nanjiaowai) district of Tianjin. These facilities would
complete the drainage system envisioned under the Tianjin drainage master plan. The
original loan amount allocated was US$32.1 million.

B) Shuanglin WWTP. Total cost: US$55.4 million or 16.5% of the total project cost.
This component included construction of a WWTP with a capacity of 200,000m3/day.
The original loan amount allocated was US$29.33 million.

C) Urban Wastewater Reuse. Total cost: US$16.7 million or 5% of the total project cost.
This component included construction of water reclamation plants of 12,500-15,000
m3/day capacity each, attached to the Dongjiao and Shuanglin WWTPs; and reclaimed
water distribution systems mainly for industrial and landscape uses. The original loan
amount allocated was US$10.4 million.

D) Dagu Canal Rehabilitation. Total cost: US$55.2 million or 16.4% of the total project
cost. The component included dredging of sediment and rehabilitation of cross-sections,
bridges and culverts and three pump stations for Dagu Canal and its associated tributaries.
The original loan amount allocated was US$21.15 million.

E) Suburban Sewerage. Total cost: US$43.1 million or 12.8% of the total project cost.
This component included creation of municipal wastewater collection and treatment
systems in about two suburban towns of Tianjin Municipality on a programmatic basis, to
initiate and set models for wastewater management in suburban areas. The original loan
amount allocated was US$19.7 million.

Transportation Components

F) Urban Roads. Total cost: US$62.3 million or 18.6% of the total project cost. This
component includes construction of interchanges at two major intersections of the Middle
Ring Road (MRR) and low cost traffic engineering improvements on selected locations
along the Inner Ring Road and the Eastern and Southwestern parts of the MRR. The
original loan amount allocated was US$22.9 million.

G) Traffic Management. Total cost: US$4.1 million or 1.2% of the total project cost.
This component included extension of the existing Area Traffic Control System to 300
new intersections with channelization and often in connection with bus priority measures.
The original loan amount allocated was US$3.1 million.

H) Bus Priority Measures. Total cost: US$15.2 million or 4.5% of the total project cost.
This component includes preparation and implementation of bus priority measures on
selected corridors, including bus ways and traffic engineering measures, to increase the
efficiency of bus operations and to contribute to increasing the modal share of the bus
system. The original loan amount allocated was US$6.0 million.



                                            4
Technical Assistance

I) Technical Assistance and Training. Total cost: US$4.6 million or 1.4% of total project
cost. This included (i) development of infrastructure information systems; (ii) reform and
development of sewerage institutions and finance; (iii) improvement of traffic forecast
model; and (iv) bus routes restructuring and design of bus priority measures. The
original loan amount allocated was US$3.8 million.

1.6 Revised Components

15.     This project underwent two Level II restructurings – once in May 2007 and once
in April 2011 – which did not involve changes to the PDO. The components and
revisions are highlighted in the table below.

                                 Table 1. Project Restructuring
    Component             May 2007 Restructuring                    April 2011 Restructuring
  A. City           This component was expanded to            The scope is increased to include
  Drainage and      include upgrading road surfaces as well   additional roads in the rapidly
  Sewerage          as subsurface infrastructure including    developing north western and south
                    storm drainage and wastewater.            eastern parts of Tianjin city to improve
                                                              storm water and wastewater collections
                                                              networks as well as improve traffic
                                                              flow and pedestrian safety.
  B. Shuanglin      Scope unchanged.                          This component was canceled from the
  WWTP                                                        loan due to changes in the regional
                                                              master plan.
  C. Wastewater     Feasibility studies showed this
  Reclamation and   component had high safety and
  Reuse             financial risks. This component was
                    cancelled in the May 2007
                    restructuring.
  D. Dagu Canal     Scope unchanged.                          To accelerate the process of
                                                              coordinating with districts outside the
                                                              outer ring road, four packages were
                                                              carried out with the client’s funding.
                                                              The remaining contracts included
                                                              rehabilitation of cross-sections,
                                                              bridges, culverts and pump stations and
                                                              dredging and disposal of sediment were
                                                              completed by the loan.
  E. Suburban       The scope of this component was           The scope was revised to construct a
  Sewerage          reduced since Tangu used its own funds    100,000 m3/d wastewater treatment
                    for building a WWTP.                      plant in the Binhai New area serving
                                                              Hangu and the new “ECO City.?




                                                  5
    Component              May 2007 Restructuring                    April 2011 Restructuring
  F. Urban Roads    The construction of Daguanlu               The scope of this component was
                    interchange, the largest interchange,      reduced because many road sections
                    was canceled when a study determined       were completed as part of the city
                    that a lower cost improvement would        drainage component as described in
                    suffice. Another road expansion            Part A above.
                    investment was canceled when
                    sufficient road capacity became
                    available outside the project.
  G. Traffic        Scope unchanged.                           This component was canceled, and
  Management                                                   implemented with own funds when the
                                                               winning bidder was disqualified by the
                                                               Bank for corrupt practices elsewhere.
  H. Bus Priority   This component was expanded to             Engineering and traffic management
  Measures and      include Lingbin Bus Parking Depot,         measures on selected bus corridors
  Garage            close to planned bus priority corridors.   were carried out with own funds and
                                                               canceled from loan financing. The
                                                               location of the bus parking depot was
                                                               changed from “Lingbin Road? to
                                                               “Longzhou Road? and the name of the
                                                               PIU has also changed.
  I. Technical      Scope unchanged.                           This component’s scope was reduced.
  Assistance and                                               Development of a management
  Training                                                     information system was canceled as a
                                                               stand-alone activity and some elements
                                                               were merged into other parts of the TA.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

16.    Soon after project implementation started, the implementation arrangement
changed significantly. Traditionally, in Tianjin, the Municipal Engineering Bureau
(MEB), equivalent to the public works department in other countries, was responsible for
building and maintaining roads, bridges, drainage, and sewers. It was therefore
responsible for implementing most of TUDEP1 as well as TUDEP2 city sewerage and
roads with the funding coming from the city Treasury. As a part of broader fiscal and
organizational reform, however, MEB’s role was drastically reduced. An important
element of reform was the establishment of the Tianjin Urban Development Investment
Group Corporation (TUDIG) which would raise commercial financing for urban
development on the basis of assets granted by the municipal government. It was made
responsible for managing the investment projects as well. TUDIG began operations in
2003, and starting from 2005 it took over the responsibility of implementing the city’s
roads and sewerage components from MEB.

17.     Implementation as well as management arrangements for the suburban sewerage
in Hangu District were also changed during the course of the WWTP construction. In
view of the weak financial and technical capacity of the Hangu District, the municipal
government decided to turn the WWTP over to the new Ecological City, a public-private
joint venture development in the adjoining area.


                                                   6
18.     Under the second restructuring, the disbursement percentages for works and
locally produced equipment were raised to 100%. However, as the restructured project
included additional costs borne by Tianjin related to land acquisition and equipment, the
overall financing by the Bank did not increase but declined, from the original estimate of
45% to 40%.

19.    The project closing date was extended by a year at each of the two restructuring
events, first to June 30, 2011 and then to June 30, 2012 to accommodate the delays
encountered by the project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.     The project incorporated lessons from TUDEP 1 by narrowing the focus to the
wastewater and transportation sectors. However, the project still had too many
components involving many implementing agencies, making implementation and
coordination complex. The lack of clear alignment between the funding categories in the
Loan Agreement and the components added another dimension of complexity to project
monitoring and proved to be a big hurdle during project restructuring. Furthermore, at
the time of appraisal, there remained a large degree of uncertainty with regard to the
design of several components. As a result, several studies had to be carried out during
the initial phase of implementation, and findings from these studies then served as the
basis for the first project restructuring.

21.     A case in point is the cancellation of the water reuse component. While the
project was being prepared, Tianjin completed installing a pilot wastewater reuse system
consisting of a tertiary effluent treatment facility at an existing WWTP and a model
apartment complex fitted with additional pipes for the treated wastewater for toilet usage.
Tianjin requested the Bank to finance a more advanced system to produce and distribute
treated wastewater for a variety of uses. While identifying risks, the Bank team agreed to
include the component, limited mainly to industrial and landscape uses, but also made it a
condition that demand be confirmed by survey and risks further analyzed. (The market
survey found insufficient demand as the industries were moving out of the city, and the
existing pilot revealed considerable health risk. Thus the survey led to cancellation of the
component and averted significant financial and health risks. )

22.     Another example is the originally proposed flyover at an estimated cost of over
US$20 million at a central city junction of five roads, called Dagunanlu junction. At the
time, a large number of multi-level flyovers were being built in large cities of China. The
Bank team agreed to include the proposal in the project, but required a study of
alternatives. The study found that a set of simple road modification and traffic
management measures would suffice for the medium term. Traffic conditions at the
junction today justify the study conclusion, again averting a premature costly investment.




                                             7
23.     In the case of bus priority corridors, Tianjin was reluctant to agree to the Bank
recommendation. Again the compromise was to review the plan with the help of a
consultant study. The study result led to a broader pilot and the development of a large
scale plan of bus priority measures.

24.     In the case of Shuanglin WWTP, the investment was deemed premature. In this
case the issue was not feasibility, but local capacity constraints due to the ongoing
construction of two other WWTPs. Therefore, during preparation, it was agreed to do the
final design later. Before the bidding process could begin, the newly expanded WWTP
nearby turned out to have excess capacity as the wastewater volume of the city had
grown less than projected, making Shuanglin WWTP largely superfluous. The flexible
design approach then allowed this investment to be cancelled without controversy.

25.    The above review indicates that the deferrals and revisions to the components in
general led to better outcomes than would have been the case if the components had been
implemented as originally designed. Nevertheless, if there had been more thorough
upfront preparation, many of these risks would have been identified early on and
subsequent delays may have been averted.

26.     The feasibility risks and countermeasures discussed above were identified under
the individual component description; not in the overall Risk Assessment section, except
for water reuse. The overall probability of negative study results for many different
investments apparently was not identified. This raises the question whether the
uncertainty would have been better handled by a longer preparation period or by a multi-
staged approach through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). Neither of these, however,
would have been easily accommodated in the overall loan program by the government.

27.     The risk assessment was adequate, except for the seriousness of attention to be
given to the environmental risks associated with the Dagu Canal rehabilitation. It was an
important yet difficult pilot for dredging and subsequently disposing of toxic sediment
with no successful examples in China or other parts of the world. The component
therefore received extensive and high-level international expertise during preparation
with detailed analysis conducted for each segment during implementation.

28.     The selection and design of urban and city road sections did not adequately
consider the risks of land acquisition and resettlement. As such, the project later faced
delays and many urban road packages were subsequently cancelled and replaced. Other
identified risks related mainly to factors outside the project’s control fortunately did not
materialize. A thorough and meaningful Quality Enhancement Review (QER) at
appraisal could have flagged these issues.

2.2 Implementation

29.    The project suffered a major delay in implementation during the first four years as
the loan disbursement reached only US$18 million by June 2006, and US$25 million by
June 2007. There were two main causes for the delay. One was the cancellation of a
number of investments described above, and the consequent time needed to identify
                                             8
substitute components with the formal agreement of the Bank, and to design and contract
the new components.

30.      Another cause for delay was the shift of implementation responsibility from MEB
to TUDIG, and the resultant shift of counterpart funding from the municipal budget to
local bank financing, as described in Section 1.7. Having been responsible for the
preparation and implementation of the major part of TUDEP 1 as well as the preparation
of most of TUDEP 2 at its early implementation, MEB had relevant experience,
knowledge, and systems in place to implement the project. It took considerable time to
develop an adequate replacement system. It also involved more time and uncertainly to
arrange for commercial financing than receive a budgetary allocation as was happening
earlier.

31.     The Mid-Term Review (MTR) took place in August 2006 when the new
implementation system was about a year old and studies had been conducted
recommending against the implementation of three major investments (water reuse,
Dagunanlu interchange, and bus corridors). The first restructuring was approved in May
2007. Loan disbursement had reached only 24% at the time, and did not accelerate until
2008 after TUDIG became fully functional and the construction under new components
started. The second restructuring took place in April 2011 after it was confirmed that
Shuanglin WWTP would not be needed and that the new plan for bus priority measures
would not be ready for implementation under the project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32.     M&E design and utilization was among the weakest aspect of the project. There
was no separate M&E section or annex in the PAD beyond the log-frame project
summary focusing mainly on implementation monitoring indicators rather than results.
Its design, implementation, and use were consistent with the Bank practice at the time of
appraisal, but would rate mediocre at the standard prevailing currently.

33.     The key performance indicators (KPI) for the PDO established at appraisal
covered all aspects of the PDO. Still, they can be faulted for an inaccurate identification
of cause-effect relationships. For example, the public transportation modal share is a key
sector indicator, but the contributions of planned project components – 10 km of bus
lanes and technical assistance –cleared interacted with other factors in leading to the
increase in the modal share.

34.     A more serious issue was the difficulty of quantitative monitoring. The baseline
values were not established, and efforts to establish the quantitative values would have
revealed the difficulty of monitoring some of the KPIs. For monitoring the equity effect,
personal incomes of the residents in the areas of project investments were to be
monitored. Determining the personal incomes for small local areas remains difficult in
China as in most countries, and requires detailed household surveys which are costly as
well as technically complex. TMG was not willing to incur these costs.



                                            9
35.    To monitor the efficiency impact of road improvements, reduction of time of
motor vehicles to traverse selected road segments was identified as the KPI. Although
speeds were identified for a few segments as part of the road component design, similar
monitoring could not be done extensively. Further, the effect of the project intervention
would have been one of many variables affecting the travel time.

36.     At the time of the first restructuring, these two indicators were dropped and
baseline data were set for the remaining KPIs. The baseline values obtained then from
relevant consultant studies, which in turn were sourced from relevant sector departments
of TMG, are at odds with some of the values obtained at project completion. The more
recently compiled data indicate that the true baseline for the wastewater treatment rate
was 48% instead of 25% reported at restructuring, and that the baseline for the public
transportation modal share was nearer 10% rather than 6%.

37.     Consistent with the prevailing practice at the time, the project’s M&E system
focused mainly on process, input and output indictors. These were reasonably monitored,
but not so punctually reported. Overall, the M&E framework was not an effective tool in
managing project implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

38.     The environmental assessment, environmental management plan, and resettlement
framework prepared were satisfactory. Experienced safeguard specialists of the Bank
monitored and supported safeguard implementation closely throughout the project. Some
components proposed to be added at the first restructuring could not proceed as
compliance with the resettlement guidelines could not be ensured. After the project
started implementation, two additional environmental assessments were conducted; one
for the bus parking garage component in June 2009, and one for the Baidilu drainage area
rehabilitation work in May 2010.

39.     The financial management plan for the project was satisfactory and its
implementation was supported by the financial management team at the Bank’s Beijing
office. Financial audits of project accounts were timely and satisfactory.

40.     Lengthy procurement processes especially for two contracts caused significant
difficulties for project implementation. For the Hangu wastewater management system, a
design-build-operate (DBO) method of contracting was adopted in view of the weak
technical capacity of Hangu District. This method represents a useful innovation in
China as the smaller and weaker local governments are being asked to take on wastewater
management requiring substantial technical capacity. Its procurement turned out to be
relatively novel also for the Bank, although sector professionals had been well aware of
the substance of the method and its merits in appropriate circumstances. As a result, it
took about two years to complete the bidding process despite significant efforts from both
Hangu and the Bank to resolve the issues. The resulting documents and the outcome
provide a good model for Bank clients in China and elsewhere, but they came at a
considerable cost to the project.


                                           10
41.     For the area traffic control system, there were a small number of precedents under
Bank-financed projects worldwide, and completion of the bidding document and
establishment of bidding and evaluation processes took some time. Once the bids were
evaluated, the disqualification of the lowest bidder due to corrupt practices forced the
contract to be dropped from the project.

42.     In general, the client reviewed the Bank’s procurement rules as overly
complicated and unresponsive to the pace of ongoing development. As a result, some
local districts opted to implement some packages out of the loan financing. For example,
Hangu District opted to finance the sewer construction and pumping with its own funds;
five packages under the Dagu Canal rehabilitation component were also completed
outside of the loan financing.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

43.     Tianjin’s infrastructure is satisfactorily maintained following a fixed schedule of
periodic inspection and minor and major repairs. While the fiscal situation occasionally
limits the extent of major repairs, it is less likely to be a concern in the future for two
reasons. First, the yield of the municipal revenue dedicated to infrastructure, Urban
Maintenance and Construction Tax, increased nearly seven fold between 2001 and 2010
while the road surface and sewers increased by about 100%. In addition, the fiscal and
organizational restructuring discussed above has increased the infrastructure operation
and maintenance budget as infrastructure investments which used to make the major part
of the total infrastructure budget are now financed by borrowing through TUDIG.
Furthermore, the responsibility for road maintenance rests with MEB, and the Drainage
Department moved to the new Water Business Bureau in 2009. Their technical capacity
and maintenance systems have not changed through the reorganization. As a result, the
budget allocation for environmental protection and improvement has increased by over
20 times between 2001 and 2010. This provides supplemental funds to the wastewater
operation which relies mainly on the water and sewerage tariff revenues, which more
than doubled between 2002 and 2011.

44.     A significant risk exists, however, of recontamination of the rehabilitated Dagu
Canal and tributaries. While the existing effluent discharges had been intercepted as part
of the rehabilitation, new potential discharge points are being added as the rehabilitated
canals have become attractive features. As a result residential and commercial complexes
are being developed along the canals. Their monitoring and control is the jurisdiction of
the Environmental Protection Bureau system which tends to focus mainly on industrial
discharges. Traditionally, the Water Business Bureau has been responsible for the
drainage channels but focusing mainly on their structures and volume of the flow rather
than water quality. Measures to bridge this potential gap are being discussed between the
two Bureaus.

45.    The bus garage operation and maintenance is the responsibility of the public bus
company which is well-funded and managed. There appears to be little risk for the
maintenance of the bus garage which is located next to the bus company group
headquarters and will be in constant use.
                                            11
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

46.     The emphasis on growth, sustainability, and equity was reflected in this project
through the focus on the national priorities of urban development. Urban development
issues such as: urban efficiency, water pollution, and migrant population, are highly
important for Tianjin as the city has been undergoing rapid industrial development which
attracted about 2.5 million migrants between 2001 and 2010.

47.    At the time of approval, China was beginning to address challenges of
urbanization, as identified in the national 10th Five Year Plan (FYP 2001-2005), with
urbanization predicted to reach 50% of the population by 2020. The project was
designed to address the overarching CPS theme of “ facilitating rural-urban transition and
Sustainable Development by aiming at four specific goals under it: improving public
sector management and public service provision, assisting the less advantaged population
and areas, strengthening environmental protection, and improving natural resource
management.? The PDO was designed to be general and hence remained relevant
through project completion. Design of the physical components and the supporting TA
and training proved effective in focusing on the PDO even though there were many
changes to the original project scope description. Although hard to quantify, Component
design was consistent with the targeting of urban service upgrades in the more poorly
served suburban areas of a rapidly growing city.

48.      In 2012, the provision of urban services and equity is still a priority. Based on the
lessons learned from the large scale urbanization process, the 12th Five Year Plan (FYP
2011-2016) calls for the development of smaller cities and the delivery of more balanced,
innovative, greener, and comprehensive development outcomes. In fact, at completion,
this project still indirectly supports two themes in the latest CPS for FY2013-2016 which
are: (i) supporting greener and comprehensive growth; and (ii) promoting more inclusive
development.

49.     Although the objectives remained relevant, the design of the project, which began
in essence response to as a programmatic engagement, evolved into a specified set of
investments in a rapidly evolving city. Though this shifted the strategic focus of the
project to some degree, the overall rating on relevance is deemed moderately satisfactory.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

50.    The achievement of aspects of the PDO is assessed as follows:

           Enhancing the efficiency of the urban wastewater management system: 85%
            of the city proper wastewater is collected and treated as of now, against the
            revised target KPI of 75%, from 49% in 2003. The project focused its
            investment on building collection sewers in addition to a small (100,000
            m3/day) WWTP in Hangu. Together these investments contribute to

                                             12
    exceeding the KPI target. Dagu Canal was also successfully rehabilitated,
    and TMG expanded the scope to more drainage channels. On the
    institutional side, the study carried out under the project recommended
    integration of the sewerage management with water supply and water
    resources, which was consistent with the decision eventually taken by TMG.
    The project study also helped introduce an improved system of selecting
    WWTP operators and setting their fees, which will be useful when the
    current WWTP operation contracts come due for replacement.

   Enhancing the efficiency of the urban transportation system. The public
    transportation modal share increased from about 10% in 2002 to 21% in
    2012; again exceeding the target KPI of 18%. But the project’s contribution
    to the achievement is difficult to evaluate as the project’s main contribution
    came in the form of “software? improvements in bus routing and bus
    company operations. The growth in the modal share is probably equally due
    to the expanding urban area that makes bicycle trips difficult, and to the
    competition introduced under TUDEP1 which started the improved bus
    operations and consequent climb of the modal share which is continuing
    today. Still, problems generated by the competitive bus operations set up
    (chaotic bus routes and unsystematic operations of the competing bus
    operating companies). Still, have been improved under the current project.

   Road improvements under the project were mostly for small specific parts of
    the large urban road network. Although specific impacts of project
    investments were hard to quantify, key traffic bottlenecks along the busy
    Nanjing Road were addressed. The replacement of the expensive flyover at
    Dagunanlu with much cheaper traffic and small engineering improvements
    provided an invaluable demonstration effect on showing how inexpensive
    management solutions can be as effective and much less costly than
    engineering solutions. The study recommendation to integrate the urban
    transportation management and road infrastructure planning will help
    improve optimized road use, traffic flows and overall efficiencies of the
    urban transport system.

   Enhancing equity of the urban wastewater management and transport
    systems. As discussed in Section 2.3, personal income distribution of the
    project’s direct beneficiaries could not be determined. However, the project
    was designed to benefit poorer areas of the city, and nearly 58% of the
    project’s investments were spent in Beicheng, Jinnan, Xiqing, and Hangu
    Districts. Over 10% of the population in these districts does not have an
    urban “hukou?, compared with less than 5% in central Districts, which is a
    good indicator of the project’s impact on relatively less well-off urban
    districts.

   It should be noted that the project restructuring increased the efficiency and
    equity of investments compared with the original design. Water reuse and

                                   13
            Shuanglin WWTP components, which would have been inefficient
            investments, were replaced by increasing sewers in poorer outlying districts.
            Investment allocated to the Dagunanlu interchange in the central city was
            reallocated to road improvements in the outlying Districts. The bus priority
            corridors proposed for two central city locations were cancelled in favor of
            broader bus priority measures including outlying Districts now under piloting
            and planning.

           Demonstration for other cities of China. The project generated experiences
            that can serve as effective models for other cities of China. Dagu Canal
            rehabilitation in particular attracted many study visits from other cities. The
            DBO contract and procurement process for Hangu WWTP are a good
            example for similar contracts elsewhere.

51.     Overall, the achievement of the development objectives can be rated moderately
satisfactory upon consideration of the KPIs rated above and the qualitative evaluation of
the equity achievements against the stated PDO also as discussed above. The rating is
not considered fully satisfactory because many changes happened during project
implementation and, while the project provided an important contribution to equity and
efficiency, the actual impacts of the project in this regard are hard to quantify.

3.3 Efficiency

52.     Efficiency is rated satisfactory. Apart from the efficiency enhancement of
wastewater and transportation systems achieved under the project as discussed above, the
efficiency of investments for specific road components has been high, as shown by the
benefit-cost ratios recalculated in 2012 for the following three components:

      Nanjinglu works: 58 (original estimate > 50)
      Jinzhonghe interchange: 9.1 (original estimate 10.6)
      Beicheng roads: 3.7 (feasibility study estimate, 3.1)

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

53.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Given the moderately satisfactory ratings of
relevance and achievement of development objectives, and the satisfactory rating of
efficiency, as discussed above, the overall outcome ratings is deemed moderately
satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

54.     One of the project objectives was to enhance the equity of the wastewater
management and transportation systems of Tianjin. Toward this objective, the project
was designed to allocate a significant part of investment to outlying areas which have a
larger proportion of poorer residents compared with the central city districts that usually

                                              14
receive most infrastructure and public transportation improvement investments. As
discussed in 3.2 above, about 58% of investments were directed to four Districts where
more than 10% of the population does not have urban “hukou?, a proxy for lower average
income.

55.    Public transportation is becoming more critical especially for low and middle
income residents of Tianjin as the city’s physical expansion reduces the modal share of
bicycles (though still a major mode for personal trips) and housing near work and
commercial centers has become unaffordable to the poor, especially to newer residents.
The increase in the modal share of the public transportation occurred during the project
period especially benefitted the low and middle income residents. The construction of
the main bus garage late in the project period will add to the improvement of the bus
system operations and further amplify this impact.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

56.    A study was carried out under the project to recommend improvements to the
wastewater management operations, organization, and finance. One of the study
recommendations was to integrate the sewerage management with water supply and
water resources. TMG accepted the recommendation, partly also in view of experiences
with similar integration in other cities of China. The study also recommended
improvements in the system of selecting private WWTP operators and their fees, which
was newly introduced by the time of project appraisal. This is likely to provide financial
and technical improvements when the current WWTP operation contracts come up for
replacement.

57.     The transportation study had more immediate and strong impacts. For public
transportation, the study helped develop an improved bus deployment system of the
Public Transportation Company. For TMG the study helped establish a model to
evaluate trip demand by route and a system to allocate and manage bus routes on that
basis. The bus operations were growing fast on the strength of competition among the
semi-autonomous bus operating companies but the competition under weak management
by TMG resulted in chaotic routes, a major weakness that needed to be resolved. For
broader urban transportation, the analysis of problems of the then fragmented
transportation management and a review of international models apparently influenced
TMG’s decision to integrate the urban transportation management function with urban
infrastructure construction and management, expanding the jurisdiction of Tianjin
Construction Administration Commission now renamed the Urban and Rural
Construction and Transportation Commission.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

58.     Three unforeseen impacts of the project are worth particular note. The
rehabilitated Dagu Canal is attracting residential and commercial developments along its
flow, which is a welcome unintended benefit, but also has raised risks of recontamination
by surface runoff and potential illegal effluent overflows from the new developments.
Hangu WWTP acted as one of the positive factors for the establishment of the new

                                           15
Ecological City, which it is now expected to serve in addition to the main town of Hangu
(Yingchen). On the transportation side, the good effect and cost savings gained by a set
of low-cost improvements at the Dagunanlu junction, instead of the originally planned
construction of a flyover, apparently have had an effect of reducing the bias toward
multi-level urban interchanges which used to be preferred options in large cities of China.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

59.    N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low Risk

60.     As discussed in Section 2.5, there is little financial or technical risk of inadequate
operation and maintenance of assets created under the project. Other risks to the
development outcomes would come from the growth of issues outside the control of the
implementing or management agencies. For the wastewater management system, the
main risk is the generation of more water pollution than can be managed by the system
now established. The risk, however, is judged low in view of the fact that recent increase
in effluent discharge has been smaller than anticipated, and in view of TMG’s continuing
drive to control discharges through high water-sewerage tariffs, now the highest in China,
and a ban on highly polluting industries, especially chemical industries. Should further
capacity expansion be needed, TMG has a strong fiscal base as well as an effective
system of mobilizing market resources.

61.     For the urban transportation system, the main risk would be growing traffic
congestion caused by traffic growth outpacing the growth of the transportation capacity.
Travel demand is almost certain to grow at a high rate, and increased traffic congestion
would be expected. However, the growth of vehicular traffic would be controlled by the
ongoing expansion of the subway system and improved bus operations to be partly aided
by the planned broad adoption of bus priority measures. While the traffic and congestion
would remain growing issues, the project has made a useful contribution in initiating
improvements in these areas.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

62.     The Bank team effectively assisted the clients in TMG to develop relevant project
objectives to be addressed under project components for wastewater management and
urban transportation. The emphasis on equity was an important element of project design
consistent with the then current (and still remaining today) national government policy

                                             16
focus on building a harmonious society (Xiaokang). The Bank team’s clear emphasis of
these directions helped keep the project flexible but focused on the agreed development
objectives despite many revisions in components forced by further review of initial
investments’ approaches and designs and changing circumstances. (A case in point was
that of the bus priority corridor investment advocated by the Bank, about which the TMG
was skeptical, but which after further review during implementation resulted in the
preparation of a broader plan for bus priority and a desirable albeit delayed effect.)
However, this response of accepting only preliminary closure when facing a significant
lack of sufficient information may have been overdone.

63.     Investments identified were often reappraised during project implementation (and
in some cases dropped). While this approach made use of additional information
obtainable later and led to cost savings in implementation (and reportedly in the design of
investments outside of the project as well) it inherently involved higher transactions costs
for the client, delays in implementation, and a constant pressure to try to handle costly
reappraisal challenges operating with the funding of a normal supervision effort. Thus
the design aspect of quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory.

64.      The Bank’s performance on designing the monitoring and evaluation system was
moderately unsatisfactory. The original key performance indicators were comprehensive
and logically sound, but the M&E system contained indicators that could not be easily
monitored and that had no baseline values. (The simplification of the indicators at the
first restructuring resolved the data issues and generally produced indicators that were
measurable and reflective of the project’s contribution to the development objective,
albeit without fully resolving the attribution issue.)

65.    Key policy and institutional issues were well identified and addressed through the
preparation dialogue, and consultant studies during preparation (and later
implementation) resulted in considerable positive institutional development influence
when TMG was undergoing institutional restructuring.

66.      The design of environmental and social safeguards was also satisfactory,
especially with the exemplary environmental assessment and management of the Dagu
Canal rehabilitation. However, the client could have paid more attention to the selection
of sites that require large resettlement activities.

67.     Considering the moderately satisfactory Bank performance on design, moderately
unsatisfactory performance on the M&E framework, and satisfactory preparation on
fiduciary aspects, the overall rating of Bank performance on Quality at Entry is
Moderately Satisfactory. Other fiduciary arrangements are also considered to have been
prepared in a satisfactory manner.




                                            17
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

68.     A key to assessing the Bank’s supervision performance is the evaluation of the
changes of project components during implementation. For the water reuse and
Dagunanlu flyover investments, the Bank team’s skepticism and caution have been
justified by the further review and consequent cancellation of these investments. Despite
the adjustment problems it caused, the original alternatives would have been inferior. If
the investments had been implemented, they would have been highly inefficient. Had the
Bank refused to include the investments outright, it is likely that TMG would have
implemented them on its own, leading to inefficiency. Thus, the due diligence by the
Bank during implementation led to prevention of inefficient investments (and perhaps a
broader retrenchment from similar practices by TMG).

69.     More generally, the Bank supervision team had to manage two major difficulties.
One was the need to adjust to the cancellation of many components. This was handled
satisfactorily by relatively prompt restructuring and identification of appropriate
replacement components within the project framework. Another was the change in
project implementation and counterpart financing arrangements. The Bank team made
many appeals to TMG for resolution of consequent difficulties, but they were largely
outside the control of the Bank team. The difficulties were exacerbated by the newly
prepared components which required large land acquisition and hence more counterpart
financing.

70.     At the second restructuring, the Bank made an appropriate adjustment to
financing arrangements to ease the difficulties while keeping the proportion of the Bank
financing of the overall project below the original proportion. In addition, overall project
procurement was managed adequately though plagued for a few components (discussed
in Section 2.4) by excessive delays.

71.     Given the efficient management of a high degree of flexibility in project
implementation that was built into project design, and supervision that managed to secure
two project restructurings that eventually facilitated the use of virtually all loan funds, the
overall rating of Quality of Supervision is deemed Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.    This rating was established by combining the moderately satisfactory rating for
the performance for ensuring quality at entry and the satisfactory rating for supervision
performance.




                                              18
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

73.    Herein, the Government refers to TMG, represented by the Project Management
Office under the Urban and Rural Construction and Transportation Commission. The
Government maintained strong commitment to the project development objectives and
strong and genuine partnership with the Bank valuing its intellectual input. The
Government adopted the approaches introduced under the project and expanded them –
by developing a plan for broader bus priority measures and for the cleaning of several
additional waterways. The Government also found an adequate solution to the issue of
weak capacity of the Hangu District. Lastly, the Government also fulfilled its monitoring
and reporting requirements punctually.

74.     A Government action that had negative impacts on the project was the change in
the project implementation and counterpart financing arrangements resulting in
significant delays in project implementation. It is difficult to fault the Government’s
commitment to the project for this because it would not have been appropriate for the
Government to make an exception to normal approval processes for the project to
overcome the initial difficulties of establishing the broad new infrastructure financing and
management regime. Still the changes to these arrangements could have been made in a
timelier manner.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.    The performance of MEB which was responsible for preparation and
implementation of city sewer and road components until 2005 was highly satisfactory
owing to its well-established expertise and system of infrastructure design and
construction. The performance of the Traffic Management Department, Public
Transportation Company, and Hangu District was satisfactory, although slow at times
because of separation of budgets.

76.      TUDIG which took over implementation of the city sewer and road components
experienced and caused difficulties in managing the project in the initial two years. The
difficulties included establishing a complex system to work with the Bank procedures and
requirements, but more importantly, the delay in raising counterpart funds for the project.
These led to a substantial delay in project implementation although the technical quality
of the works remained high. These are understandable given the newness of the
institution and the management and financing arrangements, and they were overcome
after about two years. Overall, given the transient nature of the issues and the context of
broad government restructuring, the implementing agency’s performances is deemed
Moderately Satisfactory.


                                            19
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.     This rating was established in view of the Government performance being rated
satisfactory and the implementing agency performance being rated moderately
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

78.    The project offers two broad related lessons regarding innovations and
programmatic approaches.

79.     Risk and Value of Innovations. The project involved adopting approaches and
technologies which had been practiced relatively infrequently around the world, and of
which there were no or few successful experiences in China. These were: polluted/toxic
sediment disposal (in Dagu Canal), small town urban sewerage (including the DBO
method), wastewater reuse, and bus priority corridors. The first two were successfully
implemented as originally planned, but at considerable costs. Both required a large
amount of high-level input for preparation and implementation, and the DBO for Hangu
sewerage incurred a major delay. The wastewater reuse component was cancelled, and
the bus priority corridors are still at an experiment and planning stage. They therefore
cost the project considerable delay and difficult adjustment efforts.

80.     Nevertheless, these innovations had a positive overall impact. Dagu Canal
rehabilitation and Hangu sewerage set valuable models for China on issues that are
becoming more important. The DBO bidding document for Hangu also served as an
important model for the Bank in other developing countries. Even the cancelled
components had positive developmental impacts. The findings of the studies that
eventually stopped the wastewater reuse component has helped set the limits and key
considerations for similar investments of which rapid expansion had been planned in
Tianjin and elsewhere in China. The bus priority experiment is leading to a broader
adoption of the approach. These experiences hence help to underline the value of
innovations, but raise the question how best their cost and risk should be managed.

81.    Value of Programmatic Approaches. In hindsight, an Adaptable Program Loan
(APL) would have been a more suitable instrument for the project given the high degree
of technical uncertainty present at the time of appraisal, not only for the above four
components but also for the large flyover proposed in the central city. It would have
provided time to resolve uncertainties, allowing identification of an alternative project
scope and smoother implementation of the second stage. This is especially true in
hindsight because urban growth and municipal capacity in Tianjin were evolving so
quickly that it was not practical to carry out implementation in the same way it was
envisaged at design. An APL approach would also have allowed a new implementation
arrangement consistent with the new organizational and financing set-up introduced in
the middle of project implementation (although this could not have been foreseen).

                                           20
82.     In fact, it was the programmatic element of the project – city sewer and road
component which consisted of small and medium-size subcomponents – that allowed an
effective adjustment to the cancellations while keeping the project consistent with the
original objectives and framework. APL is an instrument that explicitly supports
innovations. The experience of this project suggests that a combination of programmatic
and specific investment components could be a valid option, while challenge funds or a
similar mechanism included in programmatic types of projects could be another.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

83.     A separate borrower ICR has been prepared. A summary is attached under Annex
6. The full report (in Mandarin) and an unofficial English translation have been saved
within the Project files.

(b) Cofinanciers

84.     N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

85.     N/A




                                           21
                                Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Projects by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                            Second
                                          Appraisal                     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                        Restructuring
            Components                  Estimate (USD                   Estimate (USD      Second
                                                        Estimate (USD
                                           millions)                       millions)    Restructuring
                                                           millions)
A. City Drainage & Sewerage                       77.60          212.10          165.92      78
B. Shuanglin WWTP                                 55.36           26.50       Cancelled       -
C. Wastewater Reclamation and Re-
                                                  16.65      Cancelled           Cancelled            -
   use
D. Dagu Canal Rehabilitation                      55.15              64.80          72.07            111
E. Suburban Sewerage                              43.10              24.30           26.95           111
F. Urban Roads                                    62.26              24.50           36.84           150
G. Traffic Management                             15.16               4.40               0           100
H. Bus Priority Measures and Garage                4.09               9.50            6.95            65
I. Technical Assistance, Study and
                                                   4.63               3.70               4.17        113
   Training
                Total Project Costs              334.00         369.80             312.90             85
Front-end fee IBRD                                 1.50           1.50                1.50           100
Total Financing Required                         335.50         371.40              314.40            85
Financing Source Borrower                        185.50         221.40              167.15            75
International Bank for
                                                 150.00         150.00              147.25           98
Reconstruction and Development
Total Financing Required                         335.50         371.40              314.40           85

Project Components and Financing
                                                            Loan Amount (US$ million)
                                                              First             Second          Actual Loan as
                 Component                     Original   Restructuring      Restructuring      of 30 October
                                                          May 11, 2007       April 7, 2011           2012

 A. City Drainage & Sewerage                      32.2         34.0              115.9               95.98

 B. Shuanglin WWTP                                29.3         30.0                 -                     -

 C. Wastewater Reclamation and Re-use             10.4           -                  -                     -

 D. Dagu Canal Rehabilitation                     21.2         27.0                6.5               18.75

 E. Suburban Sewerage                             19.7         20.1               12.5               12.50

 F. Urban Roads                                   22.9         11.0                2.7                8.29

 G. Traffic Management                             6.0         18.0                 0                     0

 H. Bus Priority Measures and Garage               3.1          4.0                6.5                6.43

 I. Technical Assistance, Study and Training       3.8         4.4                 4.4                3.80

 Front-end Fee                                     1.5          1.5                1.5                1.50

                                       Total    150.0         150.0              150.0              147.25




                                                     22
                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

        Component               Target Output       Output Quantity          Unit
                                  Quantity             Achieved
Wastewater collected and             80                   75                  %
treated in Tianjin City.
Increase in traffic mode              1.8                  21                 %
sharing for bus system.
City Drainage and
Sewerage:
  Storm water drains                 51                   52                 Km
  Wastewater sewers                  54                   52                 Km
Improvement of drainage          No drainage           Completed              -
collection in Nanjiaowai,
Fukanlu, and Nanbeicang
areas
Shuanglin WWTP                     200,000             Cancelled        m3/day capacity
Wastewater Reclamation and         620,000             Cancelled        m3/day capacity
Reuse
Dagu Canal Rehabilitation              84                   81               Km
Suburban Sewerage                   150,000              100,000        m3/day capacity
Improvement of traffic flow   Average bus speed =   Average speed (on       Km/h
                               20 on urban road,     all roads) = 25
                                   and 30 on
                                 expressway.
Urban Roads                            9                  26                Km
Bus Priority Measures                  65                 60                Km
Bus Garage                             1                   1               Number
Traffic Management                    300                 300              Number
Technical Assistance                   4                   7               Number




                                            23
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.     At appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was carried-out to assess the economic return
of several project subcomponents. The same methodology was applied at project
completion to reassess the economic return of three project subcomponents including the:
(i) reconstruction of Nanjing Road; (ii) construction of the Jinzhonghe Flyover; and (iii)
improvement of Beicang Street.

2.     The table below provides a summary of the results. The economic returns of the
three subcomponents are on par with estimates at appraisal. The minor differences are
primarily driven by the difference between the actual transportation demand and the
estimates. In the case of the Jinzhonghe Flyer subcomponent, the difference in economic
return is in part due to the increased scope of the subcomponent.

                         Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR)          Economic Internal Rate of Return
                      At Appraisal      At Completion      At Appraisal      At Completion
Nanjing Road              64.7                58.2            302.0%             243.0%
Reconstruction
Jinzhonghe Flyover      9.7 – 11.0            9.1            46%– 50%             42.0%
Construction
Beicang Street             1.6                3.4              17.4%              13.5%
Improvement

Methodology

3.    All three components involved the construction of roadways. The benefits of
which include: (i) reduction of transportation cost, and (ii) benefits of reduction from
vehicle running time. The economic costs of the components include: (i) the investment
cost of the project excluding taxes, and (ii) the ongoing cost of operations and
maintenance. The social discount rate was 12% over a 20 year period for the project.

Reconstruction of Nanjing Road

4.      Nanjing Road is the main thoroughfare in Tianjin extending east-west across much
of the city's main areas. It handles a significant volume of both vehicle and pedestrian
traffic flow. There were six lanes for motor vehicles prior to this project's reconstruction,
which proved to be insufficient for Tianjin's growing transport demands. In order to
alleviate congestion and improve traffic flow, the project planned to add two additional
lanes including building special dedicated lanes for public buses in some sections of the
road.

5.    At a discount rate of 12%, the project economic return was 243%, which although
favorable was lower than the initial estimate of 302%. Likewise, the benefit-cost ratio
(BCR) was also slightly lower at 58.2 than initial estimates of 64.7.

6.    The main reason for the shortfall was attributed to lower road saturation estimates
used at the time of appraisal than what was later realized because Tianjin experienced

                                             24
much higher growth in vehicles over the duration of the project. Secondly, the
anticipated widening of the roads appears to have made some appreciable difference, but
because of the increased volume, the road is still too narrow for adequate bus and car
separation as was anticipated by creating dedicated bus lanes. As a result, the project did
return favorable gains, but not to its expected levels.

Construction of Jinzhonghe Flyover

7.     The newly constructed Jinzhonghe Flyover is a traffic center connecting the inner
and outer parts of the north of the city. The road experiences significant motor, pedestrian,
and non-motor traffic, especially with each mixing into the others' lanes. In order to
improve congestion and reduce mixing of vehicle and non-vehicle traffic, it was decided
to build a three-layered flyover connecting Hongxing Road and Jinzhonge Street.

8.    At a social discount rate of 12%, the project economic return was 42%, which
although favorable was just slightly lower than the initial estimate of a 46-50% return.
The benefit-cost BCR was also slightly lower at 9.1 versus the initial average estimate of
11.0. After project completion, motor vehicles and non-motor vehicles were using
separate lanes, which reduced mutual interference and the number of accidents. However,
the main reason for the shortfall was because capital investment increased, but higher
transport demand estimates did not materialize as expected.

Improvement of Beicang Street

9.    Beicang Street is a major freight corridor that runs in an east-west direction
through Tianjin. Its traffic flow is made up of large transportation vehicles. There is
heavy traffic congestion due to this large vehicle traffic flow that traverses the road. In
order to reduce congestion and improve traffic flow, the project expanded Beicang
Avenue by adding additional lanes in each direction.

10. At a social discount rate of 12%, the economic rate of return was 13.5% while the
BCR exceeded expectations. It was estimated that the BCR would be 1.59. However,
the BCR was 3.4 based on actual data collected after project completion.

11. The main reason for a higher BCR than expected has to do with additional truck
flow that used Beicang Street upon completion of the project. Trucks have a higher
value-added coefficient than passenger cars, and because more trucks used the road than
expected, the benefits stream was higher than initially valued, raising the BCR. However,
the EIRR was slightly lower than estimated because a greater volume of truck flow
reduced the overall speed and travel time on Beicang Road than was expected at appraisal.




                                            25
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
Names                    Title                                                   Unit
Songsu Choi              Task Team Leader (2004 2008)                            EASIN
Suhail Jme’an            Task Team Leader/Senior Financial Analyst (2008-2012)   EASIN
Greg J. Browder          Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist (2004-2008)        LCSUW
Vellet E. Fernandes      Program Assistant                                       EASIN
Boping Gao               Roads Engineer/Consultant                               EASIN
Jianjun Guo              Senior Procurement Specialist                           EAPPR
Anne K. Harrison         Temporary                                               ISGPS
Shunong Hu               Senior Water Engineer                                   EASCS
Eddie Ke-Siong Hum       Infrastructure Engineer/Consultant                      EASIN
Urvaksh D. Patel         Operations Specialist/Consultant                        EASIN
David I                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist                     EAPFM
Haixia Li                Sr. Financial Management Specialist                     EAPFM
Xiaoping Li              Senior Procurement Specialist                           AFTPC
Zhefu Liu                Senior Social Development Spec                          EASCS
Shomik Raj Mehndiratta   Lead Urban Transport Specialist                         LCSTR
Edouard Henri Motte      Wastewater Engineer/Consultant                          EASCS
Xin Ren                  Environmental Specialist                                EASCS
Jiang Ru                 Senior Environmental Specialist                         EASER
John Smithson            Institutional Specialist/Consultant                     EASCS
Chongwu Sun              Senior Environmental Specialist                         EASCS
Hardy M. Wong            Solid Waste Engineer/Consultant                         EASCS
Guangming Yan            Urban Specialist                                        EASCS
Yan Zong                 Transport Specialist                                    EASCS
Youlan Zou               Consultant                                              EASCS
Mariana Montiel          Legal Counsel
Zhuo Yu                  Financial Management Specialist
Bekir Onursal            Environmental Specialist
Hubert Nove-Josserand
Rodney Strickland
Hoi-Chan Nguyen
Richard Scurfield        Peer Reviewer: Transportation
David Hanrahan           Peer Reviewer: Environment
Alex McPhail             Peer Review: Sewerage and Finance




                                        26
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                            USD Thousands (including
                           No. of staff weeks
                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                               0                        15.40
  FY99                               0                        22.66
  FY00                               5.14                     18.59
  FY01                              13.49                     59.59
  FY02                              51.59                    237.60
  FY03                              52.02                    223.85
  FY04                               0.20                      1.41
 Total:                                                      572.04
 Supervision/ICR
  FY04                              18.20                    105.25
  FY05                              15.17                     57.78
  FY06                              16.21                     60.80
  FY07                              22.43                     74.78
 FY08                               19.70                     81.06
 FY09                               16.08                     78.39
 FY10                               14.41                     82.86
 FY11                               16.69                     74.88
 FY12                                9.11                     80.61
 FY13 by date of Nov. 21             2.83                     13.44
 Total:                                                      379.67




                               27
     Annex 5. Review of the preparation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)

1. The World Bank approved this project in 2004 with conditional clearance because
the project components were not fixed. The Project Agreement emphasized that Tianjin
shall ensure that displacement or restriction of access does not occur before necessary
measures for resettlement are in place, including the provision of compensation and other
assistance required for relocation prior to displacement. A resettlement policy framework
was prepared to guide the RAP if the project affected any displaced families or required
any collective land.

2. A RAP was prepared and sent to the Bank for review in 2006. The project,
consisting of an environment subproject and urban road subproject would require 27.2
hectares of collective land permanently, and use 3.2 hectares of collective land
temporarily. As a result, five villages and nine households with 37 persons would be
affected by the project’s land acquisition.

Review of resettlement progress before the project’s mid- term review

3. Due to rapid economic growth and fast development of real estate in Tianjin since
2005, land became more valuable. Villages preferred to sell their land to real estate
developers rather than for purposes of public interest such as landfill development. The
development of real estate on village land brought more benefits to villagers and
increased the value of the existing land. Villagers did not welcome the building of a
landfill to be built on their site. The project entity spent years trying to negotiate with the
villagers but did not reach any agreement. Finally, the project entity had to cancel the
landfill project component if any collective land was required.

Project restructuring at the mid-term review

4. The project accumulated experience through learning by doing. The proposed
project components at the project mid-term review focused on the improvement of urban
road networks and approached to optimize the road design so as to avoid land acquisition
and resettlement relocation.

Lessons learned from the project

5. The project entity learned that resettlement work is more challenging than the civil
work of the project. The selection and design of subprojects should be considered fully,
especially on how to avoid involuntary resettlement caused by any permanent land
acquisition and temporary land occupation and structure demolition. It is important to
hire an experienced consulting firm to identify the reality of resettlement impacts,
examine resettlement investment. The resettlement socioeconomic survey in the affected
area could bring displaced persons’ feedback to the project entity to assess the challenges
of future resettlement work in advance




                                              28
                  Expenses on Land
                   Acquisition and                         Situations in Land Acquisition and Demolition
                     Demolition
                                                                                                              Infrastructure
    Item                     Amount        Land        Commercial   Residential                   Public      Compensation
                 Planned                                                          Enterprises
                             Incurred    Acquisition     Land         Land                      Institution   for temporary
                                                                                                                Land Use
                                          Square         Square       Square        Square       Square
                 (Ten Thousand Yuan)                                                                          Square meters
                                           meters        meters       meters        meters       meters
Nancang and       1,340.31   14,974.88   212,023.59           0       3,036.00     11,388.00          0         43,292.00
Beicang
Drainage
Kangfu Road       1,264.51         0            0               0           0             0             0              0
Drainage
Nanjiaowai        2,784.96         0            0               0           0             0             0              0
Drainage
Dagu River          764.57    3,602.00    66,600.00           0             0                          0              0
Transportation    4248.47     5,161.88          0        2,439.00        663.00       634.00        290.00            0
         Total   10,402.82   23,738.76   278,623.59      2,439.00      3,699.00    12,022.00        290.00      43,292.00




                                                           29
     Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments to the Bank’s ICR

I.     The following summary was received from the Borrower via email on November
28, 2012, and has been included below in its entirety without any content or editorial
changes. The full report (in Mandarin) and an unofficial English translation have been
saved within the Project files.

1. Overview

1. The second phase of Tianjin’s WB-loaned Urban Development and Environmental
Protection Projects which include three parts of transportation, drainage and technical
assistance serve as the continuation of the First Projects in the fields of traffic and
drainage infrastructure construction. The Projects are designed to enhance the city’s rain
and waste water management and its efficiency of transportation system, strengthen the
environmental protection and the natural resources management, promote the reform of
public service organizations and commercial operation, improve urban management and
public service functions, and promote sustainable development of Tianjin. The second
phase of Tianjin’s WB-loaned Urban Development and Environmental Protection
Projects (Loan No. 4695CHA) came into effect in August 2004 and the accounting
closing took place on June 31, 2012.

2. The total investment of the Projects was USD314 million. Under the loan
agreement, the loan of USD150 million from the World Bank (about RMB 1.242 billion
at the exchange rate of 8.28 in 2004 when the loan entered into force) was used. As at
October 31, 2012, the actually used loan from the World Bank reached USD 147 million
(accounted based on the actual reimbursement fund). The self-raised fund in domestic
market amounted to USD167 million and the proportion of loan was 46.81%.

2. Completion of KPIs

3. During the projects implementation period, the KPIs were not modified and all of
the project’s KPIs were completed.

4. The KPIs of the second phase of Tianjin’s WB-loaned Urban Development and
Environmental Protection Projects are to improve the coverage and efficiency of the
urban infrastructure and public service facilities. The completion of key performance
indicators are listed below:

2.1 Urban Drainage

             Performance Indicators: the drainage covering area at the central urban area
              shall achieve 80% and the sewage treatment capacity of small towns shall
              achieve 150,000 m3/day.
             Completion: fully completed. (By the end of 2011, the service area of the
              pipeworks at the central urban area was 244.02 square kilometers with
              coverage rate of 89.71%; a total of 13 WWTPs were built in small towns
                                            30
            with total handling capacity of 446,500 m3/day).

2.2 Reclaimed Water

           Performance Indicators: 20,000 m3 reclaimed water shall be recycled for
            urban use and 600,000 m3 treated water shall be used for agriculture every
            day.

5. Completion: fully completed. (By 2011, the total handling capacity of the recycling
water plants in Tianjin achieved 320,000 m3/day, serving as residents’ nonpotable water
and water for municipal landscape and greening; Tianjin has a total of 33 WWTPs, with
handling capacity of 2,296,000 m3/day, and the water quality reached Level I A or Level
I B standards, so all water can be used for agriculture.)

2.3 Road Traffic

           Performance Indicators: the traffic capacity of existing roads shall be to
            improved; the traffic flow and traffic speed shall be enhanced; the traffic
            flow of 18 main roads shall be increased by 10%; the time for vehicles to
            pass the sampling crossing shall be decreased by 15%; and great efforts
            shall be made to achieve Tianjin’s targets in the “Eleventh Five-Year Plan?.

           Completion: fully completed. (By the end of 2011, the length of paved road
            was 5991 km, and the road area was 104.92 million square meters with the
            road area of 17.05 square meters per capita. There were 584 bridges at the
            end of the period so targets in the “Eleventh Five-Year Plan? were fully
            completed)

2.4 Public Transportation

           Performance Indicators: the traffic speed on public transport corridors shall
            be improved; the travel time by bus shall be reduced; the proportion of
            taking bus shall be increased among travel modes, and great efforts shall be
            made to increase the proportion of taking public transport means (including
            subway) to 34% as specified in the “Eleventh Five-Year Plan? of Tianjin.

           Completion: fully completed. (In 2012, Tianjin’s 50 bus routes and
            networks have been optimized and 2000 buses have been updated. Line 1, 2
            and 3 as well as the second phase of Line 9 has come into use. The sharing
            percentage of public transport has reached 36.2%.)



                                          31
3. Implementation of Projects

6. The drainage projects constructed as part of the Projects include: one WWTP
(100,000 tons/day), five drainage pumping stations, drainage network about 78.50 km,
treated river way about 16.71 km, and one sludge landfill; the transportation projects
constructed as part of the Projects include: the constructions of one three-tire overpass,
one bus parking building and new roads about 31.93 km.

7. The technical assistance projects include technical assistance for transportation,
contract management for Hangu Wastewater Treatment Plant, research on drainage
industry, procurement plans of Shuanglin Sewage Treatment Plant, technical assistance
for Dagu River, environmental supervision for Dagu River project, study on
implementation program of Tianjin’s drainage reform, and eight studies for the
Completion Report of the second phase of Tianjin’s Urban Development and
Environmental Protection Projects.

8. Due to the rapid development of Tianjin as well as the adjustment in urban planning,
the specific implementation and design of the Projects have been changed to some extent,
but the Projects have completed the scheduled targets of increasing traffic capacity and
drainage capacity.

4. Evaluation of Executing Agency
   Very Satisfied

9. Tianjin established the World Bank Projects Management Team, which was led by
Vice Mayor in charge of urban construction work. The deputy team leader was the
director of Tianjin Urban Construction and Communications Commission and the Deputy
Secretary-General of Municipal Government. The chief coordinator was the Deputy
Director of Tianjin Urban Construction and Communications Commission in charge of
urban construction. The team members included: the major leaders of Tianjin Urban
Construction and Communications Commission, Tianjin Planning Commission, Tianjin
Finance Bureau, Tianjin Planning Bureau, Tianjin Water Conservancy Bureau, Tianjin
Environmental Protection Bureau, Tianjin Housing Management Bureau, Tianjin Urban
Council, Tianjin Traffic Management Bureau, and Tianjin Public Transportation
Corporation, etc.

10. The executing agency of the Projects was the World Bank Office of Tianjin
Municipal Commission of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, which is an
independent department for the management of the WB-loaned Projects. The Office is a
standing body responsible for planning, organization and coordination of the Projects and
it is communication between the World Bank and Tianjin’s local departments at different
levels.

11. The leadership group and executing agency of the Projects have successfully
completed the project management and the expenditure of funds.


                                           32
5. Evaluation of the World Bank
   Very Satisfied

12. In the implementation process, the World Bank raised a variety of problems
effectively, discussed over them, and, ultimately, resolved these problems. The contents
of every memorandum and report of inspection team were all full and thorough, and the
items to check and process were also reasonable and effective. The interim inspections
were fully prepared, and the arrangement of inspection team members was reasonable.

13. In the inspection and supervision process, the World Bank team played a decisive
role in ensuring project quality, solving various problems and identifying different
opportunities. The made World Bank has made significant and decisive contribution to
the success of the Projects.

14. In the Projects, a number of important innovations were introduced for the
continuous improvement of Tianjin drainage and traffic conditions. But for the efforts of
the World Bank as well as its cooperation with and support for the government
departments, it would be impossible to realize these innovations achievements of the
Projects.

6. Conclusion

15. The second phase of Tianjin’s WB-loaned Urban Development and Environmental
Protection Projects focused on improving the level of transport facilities and drainage
capacity of Tianjin. The advanced experience and methods of the World Bank have
guided and promoted the development of a high-level infrastructure construction in
Tianjin so that the construction plan and the consulting services plan of the Projects have
been completed successfully. The loan of USD 147 million from the World Bank was
used in the Projects, and the loan utilization rate reached 98%, so the fund utilization plan
has been basically completely. The Projects have been assisted and supported by the
World Bank, the Central Government, the Tianjin Municipal Government and the
Government of Binhai New Area, and set a good example for large cities in terms of
infrastructure construction and construction of environmental protection facilities.




                                             33
II.    The following e-mail comments were received from the Borrower via email on
December 10, 2012, and have been included below in its entirety without any content
or editorial changes.

Dear Mr. Suhail J. S. Jme'an,

We have reviewed the Final Draft of Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project (Loan 4695-CHA) and
found it satisfactory, without any further comments on our side.

I would like to express my gratitude to all the efforts you and your team have made for
the success of this project, which is a great contribution to Tianjin development,
especially after so many unexpected changes we experienced during the rapid progress of
Tianjin in the past few years.

We appreciate your suggestion to add new and innovative contents in the preparation of
our third loan project preparation and are doing accordingly. We hope to continue
enjoying your further support and guidance in our preparation.

Please bring my regard to all WB friends who have worked with you in Tianjin.

Looking forward to welcoming you in Tianjin or meeting you in Washington DC.

All the best regards

Zheng Yuxin

Deputy Director

Tianjin Urban and Rural Construction and Transportation Commission




                                          34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Project Appraisal Document
   2. Project legal documents including the Project and Loan Agreements
   3. Restructuring proposals and resulting Restructuring Papers, letters to the
      Government of China and amendments to the legal documents
   4. Project file containing records of project preparation and appraisal
   5. Supervision aide-memoires, management letters, and Implementation Status
      and Results reports
   6. Project Feasibility Studies
   7. Semi-annual Project Progress Reports
   8. The Borrower’s full ICR report (in Mandarin) and an unofficial English
      translation.




                                         35
Annex 8. Project Photos

                          Nanjing Road after modification




                                        36
37
Jinzhonghe Flyer after modification




                38
Beicang Avenue after modification




               39
Dagu Canal before rehabilitation




Dagu Canal after rehabilitation




              40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHINA
                                                                                                    SECOND TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                                                             COMPLETED INVESTMENTS:                                                                                                                           FREEWAYS/EXPRESSWAYS                                      TOWNS

                                                                             REHABILITATED CITY AND URBAN ROADS WITH DRAINAGE                                                                                                 MAIN HIGHWAYS                                             COUNTY (XIAN) CAPITALS

                                                                             WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                                                                                                                       RAILROADS                                                 PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                    I I       I       I I
                                                                             DAGU CANAL COMPONENT                                                                                                                             RIVERS                                                    COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES

                                                                             HAZARDOUS WASTE LANDFILL                                     TRAFFIC INTERCHANGE                                                                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                   Xiaodian                                                                                            he
                  Yanji Street Rain
                Water Pump Station                                                                      Nancang and Beicang Drainage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Chadian
                                                                                                        Roads and Drainage Component:
                                                                                                        Nancang and Beicang area                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hangu WWTP

                    Longzhou Road Bus           BEICHENG
                       Parking Building




                                                                                                                                   Jingzhonghe
                                                                                            TIANJIN                                Overpass

                             Guang Kai Si Road                                                                                                                                                                                 DONGLI
                                                                                                                    Nanjing Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Outer Ring                  QU
                                                          I
                                                     I




                                            I
                                                I                                                                                                                                                    Road
                                        I
                                                                                          Bai Di Road
                                      I I I




                                                                                                                  I I       TIANJIN                                            ZHANGGUIZHUANG
                                            I




                                                                           Fu Kang Road
                                                                                                              I I
                                              I




                                                                                                         I
                                                I




                                                     I                                              I
                                                          I
                                                                  I                        I
                                                                                                I                                                                                                                                                                                            TANGGU QU
                                                                       I
                                                                            I I I
                                                                                      I                                                                                                                                            Junliangcheng
                                                                              I                         Nanjiaowai                                       I
                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                              I I I I I I I




                                                                                                          Drainage                                               I
                                                                                           I                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                             Shuanggang
                                                                                                                                                                     I




                                                                                                    I
                                                                                    I




                                                                                                                                                                         I




                                                                                                         I I                          Roads Component:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TANGGU
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I




                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                      Nanjiaowai area                                                                                           Wuxia
                                                                                                                                                                                         I I I I




                        XIQING QU
                                                                                            I I




                                                                                                                          Dasi
                                                                                                                                                                             I I I I I I
                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                               canal
                                                                                                I I
                                                                                                 agu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XIANSHUIGU
                                                                                                    I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                      I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I I I
                                                                                                        Ca
                                                                                                         I




                                                     Du                                                                                                                                                                        Dagu River                                            I I       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dagu
                                                                                                           I




                                                                                                                                                                                                       I I                                                                         I
                                                                                                            na




                                                       l                                                                                                                                                                                         canal                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I I
                                                                                                             I




                                                                                                                                                                                                           I I                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                         I




                                                                                                                                                                         I                                                                           I I I I I I I I I I I I I
                                                              iu




                                                                                                                   I I                                                                                         I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
                                                                                                               l




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                               I




                                                                                                                       I I                               I I         I                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                      Jia




                                                                                                                           I I I I                                                                                                                                                                           I I
                                                                                                                                                 I




                                                                                                                                   I I I                                                                                                                                                                         I I
                                                                                                                                         I I                                                            Beizhakou
                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                          nh
                                                                            e




                                                                                                                              Yadian
DECEMBER 2012




                                                                                                                              Shuiku




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 39681
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                     0                                                   5               10                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                   Tuanbowa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                     Shuiku                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
