                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Draft Report No.: 88607




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                      PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

SECOND TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                       (LOAN NO. 4695)

    CHONGQING SMALL CITIES INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT
                  PROJECT (LOAN NO. 4794)


                                 June 23, 2014




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                  ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Chinese Renminbi (RMB)

Year                     US$               RMB
2002                     1.00              8.28
2003                     1.00              8.28
2004                     1.00              8.28
2005                     1.00              8.29
2006                     1.00              7.97
2007                     1.00              7.61
2008                     1.00              6.95
2009                     1.00              6.83
2010                     1.00              6.77
2011                     1.00              6.46
2012                     1.00              6.31
2013                     1.00              6.24


Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB     Asia Development Bank
BOD     Biochemical Oxygen Demand
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IEG     Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS   IEG Public Sector Evaluation
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
JBIC    Japan Bank for International Cooperation
KPI     Key Performance Indicator
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR     Mid-Term Review
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PPAR    Project Performance Assessment Report
PMO     Project Management Office
RAP     Resettlement Action Plan
RMB     Renminbi (Chinese currency)
TA      Technical assistance
TTL     Task Team Leader
WWTP    Wastewater Treatment Plant



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 – December 31



Director-General, Independent Evaluation               :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                 :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                  :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                           :   Ms. Fang Xu
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface................................................................................................................................ ix
Summary ............................................................................................................................ xi
   Tianjin-II ........................................................................................................................ xi
   Chongqing Small Cities ............................................................................................... xiii
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
   China’s Rapid Urbanization and the Project Cities ........................................................ 1
   The Two Projects and the Bank’s Urban Portfolio in China .......................................... 2
2. Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project ...................................... 3
   Objectives, Design, and Relevance ................................................................................. 3
   Implementation ............................................................................................................... 8
   Achievement of the Objective of Tianjin-II.................................................................... 9
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 14
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 15
3. Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure Improvement Project ...................................... 20
   Objectives, Design, and Relevance ............................................................................... 20
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 24
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 25
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 28
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 29
4. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 32
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 35
   Task Team Members..................................................................................................... 40
Annex B. Project Mapping, Photographic Evidence, and Learning ................................. 42
Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 45


Tables
Table 1.1. The Two Project Cities Are among China’s 10 Largest .................................... 1
Table 1.2. The Bank’s Urban Projects in China (2003–2013)............................................ 3

This report was prepared by Fang Xu and Roy Gilbert who assessed the project in October 2013.The report
was peer reviewed by Mats Andersson and panel reviewed by Midori Makino. Romayne Pereira provided
administrative support.
                                                        v


Principal Ratings
SECOND TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT (LN 4695)
                                 ICR*               ICR Review*                                PPAR
Outcome                  Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     Moderately
                                                                                            Unsatisfactory
Risk to                     Negligible to Low                   Moderate                  Negligible to Low
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance         Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department.
The ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



CHONGQING SMALL CITIES INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LN 4794)
                                   ICR*                    ICR Review*                 PPAR
Outcome                         Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to                          Moderate                      Significant                    Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance         Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                        Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
SECOND TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT (LN 4695)
                                                          Division Chief/
Project               Task Manager/Leader                 Sector Director                 Country Director
Appraisal                 Songsu Choi                     Keshav Varma                     Yukon Huang
Completion             Suhail J. S. Jme’an                  Mark Lundell                   Klaus Rohland

CHONGQING SMALL CITIES INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LN 4794)
                                                          Division Chief/
Project               Task Manager/Leader                 Sector Director                 Country Director
Appraisal               Thomas Zearley                    Keshav Varma                     David Dollar
Completion                     Ji You                       Mark Lundell                   Klaus Rohland
                                                          vii


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the Borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and Borrower comments as appropriate, and the Borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, and Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to
which the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s
objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency
is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of
capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to
adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, or Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, or Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, or Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the Borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, or Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             ix


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the following two projects:
   •   China: Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project (loan
       4695), aWorld Bank loan of US$150 million approved May 20, 2003. The loan
       closed June 30, 2012, two years later than planned, and US$2.8 million was
       cancelled.
   •   China: Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure Improvement Project (loan 4794),
       aWorld Bank loan of US$180 million approved June 21, 2005. The loan closed as
       planned on June 30, 2012, and US$4.9 million was cancelled.

The report is based on a review of project documents, including Implementation
Completion and Results Reports (ICRs), Project Appraisal Documents (PADs), legal
documents, and project files as well as discussions held with Bank staff involved in the
projects. An Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) mission visited China in October–
November 2013 to review project results and met with some 50 persons including
national officials and experts as well as local officials and project staff. The IEG mission
made field visits in both cities to project sites of urban road and transportation
improvements, water supply and raw water supply systems, flood protection works, storm
water drainage and wastewater sewerage, the main Dagu Canal, and public toilets. These
visits gave the mission opportunities to engage directly with final beneficiaries of the
projects under review. IEG gratefully acknowledges the courtesies and attention freely
given by these interlocutors as well as the excellent planning and logistical support
received from the Ministry of Finance, local authorities, and the Bank’s own country
office in Beijing.

IEG selected these two projects for a field assessment to verify their results and assess
their sustainability. The PPAR mission also asked the Bank staff and the client a specific
question, “What did the Bank and the Chinese government learn from each other?” The
response generated is intended to contribute to IEG’s ongoing evaluation of “Learning
and Results in World Bank Operations.” In addition, the findings from this report will
serve the upcoming IEG evaluation “Tackling Urban Poverty” (to be delivered in FY17).
Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments and no comments were received.
                                            xi


Summary
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of two urban development
projects in China: (i) the Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project
(loan 4695) in the amount of US$150 million approved in 2003, called “Tianjin-II”
hereafter; and (ii) the Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure Improvement Project (loan
4794) in the amount of US$180 million approved in 2005, called “Chongqing Small
Cities” hereafter. Both operations were among 65 urban development projects approved
by the World Bank during 2003–2013 with commitments of US$7.3 billion in China.

The unprecedented scale of urbanization in China, as it affects the two projects, forms the
backdrop to this evaluation. Tianjin and Chongqing have the status of provinces, but are
administered directly by the central government. Nationwide, 260 million migrants
moved to these megacities during the last three decades. From 2002 to 2012, more than 5
million people migrated to Chongqing, the urbanization rate in Chongqing increased by
17.1 percentage points to 57 percent in 2012. The urbanization rate in Tianjin was higher
at 80.5 percent in 2011, as a result of about 3.5 million people moving to the urban area
during an 11-year period (2000–2011).

Accompanying the big scale of urbanization is the increasing demand for urban services.
Both operations reviewed here were trying to address the key question of how to improve
urban services for a rapidly growing population.

Tianjin-II
The Tianjin-II objective, “to assist Tianjin in enhancing the efficiency and equity of
wastewater management and transportation system aimed at the sustainable development
of Tianjin” (loan 4695-CHA, Schedule 2),left the concepts of efficiency and equity
undefined. Nevertheless, the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) found the project
development objective to be relevant to China’s national goals of improving
infrastructure and building a harmonious society and relevant to the Bank’s partnership
strategy for China.

The original design tackled the wastewater and transport sectors, focusing on improving
the efficiency of these two sectors, expanding the service coverage, and benefiting the
low-income group. However, some activities turned out to be infeasible or less relevant at
implementation because of the changing local environment and ended up either being
cancelled or replaced with lower-cost activities.

Project implementation was challenging. The implementation experienced delayed
effectiveness, slow disbursements, and two restructurings to accommodate the many
changes from the original design. Two one-year extensions of the closing date were
needed to fully disburse the loan.

The design and implementation of project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) were
defective. It led, for example, to the unconvincing claim that the increased modal use of
buses in the megacity from a 6 percent baseline of all trips to 21 percent at completion
was the result of a project that invested US$7.1 million in the bus system. The equity
                                                 xii


aspect of wastewater management did not figure in the project results framework. In a
data abundant city like Tianjin, it is unclear why more indicators were not measured.

That said, the project delivered soundly built and well-finished components. The
infrastructures built under the project are also well-maintained. The project activities
increased the wastewater service area by 6,100 ha, or by 8 percent in downtown Tianjin
and Binhai New District in suburban Tianjin. This has improved the lives of an additional
441,000 local residents in low-income areas in downtown Tianjin and Binhai New
District.

The Yingcheng Wastewater Treatment Plant, the first plant in China using the design-
build-operate method, 1 was also supported under the project. It has the treatment capacity
of 10,000 ton/day and is using energy efficiency technology. It is operating more
efficiently with a unit energy cost 2 that is 20 percent lower than the average for the entire
wastewater treatment system in Tianjin.

The Dagu Canal cleanup not only increased the hydraulic capacity of the canal to carry
increased discharges of treated effluent and storm water, an efficiency gain of the
wastewater management system, but also improved the environment and prompted
development along the canal.

The urban road works on Tianjin Middle Ring Road improved the function of the ring
road and improved the efficiency of the transport system by helping alleviate congestion
along the western, southern, and north-eastern sections.

It is evident that the project’s physical investments contributed to the enhanced efficiency
of wastewater and transport systems in the project areas in downtown Tianjin and Binhai
New District. The project’s contribution to the equity of these two systems, however, was
quite limited because of the fact that majority of the project investments were in wealthier
downtown Tianjin, and there was limited investment on bus transport under the project. It
is also harder to make a direct linkage between the project investments and the
improvements in the entire wastewater and transport sectors in Tianjin. This is because
the scale of the physical investments supported under the project was “supplemental” and
“corrective” (PAD, p. 14) when compared with the massive wastewater and transport
network in the city, which comprised a total length of 6,058 km of roads and 16,551 km
of sewerage pipes with a capacity of 2.3 million ton/day in 2013.

The technical assistance component supported under the project, on the other hand,
targeted the improvements in institutions, policy, and financing of the wastewater and
transport sectors, with the potential of contributing to making a larger impact at the city
level. The project carried out a study whose recommendations were implemented by the
Tianjin Municipal Government, and this involved the establishment of the Tianjin Water

1
  The design-build-operate method is a form of project management, wherein a private entity
receives a concession from the private or public sector to design, construct, and operate a facility
stated in the concession contract.
2
  Energy consumption usually accounts for 30 percent of the operational cost for a wastewater
treatment plant.
                                             xiii


Bureau to integrate the water and sewerage service, leading to a more efficient and
effective water and sewerage system. Another study for the transport sector helped
establish a model to evaluate trip demand by route and a system to allocate and manage
bus routes on that basis. This has contributed to an improved bus deployment system and
helped promote public transport.

The economic analysis of the project roads investment shows that the investments were
worthwhile. The economic rates of return of three representative urban road activities
ranged from 13.5 percent on Beicang Street improvement to 243 percent on Nanjing
Road improvement. Cost-benefit analysis was carried out for some wastewater activities
at appraisal stage, but such an analysis was not done at project completion. It is therefore
difficult to assess the overall efficiency of the project because of a lack of information.

Works in Tianjin were completed to a high standard with ongoing operations and
maintenance, which should help reduce the risk to development outcomes. However, the
residential and commercial development prompted by the Dagu Canal cleanup will
generate new sources of pollution. Extensive and necessary mitigation and control
measures, such as closely monitoring the quality of the discharge to the canal, shutting
down the polluted factories along the canal, and continuing the dredging, are being
implemented to sustain the successful environmental cleanup of the canal.

As noted above, an unclear objective and a weak M&E and results framework reflect
initial weaknesses in Bank performance. Bank performance during implementation was
stronger and benefited from the timely oversight of the Bank’s Beijing Office. The
Bank’s teamwork was viewed by the Borrower as “responsive” and “supportive.”

Borrower performance was mixed; support by the central government in Beijing was
strong and consistent, but project preparation by the Tianjin Municipal Government could
have been more thorough. The municipal government did a good job during project
implementation, using its own funds to finance a few activities cancelled from the project
and putting in place maintenance schemes for the infrastructure pieces constructed under
the project. As implementing agencies, the project management office (PMO) and local
departments completed assigned tasks knowledgeably and effectively.

The overall outcome of the project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The risk to
development outcome is rated Low. Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory,
while overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

Chongqing Small Cities
The objective of the Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure Improvement Project was “to
support emerging small cities to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
infrastructure service delivery, to accommodate the rapid urban growth” (loan 4794-
CHA, Schedule 2).

Similar to the Tianjin-II project, there was no clear definition of the “efficiency” and
“effectiveness” in the Project Appraisal Document. However, by focusing on
infrastructure improvements in the secondary cities in Chongqing, the project
                                             xiv


development objectives were relevant to the Bank’s Partnership Strategy on China and
the priority set by the Chinese government. Both called for an environmentally
sustainable development process and addressing the needs (infrastructure services being
one of them) of the poorer and disadvantaged people and regions of the country.

The project design was aligned with the project development objectives. The project
focused on the sectors of water supply, flood protection, road improvement, and
environmental sanitation. The 10 secondary cities involved in the project were all fast
urbanizing areas.

Project implementation was off to a good start. Up to the project mid-term review (MTR)
in 2010, actual disbursements lagged only about three months behind those planned. This
was a notable achievement for local implementing agencies that had no previous
experience of working with the Bank. Disbursements slowed somewhat after the MTR,
but picked up later so that the loan was almost 100 percent disbursed by the original
closing date of June 2012.

While completed as planned, some of the project investments did not produce high
standard infrastructure pieces as was obvious during IEG’s site visits. Contrary to the
Tianjin-II project, where the infrastructure is well-maintained, under the Chongqing small
cities project, insufficient maintenance of the project infrastructure seems to be common,
thus posing risks to the sustainability of the project development outcome.

The completion of the project provided the needed infrastructure services in the project
areas, increased the infrastructure service coverage to accommodate the growing
population in the cities and, in some cases, prompted the local economic development
with immediate effect. An impressive example is the flood protection activity in
RongChang County, which was completed with high standard and was well-maintained.
This piece of work saved 200,000 local residents from being flooded every year and has
transformed the area into a more developed commercial and residential center. The value
of the properties along the river banks rose by 300 percent to around US$1,000 per
square meter today. The project success has also led to the preparation of similar flood
protection works in other secondary cities in Chongqing.

The Bank team worked closely with Chongqing secondary cities in delivering the
planned activities on time, but it could have done a better job in defining a clearer project
development objective. The Borrower could have improved the sustainability of the
project development outcome by setting up a better maintenance arrangement.

The overall outcome of the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The risk to
development outcome is rated Significant. Bank Performance is rated Moderately
Satisfactory, while overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
                                           xv


Experience with both projects highlights the following common lessons:

•   Great care is needed in project preparation and appraisal to ensure that all
    proposed interventions are feasible. In the case of the Tianjin-II project, some
    originally designed components and activities, such as the Dagunanlu interchanges
    and the water reuse activities, were cancelled or modified because the feasibility
    studies showed that these activities were not feasible. The changes led to project
    restructuring and implementation delays. The Bank projects should have more
    thorough and solid project appraisal including the detailed feasibility studies.

•   A well-phrased and clearly defined project development objective statement and
    a comprehensive M&E framework is a key step towards a results-focused Bank
    operation. Both the Tianjin-II and Chongqing small cities project face similar
    challenges of PDOs that are not clearly defined and non-comprehensive M&E
    framework, making it difficult to monitor and assess the project implementation
    progress towards achieving the development objectives. IEG’s interaction with task
    team leaders across the Bank suggests that phrasing an accurate and relevant PDO
    appears to be a common challenge; more support to the project teams is needed in this
    area.

•   By continuing to tailor its services and instruments to the more localized needs
    and capacity of the Borrower, the Bank can maintain the effectiveness of its
    support. The interaction with local officers in Tianjin and Chongqing suggested that
    there is still strong demand for the Bank’s support in urban development in China.
    However, in more developed urban areas like Tianjin, demand is mainly for the
    Bank’s innovation and knowledge rather than the Bank’s financing. For less
    developed urban areas like the secondary cities in Chongqing, the Bank’s financing
    and project management experiences with special attention to environment and
    vulnerable groups are very much appreciated.

•   While the Bank’s engagement has supported the development in China, its
    prolonged internal decision-making processes may decrease its competitiveness
    in helping address fast-paced changes. In the case of Tianjin-II, the project
    implementation often could not keep up with local development, resulting in the
    cancelation of project activities. Such an experience is quite common across the
    Bank’s projects in China. Inefficiency on the Bank side is often cited by the borrower
    and the Bank’s TTLs as the main reason. The Chinese borrower suggested that the
    Bank could become more efficient though simplifying the procedures and granting
    TTLs more authority so that the TTLs could make more timely decisions to accelerate
    project implementation.



                                                            Caroline Heider
                                                            Director-General
                                                            Evaluation
                                                         1


1. Background and Context
China’s Rapid Urbanization and the Project Cities
1.1     The backdrop to this assessment is the story of the unprecedented scale and speed of
the growth of cities in China in recent years. Just over the decade up to 2012, China added
187 million people to its cities, more than the total urban population of all countries in the
world except India and the United States. A key question addressed by the two operations
reviewed here, the Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project (loan 4695)
called the Tianjin-II project in this report, and the Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure
Improvement Project (loan 4794) called the Chongqing Small Cities project, was a common
question for the country as a whole, namely how to improve urban services for a rapidly
growing population.

1.2       Tianjin and Chongqing, the host cities, are among China’s largest (Table 1.1). The
main difference as far as the projects are concerned is that Tianjin-II focused on the megacity
itself, while Chongqing Small Cities focused principally on secondary cities under its
jurisdiction.

Table 1.1. The Two Project Cities Are among China’s 10 Largest
                        City Population with
                                                      City Population*    City Population Growth,
                         local “HuKou”* 3
                                                          (millions)     2000–2010** (% per year)
                              (millions)
Shanghai                        12.29                        22.32                   3.6
Beijing                           9.65                       18.83                   4.8
Chongqing                         7.87                       17.64                   2.5
Tianjin                           5.69                       11.09                   3.2
GuangZhou                         6.64                       11.07                   2.5
ShenZhen                           2.6                       10.36                   4.8
WuHan                              5.4                       9.78                    1.5
Nanjing                            5.4                       8.00                    3.7
ChengDu                            4.3                       7.68                    4.0
FouShan                            3.7                       7.19
    Total for China              655.5                                               3.8
Sources: *www.phbang.cn; ** http://www.citypopulation.de/China.html.


1.3    Located close to the nation’s capital Beijing, just 120 km to the southeast, Tianjin is
China’s fourth city by population, a major industrial center, and a key commercial port for
the country’s northeast. At more than twice the national average, Tianjin reports the highest
3
  “HuKou” is a record in the system of household registration required by law in the People’s
Republic of China. It officially identifies a person as a resident of an area and includes identifying
information such as name, parents, spouse, and date of birth.
                                                 2


gross domestic product (GDP) per capita of any province in China, standing at RMB 93,173
(equivalent to US$14,789) in 2012. 4 Along with Beijing and Shanghai, Tianjin can be found
in some lists of the world’s 20 largest cities. Even bigger in terms of population and size,
Chongqing hosts a significant industrial sector, the most important one not located on
China’s thriving east coast. The city is located some 1,550 km to the southwest of Beijing in
the country’s less prosperous central region. Until 1997, Chongqing was part of Sichuan
province, still one of China’s poorest. In 2012, Chongqing’s own GDP per capita is close to
the country’s average, reported at RMB 38,914 (US$6,177 equivalent), less than half of
Tianjin’s. With GDP equivalent to US$180 billion and US$205 billion respectively in 2012,
and gross fixed capital formation rate of 55.6 percent and 76.4 percent of GDP, actual annual
investment in Chongqing and Tianjin stood at US$100 billion and US$ 164 billion.
Compared with this, the annual investments made by the projects reviewed here, US$70
million in Chongqing and US$45 million in Tianjin, were considered as “supplemental” and
“corrective” to the investments made by the two municipal governments and private sectors.

1.4     Successive Five-Year Plans in China have supported urbanization since 2000.
Urbanization, measured by the growth of the urban population, is still under way in both
Tianjin and Chongqing. A common and constant challenge for the authorities of both
megacities remains providing adequate urban services and a healthy urban environment. The
attention of the projects reviewed here to improving infrastructure provision reflected a top
priority in both places. It is also just part of the much bigger urbanization drama being played
out in the cities themselves and more broadly in urban China as a whole.

1.5     Administratively speaking, Tianjin and Chongqing are two of China’s four highest-
ranking cities. Like the other two, Beijing and Shanghai, they have the status of provinces but
are administered directly by the central government. The city-province of Tianjin, with a
total population of 12 million, covers 11,760 km2 including 15 districts and three counties.
Chongqing, with 19 districts and 19 counties, covers 82,300 km2, about the size of Austria
but with 34 million people. Of the 34 million, only 25 percent live in the nine central districts
of Chongqing. 5

The Two Projects and the Bank’s Urban Portfolio in China
1.6     The Bank had been supportive to the management of China’s urban development
through the approval of 215 projects committing US$17.57 billion lending during 2003–
2013. Of these 215, 65 projects with a commitment of US$7.3 billion, 41 percent of the total,
are within the Bank’s urban development sectors. Fourteen out of the 65 projects are closed
with 12 rated as moderately satisfactory or above and two unrated.

1.7    The main areas covered by these operations and the commitment amount are listed in
Table 1.2.

4
    China National Statistic Year Book (2013).
5
  Rio de Janeiro’s municipality extends to only 1,200 km2, accommodating a population of 6.3
million, and São Paulo’s to 1,521 km2 with a population of 11.3 million. The figures for London
(comprising 32 municipalities, or London boroughs) are 1,583 km2 with a population of 7.5 million.
                                                         3


Table 1.2. The Bank’s Urban Projects in China (2003–2013)
                                                                     Commitment       Commitment
                                                     Projects          Amount           Amount
               Main Areas                           (number)        (US$, millions)      (%)
China urban development projects (core)                65               7,315
Citywide infrastructure and service                    40               2,876             39
delivery
Pollution management and environmental                 31               1,109             15
health
Climate change                                         15                321              4
Municipal governance and institution                   20                404              6
building
Urban services and housing for the poor                 9                289              4
Other urban development                                13                443              6
Source: IEG analysis based on World bank Business Warehouse data.


1.8     Both operations reviewed here, the Tianjin-II project and the Chongqing Small Cities
project, were part of the Bank’s support to China’s urban development during this period.
Both were also follow-on projects to earlier operations in their respective cities. In the case of
Tianjin, the prior operation was the US$228.9 million Tianjin Urban Development Project
(Cr2387 19922000), called Tianjin-I in this report. Tianjin-II focused on similar sectors in
the megacity as Tianjin-I had. In the case of Chongqing, the prior operation was the US$450
million Chongqing Urban Environment Project (Ln4561, 20002009). The Chongqing Small
Cities project focused on similar sectors to its predecessor, but brought the assistance to
smaller cities of Chongqing’s interior rather than the Chongqing megacity itself that was the
target of the previous operation.

2. Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment
Project
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
OBJECTIVES

2.1     The objectives of the Tianjin-II project as stated in the financing agreement were to
assist Tianjin in enhancing the efficiency and equity of wastewater management and
transportation system aimed at the sustainable development of Tianjin (loan 4695, Schedule 2).

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

2.2     The objectives did not make clear exactly what the intended outcomes of enhanced
efficiency and equity of this operation should be for its two targeted sub-sectors. It does not
provide ready answers to important questions such as: “what would Tianjin’s wastewater
management and a transportation system with enhanced efficiency and equity look like?” and
                                                4


“how would we recognize these enhancements?” Neither the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) nor the Implementation Completion and Results report (ICR) define or explain either
term. The ICR does note (ICR, p. 16), however, equity’s consistency with central government
policy of achieving a harmonious society through providing a comfortable means for the
middle class and reducing poverty and inequality, while protecting the environment. For that,
a straightforward objective indicating technical performance criteria and the target
beneficiaries of the two sub-sectors would have served the project better.

2.3      However initially imprecise, the assessment found the project objectives to be
relevant to China’s own strategic and sector priorities for the country’s urban development.
At appraisal they were in line with China’s 10th Five-Year Plan (2001–2005) that called for
improved (understood as more efficient) infrastructure provision, balanced development
across regions (understood as equity), and increased sustainability or urban services. They
remain relevant today to China’s current 12th Five-Year Plan that calls explicitly for
enhancing urban environmental services (understood as increased efficiency), particularly
wastewater management, as well as more emphasis on equity by calling for a better quality of
life for everybody in cities. The plan also calls for balanced economic growth between urban
and rural areas and across the country’s different regions, elements of the central concept of
harmonious society.

2.4     The Bank Country Assistance and Partnership Strategies (CAS/CPS) for China did
not explicitly make efficiency and equity a priority for these sub-sectors, but the project did
support the 2003–2005 CAS priorities of facilitating an environmentally sustainable
development process. Through the wastewater services it aimed to promote, the project
objective nevertheless remains consistent with the 2013–2016 CPS Strategic Theme 1 of
supporting greener growth, with respect to enhancing urban environmental services (CPS
2013–2016, p. 13). Relevance of objectives is rated as Substantial.

DESIGN

2.5    The project originally had the following components:

            •   Storm Water and Wastewater Networks in Tianjin City (estimated cost
                US$77.60 million, actual cost US$165.92 million). This component
                comprised construction of storm water drains, sanitary sewers, and pumping
                stations in Nankai and Beicheng districts, complementing the wastewater
                treatment plant (WWTP) being financed by the Japan Bank for International
                Cooperation (JBIC) and Asian Development Bank (ADB); and construction
                of drains and sewers in HeXi District. These activities will complete the
                drainage system envisioned in the Tianjin Drainage Master Plan.
            •   Shuanglin Wastewater Treatment Plant (estimated cost US$55.36 million,
                actual cost US$0). This component was to construct a WWTP of a 200,000
                m3/day capacity in Shuanglin, serving Nanjiaowai area in HeXi district
                which has many small industries and lower-income residents.
            •   Urban Wastewater Reuse (estimated cost US$16.7 million, actual cost US$0
                million). This included construction of water reclamation plants of 12,500–
                                             5


              15,000 m3/day capacity each, attached to the Dongjiao and Shuanglin
              WWTPs; and reclaimed water distribution systems mainly for industrial and
              landscape uses.
          •   Dagu Canal Rehabilitation (estimated cost US$55.15 million, actual cost
              US$72.07 million). This component included dredging of sediment and
              rehabilitation of cross-sections, bridges and culverts, and three pump stations
              for Dagu Canal and its associated tributaries.
          •   Suburban Sewerage (estimated cost US$43.1 million, actual cost US$26.95
              million). This component included creation of municipal wastewater
              collection and treatment systems in YingCheng town in HanGu district and in
              NanPei Hu town in TanGu district, to initiate and set models for wastewater
              management in suburban areas.
          •   Urban Roads (estimated cost US$62.3 million, actual cost US$36.84 million).
              This component included construction of interchanges at two major
              intersections of the Middle Ring Road and low cost traffic engineering
              improvements on selected locations along the Inner Ring Road and the
              Eastern and Southwestern parts of the Middle Ring Road.
          •   Traffic Management (estimated cost US$4.1 million, actual cost US$0). This
              component included extension of the existing Area Traffic Control System to
              300 new intersections with channelization and in connection with bus priority
              measures.
          •   Bus Priority Measures (estimated cost US$15.16 million, actual cost US$6.95
              million). This component included preparation and implementation of bus
              priority measures on selected corridors, including bus ways and traffic
              engineering measures, to increase the efficiency of bus operations and to
              contribute to increasing the modal share of the bus system.
          •   Technical Assistance and Training (estimated cost US$4.63 million, actual
              cost US$4.17 million). This component included (i) development of
              infrastructure information systems; (ii) reform and development of sewerage
              institutions and finance; (iii) improvement of traffic forecast model; and (iv)
              bus routes restructuring and design of bus priority measures.

2.6   The project was restructured twice: on May 11, 2007 and on April 14, 2011.

2.7   Under the May 11, 2007 restructuring, the following revisions were made:

          •   Storm Water and Wastewater Networks were expanded to include the
              upgrading of road surfaces as well as underground infrastructure, such as
              storm drainage and wastewater networks.
          •   Urban Wastewater Reuse was dropped altogether as feasibility studies, and a
              survey, done at the implementation stage, showed insufficient demand for
              reusing wastewater.
                                            6


          •   The scope of Suburban Sewerage was reduced to exclude Nanpei Hu WWTP,
              which was built using local funds.
          •   Under Urban Roads, the construction of the Daguanlu interchange was
              canceled when a study determined that a lower cost improvement such as a
              set of simple road modification and traffic management measures would
              suffice. Another road expansion investment under this component was
              canceled when road capacity was increased as a result of investment outside
              the project.
          •   The Bus Priority Measures were expanded to include the Lingbin Bus
              Parking Depot, located near planned bus priority corridors.
          •   Four key project performance indicators were simplified into two, mainly to
              ease data collection. They were: percentage of wastewater collected and
              treated, 2010 target 75 percent; and modal share of passenger traffic for
              public transportation (bus and metro), 18 percent in 2010.

2.8   Under the April 14, 2011 restructuring, the following revisions were made:

          •   The scope of Storm Water and Wastewater Networks was further increased to
              include additional roads (incorporating sanitation infrastructure) in HeXi and
              BeiCheng districts in Tianjin city to improve storm water and wastewater
              collection networks as well as improve traffic flow and pedestrian safety.
          •   The Shuanglin Wastewater Treatment Plant was cancelled due to changes in
              the regional master plan which made the Shuanglin Wastewater Treatment
              Plant superfluous.
          •   Four contract packages under Dagu Canal Rehabilitation were funded by the
              Borrower so as to coordinate with the development of the District where
              component 4 activities are located. All remaining contracts were financed by
              the loan.
          •   The scope of Suburban Sewerage was revised to construct a 100,000 m3/d
              wastewater treatment plant in the Binhai New area serving Hangu and the
              new “ECO City.”
          •   The scope of Urban Roads was reduced because many road sections were
              completed as part of the city drainage component under component 1.
          •   Traffic Management withdrew from the project. It was completed with the
              Borrower's own funds after the winning bidder was disqualified by the Bank
              for corrupt practices elsewhere.
          •   Engineering and traffic management measures on selected bus corridors
              under Bus Priority Measures were no longer financed by the loan. Instead
              they were funded by the Borrower.
                                               7


            •   The scope of Technical Assistance and Training was reduced. The
                development of a management information system and training were
                canceled from the project but completed using local funds.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

2.9   Project design included components and activities as well as proposed
implementation arrangements that together had the potential to lead to the intended project
outcomes.

2.10 Greater efficiency of wastewater management was to be achieved by (i) building the
storm water main pipes to separate storm water and wastewater networks which would
reduce polluted run-off during storms and reduce the volume of sewage to be treated; (ii)
building sewerage main pipes and constructing WWTPs in Tianjin city and suburban areas
which would help expand the coverage and increase the capacity of the sewers; and (iii)
cleaning up the Dagu Canal which would increase the hydraulic capacity of the canal to carry
increased discharges of treated effluent and storm water as part of the process to get the best
possible overall solution for managing wastewater.

2.11 Technical assistance (TA) would review options for institutional arrangements and
financing of sewerage services, focusing on turning the services to market-based operations.
In addition, TA would help strengthen the managerial and technical capacity of the operating
entities. The greater efficiency of Tianjin’s transportation system was to be achieved through
planned urban roads improvements, traffic management measures, and project technical
assistance. Project investments in urban roads targeted the most congested sections of the
city’s Middle Ring Road, thereby easing traffic congestion, shortening trip times, lowering
vehicle operating costs, and leading to greater efficiency of the transport system. In addition,
efficiency was to be enhanced by technical assistance directed at better information systems
for infrastructure, potentially speeding up decision making and strengthening the local
institutions responsible.

2.12 The equity aspect of wastewater management would come in if wastewater collection,
treatment, and disposal protected people (usually lower-income people) living or working in
areas harmed by the discharge of untreated wastewater. The project invested more than 50
percent of its resources in low- to middle-income areas, namely Beicang, Nanjiaowai areas in
downtown Tianjin, and Binhai New District in suburban Tianjin. Enhancing the storm water
drainage capacity saved the local residents from being flooded by the polluted run-off
annually, and provided expanded sewerage service to local residents who did not have such
service prior to the project.

2.13 As for the equity aspect of the transportation system, Tianjin-II treated equity more
directly through its focus upon bus transport, a mode used by lower-income beneficiaries in
the city who cannot afford a car. The original design included dedicated bus lanes and traffic
signals. During implementation they were replaced with a bus depot construction, which
would also contribute to bus transportation development.
                                              8


2.14 The project design therefore was relevant to the project development objectives.
Some of the activities were not implemented under the project for various reasons explained
earlier in this section, but these changes did not affect the relevance of the design. The
revised activities still focused on enhancing the provision of improved wastewater and
transport services. Relevance of design is rated as Substantial.

Implementation
2.15 Project Management. Project implementation arrangements were based upon a
central Project Management Office (PMO) with Project Implementation Units at local
entities, an arrangement that worked well. The PMO became institutionalized as a regular
Tianjin government agency financed by the municipal government’s budget. Such a setup
helped ensure the continuous support of the project from the PMO as well as guaranteeing
the stability of its staff. The IEG mission met with the same key PMO staff who received
IEG’s PPAR mission for Tianjin-I in 2006. The continuity of the project teams helped ensure
the smooth transition from one project to the other. It also helped build up a strong urban
development team in one of China’s most important cities. The mission observed increased
PMO capacity as a result of this intensive engagement with the Bank’s operations over an
extended period. Interacting with the current IEG mission, the PMO staff aptly demonstrated
their knowledge of Bank’s procedures and policies. They also had their own clear views of
what the Bank still needs to do to improve its own performance in China, including given
more attention to the learning aspects of its assistance, a key aspect discussed later in this
PPAR (Annex B).

2.16 Implementation Experience. Project startup was slow. By the original mid-term
planned for August 2006, only 13 percent of the US$150 million loan had been disbursed,
leading to negative performance ratings by Bank supervision missions. According to the
PMO, several project-level changes in Tianjin’s local planning are the reasons. Clearly, it
will be important for the ongoing preparation of a new Bank-financed project in Tianjin to
anticipate further changes of planning likely to emanate from the 13th Five Year Plan 2015–
2020. This can help prevent unexpected changes, like what the Tianjin-II project
experienced.

2.17 As noted earlier in the Design section, there were some changes made to the project
during implementation mainly because of the infeasibility of some planned project activities.
Unequivocal Bank reservations about some of these components at appraisal could have been
more clearly expressed to the Borrower. The changes needed later indicate that project
preparation could have been more thorough, as the ICR noted (p. 8). There were also
occasions when activities were cancelled from the projects but were completed using the
government’s funds. The reasons for such shift of financing, as explained by the PMO, were
either because the project progress could not keep up with the local development, as in the
case of the suburban sewerage investment, or the proceed of the activity did not meet the
Bank’s procurement rule, as in the case of traffic signals. The evaluation noted, though, in
the rapid and dynamic developments in China, cancellations because of the project
implementation failing to catch up with the local development have been a common
phenomenon in the Bank’s China portfolio for many years. Such experience may be an
indication that the Bank could have been more efficient. The PMO also had similar
                                              9


observations and suggested the Bank could simplify its procedures and allow more flexibility
in project design so as to minimize the disruption to project implementation.

2.18 Fiduciary Management. With its prior experience of Bank-financed projects, the
Tianjin PMO along with the Project Implementation Units did a relatively good job in
managing the 32 civil works contracts under the project. There were no substantial contract
price increases and no reported mis-procurement under the project, but they did admit that
adhering to the Bank’s “lowest evaluated bid” procurement rule sometimes led to difficulties
for project management. Firstly, it is difficult for the PMO to verify the experiences and
credentials of the bidders who pass the pre-qualification stage to ensure they are really
qualified to do the work. Secondly, if the lowest but unrealistically priced bidder won the
contract, the contractor will likely try to add unnecessary items to earn money or to bring a
higher yield. In an input contract run by the International Federation of Consulting
Engineers, as in the case of Bank projects in China and many other countries, the contractor
cannot be stopped from claiming required or forgotten items not encompassed in detailed
designs provided by the employer; consequently, the total cost for the employer will
inevitably increase. Thirdly, the contractor will try to use cheaper and lower quality
materials, making subsequent maintenance difficult and expensive. Fourthly, the contractor
may delay the contract execution to trigger higher price escalation if the contract period
extends beyond 18 months. PMO staff told IEG, however, that the project financial
management was sufficient. The financial audits of project accounts were timely and
satisfactory. There was no reported ineligible expenditure under the project. The client also
commended the Bank for its efficient project expenditure reimbursement service.

2.19 Safeguards. The project was classified as category A; the safeguard policies
triggered were Environmental Assessment (OP4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12).
At project preparation, a full environmental assessment was carried out and environmental
management plans were prepared. During project implementation, two additional
environmental assessments were conducted for the revised project activities: one was for the
bus parking garage in June 2009 and one was for Baidilu drainage area rehabilitation in
NanKai district in May 2010. Throughout project implementation, experienced safeguard
specialists from the Bank monitored and supported safeguard implementation closely. The
project team and the client confirmed full compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies. The
project also involved involuntary resettlement. A resettlement policy framework was
prepared to guide the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) if the project was to affect any
displaced families or required any collective land. A RAP was prepared and sent to the Bank
for review in 2006. A total of 278,623.59 square meters of land were acquired under the
project. There was no reported violation of the Bank's Involuntary Resettlement Policy.

Achievement of the Objective of Tianjin-II
2.20 For the purpose of this assessment, the objective of enhancing efficiency and equity,
aiming at the sustainable development of Tianjin, will be assessed for each sub-sector; first
for wastewater management then for the transportation system.
                                              10


ENHANCING THE EFFICIENCY AND EQUITY OF WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT AIMED AT
THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF TIANJIN

2.21 By completion, the project had invested US$265 million on wastewater management
versus the planned $240 million. The city drainage and sewerage works were expanded to
include more separate drainage works in the flood-prone areas in downtown Tianjin, such as
Baidilu area in Nankai districts. The wastewater treatment activities, on the contrary, were
scaled down to only one major investment in suburban areas, namely the Yingcheng
wastewater treatment plant and associated sewer lines, as a result of the cancellation of the
Shuanglin wastewater treatment plant and two water re-use plants. Specifically, the following
infrastructures were built (refer to Project Map in Annex B for specific project activity
locations):

             •   Yincheng Wastewater Treatment Plant (100,000 tons/day), located in Binhai
                 New District and about 45 km from Tianjin city center;
             •   seven pumping stations, for which about 70 km storm drainage pipes and 40
                 km of wastewater trunk mains were constructed in three districts in
                 downtown Tianjin (i.e., Nankai, BeiChen, and HeXi districts);
             •   81.2 km Dagu Canal being dredged; and
             •   one sludge landfill for depositing the sediment from the Dagu Canal.

2.22 Through field visits and visual inspections, the IEG mission had the impression that
these infrastructure facilities were built to good quality standards, operational, and well
maintained. The pumping stations followed a standard and well-tested design approved by
the government and were two years into operation. As the first wastewater treatment plant
(WWTP) constructed under the design-build-operate method, the Yincheng Wastewater
Treatment Plant went into operation in 2011 and is now operating at half its 100,000 tons/day
capacity, with the demand for its treatment increasing rapidly. In addition, 81.2 km of Dagu
Canal was cleaned, and the sediment was deposited in a sludge landfill also built under the
project. The water quality in Dagu Canal had been greatly improved; the Biochemical
Oxygen Demand (BOD) in the canal wastewater was reduced from 13mg/l to 2mg/l.

Efficiency

2.23 This assessment took the outcome and impact indicators proposed at the design stage
(PAD, Annex 1) to assess the efficiency improvement under the project. These indicators are:
area and population served by sewerage service; water quality at streams; duration and extent
of flooding; and volume and unit cost of wastewater collection and treatment. These
indicators are used broadly by the sewerage industry to measure the performance of the
wastewater management.

2.24 The wastewater work under the project increased the service coverage area by 6,200
ha, equivalent to an 8 percent area of downtown Tianjin (334,000 ha) and Binhai New area
(392,000 ha). As a result, an additional 441,000, or 6 percent, of local residents benefited
from wastewater services expansion in downtown Tianjin and BinHai New district.
                                                 11


2.25 The Yincheng WWTP is running efficiently. It employs 30 workers in charge of the
services provided by about 50,000 wastewater treatment connections, which is about 1,667
connections per employee. The experience in developing countries suggested that five to
seven staff per 1,000 connections is common, and two to three per 1,000 connections is
considered as high efficient. 6 This treatment plant is also operating at a unit energy cost that
is 20 percent lower than the average unit energy cost at the city level. In addition, the plant
raised its discharge quality to Class 1B, above the Class 2B target set. In 2011, 3,577 tons of
BOD loading was removed by this plant. The amount of BOD loading rose to 5,585 tons in
2012. This shows that Yingcheng wastewater treatment plant is operating more efficiently
and contributes to the overall efficiency improvement of the wastewater management system
in Tianjin.

2.26 When measured with duration and extent of flooding, all the project areas (covering
three downtown districts) are no longer flooded by polluted run-off. An example is the
Baidilu area in Naikai district, which used to accumulate 30-40 cm of flood water for about 8
hours during the rainy season (June-August). The area is now free of flooding (see picture of
flooded streets, Annex B). The Dagu Canal cleanup also helped reduce the flooding in
Tianjin. The canal, an 84 km conduit, originally carried untreated wastewater from Tianjin to
the Bohai Sea. Nearly half a century later, it became a vector of pollution, partially blocked
by toxic sludge and not working properly. Annual floods brought polluted wastewater to the
surrounding areas. Through dredging and careful removal of contaminated industrial
sediment, the project prevented the flooding of surrounding areas. The canal now makes a
major contribution to the urban environment of Tianjin and the environmental protection of
coastal water. In addition, the cleanup project also produced economic gains for the Tianjin
economy through new residential and commercial development along the canal.

2.27 Compared with the project physical investments that focused on certain project areas,
technical assistance activities focused on the reform and development of sewerage
institutions should have a bigger impact at the city level. The Tianjin Sewerage Industry
Study recommended integrating sewerage management with water supply and resources. The
Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG) implemented the recommendation by setting up the
Tianjin Water Bureau to integrate water and sewerage services. International experience
suggests that the direct benefit of such integration is the reduced cost of the provision of
water and sewerage services because of “economies of scope.” 7 The latest study of the water
and sewerage sector in England and Wales suggests that the operating cost of a water and
sewerage company would be 26 percent higher if production of different services is
separated. 8 Cost reduction evidence is not available for the Tianjin-II project, however
information provided by the PMO shows that the wastewater treatment company for the
downtown Tianjin area can offer more affordable sewerage tariffs and remain financially
viable. The Tianjin Sewerage Study also recommended introducing private WWTP operators
to manage the wastewater system. This is likely to provide financial and technical
improvements when WWTP operation contracts expire. Overall, the project-financed

6
    http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTWSS/Resources/Workingnote9.pdf.
7
    http://corporate.unitedutilities.com/documents/InWhoseHandsReport.pdf.
8
    http://corporate.unitedutilities.com/documents/InWhoseHandsReport.pdf.
                                                   12


physical investments enhanced the efficiency of wastewater management systems in project
areas (downtown Tianjin and Binhai New District). There is some indirect evidence that
technical assistance influenced the efficiency of the overall system. The achievement of
enhanced efficiency of the wastewater management system in Tianjin is rated Substantial.

Equity

2.28 The equity effect of wastewater management was to be assessed by the increased
sewerage coverage to low-income people and increased affordability of services. As noted
earlier in this report, the project invested more than 50 percent of the project resources in
low-middle income areas in Tianjin. As a result, an additional 441,000 local residents in
relatively low-income areas in downtown Tianjin 9—with 10 percent of them having income
below the minimum salary 10—now have access to sewerage services and are no longer
flooded by polluted storm water run-off. As to the increased affordability of wastewater
treatment service, in Tianjin, the average water and sewerage tariff per household in 2005
represented about 2 percent of the average income of the residents, but about 3.7 percent of
average income for those in the lowest-income decile, which was still within the widely
adopted rule-of-thumb affordability limit of 5 percent of income. 11 In 2013, the average
sewerage tariff alone per household was about 18 RMB per month (equivalent to $3 per
month). It was about 0.42 percent of average income of Tianjin residents and 1.07 percent of
the income of the poor residents. Without information about sewerage service affordability in
2005, it is hard to assess whether the affordability of sewerage services has been increased
over time and whether the poorer income-groups have benefited more.

2.29 Overall the project’s interventions increased the access of sewerage services of local
residents, especially those in low-income areas. However, the project did not define how to
assess the equity effect and this report did not obtain evidence on the relative affordability
improvements of different socio-economic groups. The project’s contribution to equity is
rated as Modest.

ENHANCING THE EFFICIENCY AND EQUITY OF THE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM AIMED AT
THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF TIANJIN

2.30 Under the Tianjin-II project, the actual investment on the roads component was less
than estimated at appraisal, mainly because of the cancellation of the Dagunanlu multilevel
interchange on the Middle Ring Road. In addition, some original project activities, including
the traffic management and bus priority lanes, were completed outside of the project using
government funding. Specifically, the following transport activities were completed under
the project at total cost at around $45 million versus the estimated cost of about $85 million:



9
    Overall, downtown Tianjin is richer than suburban areas.
10
  Those whose income is lower than the minimum salary are categorized as low income. In Tianjin,
the minimum salary is RMB 1,500 per month or RMB 18,000 per year (US$3,000 equivalent).
11
     PAD, Annex C.
                                                 13


             •   A three-level interchange was built on Jingzhonghe Road on the Middle Ring
                 Road, is about 680 m, and has been open for traffic since June 2004.
             •   Nanjing Road was widened by 0.8 km. A bus depot was built in the Lingbin
                 area.
             •   Studies were conducted on improving the traffic forecast model, restructuring
                 bus routes, and designing bus priority measures.

2.31 During the field visit, the IEG mission took note that these infrastructures were well
built, operational, and sufficiently maintained. The IEG mission saw that the Jinzhonghe
interchange had sound insulation panels to protect local residents from traffic noise and
landscaping with trees planted in open areas and climbing plants for the structure’s pillars.
After six years of intensive use, there were no evident signs of needing repair, which
indicated attention to road operations and maintenance since completion. The IEG mission’s
visit to the bus depot confirmed that it was in operation, providing space for up to 200 buses
that had been parked on the streets prior to depot construction.

Efficiency

2.32 The efficiency of a transport system could be measured by the enhanced capacity of
the transport system which would enable more traffic to flow through the system more
smoothly. The project investments for previously congested urban roads increased the roads’
capacity, leading to smooth traffic flow in the project areas, as seen and experienced by
IEG’s visit to the project road sections. Traffic volume per hour through the improved
Nanjing Road Section increased by 74 percent from 3,180 passenger car units 12 in 2001 to
5,435 passenger car units in 2012. Traffic volume per hour through the improved Jinzhonghe
Road Section (with flyover constructed above it) increased by 78 percent from 5,075
passenger car units in 2001 to 9,042 passenger car units in 2012. Traffic volume per hour
increased for the Beicang Street Section by 251 percent from an estimated 764 passenger-car
units before the project to 2,681 passenger-car units in 2012. These capacity and efficiency
gains are assessed as substantial, though the increased traffic volume per hour through
project road sections could not be solely attributed to the efficiency gained under the project.
Increased car ownership in the area also contributed to the result.

2.33 At the city level, project technical assistance established a model to evaluate trip
demand by route and a system to allocate and manage bus routes on that basis, which would
help improve the bus deployment and increase the efficiency of the city’s transport system.
The information shared by the PMO, however, pointed to a loss of efficiency of the transport
system. During 2011–2012 the number of vehicles in Tianjin grew by 20 percent, while the
average traffic speed in the city fell by 7.4 percent, a result which cannot be attributed to the
Tianjin-II project. The project’s contribution to the enhanced efficiency of transport system
in rated as Substantial.

12
  Passenger-car unit is a traffic volume measure used to express road capacity. One car is considered
a single unit; a cycle or motorcycle is considered as half-car unit. A bus or a truck is considered
equivalent to three cars or three passenger-car units.
                                                  14



Equity

2.34 The enhanced equity of a transport system can be assessed by looking at bus transport
mode sharing since bus transportation is usually used by people who cannot afford a private
car. To enhance the equity of the transport system, the project invested US$7 million in a
multilevel parking garage for buses in the Lingbin area. Originally US$4.1 million was
intended for planning and implementing bus priority lanes on major urban streets, which
instead were implemented with local funding outside the project. The Tianjin bus
management company confirmed the usefulness of the bus depot to bus transport
development. It helped prevent buses from spilling onto downtown streets, and it helped
reduce labor and fuel costs associated with dead (nonrevenue) kilometers 13 which can drive
up operation costs significantly. At the end, project information shows that the modal use of
buses of all trips increased from a baseline of 6 percent in 2003 to 21 percent in 2012.
However, the Tianjin-II project cannot claim much credit for this achievement given the
project’s less than US$10 million investment in a bus parking garage. The project’s technical
assistance activities on traffic management and bus transport, commended by the PMO for
laying the groundwork for future urban transport projects in Tianjin, could potentially
contribute to bus transport development. Overall, the project’s contribution to the enhanced
equity of the transport system is Modest.

Efficiency
2.35 The efficiency of project resources use is a mixed picture. The project experienced
efficiency loss because of project closing date extensions. Altogether, 98.2 percent of the
Bank loan of US$150 million was disbursed over a nine-year period, two years longer than
planned. At the same time, an efficiency gain resulted from replacing expensive and
infeasible proposals with cheaper and economical solutions, such as the Dagunanlu
interchange.

2.36 Cost-benefit analysis was applied to road activities at project appraisal and
completion. At project completion, economic analysis done for the three urban roads
activities, accounting for 12 percent of the final costs of the project, demonstrated that these
investments had been worthwhile: (i) Nanjiing Road widening from four lanes to six, 243
percent Economic Rate of Return (ERR); (ii) Jinzhonghe multilevel interchange, 42 percent
ERR; and (iii) Beicang Street widening, 13.5 percent ERR. In all three cases, the appraisal
and completion ERRs were estimated in the same way, measuring both savings in vehicle
operating costs and time spent by travelers after road improvements.

2.37 Cost-benefit analysis was applied to the water reuse activity, and comparative cost
(cost effectiveness) analysis was applied to the Shuanglin wastewater treatment plant at the
appraisal stage. However, none of these activities were implemented. At project completion,
no economic analysis was carried out for the wastewater management activities completed
under the project. Lack of quantitative analysis for the wastewater component, which used

13
  If the buses have to be parked in a faraway depot or outside of the city rather than in downtown
Tianjin, dead kilometers will increase substantially.
                                              15


more than 70 percent of the project resources, leads to the project efficiency being assessed
as Modest.

Ratings
OUTCOME

2.38 The project outcome rating is a measure of the project’s overall performance. It is
defined as “the extent to which the project’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are
expected to be achieved, efficiently.” The project development objectives were in line with
the Chinese government’s development priority and the Bank’s partnership strategy with
China; both called for environmentally sustainable development and enhanced urban service.
The activities planned under the project were consistent with project development objectives,
albeit vaguely defined. At completion, the targets of most outcome and impact indicators
(listed in the PAD) have been largely met. At city level, the sewerage coverage increased
from baseline 25 percent to 89.7 percent. In project areas, the storm water drains, sewerage
pipes, and YingCheng Waste Water Treatment Plant were running efficiently and increased
the sewerage service coverage in the project area by 8 percent. At the same time, the duration
and extent of the flooding were reduced substantially, benefiting 441,000 local residents in
Tianjin. The discharged wastewater quality from the WWTP and at Dagu Canal was also
improved. The project technical assistance, focusing on wastewater management institutional
setup and policy, would increase the efficiency of the wastewater management system as the
international experiences suggested and supported by the financial viability information of
the utility company in Tianjin. The project’s intervention on urban roads increased the
capacity and efficiency of the transport system.

2.39 However, the project’s contribution to the enhanced equity of the wastewater
management was assessed as modest because of lack of evidence of increased affordability
of sewerage services for poor people. The project could not claim too much credit on the
increased mode sharing of bus transport in Tianjin given that the project’s intervention was
limited to a bus depot. At project completion, the economic analysis on the project’s
investment on urban roads showed that the project resources were used efficiency, generating
a high economic rate of return. No economic analysis was done for the project investment on
wastewater management; the efficiency of the project was assessed as modest because of
lack of evidence. The overall project outcome is assessed as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

2.40 IEG mission’s discussions with local project teams in Tianjin and the field visits to
project sites highlighted where the sustainability of project benefits was more assured and
where it was more at risk. Across this spectrum, the mission was impressed by the awareness
of the local teams to the risks for the project’s outcomes and the need to take action now to
mitigate higher risks. There is a demonstrated willingness and ability of the Tianjin
authorities to invest heavily in infrastructure of the type supported by the Tianjin-II project
and to fund the necessary maintenance and operation to keep them functioning effectively.
Indeed, only a brief stay in Tianjin is necessary to see how the city takes great care of its
infrastructure.
                                                16


2.41 Project investments in urban roads, including the multilevel highway interchange,
major street widening, and drainage, appear to have a low risk to their development
outcomes. Field visits to the sites of these components by the IEG mission confirmed that the
work had generally been completed to a high standard, in itself an assurance that they will
continue to function properly in the short run. Furthermore, street cleaning prevents the
accumulation of solid waste that can block the newly built drainage systems and lead to
flooding. In addition, it was not only in the project areas that the local authorities took care of
this. The neglect of maintenance commonly found in other cities was not in evidence in
Tianjin. These efforts should lower the risks to the outcome of the project’s limited results in
suburban sewage, too. Regarding the project’s principal wastewater investment, the IEG
mission saw that the Yingcheng treatment plant was in good condition and operating
efficiently three years after it was inaugurated

2.42 The institutional and financial arrangements are also critical to the sustainability of
development outcome in the wastewater management sector. As mentioned earlier, the TMG
adopted the project study recommendation of integrating the institutions for the water supply
and sewerage service, which would enable a more efficient management of the sector. The
introduction of market-based financing and fee scheme as recommended by the project
technical assistance for wastewater service could also help sustain the development outcome.

2.43 The possible risk to development outcome is associated with the Dagu Canal.
Accompanying the success of the Dagu Canal cleanup are the environmental challenges
recognized by both the Bank and the Tianjin teams. As mentioned earlier, the Dagu Canal
cleanup has prompted residential and commercial development along its bank, increasing the
recontamination risk to the canal. If the extensive and necessary mitigation and control
measures are not sustained, the environmental cleanup success can be lost. To lower this risk,
the 81 km canal will require constant and intensive monitoring to prevent illegal discharges.
The local authorities are aware of this problem. The TMG has set up the rule that polluting
factories should either be closed or have the polluted discharge treated to the Class1B
standard before it could be released into the canal. There was a report about factories
discharging untreated wastewater directly into the canal when dredging was at its initial
stage. The project task team leader (TTL) also acknowledged that there are still some
violations of the rule, though the scale is unknown. Currently, the TMG is continuing the
Dagu Canal cleanup and dredging using funds from the Asia Development Bank and the
central government. Overall, the risk to the development outcome is Low.

BANK PERFORMANCE

2.44 Quality at Entry – Moderately Satisfactory. There were shortcomings in the design
of the project. Some inefficient solutions, such as the Dagunanlu interchange, had been
appraised and approved. The project objective itself was not very clear; “efficiency” and
“equity” were not explained or defined. Consequently, the results framework did not present
a credible chain of causality connecting the project interventions to the intended outcomes of
the project. At the same time, the Bank team should be applauded for trying to be innovative
by introducing suburban wastewater management to the design-build-operate method and
sewage canal rehabilitation; both were financed for the first time in China by the Bank and
served as important experiments and demonstration for advances in urban management.
                                              17


2.45 Quality of Supervision – Satisfactory. In the day-to-day administration of the
project, Bank performance appears to have been stronger. The Tianjin PMO, which has been
working with the Bank since early 1990s, informed the IEG mission that the Bank’s support
to Tianjin-II had been more prompt and timely than it had been for Tianjin-I. The improved
response could be attributed to the decentralization of Bank project management in the East
Asia and Pacific Region. With about 70 percent of the projects now being managed by the
staff based in the World Bank Office in Beijing, Bank teams are able to respond in a more
timely fashion to the needs of the Tianjin client, who noted and appreciated such an
improvement. The client also appreciated the efficiency of the Bank’s payment system,
which usually takes only four days to process a reimbursement.

2.46 While the project’s two TTLs were very capable, responsive, and accommodating, the
PMO felt that the Bank’s TTLs were not fully in charge of project management, thereby
undermining its efficiency. The feedback from the PMO was that in many occasions, instead
of making on-site decisions, the project TTL had to get permission from the different
departments within the Bank, resulting in a relatively prolonged decision-making process and
to a certain extent reducing the competitiveness of the Bank. A number of project activities
were cancelled and financed using the government’s own funds because the project progress
was too slow to keep up with the pace of local development. The client suggested that the
Bank could be more efficient by granting TTLs more power and authority.

2.47     Project restructuring, which occurred twice, was an exhausting process for both Bank
and Borrower. In the face of the many changes requested, the project TTL proved to be very
accommodating and flexible, and was able to bring each process quickly to closure. While
restructuring is the tool to adapt to new circumstances on the ground, it should not substitute
for sufficiently thorough project preparation and careful assessment of the commitments
made on the part of the Borrower.

2.48   Overall, the Bank’s performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

2.49 Government Performance – Moderately Satisfactory. As far as the performance of
the central government of China in Beijing is concerned, this was satisfactory. As it does
with other provincial-level projects, the central government played an important role of
intermediation by bringing the international assistance of the World Bank face-to-face with
the day-to-day challenges faced by cities in China, Tianjin in this case. With the formal
project linkages established, the central government devolved project responsibility to its
delegate officials in charge of local administration in Tianjin, letting them get on with the
job, including working directly with the World Bank. While taking a back seat during
implementation, the government in Beijing used the project experience to help disseminate
the lessons of China’s own urban development experience internationally. One lesson cited
in Beijing was the importance of getting the job done and done quickly. Another was the
need to give more attention to protecting the urban environment, especially containment of
air and water pollution, which has been the case so far. Lessons such as these can be
considered part of the positive outcomes of this project experience.
                                                18


2.50     Government performance—referring here to the highest authority delegated to
Tianjin—would have been stronger had it carried out a more thorough project preparation for
a solid design to which it could have remained committed—with a better chance of being
implemented as agreed. This could, perhaps, have helped avoid the two experiences of
restructuring.

2.51 The IEG mission was told by the PMO that shifting Five-Year Plans either at the
sector level or at the city level were behind some of the changes made, such as the
cancellation of the Shuanglin WWTP and improvement of some road sections as well as the
change of the bus depot location. Most of the project was implemented under the same Five-
Year Plan, however. The project’s s nine-year implementation between 2003 and 2012
spanned three of China’s Five-Year Plans—the country’s principal instrument of its national
development strategy. A total of 57 percent of all Tianjin-II disbursements occurred under
just one plan, the 11th Five-Year Plan (2006–2010) when one would not expect major new
policy shifts. 14 Yet it was this plan’s period, especially after 2007, that marked the project’s
greatest implementation difficulties, including the two restructuring experiences. While it is
common to experience Bank project activity changes because of rapid local development in
China, such changes would raise questions about the local ownership of the original project
design agreement.

2.52 This assessment took note that while the project was affected by the shifting of the
Five-Year plans at city and sector levels, the government also made efforts to complete all
the feasible project activities to maximize the benefits of the project. The government used
its own funds to finance several cancelled project activities, as described earlier. It also
adopted the project study’s recommendation of integrating the management of water supply
and sewerage services and is utilizing the information by the project study to prepare an
urban transport project to be financed by the Bank. The TMG also did a good job of
maintaining the infrastructure built under the project.

2.53 Implementation Agency Performance – Satisfactory. Under this heading, the
PPAR assesses the performance of agencies at the level of Tianjin itself. These include the
Tianjin Construction Commission where the PMO is located as well as the departments that
worked with the PMO on the project. These included Tianjin’s Finance Bureau; Planning
Bureau; Water Conservancy Bureau; Environmental Protection Bureau; Traffic Management
Bureau; Public Transportation Corporation; and Urban Council.

2.54 For the most part, the project implementation agencies completed their assigned
tasks, especially in building the infrastructure knowledgably and effectively. The IEG
mission’s field inspection of project investments showed they had been completed to an
adequate standard and were all in operation. In the field, the IEG was impressed by the depth
and detail of knowledge held by local staff on the particular investments for which they were
in charge. It was clear that each facility visited was in the hands of capable cadres. What they
generally lacked, however, was a familiarity with the purpose of the Tianjin-II project as a
whole. This left them without a clear understanding of how their own facility or plant might

14
  The last 33 percent of loan disbursement was made under the current 12th Five-Year Plan (2011–
2015).
                                              19


contribute to achieving the project’s objective. While the responsibility of ensuring that
project investments contribute to that achievement lies principally at the management level,
the chances of success would probably be enhanced if a plant’s technical teams understood
better and were committed to the broader goals sought. Management level staff understood
this well from their experiences with the earlier Tianjin-I project which helped them become
familiar with Bank policies and procedures. Borrower performance (overall) is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

2.55 IEG agrees with the ICR conclusion that M&E was one of the weakest aspects of the
project (ICR, p. 9). The PAD (Annex 1) proposed 12 outcome and impact indicators to
measure the achievement of the project. Seven of these indicators intended to measure the
efficiency and equity of Tianjin’s wastewater service, such as sewerage service coverage (in
terms of area and population), the water quality at streams and Bohai Bay, and the volume
and unit cost of wastewater collection and treatment, and the finance of the operating
companies. Five indicators were designed to monitor the achievement of the efficiency and
equity of the transportation system. While the designed M&E framework was quite
comprehensive, this assessment noted that M&E lacked indicators to measure the enhanced
equity in wastewater management. The indicator on the expansion of wastewater treatment
would show the coverage of the service rather than its efficiency. The transport mode sharing
of bus transport is a good indicator for the equity of transport system; however, whether the
achievement of this indicator could be attributed to the project was questionable.

2.56 During project implementation, only two outcome indicators were kept as key
performance indicators (KPI): percentage of wastewater being collected and treated, and
traffic mode sharing for the bus system. As discussed above, these two indicators were not
good indicators to measure the project’s stated objective of enhancing the efficiency and
equity of its two chosen subsectors, namely wastewater management and the transportation
system. None of the other proposed outcome and impact indicators in the PAD (Annex 1)
had been built into the M&E framework for the operation. Such a framework would not be
able to sustain claims of some outcomes having resulted from the project. The reported
result, such as the increased modal share of transportation going to buses and their increased
speeds, for example, cannot be attributed to a project that did not implement its own planned
bus priority measures. Broad Tianjin-wide results reported, such as the increasing coverage
of wastewater collection and treatment from a baseline of 48 percent of the total wastewater
produced to 80 percent, cannot be attributed to a single operation when the scales of the
project and of the megacity were so disparate.

2.57 During project implementation, information for the output indicators was consistently
collected and used as a basis for monitoring and correcting project implementation. The
information on the two KPIs was also collected to reflect the progress toward achievement of
the project development objectives. However, information on the 10 other indicators in the
original design was not consistently collected and reported, making the M&E an unlikely
source for evidence needed to assess the achievement of the project objective.

2.58   The overall rating for the project M&E is Modest.
                                                 20


3. Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure Improvement
Project
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
OBJECTIVES

3.1     The objective of the Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure Improvement Project as
stated in the financing agreement was “to support emerging small cities to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of infrastructure service delivery, to accommodate the rapid
urban growth” (loan 4794-CHA, Schedule 2).

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

3.2      Similar to the Tianjin-II project, the Chongqing project did not clearly define the
terms “efficiency” and “effectiveness” in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
Nevertheless, the project development objectives were relevant to the Bank and China’s
priority and remain relevant as long as urbanization in China continues. The two themes
under the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS 2003–2005) for China were: (i)
facilitating an environmentally sustainable development process; and (ii) addressing the
needs of the poorer and disadvantaged people and regions of the country. Investing
infrastructure services in Chongqing small cities was consistent with the themes of the
Bank’s CAS. The project development objectives were also in line with China's 10th Five-
Year Plan (2001–2005) which called for improved infrastructure, balanced development of
regions, and increased sustainability (chapter 3). The five-year project implementation period
witnessed the development of China from a country receiving aid from the International
Development Association (IDA) 15 to an International Building and Reconstruction
Development (IBRD) country. Yet, the project objectives remain relevant with Bank's
Country Partnership Strategy (FY2013–16) and China's 12th Five Year Plan (2011–2015),
which call for a focus on improving the quality of life and enhancing urban environmental
services rather than the pace of growth and paying attention to balanced growth. It is
expected that the demand for infrastructure services in urbanized areas will continue to grow
as long as the urbanization in China continues.

3.3    The project development objectives are also consistent with Chongqing’s long-
standing development strategy of promoting more balanced regional urbanization and
development. Since 2006, about half a million people moved to the Chongqing urban area
every year, which is equivalent to an annual increase of urbanization rate by 2 percent. With
such speed of urbanization, Chongqing was and remains one of the most rapidly urbanizing
regions of China. In its Eleventh Five Year Plan (2006–2010), the municipality set a
development modal of “one circle” (within one hour drive to central Chongqing) and “two
wings” (along eastern and western Chongqing). Six cities located in different sub-regions of


15
  IDA countries are those that had a per capita income less than $1,205 in 2012 and lack the financial
ability to borrow from IBRD.
                                              21


Chongqing—Wanzhou, Fulin, Jiangjin, HeChuan, YongZhou, and Qianjiang—will be
developed into six regional centers to materialize more balanced growth along the two wings.

3.4     The municipal government is fully aware that a development driven by urbanization
needs to have two key elements, job opportunities and basic infrastructure service, to be
sustainable. The Chongqing municipality has put much effort into changing its economic
structure to a more industrialized one in order to create more employment opportunities.
During project implementation, the contribution of the secondary industry to GDP has
increased from 43 percent to 52 percent, while the contribution of the primary industry had
dropped from 12 percent to 8 percent. The municipality also invested massively to address
the infrastructure issue. In 2005, the total infrastructure investment in Chongqing was 74.5
billion Chinese yuan (US$9 billion). The total infrastructure investments in Chongqing
increased to 240.4 billion Chinese yuan (US$40 billion) in 2012, including the budgetary
expenditure on transport of 2.54 billion Chinese yuan (US$400 milliont). The Bank’s project,
though its investment scale is small when compared with the government’s investment
program, is consistent with the development strategy of Chongqing municipality. The
project’s aim is to address infrastructure services in Chongqing small cities. The relevance of
objectives is rated as Substantial.

DESIGN

3.5     The project comprised the following components, involving 10 counties and districts
(project activities map attached in Annex B):

       1. Water Supply (estimated cost US$98.2 million, actual cost US$115.54 million): (i)
       enhancement of water treatment and network expansion in three areas of Dianjiang;
       (ii) Songji regional water supply of raw water to Yongchuan city; (iii) Tongguanyi
       regional water supply scheme supplying 16 towns in water scarce areas in the planned
       western expansion areas; (iv) enhancement of water treatment and network expansion
       in two areas of Tongnan; and (v) enhancement of water treatment and network
       expansion in three small towns located close to Yongchuan city.

       2. Flood Protection (estimated cost US$57.6 million, actual cost US$82.29 million):
       (i) flood protection embankments to against serious flood damage in NanChuan and
       RongChang; and (ii) extension of existing flood protection embankment on the south
       side of the river in Shizhu.

       3. Road Improvement and Construction (estimated cost US$93.2 million, actual cost
       US$133.41 million): (i) construction of a spine road in new development area in
       Qianjiang; (ii) construction of a 4.6 km Shizhu expressway link road; (iii)
       construction of an 11 km link road from Chongqing-Chendu expressway to the key
       secondary city of Tongba; and (iv) construction of a 14.4 km access road to a tourist
       site in Yubei.

       4. Environmental Sanitation component (estimated cost US$11.1 million, actual cost
       US$.5 64 million) was to finance public toilet upgrading and reconstruction in
       Chongqing city.
                                              22


       5. Institutional Strengthening and Training was to fund technical assistance in six
       areas (estimated cost US$4.4 million, actual cost US$15.18 million):

              (i) strengthening finances, management, and operations of utility companies;
              improving management capacity of parent units of local governments
              managing these companies, and developing a policy and pricing mechanism
              for the two regional water supply schemes;

              (ii) carrying out an update of all available water resources and formulating
              appropriate policies for water resources management, including investigations
              to establish the availability of ground water in the western areas of
              Chongqing;

              (iii) supporting initiatives in private sector participation in urban infrastructure
              services;

              (iv) carrying out a study on the policy for providing public toilets in
              Chongqing city;

              (v) carrying out independent monitoring of safeguards implementation; and

              (vi) carrying out training and study tours.

3.6     The project was restructured twice, on February 25, 2009 and June 07, 2010. The first
restructuring was to reallocate loan proceeds of US$1.2 million from the unallocated
category to finance the preparation of the Chongqing Urban Rural Integration Project
(approved in FY10). The second restructuring was to relocate funds among various
components because of changes to the original project components during project
implementation. The major changes are listed below:

              (i) Under Water Supply component:

                     The Yongchuan Town Water Supply subcomponent was
                      dropped for lack of counterpart funding.
                     The Songji Regional Water Supply subcomponent was
                      expanded to include a new distribution pipeline to meet the
                      new and expanded demand.
                     The Tongguanyi Regional Water Supply subcomponent used
                      an alternative route to accommodate geological conditions.
                     The Tongnan Water Supply added a new water treatment plant.

              (ii) Under Flood Protection component: Detailed geological surveys and soil
              testing identified some serious engineering problems with foundation designs;
              though the scope and scale of the road component did not change, the
              investment cost increased by about US$23 million for the required additional
              engineering .
                                              23


               (iii) Under the Environmental Sanitation component, the number of public
               toilets to be financed was reduced from 235 to 153 because of objections
               raised about the locations of the toilets by local residents and associated
               persistent land acquisition and resettlement issues.

               (iv) Under the Institutional Strengthening and Training component, two
               planned studies were dropped.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

3.7      The project design was aligned with the project development objectives, focusing on
the coverage (understood as effectiveness), reliability, and viability (understood as
efficiency) of infrastructure services. More specifically, the water sector activities including
the water and raw water supply expansion would increase the coverage and reliability of the
water supply; the road expansion and improvement activities would enable more local
residents to have access to all season roads network and at the same time reduce the travel
time and cost; the flood protection and environmental sanitation would protect the
environment to improve the sustainability of the urban areas; and the technical assistance
activities would improve the management in the infrastructure services sectors, especially the
financial viability of the water supply sector.

3.8      Of the 10 project districts and counties, eight are within the “one hour economic
circle” and are more industrialized and urbanized as compared with the other counties and
districts in Chongqing. The other two districts and counties involved in the project are
located in less developed eastern Chongqing. For example, in 2007, the urbanization rate in
eastern Chongqing was only half of that in Chongqing and the GDP per capita was only 55
percent of that at the municipal level. That said, the two counties involved in the project were
strategically important cities in eastern Chongqing. Qianjiang County is a regional center and
a leading city in the south wing of eastern Chongqing. Shizhu is less developed, and
improving its infrastructure service is critical for development as it is located within the
Three Gorge area. Overall, the project supported the rapid urban growth in Chongqing.

3.9      The Chongqing PMO informed the IEG mission that two more criteria were applied
in selecting the participating cities: ownership and affordability of the local government, with
affordability being the mandatory criterion. To prove strong ownership, the local
governments needed to actively seek the Bank’s project and have the capacity, including the
human resources and institutional, set up to implement the project. Affordability means that
the governments should be able to contribute counterpart funding for the project. The rational
for setting affordability as a mandatory criterion was because the participating local
governments would be responsible for the Bank loan repayment. The application of these
criteria would ensure that the participating local governments were not only motivated but
also could afford the Bank’s project. The relevance of the project design is rated as
Substantial.
                                              24


Implementation
3.10 Implementation Experience. Project implementation was off to a good start when
the loan was declared effective in February 2006, eight months after approval. Up to the
project mid-term review (MTR) in 2009, actual disbursements lagged only about three
months behind those planned. This was a notable achievement for local implementing
agencies that had no previous experience in working with the Bank. Disbursements slowed
somewhat after the MTR, but picked up later. The loan was almost 100 percent disbursed by
the original closing date of June 2012.

3.11 What distinguished this project from Tianjin-I and Tianjin-II was that Chongqing’s
project implementation was mainly the responsibility of second tier local county authorities.
Chongqing city-province, along the model of Tianjin’s, nevertheless set up a central
Chongqing Project Management Office (CMPO) in charge of overall planning and
coordination. Project Management Offices at participating city, district, and county levels
were also established and deemed responsible for the preparation and coordination of project
activities at local level. During field visits to these towns, the IEG mission met with many of
the responsible local officials. Their knowledge of their respective project components and
candor in acknowledging the problems encountered was impressive. One of the main
challenges for them was to become familiar with the policies and procedures of the Bank
with whom they had not worked before.

3.12     The project was implemented largely as planned, but there were some changes as
explained earlier in this report. The final project cost increased to US$352.06 million as
compared with the estimated cost of US$265.5 million; the biggest overall increase was in
spending on the roads component that rose from an appraisal commitment of US$93.2
million to final spending of US$133.41 million by completion because of the required
additional engineering during project implementation. The appreciation of the Chinese
currency RMB against the US$ by more than 20 percent contributed to the increased project
cost in US$ amount.

3.13 Procurement. As in the Tianjin-II case, the project procurement management also
suffered from the “lowest evaluated bid” rule set by the Bank. However, given all the
possible problems associated with such a procurement rule and input type of contract
management, the project implementation entities and management offices managed project
procurement activities relatively well. There were no reports of mis-procurement.

3.14 Safeguards. The project was generally in compliance with Bank safeguards. Since
the project involved investments that required displacing people from their homes,
involuntary resettlement was invoked 10 times. In all cases, the planning of the resettlement
and the provision of compensation to those displaced were reportedly compliant with the
Bank’s own OP 4.12 safeguard policy, although at considerable cost to the Borrower in one
particular case.

3.15 This was in Qianjiang district, some 280 km to the east of Chongqing city, where a
new 12.8-km road (completion ERR of 14.1 percent) linking two rapidly growing towns
(total population 80,000) required the demolition of 175 houses to secure the right of way. Of
                                                  25


their residents, 127 households were resettled quickly, while 48 households did not accept a
proposed relocation site. They demanded to be resettled near the project road to which the
local authority agreed. Furthermore, the 48 displaced households also demanded that the
local government provide all infrastructures for the site, which was a normal request, and
build foundations that could take high-rise buildings, which was not a normal request. This
would enable the affected families to develop large-scale housing and business properties to
rent in what would become a major real estate development funded by the county
government at an extra cost of more than US$1 million. During its visit to the site the IEG
mission saw that the foundation work of driving heavy duty piles into the ground was well
under way. Displaced households living in temporary housing nearby told the IEG mission
that they looked forward to building their new development, moving in, and renting out. The
Qianjiang case demonstrates the risks of the Bank’s own safeguard being taken too far.
Beyond compensating displaced families for their losses, it can provide unintended windfall
gains for those few families and businesses that hold out until the end.

3.16 Other than the Qianjiang case, the project involved nine other cases of resettlement
affecting 14,158 people at a total cost of about US$36 million. The ICR provides an
unusually comprehensive report of the details of the project’s resettlement (ICR Annex 7, pp.
70–73). During field visits to sites affected by project resettlement, the IEG mission heard
local officials describe their experiences, which were consistent with the ICR reporting. No
case of noncompliance with the Bank’s safeguard for involuntary resettlement was reported.

Achievement of the Objectives
3.17 For the purpose of this assessment, the objectives of “supporting emerging small
cities to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of infrastructure service delivery, to
accommodate the rapid urban growth” will be assessed against each infrastructure sub-sector
that the project supported. Specifically, the report assessed the coverage and sustainability of
the environmental sanitation service, the effectiveness of roads intervention on transport time
and cost, the coverage and social and economic impact of flood protection services, and the
coverage, reliability, and financial viability of water supply service.

3.18 Environmental Sanitation. In downtown Chongqing, 153 public toilets were
improved or constructed. These public toilets are mainly used by local taxi drivers, those
residents who do not have a toilet in their apartments, and tourists. As reported by the local
media, 16 the 153 toilets built under the project increased the total number of public toilets in
the Chongqing urban area by roughly 5-6 percent, to around 3,000. According to the standard
set by the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development that every 2,500 urban
population should be served by at least one public toilet in urban area, it is estimated that the
153 public toilets built under the project could provide environmental sanitation service to an
additional 380,000 urban residents in downtown Chongqing. The public toilets that IEG
mission randomly visited were built in good quality and were maintained in quite clean
condition. All the public toilets are considered as public goods and maintained by the
Environmental Sanitation Division at the Chongqing Municipal Commission of City

16
     http://wsz.cq.gov.cn/zt/qzlx/Detail.aspx?id=22505&clsid=386.
                                                26


Administration and Environment; therefore, the sustainability of these environmental
sanitation services would be ensured. The officer from the Environmental Sanitation Division
confirmed that these toilets are all in use. The project intervention in this sub-sector increased
the service coverage and provided free and sustainable environmental services to the urban
residents, the project helped to increase coverage of environmental sanitation services, and its
contribution is assessed as Substantial.

3.19 Roads and Bridges. There were 37.92 km of roads and 10 bridges that were
constructed in four districts and counties: Qianjiang, Shizu, Tongnan, and Yubei. The IEG
mission visited the project roads and bridges in Yubei District and Qianjiang District. The
visual check of Yubei roads and bridges found that some steel rods in reinforced concrete on
the balustrade of one bridge were already exposed and rusting, though the bridge was
completed just four years ago. It was not clear to the IEG mission whether the current poor
status of the bridge balustrade was due to insufficient post construction maintenance or poor
quality construction. In Qianjiang, 10 km of road were completed and put into use; however,
the bridge was still at its final stage of construction and the client attributed the delay to the
change of engineering design and contract renegotiation. It is a bit worrisome that the bridge
was yet to be finished, and the project was already closed. It was not clear whether there is
any post-project arrangement to ensure that the Bank’s investment will still produce a piece
of high quality infrastructure.

3.20 Shorter transport time and better connections are the direct benefits brought about by
the project’s roads and bridges activities. Qianjiang Road, which links two towns, Zhengyang
and Zhangjiaba, helps decrease the travel time between Zhengyang and the 319 expressway
(a distance of 1.3 km) from one hour (no direct road prior to the project walking over hilly
area) to three to five minutes. The traveling time on the Qianxian class 2 road (11.5 km)
improved by the project was shortened from 20 minutes to seven minutes. Shuzhu Road, a
4.6km link road between Nanbin Town and the Dianjiang-Lichuan Expressway reduced the
travel time to just a 10-minute drive, as compared to the one hour journey over a rough 15
km track before the project. Tongnan Road, the 10.4 km link road connecting Tangba with
the Chongqing-Suining-ChengDu Expressway provides vehicular access with a journey time
of just 3-5 minutes, replacing a two hour walk. Yubei Road together with the bridges built
under the project, reduced travel time from Caoping to Tonjing (10.14 km) from 40 minutes
before the project to 10 minutes afterwards. The IEG mission observed limited impact of the
project roads on the local economic development. The local officers reported more tourists
are now coming to Tongjing hot spring area and the vendors selling fruit to travelers along
the project road said that their daily income increased more than tenfold after the opening of
Yubei Road. In summary, there is evidence that the project road investments increased
connection and accessibility and reduced transport time and transport cost. There is less clear
evidence of the project’s social and economic impact. The project’s contribution to the
improved roads services is assessed as Substantial.

3.21 Flood Protection. Three flood protection activities in three counties—RongChang, ,
NanChuan, and ShiZhu—were completed under the project, and 19.1 km of flood
embankment were built to a 20-year standard. In RongChang County, 200,000 local residents
are now protected from annual flooding. In NanChuan and ShiZhu, altogether 300,000 local
populations are now being protected, resulting in substantial social and economic cost
                                              27


savings. In RongChang, the flood protection work has transformed the area into a more
developed commercial and residential center. The local officers informed the IEG mission
that the value of the properties along the river banks rose by 300 percent to around US$1,000
per square meter today. There is no quantified information on the economic and social
development stimulated by the flood protection work in NanChuan and ShiZhu. The general
judgment is that the development benefit might not be as big as the one in RongChang
County because the overall development in RongChang is more advanced. The IEG mission
visited the flood protection activity in RongChang County—8.2 km of flood embankment, 7
km of roads along the river banks, and three bridges were completed to a high standard and
are well-maintained. The sustainability of flood protection work should be ensured. The
project’s contribution in flood protection sub-sector is assessed as Substantial.

3.22 Regional Raw Water Supply. Two regional raw water supply plants, TongGuanYi
and SongJi, were built under the project. The IEG mission visited this plant and took note
that the plant is in operation without any major problems observed or reported. The plant has
a dedicated power supply through its own transformer plant next door, and there were no
reports of interruption of operations because of lack of power. This plant receives water
drawn from the Yangtze River at an intake 20 km away. It sends the water to three separate
water treatment plants 10–20 km away. These two plants are providing raw water to the
water supply plants downstream which could further provide treated water to the residents
and industries located in 16 towns that were short of water prior to the project; altogether
about 1.2 million local people benefit from a more reliable water supply. The reliability of
water service is improved as well. The service satisfaction ratio of water supply users for
Yongchuan Town under the Songji Water Supply system increased from 75 percent at
appraisal to 98 percent at project completion. Regarding the financial viability, the tariff of
the raw water was set by the municipal government, currently at 0.6 yuan/ton (US$ 0.1/ton),
which was not high enough to make the raw water supply companies completely financially
viable.

3.23 Water Supply. TongNan County and Dianjiang County water supply plants were
built. The IEG mission visited the TongNan water supply plant, which was completed in
2010 and is now in full operation with a capacity of 20,000 ton/day. The operation includes
collecting water from a service canal 2 km away, passing it through filtration and
chlorination, and monitoring water quality in real time. The IEG site visit noticed signs of
inadequate maintenance, such as rusting steel installations which need painting and some
leakage from the pumping equipment. The two water supply plants alleviate the water supply
shortage issue in the project area. They provide reliable drinking water to an additional
100,000 local residents, which is equivalent to about 20 percent of the local residents in the
two counties’ urban area. Unaccountable water loss was reduced by 20 percent for the
Tongnan Water Supply at project completion, evidence of increased efficiency of water
supply service. Industries also benefited from the project. For example, the water demand of
20,000 tons a day by the Chongqing MinFeng Agriculture Chemistry Corporation could not
be met until the TongNan water supply plant was built under the project. Regarding financial
viability, at project closure, Dianjiang and TongNan water supply companies were able to be
financially self-sustained after the water tariffs of these two areas were increased to RMB
2.53yuan/ton (US$0.4/ton) and 2.70 yuan/ton (US$0.45/ton), respectively. The contribution
                                               28


of project’s intervention on enhanced raw water and water supply service is rated as
Substantial.

Efficiency
3.24     The implementation of the project showed an efficient use of Bank resources.
Altogether 97 percent of a US$180 million Bank loan was disbursed over the seven-year
period intended. By comparison, the Tianjin-II project disbursed 98 percent of a US$150
million Bank loan over a nine-year period, two years longer than planned.

3.25 The ICR for this project is to be commended for its comprehensive and candid
reporting of the internal economic rates of return (EIRR) of all the main components
accounting for about 95 percent of all project costs. The ICR’s candor is commended for
reporting that the overall EIRR for the project as a whole at completion was 10.1 percent,
compared with the equivalent at appraisal of 12.8 percent.

3.26 At completion, the EIRRs of the three water supply investments were only 8.8
percent (compared with 12.5 percent at appraisal), when benefit estimates were based on the
tariff paid. Such a result indicates that an additional tariff adjustment is needed to ensure
economic viability of these important water investments. At the same time, it must be
recognized that tariff increases may be more difficult to enforce when they affect a large
number of people especially in less developed areas. The Chongqing government is sensible
about a water tariff increase. For example, the raw water tariff was set by the municipal
government rather than by the county or district government. Currently, the current raw
water tariff set by the municipal government is not sufficient to ensure the financial viability
of these raw water companies; therefore, the municipal government is subsidizing these
companies.

3.27 The IEG mission was particularly surprised by the EIRR of only 7.1 percent for the
Rongchang County flood protection works to contain the Laixi River along 8.2 km of its
banks during its 20-year floods. During its field visit, the mission could see that the river
embankments were well constructed and the river itself had been dredged for improved flow.
The IEG mission also learned that several hundred properties now protected from flooding
had seen their value increased fourfold—from US$250/m2 before the project to
US$1,000/m2 afterward—thanks to the project’s flood protection. Had increased property
values been used to legitimately measure project benefits, since they represent the (new)
occupiers’ willingness to pay for the improvements, the EIRR, no doubt, would have been
considerably higher. Instead, the ICR used the savings from the repair of flood damage and
the costs of interrupted business to measure benefits. Naturally, providing more security by
offering protection against a 20-year flood increases the cost of the investment, while the
benefits of flood damage avoided over the life of the investment may not increase to the same
extent. Overall, the project’s flood protection investments yielded EIRRs of 10.2 percent at
completion, compared with an appraisal estimate of 12.1 percent.

3.28 The project’s road investments had a stronger economic performance, yielding EIRRs
of 11.3 percent at completion, against an appraisal estimate of 13.5 percent. Reduction in
vehicle operating costs (VOC), as is conventional in these cases, were used to measure
                                               29


benefits. In the specific case of the Yubei Road, the completion EIRR was only 7.1 percent
(against an appraisal EIRR of 11.9 percent). One reason was a cost increase of 50 percent.
Another was the light traffic on the road that was evident during the IEG mission visit to this
site. In addition, IEG noted other problems with this activity, such as the poor maintenance of
the 890 m road bridge, as mentioned in the previous section.

3.29 The rather modest reported project efficiency, i.e., lower than estimated EIRRs, has
two possible causes—candor in reporting and the conservative estimation of the project
benefits, such as in the RongChang flood protection and the water supply investment case. It
is reasonable to expect much higher EIRRs if the social and economic benefits are taken into
account. The efficiency of the project is rated as Modest.

Ratings
OUTCOME

3.30 The Chongqing small cities infrastructure project focused on the priority
infrastructure needs of Chongqing’s secondary cities to support the urbanization in
Chongqing. Such focus is consistent with the country and the Bank’s strategic priorities
which seek balanced and sustainable development. The project activities on roads,
environmental sanitation, flood protection, and water supply were relevant to project
development objectives. At project completion, there was evidence that the project
investments provided the most needed infrastructure services in the project areas and
increased infrastructure service coverage and reliability to accommodate the growing
population in the local cities. In some cases, the project investments prompted local
economic development with immediate effect. The project resources were used efficiently,
but the economic analysis did not produce high EIRRs, both because of the cost overrun of
some road activities and the conservative estimate of some of the project benefits, such as
those for flood protection work. Insufficient maintenance of project infrastructure is common
with this project. The overall outcome is assessed as Moderately Satisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

3.31 Involving smaller and financially weaker local governments increases the risk that the
operation and maintenance of the infrastructure provided by the project may not have
adequate financial input. For the water sector in particular, the project results show that there
is a need to adjust raw water tariffs to ensure the viability of investments in this sector. It is
not certain that the necessary tariff increases will be viable in these county- and district-level
jurisdictions.

3.32 Another risk to the development outcome in rapidly growing and urbanizing China is
that the capacity of project infrastructure may be quickly exhausted. The IEG mission itself
saw the risk of this when visiting the TongGuanYi Raw Water Plant, which was built in 2008
and operating at 50 percent of its full capacity. IEG learned, however, that demand is
growing at 30 percent per year, meaning that its full capacity will be exhausted by 2016.
Local officials told IEG that plans are being prepared to double the plant’s capacity, but IEG
                                              30


did not perceive a sense of urgency to act now in order to be prepared for that imminent
event.

3.33   The risk to development outcome is rated Significant.

BANK PERFORMANCE

3.34 Quality at Entry – Moderately Satisfactory. The project was well designed for
focusing on priority infrastructure needs of Chongqing’s secondary cities, notably in the
sectors of water supply, flood protection, and roads. The selected components reflected the
priorities set by the local authorities.

3.35 On the other hand the project did not articulate its development objectives. The
project did not offer clearly defined concepts of efficiency or effectiveness hence leaving the
stated project development objectives open to interpretation, which consequently made
project evaluation difficult. The results framework did not address these matters directly,
leaving a monitoring gap between the project implementation and the achievement of the
project development objectives. The team could have done a better job by clearly defining
the “efficiency” and “effectiveness” aspects of the project and preparing a better M&E
framework to monitor the achievement of the project development objectives.

3.36 Quality at Supervision – Moderately Satisfactory. Project supervision by the Bank
was conducted from the Beijing office, allowing regular contact with implementing agencies
in the field. This particularly benefited local level county and district governments that were
working with the Bank for the first time. This was particularly useful for local officials to
familiarize themselves with Bank procedures for procurement and disbursement. On the
other hand, because of the many activities scattered in 10 counties, cities, and districts and
the limited supervision budget available, it was impossible for the Bank team to visit all the
project sites at each supervision mission, leaving some implementation issues unattended.
For example, during field visits to the Qianjiang 10 km road and bridges, the IEG mission
noted delayed and incomplete bridge work of which the Bank project team was not fully
aware.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

3.37 Government Performance – Satisfactory. The government refers to the Chongqing
Municipal Government and the implementation agencies at the local government level. The
municipal government was fully committed to the project and had taken measures to support
the project. It financed a fully staffed and permanent Project Management Office (PMO) to
support the project. Counterpart funding was ensured at a substantially increased amount; for
this specific project, the actual project cost was $90 million higher than the estimated. The
municipal government together with the local governments increased their counterpart
funding from the originally committed US$84.5 million to US$176.97 million. In addition,
the government ensured full compliance with Bank rules and policies even at high cost to the
Borrower. The Chinese Borrower at all levels usually cares about the relationship with the
Bank and is willing to go extra miles to meet the Bank’s requirements. The Chongqing
municipality was especially so in dealing with this project. One example is the resettlement
                                              31


of project affected persons (PAPs) in Qianjiang County, as described in the earlier section.
The government invested an additional $US1 million to satisfy this group of PAPs. The
overall rating for Chongqing Municipal Government is Satisfactory.

3.38 Implementing Agency Performance – Moderately Satisfactory. The
implementation agencies refer to the Chongqing PMO and the local agencies responsible for
the specific project activities. The Chongqing PMO is experienced as it has been
coordinating the preparation and implementation of other Bank-financed projects in
Chongqing. For this specific project, the PMO was a focal point between Chongqing
municipality and the Bank, coordinating and providing guidance and daily support for the
preparation and implementation of the project which had five components and 14 sub-
activities in 10 counties and districts. The project was closed on time, and no big issues or
noncompliance with the Bank’s policies were reported. The local agencies were responsible
for completing the project activities located in their domain. For those local agencies that had
no much experience with the Bank before, dealing with the project was not an easy task.
There were delays in the execution of some large contracts because of the lack of
coordination between the resettlement action plan and civil works management. As stated in
the previous section, the project activities were completed with mixed quality, and there are
signs in many places of inadequate maintenance.

3.39   The overall rating for the implementation agencies is Moderately Satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

3.40 The likelihood of successful monitoring and evaluation of this project was
compromised at the outset by an incomplete results framework (PAD, p. 19) that used a
different formulation of the objective from that introduced earlier in that report (PAD, p. 2)
as well as from that in the loan agreement (Schedule 2). Eleven of its 15 performance
indicators call generically for evidence of the intended result without specifying what that
evidence should be or how it should be gathered and measured. Of these 11, the four
outcome indicators did not indicate how progress toward improved efficiency and
effectiveness of infrastructure service delivery, the project’s objective, would be measured.
Nor was the results framework built around baseline measures or target values of the
indicators. To be useful in guiding project implementation and for follow-up, the results
framework should have specified the variables for data collection and analysis that could
demonstrate project progress in delivering outputs and achieving its objectives. Against this
backdrop, little was achieved in the M&E design, though tracking the project outputs was
detailed and incorporated in the M&E of this project.

3.41 The ICR reports (ICR, p. 23) nevertheless that a computer-based M&E system, linked
to a project management information system, was developed early during project
implementation, which enabled the timely reporting of implementation progress. At the site
visit, the local entities responsible for project implementation at the local level were able to
provide the IEG mission with information on the outcomes and impacts of specific project
activities implemented in their city, county, or district. However, there was no
comprehensive M&E system in use to determine progress toward achieving project
objectives. The M&E of the project is rated as Modest.
                                               32


4. Lessons
•   Great care is needed in project preparation and appraisal to ensure that all
    proposed interventions are feasible. In the case of the Tianjin-II project, some
    originally designed components and activities, such as the Dagunanlu interchanges and
    the water reuse activities, were cancelled or modified because the feasibility studies
    showed that these activities were not feasible. The changes led to project restructuring
    and implementation delays. The Bank projects should have more thorough and solid
    project appraisal including the detailed feasibility studies.

•   A well-phrased and clearly defined project development objective statement and a
    comprehensive M&E framework is a key step towards a results-focused Bank
    operation. Both the Tianjin-II and Chongqing small cities project face similar challenges
    of PDOs that are not clearly defined and non-comprehensive M&E framework, making it
    difficult to monitor and assess the project implementation progress towards achieving the
    development objectives. IEG’s interaction with task team leaders across the Bank
    suggests that phrasing an accurate and relevant PDO appears to be a common challenge;
    more support to the project teams is needed in this area.

•   By continuing to tailor its services and instruments to the more localized needs and
    capacity of the Borrower, the Bank can maintain the effectiveness of its support. The
    interaction with local officers in Tianjin and Chongqing suggested that there is still strong
    demand for the Bank’s support in urban development in China. However, in more
    developed urban areas like Tianjin, demand is mainly for the Bank’s innovation and
    knowledge rather than the Bank’s financing. For less developed urban areas like the
    secondary cities in Chongqing, the Bank’s financing and project management
    experiences with special attention to environment and vulnerable groups are very much
    appreciated.

•   While the Bank’s engagement has supported the development in China, its
    prolonged internal decision-making processes may decrease its competitiveness in
    helping address fast-paced changes. In the case of Tianjin-II, the project
    implementation often could not keep up with local development, resulting in the
    cancelation of project activities. Such an experience is quite common across the Bank’s
    projects in China. Inefficiency on the Bank side is often cited by the borrower and the
    Bank’s TTLs as the main reason. The Chinese borrower suggested that the Bank could
    become more efficient though simplifying the procedures and granting TTLs more
    authority so that the TTLs could make more timely decisions to accelerate project
    implementation.
                                                    33


References
“Implementation Completion and Results Report: Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure Improvement
       Project,” World Bank, December 2012.
“Implementation Completion and Results Report: The Second Tianjin Urban Development and
       Environment Project,” World Bank, December 2012.
“Project Appraisal Document for Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure Improvement Project,” World
         Bank, Washington, D.C., May 2005.
“Project Appraisal Document for the Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project,” World
         Bank, Washington, D.C., April 2003.
“Urban China: Toward Efficient, Inclusive, and Sustainable Urbanization,” World Bank, State Council of
        China.
China Eleventh Five Year Plan (2006–2010).
China National Statistic Year Book (2012, 2013).
China Twelfth Five Year Plan (2011–2015).
Chongqing Eleventh Five Year Plan (2006–2010).
Chongqing Statistic Year Book (2012, 2013).
Country Assistance Strategy for China (FY03–05).
Country Partnership Strategy for China (FY13–16).
Tianjin Statistic Year Book (2012, 2013).
Tianjin Transport Twelfth Five Year Plan (2011–2015).
                                                  35


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
SECOND TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT (LOAN 4695) -
P040599

Key Project Data (amounts in US$, millions)
                                                 Appraisal             Actual or              Actual as % of
                                                 estimate           current estimate         appraisal estimate
Total project costs                               334.00                312.90                      85
Loan amount (IDA)                                 150.00                    147.25                  98
Grant (GEF)                                        8.20                       8.19                  100
Cofinancing                                            -                       -                     -
Cancellation                                           -                       -                     -


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements

                  FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13
Appraisal                    1.5   10.5   15.2   21.2        36.2      66.2 121.2 145.2 150.0 150.0
estimate
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)                1.5   10.5   15.2   21.2        30.7      42.0    71.7     99.9 134.8 147.2
Actual as % of           100       100    100     100         85       63          59   69     90        98
appraisal
Date of last disbursement:


Project Dates
                                                            Original                           Actual
Concept Review                                             4/16/2002                         4/16/2002
Appraisal                                                  12/23/2002                        12/23/2002
Board approval                                             05/20/2003                        05/20/2003
Effectiveness                                              03/10/2004                        03/10/2004
Closing date                                               06/30/2010                        06/30/2012
ANNEX A                                    36

Staff Time and Cost

      Stage of Project Cycle                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                       Number of staff weeks     US$, thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
               FY98                                    0                         15.40
               FY99                                    0                         22.66
               FY00                                   5.14                       18.59
               FY01                                  13.49                       59.59
               FY02                                  51.59                      237.60
               FY03                                  52.02                      223.85
               FY04                                   0.20                         1.41
                               Total               122.44                       579.01
Supervision/ICR
               FY04                                  18.20                      105.25
               FY05                                  15.17                       57.78
               FY06                                  16.21                       60.80
               FY07                                  22.43                       74.78
               FY08                                  19.70                       81.06
               FY09                                  16.08                       78.39
               FY10                                  14.41                       82.86
               FY11                                  16.69                       74.88
               FY12                                   9.11                       80.61
               FY13                                   2.83                       13.44
                               Total               150.83                       709.85
                                              37                                ANNEX A

Task Team Members

       Names                                 Title                    Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Songsu Choi           Task Team Leader (2004 2008)                  EASIN           TTL
Suhail Jme’an         Task Team Leader/Senior Financial Analyst     EASIN           TTL
                      (2008-2012)
Greg J. Browder       Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist (2004-2008) LCSUW
Vellet E. Fernandes   Program Assistant                             EASIN
Boping Gao            Roads Engineer/Consultant                     EASIN
Jianjun Guo           Senior Procurement Specialist                 EAPPR
Anne K. Harrison      Temporary                                      ISGPS
Shunong Hu            Senior Water Engineer                         EASCS
Eddie Ke-Siong        Hum Infrastructure Engineer/Consultant        EASIN
Urvaksh D. Patel      Operations Specialist/Consultant              EASIN
David I               Sr. Financial Management Specialist           EAPFM
Haixia Li             Sr. Financial Management Specialist           EAPFM
Xiaoping Li           Senior Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC
Zhefu Liu             Senior Social Development Spec                EASCS
Shomik Raj            Lead Urban Transport Specialist               LCSTR
Mehndiratta
Edouard Henri Motte   Wastewater Engineer/Consultant                EASCS
Xin Ren               Environmental Specialist                      EASCS
Jiang Ru              Senior Environmental Specialist               EASER
John Smithson         Institutional Specialist/Consultant           EASCS
Chongwu Sun           Senior Environmental Specialist               EASCS
Hardy M. Wong         Solid Waste Engineer/Consultant               EASCS
Guangming Yan         Urban Specialist                              EASCS
Yan Zong              Transport Specialist                          EASCS
Youlan Zou            Consultant                                    EASCS
Mariana Montiel       Legal Counsel
Zhuo Yu               Financial Management Specialist
Bekir Onursal         Environmental Specialist
Hubert Nove-
Josserand
Rodney Strickland
ANNEX A                                   38


Hoi-Chan Nguyen
Richard Scurfield   Peer Reviewer: Transportation
David Hanrahan      Peer Reviewer: Environment
Alex McPhail        Peer Review: Sewerage and Finance
                                             39                                           ANNEX A


CHONGQING SMALL CITIES INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 4794) –
P081161

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                            Appraisal              Actual or          Actual as % of
                                            estimate            current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                          264.50                 263.28                  99.5
Loan amount (IDA)                            180.00                  175.09                97.3
Grant (IDA)                                    8.4                    8.6                   100
Cofinancing                                       -                    -                     -
Cancellation                                      -                    -                     -


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements

                             FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                2.9          14.5    52.7 110.8 127.5 154.4 175.8 180.0
Actual (US$M)                            2.9          14.5    52.7 110.8 127.5 156.1 168.0 175.1
Actual as % of appraisal                 100          100     100    100      100   101     96      97
Date of last disbursement:


Project Dates
                                                       Original                        Actual
Concept Review                                        9/11/2013                      9/11/2013
Appraisal                                             02/03/2005                     02/03/2005
Board approval                                        06/21/2005                     06/21/2005
Effectiveness                                         02/28/2006                     02/28/2006
Closing date                                          06/30/2012                     06/30/2012


Staff Time and Cost
       Stage of Project Cycle                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                         No. of staff weeks                 USD ‘000 (including travel
                                                                              and consultant costs)
Lending
                 FY03                                         4.91                          59.74
                 FY04                                        23.89                         147.07
                 FY05                                        48.28                         340.58
                                Total:                       77.08                         547.39
Supervision/ICR
ANNEX A                                        40


                FY06                                      4.89                           47.92
                FY07                                      7.10                           48.56
                FY08                                      9.00                           65.09
                FY09                                  11.93                              63.13
                FY10                                     9.38                            74.26
                FY11                                  11.34                              68.56
                FY12                                   6.73                              38.19
                FY13                                      2.6                            41.59
                            Total:                       62.97                          447.30


Task Team Members

      Names                            Title                     Unit           Responsibility/
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Tom Zearley         Task Team Leader                        EASUR       Overall
Andres Liebenthal   Safeguards Sector Coordinator           EASUR       Safeguards
Dan Gibson          Social/Resettlement Advisor             EASUR       Social &
                                                                        Resettlement
Lixin Gu            Environmental Specialist                EASUR       Environment
Margaret Png        Legal Specialist                        LEGEA       Legal
Xiaofeng Li         Program Assistant                       EACCF       Project Support
Peishen Wang        Environmental Specialist                EASES       Environment
Chaogang Wang       Resettlement Specialist                 EASES       Resettlement
Mei Wang            Economist                               EASPR       Economic
Zhentu Liu          Procurement Specialist                  EAPCO       Procurement
David I             Financial Management Specialist         ECPCO       Financial
Chandra             Municipal Engineer                      Consultant Engineering
Godavitarne
Dahong Li           Safeguard Specialist                    Consultant Safeguards
Patrick McCarthy    Financial Specialist                    Consultant Financial
Rod Stickland       Transport Specialist                    Consultant Transport
Xuemei Guo          Team Assistant                          EACCF       Project Support
Supervision/ICR
Xin Chen            Operations Analyst                      EACCF       Operation Support
Yi Dong             Sr Financial Management Specialist      EASFM       Financial
Boping Gao          Consultant                              EASIN       Transport
Daniel R. Gibson    Lead Social Development Specialist      ECSOQ       Social
                                              41                                ANNEX A


A. D. C.             Consultant                         EASCS     Engineering
Godavitarne
David I              Senior Financial Management        EASFM     Financial
                     Specialist
Xiaofeng Li          Operations Analyst                 FEUUR     Operation Support
Dahong Li            Consultant                         FEUUR     Environment
Zong-Cheng Lin       Senior Social Development Specialist EASCS   Social and Resettlement
Xujun Liu            Consultant                         EASIN     Procurement
Zhentu Liu           Senior Procurement Specialist      EASR2     Procurement
Ian P. J. Nightingale Lead Procurement Specialist       OPSOR     Procurement
Margaret Png         Lead Counsel                       LEGLE     Legal
Chongwu Sun          Senior Environmental Specialist    EASCS     Environment
Peng Sun             Consultant                         EASCS     Bidding Document
                                                                  Review
Chaogang Wang        Senior Social Development Specialist SDV     Social
Haiyan Wang          Senior Finance Officer             CTRLN     Financial
Peishen Wang         Consultant                         EASIN     Environment
Dawei Yang           Consultant                         EASTS     Procurement
Songling Yao         Senior Social Development Specialist EASCS   Social
Paul Kriss           Lead Urban Specialist              EASCS     TTL
Ji You               Urban Specialist                   EASCS     TTL
Thomas L. Zearley    Consultant                         MNADE     Project Adviser
Zhun Zhang           Consultant                         EASCS     Institution
                                           42


Annex B. Project Mapping, Photographic Evidence, and
Learning
   Figure B.1. Tianjin-II Project Mapping




Figure B.2. Baidilu (NanKai district) before Project (Water Accumulated up to 40cm
for more than Eight Hours during the Raining Season)




Learning through on-the-job project experiences
An important question applicable to all Bank-financed operations, arising with increased
frequency in China is what Bank and Borrower learn through their collaboration. It is a
particularly pertinent question to pose in the context of an expanding and more prosperous
China. It has been apparent for some time that the Chinese government does not need the
Bank’s money to fund its own development. Its own resources are more than enough for that.
Today, China lends more to developing countries than the World Bank itself does. In that
case, can learning itself be one of the drivers behind this collaboration? Certainly, Chinese
                                              43                                    ANNEX B


officials working on Bank-financed projects often told the IEG mission that the experience
helped them learn more about managing development within a market economy model. But,
with 35 years of market-economy experience today, 33 of those with the Bank, what kind of
learning may be going on today? From the perspective of the projects reviewed here, this
section brings together evidence that the mission gathered of learning by the Chinese side
and by the Bank too.

China learning from the Bank: The IEG mission found many project interlocutors in the
cities spontaneously highlighting that they had learned a lot from working on the Bank-
financed projects. Most of these affirmations were generic, so the mission probed with more
inquiries about exactly what had been learned. A response given more than once was
learning about “management concepts”, which included but not limited to: rigorous
economic analysis to avoid the common over-design issue in China; emphasizing sustainable
development concept by granting enough attention to environmental and cultural protection;
FIDIC (International Federation of Consulting Engineers) type of input contract
management; and, ensuring high technical standard by using international consultant
services, etc. In addition, finance officials in both Tianjin and Chongqing told the IEG
mission that they were always on the look-out for how they could improve their own
procedures for procurement and disbursements following the Bank model, without
necessarily adopting the Bank policies in these areas in full.

Another “management concept” reportedly learned was giving more importance to on-site
reviews of works in progress by supervising officials. Previously, according to IEG
interlocutors, the Bank managers would rarely make visits to project sites, a responsibility left
entirely with the project teams. Local officials in Chongqing were impressed by the efforts of
World Bank missions to make site visits, including one by the Bank’s regional vice president
of East Asia, who visited flood protection works some 200 km from Chongqing city.

As development policy and urban management in China shifts to secondary cities and small
towns, the appetite and scope for learning expand. This was particularly clear from the
experience of the Chongqing Small Cities project. The Bank itself, in shifting its focus from
the main urban centers toward secondary cities also brings opportunities for learning to local
staff of second-tier local authorities keen to learn about procurement, financial management,
human resource management and asset management, operation and maintenance that their
counterparts in large cities may have already learned long ago (ICR, p. 16).

Rather than relying on the Bank to do this directly but ad hoc through individual operations
in the country, China and it provinces need a more systematic approach to learning
commensurate with the enormous scale of their urban development needs. Such an approach
could take advantage of the knowledge of experienced officials of larger cities, by enabling
them to share it with their counterparts in smaller cities. Helping to design and organize such
a systematic approach would be an area in which the Bank could offer substantial assistance.

Experiences such as these reported in the project cities confirm the view of central
government officials that Bank-financed projects provide valuable on-the-job training for
local professionals. According to officials in Beijing, the Bank’s comparative advantage in
ANNEX B                                            44


this lay in its ability through the projects to deploy high quality international professionals in
China. With these in mind, local officials in Tianjin told the IEG mission that they would like
the Bank to bring in more “advanced” projects, not necessarily complex ones, which they
believed would be more likely to involve new knowledge and learning opportunities.

The IEG mission heard from Bank staff about what they believed to be a possible constraint
on learning by the Chinese side, however. While Chinese officials were very open to learning
about new ideas, incorporating the new knowledge into the policy process could be difficult
especially if it involved implementation delays in the short run.

The Bank learning from China 17: During its discussions with Bank staff and consultants
working on China from headquarters or the Bank country office in Beijing, the IEG mission
heard examples of learning by the Bank itself through its operational collaboration in China.
They included the current Urbanization Study being carried out in partnership with China’s
State Council. Rather than an example of one learning from the other, this is a case of joint
research and learning.

One staff member noted that the Bank can learn a lot from China on the planning side of
urban investments. What the Bank did learn was not always made clear, however. One
example was how the lack of synergies on the China side to ensure that funding was always
available when needed showed the importance of aligning financial management with
investment planning. This is probably, however, more a question of confirming existing
knowledge than learning something new, since such an alignment should already be in the
tool kit of all operational staff of the Bank.

Bank staff also spoke about what they had learned from China about poverty reduction,
where China has achieved more than any other country in the world. IEG’s Bank interlocutor
noted that the Bank learned that direct poverty alleviation cannot be achieved through cash
grants alone. More important is to connect poor people to the economy to help them engage
in markets—access to jobs, and sending their goods to the market, for instance. Currently,
IEG was told, all poor people in China now live within three hours’ access to a major road.
The Bank is currently in the process of documenting the 100 best cases of poverty reduction
in China, with a view to disseminating knowledge about this experience.

On the Chinese side, officials in Beijing told the IEG mission that the Bank-financed projects
in China offered Bank staff opportunities to learn about China itself, although they felt that
much knowledge of this kind may not be readily applicable elsewhere in the world.
Knowledge of the rising challenges of the urban environment in Chinese cities and how to
deal with them might be an exception. Some officials also felt that the Bank should learn
from China on how to be more efficient. Project implementation could often not keep up with
local development, resulting in the cancelation of project activities, as in the case of the
Tianjin II project.

17
   Several Bank interlocutors were surprised by IEG asking the question about what the Bank had learned from
China. It was as if they assumed that the learning could only be in the opposite direction, namely China’s
learning from the Bank.
                                            45


Annex C. List of Persons Met
Bank Staff

Binyam Reja, lead transport specialist, EASCS

Gerald Paul Ollivier, Senior infrastructure specialist, EASCS

Ji You, Urban Specialist and the TTL for Chongqing small town project, EASCS

Maggie Xin Chen, Operations analyst, EACCF

Mara K. Warwick, Operations manager, EACCF

Paul Procee, lead urban specialist, EASCS

Suhail J.S JmeAn, Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist, EASWE

Chinese Government:

MOF:

JianJun Wu, Director of International Department, Ministry of Finance,
wujianjun5168@yahoo.com

Na KeJun, International Department, Ministry of Finance, 18610545772 (cell)

Chongqing:

Chen, Rui, Chongqing PMO, chenruidi@qq.com

Dong, Qi, Deputy Director of Chongqing PMO, dongqi8@hotmail.com

Duan, Rulei: Chongqing Water Investment Company

Hu, You, RongChang County, 13509474713

Lei, Jian, RongChang County, 13883877158

Li, JinCai, RongChang County, 18580708966

Li, Junchen, RongChang County, 13908392920

Li, Qin, RongChang County, 13983690011

Mr. Lei: Chongqing Water Usage Company

Mr. Peng, Director of Qianjiang City Investment Company
ANNEX C                                    46


Mr. Zhang, Deputy Director of Qianjiang City Investment Company

Mr. Zhang: Chongqing Environmental and Sanitation Company

Sun, FeiHu, Senior Engineer, Chongqing RunRong Water Resources Development Company

Wang, Sheng: Chongqing Environmental and Sanitation Company

Xue, MuSha, RongChang County, 1370940278

Yang, Min, Chongqing RunRong Water Resources Development Company

Zhou, Linjun, Director of Chongqing PMO, zhoulinjun2008@sina.com

Zhou, Tao, Deputy Director of Chongqing PMO, 363811589@qq.com

Tianjin:

Chen Yan, deputy director of Tianjin financial bureau, cheyanti621@163.com

Fu, Xiangdong, Tianjin City Utility and Construction Company

Liu, Zhenjiang, general manager of Tianjin eco-city water investment and construction
company, liuzj@eco-city.net.cn

Ma, FengJu, Tianjin financial bureau

Mr. Tang, Tianjin PMO

Mr. Wang, advisor to Tianjin PMO

Mr. Zhang, director of Tianjin Financial bureau

Ms. Bai, advisor to Tianjin PMO

Qi, Wenjie, director of Tianjin PMO, tjpmo@public.tpt.tj.cn

Wang, Hongquan, road and pipe network company

Wang, Zheng, senior engineer, Tianjin International Engineering Consulting Company,
wangzhen22@163.com

Yan, Li, Tianjin PMO

Yao, Chunwang, Tianjin City Utility and Construction Company

Yue Lin, senior engineer, Tianjin International Engineering Consulting Company,
jasminelinlin@163.com
                                         47                  ANNEX C


Zhang, Qian, Tianjin City Utility and Construction Company

Zhang, Wenchen, Yingcheng Wastewater company

Zhu, ShunQing, bus company
