Report No. 772-SI                                                                      FILE  COPY
Singapore
Appraisal of the
Environmental Control Project
May 29, 1975
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Water Supply Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
he published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness ot the report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SINGAPORE
APPRAISAL OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
May 29, 1975
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =    Singapore Dollar (S$)
S$1.00                    =    S Cents 100
US$1.00                   =    S$2.24
US$1 million              -    S$2.24 million
S$1.00                    =    US$0.4464
S$1 million               -    US$446,400
MEASURES & EQUIVALENTS
l/cd      =    liters per capita per day
m3        =    cubic meter = 1000 liters = 220 Imperial gallons
tonnes/day=    1000 kilogram per day
MW        =    Megawatt
kWh       =    Kilowatt hour
kJ/kg     =    Kilojoules per kilogram
cu ft     =    cubic foot
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
MOE       -    Ministry of the Environment
SD        -    Sewerage Department
EED       -    Environmental Engineering Division
ESD       -    Engineering Services Department
HDB       -    Housing & Development Board
JTC       -    Jurong Town Corporation
PUB       -    Public Utilities Board
PWD       -    Public Works Department
WHO       -    World Health Organization
CPI       -    Consumer Price Index
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 through March 31



SINGAPORE
APPRAISAL OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....................................            i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION ..... 1
II. THE SECTOR    .....    1
Background ...... ..................                      I
The Ministry of the Environment (MOE) and its
Functions ..................                        3
The Environmental Public Health Division ..               3
The Environmental Engineering Division         ..         4
Solid Wastes Management .  ...  5
III.   THE PROJECT..                      ..    ........               5
Project Description....                                   5
Cost Estimates           ...                              6
Amount of the Loan ..........             .......         7
Detailed Design, Construction Supervision and
Project Management ....... . .                      7
Procurement .8.....                       . . ...8
Disbursement....    8
Closing Date ...................                          9
Ecological Aspects                 ..9
IV.   JUSTIFICATION ................. ........................ .    9
Demand for Solid Waste Disposal..                         9
Least Cost Solution and Project Justification ...   11
V.   THE BORROWER       .........................................   12
The Borrower .       ...................................   12
Insurance ............      . ..       ..      . . .    14
Billing and Collection ...................               14
Accounting .....................    14
Audit ............                                       15
VI.  FINANCE                ................   16
General .......             ..          .......  16
Present Financial Position ......................   17
Financing Plan ...            ......... 17
Tariffs for Solid Wastes Services and
Financial Projections ......................   19
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION            ...          21



-2-
sANNEXES
1.   Proposed expenditures on MOE Hawkers' Centers.
2.   Project description and basic design criteria.
3.   Estimated costs of the project.
4.   Estimated schedule of disbursements.
5.   Record of refuse output 1969-74.
6.   Projections of population and refuse production.
7.   Monitoring indicators.
8.   Present refuse collection and disposal arrangements.
9.   Schedule of fees.
10.   (a)  Estimated income & expenditure statements.
(b) Estimated operating expenses of solid wastes collection,
removal and dumping.
(c) Estimated operating expenses of incineration plant.
11.   Estimated sources and application of funds.
12.   Estimated balance sheets.
13.   Assumptions for financial statements.
CHARTS
9727      MOE Organization Chart.
9728      Incineration Plant Proposed Organization Chart.
9729      ESD Organization Chart.
9730      Schedule for design, procurement and construction of
the project.
9731      Projected Refuse Output (Annex 6).
4MAP
11563      Location of the incinerator and the existing and proposed
tipping areas.



SINGAPORE
APPRAISAL OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a project for collection,
incineration and disposal of Singapore's solid wastes, for which a Bank loan
of US$25.0 million is proposed. The project forms a part of the Government's
long-term program for improvement of the quality of life on the island. The
program includes improvement and extension of the public water supply, sewer-
age and storm water drainage systems, development of the solid waste col-
lection and disposal arrangements and construction of hygienic public food
centers.
ii.       The borrower will be the Republic of Singapore, and the agency
responsible will be the Ministry of the Environment (MDE). The Bank has
already made four loans to the Government in the water supply and sewerage
sector. Two water supply projects and one sewerage project have been com-
pleted, and a second sewerage project (financed from Loan 918-SI) is now
under execution. These projects, besides financing the expansion of water
and sewerage facilities, have contributed significantly to building efficient
institutions for water and sewerage operations.
iii.      An important facet of MOE's program for environmental improvement
is its control and management of solid wastes which are presently disposed
of by sanitary landfill. The total recorded volume of solid wastes gene-
rated in Singapore was 1,788 tonnes/day in 1974 and is expected to grow
to about 2,600 tonnes/day in 1980 and to about 3,800 tonnes/day in 1986.
With the limited area of the island, land-use planning has assumed high
priority and measures to conserve land to meet the growing needs of popu-
lation, industry and agriculture have become urgent. If the existing
sanitary landfill of all refuse is continued, the land allocated by Govern-
ment for refuse tipping will be fully utilized by about 1986. Alternative
means of disposal of solid wastes such as barging to off-shore islands,
composting, compaction and incineration were therefore considered by Govern-
ment and after a thorough study incineration has been selected as the most
appropriate method. The primary objective of the proposed project is to
reduce the refuse for tipping by about 1,000 tonnes/day. The other objectives
include development of sound procedures for solid waste management and placing
the operations on a financially viable footing.
iv.       The project consists of the construction of an incineration plant
at Ulu Pandan capable of receiving, handling and incinerating an average of
about 1,200 tonnes of refuse per day and the purchase of about 200 vehicles.
The plant will generate about 10.5 MW of electric power from the waste heat



- ii -
of which about 20% will be used to meet its operational needs and the surplus
of about 56 million kWh a year will be fed into the electricity grid. The
other components of the project include land, access roads, engineering
services and training of staff.
v.-       The estimated total cost of the project is about S$123.5 million
(about IJS$55 million) with a foreign exchange component of about US$40
million.  The Bank loan will finance about 45% of the total project cost
or about 62% of the foreign exchange component. The balance will be pro-
vided by Government. The total cash requirement for solid wastes management
during the project construction period (FY 1975-76 through 1979-80) is about
S$152 million (about US$68 million) of which the Bank loan will meet 37%,
Government contribution 50%, and the balance of 13% will be covered by
internal cash generation.
vi.       The project will be carried out by the Engineering Services
Department of the Ministry of the Environment with the assistance of engineer-
ing consultants. The incinerator which will be located in an area reserved
for noxious and offensive trades and industries will comply with the Clean
Air Act of Singapore. Its design incorporates appropriate anti-pollution
measures.  The arrangements for design, procurement, construction super-
vision, management and control of the project are suitable.
vii.      All construction and supply contracts will be awarded on the basis
of-international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's gnide-
lines for procurement. Local contractors are likely to win the contracts
for civil works, probably sub-contracting the construction of the chimney to
a foreign specialist firm. The major mechanical and electrical equipment
will be procured from abroad.
viii.     At present, solid wastes services are highly subsidized.  However,
Government proposes to bring these services gradually to a self-supporting
status. In pursuance of this policy, tariffs for trade wastes were revised
effective January 1975. Also, the Housing & Development Board and Jurong
Toirn Corporation, which were exempt from payment of fees for residential
units within their estates, are now paying at the same rates as other
domestic premises. Further tariff increases will be necessary to cover
operating expenses including depreciation. In particular, a disposal charge.
will be levied on industrial and institutional refuse (which is presently
allowed to be dumped free) partly as a means of generating additional revenue
but mainly and more importantly as an economic incentive to reduce the quan-
tity of wastes to conserve scarce land for tipping sites.
ix'.      The project is the least cost solution for volume reduction and
disposal of refuse given the scarcity of land for sanitary landfill in
Singapore.
x.        The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million equiv-
alent for a term, of 19 years including a grace period of 4 years.



SINGAPOREZ
AIPTPISAL OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Singapore has requested a loan to help finance a
US$55 million project for collection, incineration and disposal of solid
wastes of Singapore's urban areas, as a part of a long-term program for im-
provement of sanitation standards in Singapore. A loan of US$25 million is
proposed to meet part of the foreign exchange costs. The project will be
carried out by the Government's Ministry of the Environment (MOE).
1.02      The program includes improvement and extension of the public water
supply, sewerage and storm water drainage systems, development of the solid
waste collection and disposal arrangements and construction of hygienic public
food centers. The Bank has already made four loans to the Government of
Singapore in these fields, two for water supply and two for sewerage. The
two sewerage loans, in addition to financing the extension of sewerage
facilities, have contributed significantly to the development of the Sewer-
age Department as an efficient and viable organization in the field of
environmental control.
1.03      The success achieved by the two sewerage projects influenced the
Government to seek Bank assistance with the solid wastes project. Late in
1972, at the request of the Singapore Government, the Bank coumented on the
terms of reference for the appointment of consultants to prepare a feasibil-
ity study on solid wastes disposal. The feasibility study has been completed
by Messrs. Fichtner Consulting Engineers, Stuttgart, West Germany, and forms
the basis of the proposed project.
1.04      This report is based on the work of a pre-appraisal mission, com-
posed of Messrs. Rajagopalan, Saunders and MacWilliam, which was in Singapore
in December 1974, and an appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. Reekie and
Kapur, which visited Singapore in February-March 1975.
1l. THE SECTOR
Background
2.0t      Singapore has an area of only 225 square miles.  Its present popu-
lation of about 2.2 million, which is concentrated mainly in the urban areas
in the south central part of the island, is expected to grow to about 3 mil-
lion by the turn of the century. With the limited area of the island, land-
use planning has assumed high priority and measures to conserve land to meet
the growing needs of population, industry and agriculture have become urgent.



-2-
2.02      The Government is intent on improving the quality of life on the
island. It has taken the necessary legislative, financial and administrative
action to pursue its policy of environmental and sanitation control to con-
serve resources and improve public health standards. The Environmental Public
Health Act has been supported by a number of regulations governing littering,
public cleansing and the activities of hawkers. Air pollution is governed
by the Clean Air Act and subsequent regulations setting standards for emis-
sions. Water pollution is controlled under the Local Government Integration
Act and supporting regulations. To coordinate the efforts in the environ-
mental field the Ministry of the Environment was formed in 1972 by absorbing
from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of National Development those
departments dealing with environmental health services and pollution control.
2.03      Providing housing for the poor and rehabilitating those moved from
the slums are important components of the Government's efforts to improve the
standard of living. In this field the Housing Development Board (HDB) has
done cormendable work. The total number of units completed by HDB to the
end of 1974 is about 175,000 and it is planning to add 30,000 to 35,000 units
each year. The Public Utilities Board (PUB) has also made a substantial
contribution to improving public health by a commensurate expansion of water
supply facilities. The two Bank loans (405-MA and 503-SI) helped increase
the production, treatment and distribution of water. The Asian Development
Dank has also made a loan to PUB for the Kranji-Pandan water supply project.
About 97% of the population a e supplied with water by PUB.  Water sales in
1974 averaged about 500,000 m /day which is equivalent to about 232 l/cd.
Moreover, effective control of wastage and leakage has kept unaccounted-for
water to about 10% and total production is equivalent to about 260 1/cd.
This is a very modest figure for a tropical city of Singapore's size and
economic activity. Comparable production figures for Bangkok and Kuala
Lumpur are about 600 1/cd and 340 1/cd respectively.
2.04      The increase in water supply and intensive housing development
brought to the forefront the urgent need for a rapid expansion of Singapore's
sewerage system. With the Bank's assistance under Loan 547-SI the sewerage
system has been expanded, old pumping stations and sewage treatment plants
have been improved and new pumping stations and treatment plants have been
constructed, The project has contributed positively to the needed expansion
of the sewer system and to improving the standards of living and sanitary
conditions in Singapore. Bank action contributed significantly to putting
the Sewerage DeDartment (SD) on a strong basis for undertaking future larger
projects. SD was reorganized on a functional basis and the tariffs for sewer-
age services adjusted so that these services, which were heavily subsidized
by Government until 1969, became financially self-supporting.
2.05      The sewerage system is being further expanded with the Bank's
assistance under Loan 918-SI. At the time of appraisal of the second sewer-
age project (March 1973), the Government planned to spend about S$75 million
on sewerage developments through 1979. In an attempt to offset some of the
effects of the recent recession, the Government has increased public ex-
penditures, Indcuding an acceleration of the sewerage program. Because



3-
of this and changes in the overall development program, amendments to planned
population densities and increased costs due to inflation, the sewerage
program from 1974 through 1979 is now expected to cost about S$250 million.
The Ministry of the Environment (MOE) and its Functions
2.06      MOE, for which the organization chart is shown in Chart 9727, has
a General Administration Headquarters and two divisions; the Environmental
Public Health Division and the Environmental Engineering Division. The
senior staff are dedicated and competent. MOE's present Acting Permanent
Secretary is a qualified civil engineer and a good administrator. The
Director of the Environmental Engineering Division is also an experienced
civil engineer. The Environmental Public Health Division is headed by a
Commissioner, who is a medical doctor.
The Environmental Public Health Division
2.07      The Environmental Public Health Division has eight operating depart-
ments, including the Hawkers' Department and Environmental Health Head-
quarters. The latter has responsibility for general hygiene and sanitation
and supervision of district offices for each of the seven districts into
which the country is divided. The district offices are responsible for
street cleaning, vector control (largely anti-malarial measures), refuse
collection and, when a refuse tipping area lies within a district, operation
of the tip. The solid wastes activities are dealt with more fully in
Section V, "The Borrower". The Hawkers' Department, which is a well managed
unit with an enthusiastic and competent staff, is responsible for supervis-
ing some 31,000 hawkers and for the operation of MOE hawkers' centers.
2.08      In Singapore, as in other southeast Asian countries, mobile hawkers
selling food present a potential health hazard, as it is extremely difficult
to exercise control over their standards of hygiene and cleanliness. In
addition, disposal of their solid wastes can cause pollution of drains and
water courses. To eliminate these hazards and improve the appearance of the
city, the Government has adopted an innovative, yet practical approach. All
hawkers will be moved into centers where relatively low-cost food can be
provided in hygienic conditions and pleasant surroundings. The centers will
provide water, electricity, gas and facilities for the sanitary disposal of
solid and liquid wastes. MOE inspectors exercise control over hygienic
standards in the preparation, storage and sale of food. The difference
between the standard of hygiene in the centers already operating and that
of the often squalid operations in backlanes is very impressive.
2.09      MOE has 53 food centers and markets in operation, four under con-
struction, seven planned for 1975-76 through 1978-79 and a further ten from
1979-80 through 1983-84. There are also a number of private hawker markets
and the Housing and Development Board (HDB), Jurong Town Corporation and the
Port of Singapore Authority also construct and operate food centers and mar-



-4 -
kets within their spheres of operations. Of the existing indoor hawkers'
stalls MOE is responsible for about 45%, HDB has 37% and private markets
account for 16x. The MOE proposed construction program is shown in Annex 1.
The new centers are planned on the basis of surveys of existing hawker popu-
lation. The sites for some of the centers have not yet been acquired and in
some instances have not even been identified.  In the event of it not being
possible to acquire a particular site, another center would be substituted
in the construction program.
2.10      The average cost (at 1974 prices and excluding land) of providing
a stall in the 1975-79 program is estimated at about S$10,000.  The license
fees for stalls in MOE centers range from S$10 to S$60 per month.  These
fees are identical to or only slightly higher than the corresponding license
fees for mobile hawkers and are kept low to encourage hawkers to move into
the centers. Moreover, the Government is providing a subsidy of about S$0.7
million p.a. to HDB to maintain stall rents at the same level as in MOE's
centers. The Government considers that the social, environmental and health
aspects justify the subsidies to the MOE and HDB centers.
The Environmental Engineering Division
2.11      The Environmental Engineering Division, which plans and implements
development projects, consists of the Sewerage Department (described briefly
in paragraphs 2.04 and 2.05), the Engineering Services Department (ESD) and
the Drainage Department. ESD provides engineering services for non-engineer-
ing units within the Ministry. It will be responsible for implementation
of the project and is described more fully in Section IV, "The Borrower".
2.12      The Drainage Department, which appears to be adequately staffed,
is responsible for surface water drainage. Because the catchment areas are
small, Singapore is not subject to massive flooding with loss of life and
serious damage to property. However, adequate drainage is a prerequisite
of urban development. The benefits include allowing maximum use of avail-
able land, reduction in flood damage, improvement in living conditions and
reduction of disruption to trade and communications.
2.13      Developers provide the roadside and estate drains within their
projects but the Drainage Department is responsible for the provision of
the main drainage system to convey the discharges to the sea. In addition,
the progressive development and increase in paved area has rendered many of
the older drainage systems inadequate to cope with the increased run-off.
The Drainage Department has prepared a development program which identifies
14 major projects in sufficient detail only to obtain order-of-magnitude
costs and studies are now proceeding on the more urgent schemes.  The 14
projects are estimated to cost about S$165 million, of which about S$42
million is planned between 1975-76 and 1979-80. During this period, ex-
penditures of about S$8 million are planned for minor drainage works, hydro-
logical studies and the purchase of mechanical equipment for cleaning and
maintaining the drainage systems.



Solid Wastes Management
2.14      An important element of MOE's program for environmental improvement
is its control and management of solid wastes. The total recorded volume of
solid wastes generated in Singapore averaged 1,788 tonnes/day in 1974 and is
projected to increase to about 2,600 tonnes/day in 1980 and to about 3,800
tonnes/day in 1986. (See paragraphs 4.01 and 4.02). At present the domestic
and commercial refuse is collected and transported by MoE's vehicles daily
for disposal by sanitary landfill at three sites. In the keen competition
for the limited land resources, the Government has accorded high priority
to industrial and residential use. As development progresses, less land will
be available for waste disposal while waste production will increase. The
Government has, therefore, considered alternative means of disposal and, after
a thorough comparison, selected incineration as most appropriate to
Singapore's needs. This project is the first of its kind to be undertaken
by the Government and is described in the following section.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The project comprises the construction of an incineration plant at
Ulu Pandan and the purchase of about 200 vehicles. The incinerator will be
located on high ground adjacent to the sewage treatment works in an area
reserved for noxious and offensive trades and industries. The location of
the incinerator and the existing and proposed tipping areas are shown on
Map 11563. Adequate safeguards against air pollution are included in the
incinerator design to ensure that emissions will comply with the Clean Air
Act of Singapore. The present estimates show that an additional unit will
have to be added to the incinerator about 1982 and a new incinerator or other
means of disposal will have to be provided shortly thereafter to dispose of
the larger quantities of refuse that will be produced by that time.
3.02      The incineration plant, which will be fully operational by 1979,
will be capable of receiving, handling and incinerating an average of about
1.200 tonnes of refuse per day in three units. The plant design will permit
addition of another unit later, raising the capacity to about 1,600 tonnes
per day. The unit capacity of 400 tonnes has been selected on the basis of
proven units of this size operating in Europe, Japan and the United States of
America. The plant will be intended primarily for the incineration of domestic
and trade refuse but will also be designed to incinerate a certain amount of
waste oil and other suitable industrial solid wastes. About 10.5 MW of elec-
tric power will be generated from the waste heat of the incineration plant of
which about 20% will be used to meet the operational needs of the plant. The
surplus balance of about 56 million kWh a year will be fed into the public
electricity supply. The basic design criteria and a full description of the
project are given in Annex 2.



6-
Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated costs of the project are detailed ln Annex 3.  A
summary is given below:
Percentage
S                ~~~~~US$         of Total
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Expenditure
-     -----------millions----
A. Incineration
Plant
Land                 0.6      -      0.6      0.3     -       0.3        0.5
Access Road          0.6    0.3      0.9      0.3    0.1      0.4        0.7
Civil Works         13.9    5.9    19.8       6.2    2.6      8.8       16.0
Mechanical and
Electrical
Equipment           5.2   47.2    52.4       2.3   21.1    23.4        42.5
20.3   53.4    73.7      9.1   23.8    32.9        59.7
Contingencies
Physical            1.9    5.3      7.2      0.8    2.4      3.2        5.9
Price               5.3   11.6    16.9       2.3    5.2      7.5       13.7
Engineering          2.0    3.5      5.5      1.0    1.5      2.5        4.4
Staff Training       1.3    0.2      1.5      0.6    0.1      0.7        1.2
Sub-Total         30.8   74.0   104.8    13.8   33.0    46.8          84.9
B. Vehicles
Refuse
Collection          2.3   13.0    15.3       1.0    5.8      6.8       12.4
Ash Disposal         0.1    0.3      0.4       -     0.2      0.2        0.3
Price Contingency   0.4    2.6       3.0      0.2    1.1      1.,3       2.4
Sub-Total          2.8   15.9    18.7       1.2    7.1      8.3       15.1
TOTAL             33.6   89.9   123.5    15.0   40.1    55.1         100.0
3.04      The land for the incinerator has been acquired and a contract for
the construction of the access road has already been let by the Public Works
.Department. The cost estimates of the incineration plant have been prepared
by Messrs. Fichtner Consulting Engineers, Stuttgart, West Germany. The
estimates for the mechanical and electrical plant are based on quotations
from suppliers. The estimates for civil works are based on recent tenders
for comparable work in Singapore. The physical contingency allowance of 10%
of the basic estimate should be adequate.



- a -
3.05      The b :e costs are estimated -Z.une 1975 prices. The price contin-
gency alOTa%ance, in accordance with the increases shown in the following
table, have been calculated on the base costs plus physical contingencies:
- - - Percentage Increase--
Year                      Civil Works Equipment & Vehicles
1975                           16             12
1976                           14             10
1977                           12              8
1978                           12              8
3.06      Consulting fees are based on the contract already signed with
Fichtners and are firm, except for the increased cost of Fichtners' site
supervisory staff in the event of an extended construction period. The
estimates of enginieering cost include the salaries of MOE staff on site
supervision. The training costs comprise staff salaries and subsistence
allowances while overseas.
Amount of the Loan
3.07      A Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent is proposed, which would
cover about 62% of the estimated foreign exchange expenditures, or about
452 of the project cost. The balance of the expenditures will be met by
Government from its own resources.
Detailed Design, Construction Supervision
and Project Management _
3.08      MOE will be responsible for carrying out the project and has
engaged Fichtners to provide the engineering services. Fichtners have
completed a preliminary study of the incineration plant which formed the
basis for the Government's approval to the project. Detailed design work
started on March 1 and Fichtners will be responsible for preparing tender
documents, evaluating bids, supervising construction and arranging for
training of MOE's staff on construction, operation, maintenance and commis-
sioning of the works. This arrangement is satisfactory. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that, until project completion, MOE will continue
to employ engineering consultants with appropriate qualifications and exper-
ience on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The contract with
Fichtners was signed in December 1973. It is estimated that about S$1 million
(US$0.4 million) will have been paid to Fichtners before the proposed Bank
loan is signed, but no retroactive financing of the consultant's services is
proposed.
3.09      The access road now being built will be adequate for the construc-
tion of the project. It will not, however, be capable of handling the in-
creased traffic which will be generated by the plant and the Government has



plans for substantial improvements to the public road network in this vici-
nity. During negotiations assurances were obtained that, prior to project
completion, sufficient roads will be constructed to provide adequate access
for operational vehicles.
Procurement
3.10      The schedule for design, procurement and construction of the project
is shown in Chart 9730. Work is expected to start on site in February 1976
and the plant should be fully operational by August 1978. All construction
and supply contracts will be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement. Local
contractors are likely to win the contracts for civil works, probably sub-
contracting the construction of the chimney to a foreign specialist firm.
The major mechanical and electrical equipment for the incinerator plant and
vehicles are not manufactured locally and will be procured from abroad.
Disbursement
3.11      Annex 3 also shows the forecasts of project expenditures for the
Borrower's fiscal years 1975/76 through 1979/80. These forecasts have been
derived from the construction and supply schedule (Chart 9730). Payment for
the mechanical and electrical supplies will be on the basis of 10% on placing
the order, 65% on delivery CIF Singapore, 20% on acceptance of the completed
plant and the balance of 5% twelve months after acceptance. For civil works
periodic payments are assumed to correspond to the construction progress.
The payments to the engineering consultants are based on the agreed schedule
in the contract.
3.12      The estimated foreign exchange components of the project items are:
Mechanical and Electrical Contracts       90%
Civil Works                               30%
Consultants                              100%
Vehicles                                  85%
In order to ensure adequate supervision of all important aspects of the pro-
ject, it is proposed that the loan of US$25.0 million be disbursed against
(a) 80% of the expenditures for supply and installation of imported equipment;
(b) 25% oi the cost of civil works; (c) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
consultant's services; and (d) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of staff
training. No disbursement is proposed against the cost of vehicles. The
estimated quarterly disburseents of the Bank loan, which are shown in Annex
4, assume payment six months after the expenditure is incurred on site.
3.13      In the unlikely event of the foreign exchange costs of the project
components eligible for disbursement from the proposed loan being less than
the amount of the loan, the balance would be cancelled.



- 9
Closing Date
3.14      The Closing Date for the proposed loan would be September 30, 1979
which allows a margin of about 12 months after the estimated completion of
the incinerator. This margin is considered appropriate to accommodate the
final payments on contracts and some slippage of the project.
Ecological Aspects
3.15      The incinerator, which will be located in an area reserved for
noxious and offensive trades and industries, will comply with the Clean Air
Act of Singapore. It will include electrostatic precipitators with an
efficiency of 99.5% and a chimney 150 meters high to minimize the effect of
emissions. Gas scrubbers are not being provided at this stage as the hydro-
chloric acid content of the gas is difficult to predict and the technology
is still under development with no long-term operational experience of appro-
priate equipment. The flue gases will be monitored and the design will
include provision for the future installatiotn of gas washing facilities if
they are required. To control odors, air-curtains are being provided at
the entrances and combustion air will be drawn from the reception hall.
3.16      The design incorporates standard noise abatement measures and the
Anti-Pollution Unit, which is a department of the Prime Minister's Office,
has set a standard of 50 decibels at the boundary fence. A background noise
survey will be made after the plant is complete but before it is put in
service. When operations start, a noise contour map will be produced and any
necessary additional abatement measures will be taken.
3.17      The above anti-pollution measures were confirmed during negotiations
and it was agreed that before the plant is put into operation an adequate
monitoring system will be established to determine the effect of the plant
operations.
IV. JUSTIFICATION
Demand for Solid Waste Disposal
4.01      The total recorded volume of solid waste generated in Singapore,
which had increased from 1,150 tonnes/day in 1969 to 1,935 tonnes/day in 1973,
fell to 1,788 tonnes/day in 1974. The reduction in 1974 is considered to be
due partly to the downturn in the economy and partly to the improvement in
weighing and recording arrangements at the tipping sites. Of the 1974 total,
1,231 tonnes/day were generated from domestic (residential) and trades (com-
mercial, hotels, shops, restaurants, etc.). Per capita domestic and trades
waste increased from 0.498 kg/d in 1970 to 0.555 kg/d in 1974. This rather



- 10 -
low figure in relation to production in other parts of the world I/ can be
partly explained by the local practice of salvaging any materials that can be
sold or re-used. Statistical data on quantities of refuse generated each
month in the last six years (January 1969 through December 1974) by the
(a) domestic and commercial, (b) industries and (c) institutional sources
are given in Annex 5.
4.02      The annual population growth in Singapore has averaged about 1.7%
since 1967. It is unlikely that the future growth will exceed 2% p.a., and
the Singapore Family Planning and Population Board's target is to reduce
it to 1.6% in 1975, 1.49% in 1985 and 0.88% in 1999. Forecasts of domestic
and trade refuse output, which are shown in Annex 6, have been made for these
alternative growth rates on the basis of the 1974 per capita output increas-
ing at 5% p.a.   Industrial waste is assumed to grow annually by 43 tonnes/
day. In addition it is assumed that a charge for disposal of industrial waste
will be introduced in 1976, and the projections have been reduced by 5% from
that date. The rather low growth rate for industrial waste was supported by
Government statements that industries locating and expanding in Singapore are
of an increasingly sophisticated low-waste-producing variety. Waste from
Government institutions not collected by MOE is expected to remain constant.
On this basis the total refuse output is expected to grow to about 2,600
tonnes/day in 1980 and to about 3,800 tonnes/day in 1986.
4.03      The alternative of having no organized collection and disposal of
solid waste in Singapore is not desirable for the following reasons:
(1)  The City has developed spatially in an environment which
has presumed the organized collection and disposal of
solid waste. Population densities are high, the alternatives
for the disposal of wastes by individuals are limited, and
prima facie, the costs of allowing each individual to dispose
of his own solid waste wou'ld exceed the costs of a communal
approach to solving the problem.
(2)  The climate of the city is such that heat and humidity are
a problem much of the year. As a result, the lack of an
organized system for the collection and dispo3al of solid
wastes would create a significant health hazard.
1/ Typical per capita figures for refuse production in other countries are:
United States                         11.450 ks/d
3razil (Rio de Janeiro)               1 .000
Sweden                               0.9255
* K.                               t0.890
at 'g Kong                            0.660
Nigeria (Lagos)                       0.567
7dia                                 0.320



- 11 -
Least Cost Solution and Project Justification
4.04      Given the foregoing, and in the absence of a generally acceptable
method of quantifying project benefits, project justification rests essentially
upon the achievement of the least cost solution to dealing with Singapore's
solid waste disposal problem. There are two aspects to be considered, (a)
whether or not, for a given volume of waste disposal, the least cost solution
is found, and (b) the extent to which residential, commercial and industrial
establishments are discouraged from producing excessive amounts of waste.
Ideally, the least social cost solution requires both that the cheapest
method of disposal by public authorities is selected and that the community
is induced to recognize the social costs of disposal in its decisions to
create waste.
4.05      As development progresses it will become increasingly important
to make optimum use of the available land. By the turn of the century the
rural area is expected to decrease from 50% to 25%, while land for housing
and industry doubles from 15% to 30% and from 10% to 20%, respectively. Of
the land allocated by the Government for refuse tipping, only about 600
acres remain and will be fully utilized by about 1986 if sanitary landfill
of all refuse is continued. Government has, therefore, considered alterna-
tives, such as barging to the off-shore islands, additional land creation by
dumping in shallow waters, composting, compaction and incineration of the
refuse. The off-shore islands have all been allocated for industries,
quarrying or recreational purposes and none are available for refuse dumping.
Some hills have been allocated for filling available shallow water coastline
for locating housing estates and industries immediately and creation of new
land by refuse dumping in these areas is not possible. The choice has,
therefore, to be narrowed down to volume reduction methods.
4.06      The following main alternative means of disposal were considered:
(i) composting, (ii) compaction, and (iii) incineration. There is already
a small composting plant on the island which is capable of handling about
50 tonnes of refuse a day. There is no market for the compost which is
produced and it is used by the Government's Park and Recreation Department.
It would not be possible to sell the output of a much larger plant at
economic prices. Compaction and incineration were considered in detail. A
team of senior civil servants visited Japan to study a number of compaction
and incineration plants in operation. Although the capital cost of a com-
paction plant is less than for an incinerator the volume reduction is about
60% compared with about 85% and the disposal costs and land requirements are
higher. Under these circumstances incineration presents the least cost
solution and has been selected.
4.07      The communal provision of waste disposal facilities achieves
economies of scale and is much more efficient than allowing individuals and
firms to dispose of waste privately. The provision of efficient communal
facilities and strict regulation of private activity are, therefore, desir-
able. In recognizing this, the city of Singapore currently maintains daily
refuse collection for all domestic residences (except for new rural residences
which have petitioned the Department of Health for the right to bury their



- 12 -
garbage) and for all trade premises. Moreover, it has an anti-littering
law, a law against the open air burning of refuse, laws relating to the
pollution of water courses, and a variety of other anti-pollution laws, many
of which are designed to limit solid waste disposal by any means other than
that of dumping at authorized tip sites.
4.08      There is, however, one shortcoming in present policies which may
prevent the achievement of the least social cost solution. While, due to
the danger of encouraging private waste disposal activity and the difficulties
of measurement, it is not feasible to charge domestic premises on the basis
of the amount of waste they individually create and the costs thereby imposed
on communal disposal facilities, it is important that commercial and indus-
trial waste creators should be so charged. In order that firms should be
discouraged from creating an undue amount of waste - or encouraged to recycle
it - they should be faced with a charge that reflects the cost to the com-
munity of disposing of it for them. At present, however, the real cost of
solid waste disposal in Singapore is much greater than is reflected in the
tariff schedule. The problem is further aggravated by allowing private
haulers to collect industrial wastes and to dump them at no charge at MOE
tip sites, thereby consuming scarce disposal capacity. Reform of solid waste
tariffs for large waste creators is, therefore, a prerequisite for the least
cost solution, and this is a condition of the proposed loan (see paras 6.09
and 6.10).
V. THE BORROWER
The Borrower
5.01      The Borrower will be the Republic of Singapore.  The proceeds
of the loan will be applied exclusively to expenditures on the project des-
cribed in Chapter III through the Engineering Services Department (ESD) of
MOE's Environmental Engineering Division (EED).
5.02      The Director of EED, who has been associated with the sewerage
operarioLts for many years, and who will carry prime responsibilley for the
Solid Wastes Management Project, is an experienced civil engineer and a good
adminl sLrator. Both the sewerage projects (Loans 547-SI and 918-SI) have
been, for 4-he most part, problem free and there is every reason to believe
that the proposed solid waste management project would also be handled
efficiently. Annex 7 sets out a number of indicators which will assist
in monitoring the solid wastes management operations.
5.03      ESD, which will be responsible for the execution of the project,
functions under the charge of a senior executive engineer who works under
the direct control and supervision of the Director, EED. As shown in Chart
9729, ESD is at present organized into six sections: refuse disposal and
incineration section; vehicles workshop; construction section for minor
works; hawker centers and markets development section; tender and contracts
section; and administration section. Each of the first four sections is



- 13 -
managed by a qualified engineer, the tender and contracts section by a senior
technical officer and the administration section by an executive officer.
The introduction of commercial accounting practices (see para 5.10) will
mean the establishment of a finance section with a qualified full-time
accountant and adequate supporting staff.
5.04      While ESD is responsible for the planning and implementation of
solid wastes disposal facilities, refuse collection and operation of tips is
in the hands of the seven district offices of the Environmental Public Health
Division. About 280 vehicles and 1,700 workmen are employed on these functions
and details of the collection and disposal operations are given in Annex 8.
A study should be made to determine whether it would be possible to make more
effective use of personnel and resources by combining all solid wastes manage-
ment functions into one department, even though this would probably neces-
sitate the duplication of at least some of the district offices. Such a
study could be undertaken by the Management Services Department of the Min-
istry of Finance.
5.05      ESD has a team of young, qualified and energetic engineers but they
lack practical experience in the incineration of solid wastes. It is proposed
to establish an incinerator operations section as shown in Chart 9728. The
plant manager will be a Senior Executive Engineer and his deputy will be a
Higher Executive Engineer. The contract with Fichtners contains specific
provisions for training of MOE staff in operation and maintenance of the
incinerator. Moreover, MOE proposes to second staff to PUB for operational
experience in thermal electricity generating stations and this was confirmed
during negotiations. The proposed staffing and training arrangements are
generally adequate but need strengthening in two aspects. It is important
that the plant manager should have experience in thermal power generation.
If this is not possible because of Government recruitment regulations and
procedures, PUB should be asked to second an experienced engineer for the
first year of operation of the incinerator while the manager is being trained.
It is even more important that the operation foremen and control operators
of boilers and generators should have appropriate practical experience.
5.06      During negotiations agreement was reached that:
(a)  a suitably staffed finance section will be established by
October 1, 1975;
(b)  a study will be made by October 1, 1976 to investigate the
feasibility of making more efficient use of resources by
combining solid wastes management functions under one
department and, such recommendations as shall have been
mutually agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank
shall be promptly implemented;
(c)  the plant manager will receive at least six months training
abroad in refuse incineration and either hie will have appro-
priate operating experience in thermal generating stations



- 14 -
or an engineer with experience in thermal power generation
will be seconded to MOE to assist the manager for the first
year's operation of the incinerator;
(d) the operation foremen and control operators for the boilers
and generators will have appropriate operational experience;
(e) the adequacy of the technical staff and the training program
will be reviewed by MOE in consultation with the Bank by
April 30 of each year, beginning in 1976; and
(f) prior to completion of the project, no material modification
will be made to the structure of ESD without consultation
with the Bank.
Insurance
5.07      Government carries its own insurance risks and its assets are
not insured with outside insurance agencies. This policy will apply to the
incinerator also. The Government's Inspector of Factories is responsible
for inspection of the boilers and other power generation equipment of the
incinerator in the same way as for the PUB's power plant. This inspection
ig considered adequate and the underwriters for the PUB's plant rely largely
on it.
Billing and Collection
5.8       Billing and collection of fees for removal of solid wastes will,
as at present, be handled by PUB which is also responsible for billing and
collecting fees for water borne sewage on behalf of the Sewerage Department.
PUB has a strong accounting organization and its billing work is computerized.
A single bill is issued to a customer for electricity, water, gas, sewerage,
and solid waste removal. Uncollectable accounts are insignificant since
PUB can disconnect power, water and gas connections in the event of default
in payment of bills. A commission of S$60,000 was paid to PUB in FY 1973-74
towards its incremental costs for handling billing and collection of solid
waste fees. This has now been raised to S$80,000 p.a. and is projected to
increase to S$120,000 in 1979/80. The arrangement is satisfactory.
Aecounti.g
5-.09     Government accounting is on a cash basis.  All expenditures are
met from the budget allocations and all receipts go into Government treasury.
The Accountant General, working under the Ministry of Finance is responsible
for maintaining these acounts.
5-.10     A major shortcoming of this system is that it does not provide
adequate information for determining the costs of the services or for fin-
ancial evaluation and control of the operations. It was for this reason
that, as a condition of the loan for the first sewerage project (Loan 547-SI),



- 15 -
the Bank requiread and the Government of Singapore agreed to, the establish-
ment of a commercial accounting system for the sewerage services. As a
result, MOE's Sewerage Department (then Sewerage Branch of PWD) has been
maintaining, since 1969, commercial accounts on an accrual basis, parallel
with the cash accounts maintained by the Accountant General. These accounts
have served as a very useful management tool and have been largely responsible
for placing the sewerage services on a self-supporting basis. Consequently,
MOE readily agreed to maintain sitmlar accounts for the solid wastes opera-
tions. It has already obtained services of a WHO consultant for a two-month
period "to develop an accounting system for solid waste management based on
a commercial accrual and cost basis". The terms of reference of the con-
sultant also include "a review of cost centers and identification of all
direct and indirect cost elements so that a detailed cost analysis can be
performed to determine the unit cost of various refuse collection and dis-
posal operations". The report of the consultant is awaited. Since the
setting up of a commercial accounting system is crucial to the efficient
financial management and control of solid wastes, it was agreed during
negotiations that such a system will be introduced and will be substantially
in operation by no later than April 1, 1976.
5.11      MOE does not maintain any assets register for the assets of the
solid wastes services. During negotiations it was agreed that by no later
than March 31, 1976 MOE will identify the assets belonging to the solid
wastes services and establish and maintain an up-to-date assets register to
show the nature and classification of the assets, their location, date of
acquisition or construction, assumed lives, accumulated depreciation, etc.
It was also agreed that an opening balance sheet of the assets and
liabilities of solid wastes services will be prepared by MOE as of March 31,
1976 and a copy thereof, duly audited by the Auditor General will be
furnished to the Bank no later than September 30, 1976.
5.12      At the time of appraisal of the first sewerage project in 1968,
the question of separating sewerage funds from the general Government funds
was raised but was not pressed because the Government did not consider it
necessary. Experience since then has confirmed the Government's view.
Funds required for the execution of both sewerage projects have been pro-
vided by Governmment, as necessary, and there has been no delay in project
construction due to non-separation of the funds. For the environmental
control project also, there is no reason to insist on separation of the
funds. Government will make available monies required for the project
promptly as needed, from its resources.
Audit
5.13      Under the constitution, Auditor General of Singapore has the
responsibility of auditing all Government accounts.  During negotiations
it was agreed that beginning with FY 1976-77, the commercial accounts of
solid wastes services will be audited by the Auditor General of Singapore
or by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and certified copies of
the audited financial statements and the auditor's report will be furnished
to the Bank within six months after the close of the financial year. These
arrangements are similar to those for Loans 547-SI and 918-SI, where the
audits have been satisfactory though there have been minor delays in their
completion.



- 16 -
VI. FINANCE
General
6.01      Sewerage and solid wastes are the two major services operated by
MOE.  Of the total budget appropriation of S$49.1 million for development
expenditures in FY 1974-75, S$31.3 million, or about 64%, was for sewerage.
The balance was divided roughly equally among solid wastes, drainage,
hawkers' centers and other services. In the coming years, much larger
investments are planned for sewerage and solid wastes. For sewerage, MOE
plans to spend an average of about S$65 million a year during the three
years 1975-76 through 1977-78. For solid wastes, the average annual
capital investment over the five years 1975-76 through 1979-80 will be about
S$28 million. The operating expenses of these services also account for
a sizable portion of MOE's total operating budget. In 1974-75 they consti-
tuted about 40% of the total but will increase considerably when the
incinerator goes into operation in 1979. The Bank participation in the
proposed environmental control project together with the ongoing sewerage
project will thus cover a major part of MOE's activities.
6.02      MOE's accounts, as of all other Government departments, are
maintained by the Accountant General's office on a cash basis. All revenues
are deposited into the Government Treasury and all expenditures are met
from the Government's budget allocations. Accounts for solid wastes
operations are not kept separately. The bulk of the revenue for solid wastes
services is collected through PUB and can thus be identified. However,
since there is no single department or division within MOE which is respon-
sible for all aspects of solid waste management, the operating Costs of
these services are mixed with the other operational expenditures of MOE
and are not directly identifiable. The commercial accounts to be estab-
lished for the solid waste operations (para 5.10) will identify the cost
centers and prescribe detailed basis for apportionment of expenditures of
the combined services. An attempt has, however, been made to derive the
current operating costs of these services by (a) identifying the expendi-
tures which relate solely to solid wastes and (b) apportioning the costs of
"combined services" between the "solid wastes" and "other functions" on an
approximate basis. A notional income and expenditure statement has thus
been prepared for FY 1974-75 and projected through 1984-85. A pro forma
balance sheet has also been prepared as of March 31, 1974 to be used as a
starting poiat for the projections. The income and expenditure statements
and the balance sheets should be considered merely as a general indication
of the finances of solid wastes operations, since the records from which
they were derived may not be complete.



- 17 -
Present Financial Position
6.03      Solid wastes services are highly subsidized at present.  The
notional income and expenditure statement for FY 1974-75 shows that the
revenue of about S$6.1 million (US$2.7 million) will hardly meet 50% of the
operating expenses (including depreciation) of S$12.1 million (US$5.4
million). The cash deficit (i.e., excluding depreciation) would be about
S$5.0 million which will be met from Government funds. But for the changes
in tariffs made effective in January 1975 (para 6.09), the cash deficit for
the year would have been of the order of S$8 million (US$3.6 million).
6.04      The book value, as on March 31, 1974, of the fixed assets of MOE
which can be assumed to belong to the solid wastes services, is estimated
at about S$18.7 million, the accumulated depreciation at S$3.3 million, and
the net value S$15.4 million. These assets comprise mainly land for tipping
grounds, lands and buildings of district offices and vehicle workshops
(which also handle or serve other services), refuse collection and dumping
vehicles, workshop equipment and weighbridges. Land accounts for about
S$9.4 million, vehicles S$4.7 million and other assets about S$1.3 million
of the net depreciated value. All the assets have been financed from
Government funds. The opening balance sheet for the solid wastes services
to be prepared by MOE as of March 31, 1976 (para 5.11) will establish the
book value of these assets to be adopted under the commercial accounting
system.
Financing Plan
6.05      The sources and application of funds for the solid wastes
management have been projected through FY 1984-85 in the statement in
Annex 11. The financing plan for the project construction period of FY
1975-76 through 1979-80 is summarized below:



- 18 -
US$       Percentage of
S$       Equivalent   Requirements
-----millions--
Requirements
Capital Expenditures
Project expenditures                 122.6 /a       54.7          80.3
Interest during construction           8.2           3.7           5.4
Other capital works                   17.5           7.8          11.5
Total                           148.3         66.2          97.2
Increase in working capital                 4.2           1.9           2.8
Total Requirements              152.5         68.1         100.0
Sources
Internal cash generation                   22.8          10.2          15.0
Less debt service (excluding
interest during construction)          3.3           1.5           2.2
Net internal cash generation               19.5           8.7          12.8
Borrowing
Proposed IBRD Loan                    56.0          25.0          36.7
Government contribution                    77.0          34.4          50.5
152.5         68.1         100.0
/a   Excludes 0.9 million spent before FY 1975-76.
6.06      The proposed loan of US$25.0 million equivalent will not finance
interest during construction estimated at S$8.2 million (US$3.7 million).
This interest will be capitalized and will be met from the Government funds.
6.07      The proposed loan will finance about 37% of the cash requirements
for the project construction period (FY 1975-76 through 1979-80), self-
generated funds will cover about 13% and the balance of about 50% will be
provided by the Government. As a source, cash generation from operations
is notional because operating surpluses are not identified or earmarked for
specific applications. The Government contribution shown in the financing



plan in para 6.s5 is the Government's net outlay after taking the operating
cash surplus into account and is treated as equity in the commercial accounts.
Apart from the project proposed for financing by the Bank, MOE also has an
investment program of about S$17.5 million in solid wastes assets over the
five years April 1975 - March 1980. These investments will consist mainly of
(a) purchase of land, vehicles and bulldozers and (b) constructioon of earth
bunds, access roads, drains and culverts at the dumping sites. The proposed
financing plan is satisfactory. Assurances have been obtained that the Governr-
ment will provide all funds required for completion of the project and for
other capital expenditures to be undertaken during the project construction
period.
6.08      The operating life of the incineration plant is estimated conserva-
tively at 25 to 30 years.  It is proposed that the Bank loan will run for 15
years-after commissioning plus a grace period of 4 years to cover the con-
struction period.
Tariffs for Solid Wastes Services and Financial Projections
6.09      As mentioned in para 6.03, the solid wastes services are highly
subsidized at present. Prior to January 1975, the revenue for these services
consisted mainly of (a) a fee of S$1.00 per month per residential unit and
(b) a fee of S$5.00 per month for every 3 cu ft of solid waste collected
daily from non-residential units (shops, hotels, etc.). The residential
units in the HDB and JTC housing estates were exempt from the levy of the
fee. Moreover, MOE reimbursed HDB the expenditure (estimated at S$2.0 mil-
lion for FY1974-75) for removal of refuse from the HDB building chutes to
MOE's refuse bin centers. In pursuance of the Government's policy of grad-
ually bringing these services to a self-supporting level, the following
changes have been made, effective January 1975. (a) HDB and JTC pay MOE the
fee of S$1.00 per month for each residential unit in their housing estates;
(b) the reimbursement to HDB for removal of refuse from chutes to bins has
been discontinued and (c) the fees for non-domestic refuse have been sub-
stantially increased as shown in the current tariff schedule in Annex 9. At
present, fees are levied only on wastes collected by MOE. No charge is
made by MOE for accepting industrial and institutional wastes which are
dumped by private contractors and Government agencies respectively.
6.10      Clearly, the current tariff is inadequate to meet the present
operating costs which will be more than doubled by the time the incineration
plant goes into operation in FY 1978-79.  MOE accepts that the domestic
rate of S$1.00 per month introduced in July 1968 needs a substantial in-
crease. MOE also agrees that a disposal charge for industrial and institu-
tional wastes should be levied, partly as a means of generating additional
revenue but mainly and more importantly as an economic incentive to reduce
the quantities to be dumped in order to conserve scarce land for tipping
sites. A thorough study of the rate structure needs to be undertaken
urgently to put the solid waste services on a sound financial footing. One
of the terms of reference of the WHO consultant whose services MOE obtained



- 20 -
for a two-month period in February 1975 (para 5.10) is to "recommend the
most equitable and practical rate structure that would place the entire
refuse management scheme on a financially viable basis". It fis doubtful if
in the short time at his disposal, the consultant will be able to deal with
the rate structure with the thoroughness it deserves, and it would probably
be necessary to institute a further study after the consultants' report
becomes available. Assurances were obtained that a study of the rate structure
wll be undertaken by MOE with the assistance of outside consultants, if neces-
sary, and a rate structure will be devised and implemented with the objective
of putting the solid waste operations on a financially viable basis and of
charging commercial and industrial waste producers in Singapore a price which
would discourage the generation of excessive amounts of solid wastes. Such
a study should be completed and the new rates introduced by no later than
April 1, 1976. It was agreed during negotiations that the rates for the
service will be set and revised from time to time to ensure that the revenues
are adequate to cover not less than the operating costs of the service including
adequate maintenance and provision for depreciation at reasonable rates as
well as debt service charges to the extent they exceed the provision for
depreciation.
6.11      On the assumption that the rates for solid wastes services will
be adjusted from time to time to conform to the general principle set out
in para 6.10, financial projections have been made for the fiscal years
through 1984-85. The Income Statements, the Sources & Application of Funds
Statements and the Balance Sheets are in Annexes 10, 11, and 12, and the
Assumptions for the Projections are in Annex 13.
6.12      Apart from the fees mentioned in paras 6.09 and 6.10, the other
important sources of revenue assumed in the financial projections are the
sale of surplus power and of scrap metal. The 1,200 tonnes/day incinerator
will generate about 56 million kWh of surplus power annually which will be
fed into PUB's grid. The projections assume a revenue of S$2.9 million per
annum on this account up to 1982-83 and S$3.9 million in 1983-84 and 1984-85
when the incinerator capacity will be increased to 1,600 tonnes/day. PUB
has agreed to purchase this power at the cost of the fuel required to gene-
rate an equivalent amount of power. Scrap metal is estimated at about 6%
of refus- incinerated. There is a good market for it in Singapore and a
price of S$50 per tonne is assumed in the revenue projections.
6.13      "he ?rojections show that in order to cover operating expenditures
and provis'cn for depreciation, MOE should ge:aerare at least S$5.5 million of
additional revenue in FY 1976-77. The rate study recommended in para 6.10
will provide the basis for realizing this revenue. However, for the purposes
of the financial projections it has been assumed that the required additional
revenue wiLll be obtained by increasing the domestic rate to S$2.00 per
month and introducing a dumping charge of S$7.00 per tonne for the indus-
trial and institutional wastes. It will again be necessary to raise the
tariffs in FY 1978-79 in order to provide additional annual revenue of
about S$10.0 million to cover increased operating costs, including opera-



- 21 -
ting costs of the incinerator, and the depreciation of the incineration
plant and additional vehicles. The projections assume that in the middle
of FY 1978-79 when the incinerator will go into operation, the fees for
domestic and non-domestic refuse will be increased by 50% (raising the
domestic rate to S$3.00 (US$1.34) per month and the minimum non-domestic
rate to S$15.0 (US$6.70) per month, with appropriate higher rates for
additional refuse, and the dumping charge will be raised to S$15.00
(US$6.70) per tonne.  A further increase of about 12.5% of the rates has
been assumed in FY 1982-83, to meet the increased operating costs and larger
provision for depreciation following the addition of a new 400-tonnes/day
unit to the incineration plant in FY 1983-84. It is conceivable that the
required additional revenue could be achieved by an entirely different rate
structure. The increases in rates adopted for the financial projections
are intended only to give an indication of the magnitude of the additional
funds needed to meet operating expenditures including depreciation (the debt
service is less than the provision for depreciation throughout the period
covered by the financial projections) and the possible manner of raising
such funds without altering the present basic rate pattern. These rates are
reasonable and can easily be afforded by the beneficiaries.
6.14      With the increases in rates assumed in para 6.13,,the operating
ratio of solid waste services, including the provision for depreciation,
which is presently about 200% will range between 90% and 100% in FY 1976-77
through 1984-85. Excluding depreciation, the operating ratio will be of
the order of 70 to 90%. Since a large portion of the capital investment
will be met from Government's equity contribution, the long-term debt will
not exceed 37% of total capitalization in any year. Also, the debt service
coverage will be 1.6 times or higher throughout the projected period.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  before the plant is put into operation, an adequate monitoring
system will be established to determine the effect of the plant
operations and such measures as are necessary shall be taken to
safeguard the environment (paras 3.15 to 3.17);
(b)  a suitably staffed finance section will be established in ESD by
October 1, 1975 (para. 5.03);
(c)  a study will be made by October 1, 1976 to investigate the
possibility of making more efficient use of resources by
combining solid wastes management functions under one
department and such recommendations as shall have been
mutually agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank shall be
promptly implemented (para 5.04);



- 22 -
(d)  a commercial accounting system will be introduced and will
be substantially in operation by no later than April 1, 1976
(para 5.10); and
(e) a study of the rate structure will be undertaken by MDE and
revised tariffs introduced by no later than April 1, 1976.
In particular a disposal charge for industrial and institu-
tional wastes will be levied to discourage the generation
of excessive amounts of solid wastes. The rates will be set
and revised from time to time to ensure that the revenues are
adequate to cover not less than operating costs including
adequate maintenance and provision for depreciation at
reasonable rates as well as debt service charges to the
extent they exceed the provision for depreciation (para 4.08
and 6.10).
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million
equivalent for a term of 19 years including a grace period of about 4 years.
May 29, 1975



SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Proposed Expenditure on MOE Hawkers' Centers
Year ending March 31,       1975    196l    1978   I197    1980    1                   1982    1983    128L
________________________ -----_S$ 000's
No. of
Center        Stalls
Boat Quay            88        670
Upper Bukit Timah   201      1,400
Jalan Basar         112        510
Kallang Bahru        37        200     190
Cuppage Road        414                870   3,980      670
Hill Street         150                       1,300   2,030     450
Kreta Ayer          900                      6,280  10,760   2,310
Canberra Gate       271                420   1,720      280
Zion Road            40                110      580
Ama Keng            100                120      970     310
Bulim Village        80                         430     560
Elizabeth Walk       40                                                 190      430      240
East Coast Park I    80                                                           20      950   1,020
II   30                                                190      430
III  30                                                                  240      520
Lorong Malai        250                                                 390    2,150   1,900
Simon Road          477                                                                   570   3,130  2,760
Alkaff Avenue         82                                                380       880     950      _5
Northumberland       80                                                  20      650      690
penang Lane          24                                                 270
Lim Tua Taw         525                                                                   260   2,470  3,390
TOTAL                        2,780   1,710  15,260  14,610   2,760  1,440    4,560   5.800   7,140  6,150
March 31, 1975



AXNEX 2
Page 1
SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Project Description and Basic Design Criteria
1.        An incineration plant capable of burning an average of about 1,200
tonnes of refuse a day is to be built at Ulu Pandan. It will be located in
an area reserved for noxious and offensive trades and industries. Alterna-
tive designs were investigated for incineration with (i) the heat going to
waste, (ii) partial heat recovery (10.5 MW), and (iii) full heat recovery
(17.7 MW). The second alternative has been selected as most appropriate to
Singapore's needs. In addition, about 185 refuse collection vehicles will
be purchased, partly as replacements for old and/or unsuitable vehicles and
partly to deal with the increased quantities of refuse which will be generated
in the future.
2.        The incinerator will have three units each capable of burning 20
tonnes of refuse per hour, a size which will permit adequate competition
among bidders. The plant is intended to operate 24 hours a day and the
maximum throughput will therefore be 1,440 tonnes/day. It is estimated that
it will be out of operation about 15% to 20% of the time for maintenance and
repairs, giving an average daily throughput of about 1,200 tonnes. The layout
will permit a fourth furnace to be added in the future, and the reception hail,
the refuse bunker, the chimney and the power generating equipment will be
sized to serve the fourth unit. As tips will continue in operation no stand-
by units are provided.
3.        A crusher, capable of handling 25 tonnes per hour, will reduce
bulky wastes to a size which can be fed into the furnaces. Suppliers will
be allowed to quote for alternative shredder or beater mill types. The
refuse will be fed continuously on to movable grates. Several grate systems
have been developed in recent years and performance standards will be set
to ensure comparability of bids. The furnace temperatures will be 850 to
1000C to minimize the escape of odors. Combustion air will be drawn through
the reception hall, and air-curtains will be provided at the entrances. Oil
burners will be provided for starting and assisting ignition when the refuse
moisture content is high.
4.        Typical samples of refuse have been analyzed to determine its
composition and calorific value. Bottles, cans and paper are sold to private
vendors and the wastes therefore have a higher organic content than wastes
commonly found in more developed countries. The calorific value is expected
to vary from 4,000 kilojoules/kilogram (kJ/kg) to 8,000 kJ/kg with an average



ANNEX 2
Page 2
value of 6,000 kJ/kg. If it falls below 5,000 kJ/kg ignition difficulties
may be expected and if it exceeds 6,000 kJ/kg it may be necessary to reduce
throughput to limit the total heat production. To avoid these drawbacks,
the composition of the refuse can be altered by selective collection or by
the addition of appropriate industrial refuse, such as waste wood.
5.        The natural circulation boilers will have a superheater outlet
temperature of 3500C at a pressure of 30 atmospheres. 100% excess
air will be provided and the flue gases will have a temperature of 250C
at the boiler exit. After cooling, the flue gases will be passed through
electrostatic precipitators with 99.5% efficiency. Gases are not being
washed at this stage, but their composition will be monitored and the design
allows for the future installation of venturi type scrubbers, if they are
required. The chimney will be 150 m high to minimize the effect of the
emissions.
6.        The turbo generator will operate with a steam temperature of 3450C
and pressure of 28 atmospheres at the turbine inlet. The turbine, with a back-
pressure of 2 atmospheres, will have a normal throughput of about 90 tonnes
of steam per hour, but will be capable of handling up to 125 tonnes per hour
after the fourth incineration unit is installed. The generator, with a speed
of 3,000 RPM, will develop 10.5 MW at 6,600 volts. The plant will consume
about 20% of the electricity generated and the balance of about 56 million
kWh a year will be fed into the public supply.
7.        The ash handling plant will be capable of dealing with up to 30%
of the refuse incinerated. The slag, together with the fly ash from the
electrostatic precipitators, will be quenched and crushed. Scrap metal,
which is expected to be about 6% of the refuse incinerated, will be extracted
by magnetic separators and baled for sale. The ash, which is expected to
total about 180 tonnes/day will be transported to the tipping ground by
trucks. Fourteen trucks for this purpose are to be purchased under the
project.
May 29, 1975



SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Cost of the Prolect
Local Costs                                       Foreign Costs
Year ending March 31,                    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980       1275    1976    197       1978    1979    1980
Totals (incLhI04)00---------------------------------S$ 000's-                        -------------
Incinerator
1.  Land                         600      600
2. Access Road                    926      70     578                                          30     248
3.  Preliminary Earthworks    1,177               392      392      41                                167      167       18
4.  Civil Works               18,625                     5,026   6,o67   1,294      651                      2,154   2,600      554      279
5.  Mechanical Plant          38,499                       382   2,514      763     191                      3,434  22,632   6,869   1,714
6.  Electrical Plant          11,431                       113     689      284      57                      1,021   6,205   2,551       511
7.  Cranes & Lifts             1,385                        14      92       27       7                        120     823      240      62
8. Weighbridge                   181                                17                1                                156                 7
9. Air conditioning and
ventilation                715                                68                3                                611               33
10. Workshop equipment            227                                22                1                                194               10
11. Engineering                 5,450               60      800     800      340              240   1,075   1,150       650      170     165
12.  Staff training             1,500              420      580     350                                                 150
13.  Contingencies -Physical   7,218                39      592     950      236      91                16      6d9   3,323.  1,021      261
-Price      16,906               45   1,310   2,940      780      215                20   1,511   7,780   1,750       555
Sub-Total             104,840     670   1,534   9,209  14,550   3,724   1,217         270   1,526  10,246  45,142  13,155   3,597
Vehicles
1. Refuse Collection          15,252              550      409     304   1,024                      3,121   2,319   1,720   5,805
2.  Ash Disposal                 420                                         63                                                 357
3.  Price Contingency          3,036                        49      70      337                    -           276     397   1.907
Sub-Total              18.708              550     458      374   1.424                      3,121   2,595   2,117   8,069
TOTAL                 123,548     670   2.084   9,667  14 924   5,148   1,217         270   4.647  12,841  47,259  21,224   3,597
May 28, 1975



A1iNEX 4
SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
at end of Quarter           % of
IBRD Fiscal Year & Quarter                 (uS$ 000)               Total
1976
3rd quarter ending March 1976                  141                   0.6
4th    "      "    June 1976                   141                   0.6
1977
1st quarter ending Sept. 1976                  201                   0.8
2nd   tr    it   Dec. 1976                   2,170                   8.7
3rd    "      "    March 1977                2,905                  11.6
4th    "      "    June 1977                  3,310                 13.2
1978
1st quarter ending Sept. 1977                3,721                  14.9
2nd    "      "   Dec. 1977                  5,775                  23.1
3rd    I f         March 1978               15,129                  60.5
4th    T      "    June 1978                18,784                  75.1
1979
1st quarter ending Sept. 1978               19,287                  77.1
2nd    i      I    Dec. 1978                19,509                  78.0
3rd   it           March 1979               23,836                  95.3
4th   if           June 1979                23,836                  95.3
1980
1st quarter ending Sept. 1979               25,000                 100.0
Assunption - Loan becomes effective by September 1975.
March 24, 1975



SINGAPORE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Record of Refuse Output 1969-74
AVERAGE TONNES PER DAY
Population     Jan      Feb       Mar      Apr      May      June      July     Aug       Sept     Oct       Nov       Dec      Year
1969                2,042,500
Domestic & Trade                    935       971       907       949     981       953    1,048    1,032       996        955     958      1,044     978
Industrial                           81       73        135      146       91      136        84      156       118       214       94         92     118
Institutional                        35~   74           107       66       65       35        66       50        5          4      40         27      54
Total                             1,051    1,118      1,149    1,161   1,137    1,124    1,198    1,238    1,164        1,173   1,092       1,163   1,150
O97O                2,047,000
Domestic & Trade                  1,084    1,002        885       943     948       934    1,132    1,169    1,104      1,002   1,020       1,089   1,026
Industrial                          104      111        138      163      243      248       217      199       238       233      225        205     194
Institutional                        26       27         26       43      159       47        52       54        55        57       61         84    _5
Total                             1,214    1,140   _1,049    1,1349   1,350    1,229    1,401    1,422    1,397         1,292   1,306       1,378   1,277
1971                2,110,400-
Domestic & Trade                  1,222    1,048        990      973   1,016    1,047    1,232    1,035    1,078        1,098   1,093       1,175   1,086
Industrial                          170      184        221      203      210      262       250      266       192       254      217        237     222
Institutional                        69                _ 66       55       62       56        53       59       188       203      21L        210     109
Total                             1,461    1,307      1,277    1,231   1,288    1,365    1,535    1,360    1,458        1,555   1,524       1,622   1,417
1972                2,147,400
Domestic & Trade                  1,132    1,200      1,076    1,140   1,162    1,198    1,153    1,141    1,235        1,218   1,235       1,338   1,186
Industrial                          186      205        226      203      290      214       193      298    . 298        381      377        338     267
Institutional                       182      138        131      166      103      222       165      222       203       220      245        212     184
Total                             1,500    1,543      1,433    1,509   1,555    1,634    1,511    1,661    1,736        1,819   1,857      1,888   1,637
1973                2,185,000
Domestic & Trade                  1,481    1,351      1,272    1,230   1,236    1,217    1,301    1,202    1,140        1,121   1,232       1,263   1,254
Industrial                          325      361        423      457      524      561       622      748       688       711      723        794     578
Institutional                       263       50         61       65   __3         108        87       81        94       113      122        121     103
Total                             2,069    1,762      1,756    1,752   1,833    1,886    2,010    2,031    1,922        1,945   2,077      2,178   1,935
1974                2,219,000
Domestic & Trade                  1,212    1,143      1,115    1,188   1,166    1,292    1,325    1,218    1,306        1,275   1,244      1,286   1,231
Industrial                          517      524        495      508      439      397       411      442      488        477      533       472      475
Institutional                        66       80         84       78       88       74       101       85      112         92    _6           53       82
Total                             1,795    1,747      1,69)4   1,774   1,693    1,763    1,837    1,745    1,906        1,844   1,842      1,811   1,788
March 31, 1975



ANN.EX 6
SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Projections of Population and Refuse Production
1/                                2/
Population-        Domestic and Trade Refuse-
000's               Metric Tonnes/day           Industrial Waste
Metric Tonnes/day
Year         A         B            A             B
1974       2,219     2,219        1,231        1,231                 475
1975       2,263     2,246        1,318        1,308                 518
1976       2,309     2,274        1.411        1,390                 533
1977       2,355     2,304        1 518         1,479                574
1978       2,402     2,335        1,619        1,574                 615
1979       2,450     2,367        1,735        1,676                 656
1980       2,499     2,400        1,858        1,784                 696
1981       2,549     2,434        1,989         1,899                737
1982       2,600     2,470        2,131        2,024                 778
1983       2,652     2,506        2,282        2,156                 819
1984       2,705     2,543        2,443        2,297                 860
1985       2,759     2,580        2,618        2,448                 901
1986       2,814     2,618        2,802        2,607                 941
1/  Projection A is on the basis of a population growth rate of 2% pa.  Projection B
is the target population of the Singapore Family Planning and Population Board
and assumes a growth rate of 1.6% pa in 1975 declining to 1.49% in 1985.
2/ The quantities of domestic refuse are based on the above population projections,
assuming that the per capita refuse production will increase at 5% pa from the
1974 figure of 0.555 kg per capita.
3J It is assumed that a charge for tipping wastes will be introduced in 1976 and
the quantity of industrial waste has been reduced by 5% from that date.
March 13, 1975



SI NGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
PROJECTED REFUSE OUTPUT
4,000 r
3,000
11   Z    I   I   I   'I    I   I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ist tuI    '   InaI 
co2,000D                                   ,                   /-
1,000 F-                                                        _~000
: ,, --' '--*- ....... ,, ~~~~~Institutional
1970    71     727    73      74     75      7 6    77     78      79     80      81     82     83      84     85     86
YEAR
World Bank-9731



ANNEX 7
SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
The following indicators will assist in monitoring the solid
wastes management operations. IiOE will be asked to include
these indicators in its reporting and to compare the achieve-
ments with the forecast.
/1
Yzar ending March 31,            1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   12   1980   1981
Tonnage collected (tomnes/day)  1254   1231   1308   1390   1479   1574   1676   1784
Tonnage tipped        TY  it   1905   1758   1908   2005   2135   1761   1394   15)42
Tonnage incinerated   "    "                                           600   1200   1200
Average no. of domestic
premises served (pOO)           238    267    296    325    354    383    412    441
Tomnage/vehicle shift            4.75   5.03    5.2    5.4    5.6    5.8    6.o    6.2
Vehicle breakdown time   %       20.3   18.3      16     14     12      11     10       9
Incinerator down time    %                                              20     20     20
Fcwer generated (kWh x 106)                                             35     70      70
Power sold         "     "                                              28     56     56
Metal sold (tonnes x 103)                                               13     26     26
Ash (kg/tonne incinerated)                                             150    150    150
Cost/tonne - incineration2/ S$                                        14.8   11.6   12.3
Operating Ratio before
depreciation   %                 -     182    116      81     88      74     64     68
Operating Ratio after
depreciation   %                 -    197    127       92    101      93     89     95
1/ Figures are for the part of the year after the incinerator is operational.
2/ After taking credit for sale of surplus pawer and scrap metal.
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Present Refuse Collection and Disposal Arrangements
1.        MOE provides a daily service for the collection and disposal of
domestic and commercial refuse. Refuse from the multi-storied residential
blocks of HDB and JTC's housing estates is collected through the building
chutes and brought by HDB/JTC to the refuse bin centers from where it is
transported by MOE's vehicles to the tipping sites. From the other resi-
dential houses and commercial establishments, the refuse is collected from
each house or commercial unit. However, since the layout of many of the
kampongs (rural villages) is such that vehicles cannot readily reach the
houses, the residential refuse is brought by the street cleansing labor to
the street corners along with the street sweepings to be picked up by the
refuse collection vehicles. In 1974, the total collection averaged 1,231
tonnes/day. In addition industries and Government institutions make their
own arrangements for collection of their wastes, which are tipped free of
charge at MOE tipping areas. In 1974 industrial and institutional wastes
averaged 557 tonnes/day. Bottles, metal and paper can be sold to private
vendors and the wastes collected therefore contain a higher proportion of
organic matter than wastes commonly found in developed countries.
2.        The Engineering Services Department (ESD) of MOE is responsible
for planning and implementing refuse disposal arrangements and for the
purchase and maintenance of refuse collection vehicles. To date MOE's
refuse disposal has been by landfill. ESD arranges for the construction of
access roads and earth bunds to contain the refuse and prevent pollution
of water courses, the installation of weighbridges and the provision of
bulldozers and earthfill with which to cover the tipped refuse.
3.        Some 280 vehicles are employed in the collection of refuse and
maintenance of these vehicles represents about 80% of the total workload
of the Vehicle Workshop. The workshop is well managed, and should be capable
of maintaining the vehicles to be purchased under the project.  All vehicles
are regularly serviced and the workshop also carries out minor repairs.
The inventory contains adequate spares. Major repairs are handled by the
central workshops of the Public Works Department.
4.        Refuse collection is the responsibility of the seven district
offices of the Environmental Health Headquarters, each headed by a District
Commissioner. The Districts have two main functional divisions, the first
of which is responsible for refuse collection and operation of the tipping
area (when a tip is within a district) and the second for vector and pest
control and street cleansing.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        The collection is reasonably efficient but M1OE is conscious of the
need to improve productivity. One engineer in headquarters is employed full-
time on studying and improving vehicle routing in each district in turn.
The tonnage collected per vehicle shift is improving but the improvement
which can be achieved is limited by the type and condition of available
vehicles. The fleet is generally over-age and almost half are non-compression
vehicles. There is a phased replacement program, which will be accelerated
under the project, and the proportion of non-compression vehicles will be
reduced.
6.        There are at present three tipping areas at Tampines and Choa Chu
Kang. Visits to two of these sites indicated well managed and controlled
operations. All loads, whether in MOE or private contractor's vehicles,
are weighed and recorded before being dumped. A contractor has obtained
the concession to salvage any recoverable materials after they are dumped
and before they are bulldozed into position. After some consolidation by
a bulldozer the refuse is covered with a layer of earth to prevent the
refuse from being blown about and to restrict access to vermin. As the tips
are filled, grass and shrubs will be planted.
May 29, 1975



ANNEX 9
SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Schedule of Fees
Domestic Refuse
For each residential unit 1/                   S$  1.00 per month
Non-domestic Refuse 2/
(i)  For the first 3 cu ft daily               S$ 10.00 per month
(ii) Exceeding 3 cu ft but not exceeding
6 cu ft daily                       S$ 20.00 per month
(iii) Exceeding 6 cu ft but not exceeding
12 cu ft daily                      S$ 35.00 per month
(iv)  Exceeding 12 cu ft daily                  S$100    per month for
every 35 cu ft or part
thereof.
1/   Prior to January 1975, residents of HDB and JTC housing estates were
exempt from this fee. Effective January 1975, HDB and JTC will pay
the fee for all their residential units.
2/   Prior to January 1975 the rate was a uniform fee of S$5.00 per month
for each 3 cu ft daily refuse or part thereof.
May 29, 1975



S INGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Income & Expenditure Statements
1974/75     1975/76     1976/77     1977/78      1978/79     1998o       1980/81      1981/82     1982/83     1983/84      1984/85
---------------------------.------- ----------S$ 000------------------------------------------------------------
Solid wastes collected & removed by:
MOE                        (tonnes per day)      1,231        1,308       1,390       1,479        1,574       1,676       1,784        1,899       2,024       2,156        2,297
Industry                       '"                  475          518         533         574         615          656         696         737          778         819          860
Other Government agencies      " "                  82           82          82          82          82           82          82          82           82          82           82
Solid waste incinerated             " " "                -           -           -           -            600       1,200       1,200        1,200       1,200       1,600        1,600
Incinerated ash                     g"      "            -           -           -           -             90         180         180          180         180         240          240
REVENUE
Domestic solid wastes                                  1,834       3,548       3,896       4,244        4,592       4,940       5,288        5,636       5,984        6,332       6,680
Effect of rste increases                            -           -         3,896       4,244        6,888       9,880      10,576       11,272      14,212      15,038       15,865
Non-domestic solid wastes                              4,275       7,066       7,309       7,553        7,797       8,o40       8,284        8,529       8,773        9,018       9,263
Effect of rate increases                            -           -           -           -          1,949       4,020       4,142        4,265       6,032       6,200        6,369
Industry & institutional wastes                          -           -           -           -            -           -           -            -           -            -           -
Effect of levy of dumping charge                    -           -         1,571       1,676        2,798       4,040       4,260        4,484       5,297       5,550        5,802
Less PUB's commission                                  ( 80)       ( 80)       ( 80)       ( 80)        ( 80)       ( 120)      ( 120)       ( 120)      ( 120)       ( 120)      ( 120)
Other Revenue                                             97          98         100         100           65          30          30           30          30          30           30
Surplus Power                                            -           -           -           -         1,460        2,938       2,938        2,938       2,938        3,917       3,917
Sale of Scrap                                          ,-            -           -          _             657       1,314       1,314        1,314       1,314       1,752        1,752
Total Revenue                                    6,126      10,632       16,692      17,737      26,126       35,082      36,712      38,348       44,460      47,717       49,558
OPERATING EXPENSES
Solid waste collection, removal & dumping
(details in Annex 10(b))                          11,149      12,313       13,558      14,967      16,554      18,309       20,398      22,482      24,783       27,220       30,007
Incineration plant (details in Annex 10(c))             _            _           _           638       2,826        4,286       4,594       4,926        5,288       6,415        6,882
Total                                           11,149       12,313      13,558      15,605      19,380       22,595      24,992      27,408       30,071      33,635       36,889
Surpfus (deficit) before depreciation                ( 5,023)    ( 1,681)      3,134       2,132        6,746      12,487      11,720       10,940      14,389      14,082       12,669
Depreciation
Assets other than incineration plant                947       1,160       1,767       2,336       2,426        3,513       4,638        5,026       5,469       5,689        5,510
Incineration plant                                 _      -                 -                -    2,525        5,049           9       5,049        5,049       6,199       _6199
Total Depreciation                                 947        1,160       1,767       2,336       4,951        8,562       9,687      10,075       10,518      11,888       11,709
Total operating cost including depreciation           12,096      13,473      15,325      17,941      24,331       31,157      34,679       37,483      40,589      45,523       48,598
Surplus (deficit) after depreciation                 ( 5,970)    ( 2,841)      1,367       ( 204)       1,795       3,925       2,033          865       3,871       2,194          960
Interest on IBRD loan                                    -           213         594       1,367        3,763       4,684       4,636        4,459       4,266       4,057        3,830
Less interest capitalized                          _            213         594       1,367       3,763        2,304         -           -            -           -            -
Net interest                                        -           -           -           -            -         2,380       4,636       4,459        4,266       4,057        3,830
Net Surplus (deficit)                                ( 5,970)    ( 2,841)      1,367      ( 204)        1,795       1,545     ( 2,603)    ( 3,594)      (  395)    ( 1,863)    ( 2,870)
operating Ratio before depreciation                      182%        116%         81%         88%          74%         64%         68%          71%         68%         70%          74%
operating Ratio after depreciation                      197%         127%         92%        101%          93%         89%         95%          98%         91%         95%          98%     0
Rate Base                                             15,620      18,270      22,363      24,495       28,007      88,879     144,2?5      138,877     132,581     137,378      141,579
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets in operation         -            -           6.1%        -           6.4%         4.4%        1.4%        o.6%         2.9%        1.6%         0.7%
May 28, 1975



SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Operating Expenses of Solid Wastes Collection, Remnv.11 & Du3rlpin2,
19'74/75    19(15/7t6    1976/77    1977/78     1978/79      m           18/j        1981/82     1982/83     1983/84      1984/85
-_000- - _-----------_-----------                            S   o- ------------
Salaries & Allowances                               1,394       1,533       1,687       1,855        2,041       2,245       2,4 70                   2,988       /,287       3,615
Daily Rated Employees                               7,800       8,580       9,438       1iQ416      11,637      12,988      )+,504      _5,954      17,550       ',2,305     21,235
Maintenance of Vehicles                               755         842         939       1,04'!       1,167       1,301       i,451       1,613        1,804       2,011       2,242
Fuel & oil                                            451         503         561         62/          678         734         823         923        1,036       1,141       1,281
Earth for tipping                                     259         290         320          358         310         258         299          346         399         381         443
Utilities                                             168         176         185         194          204         214         225         236          '4d         261         274
Other Expenses                                         18          20          22          24          26           29          32          35          39           43          47
Overheads                                             304         369         406         446         491          540         594         654         719         791          870
Total Operating Expenses before Depreciation       11,149      12,313      13,552      14,967      16,554       18,309      20,398      22,482      24,0?         1,220      30,007
Depreciation                                          947       1,160       1,767       2,336        .,426       3,513       4,638       5,026       5,469        5,689       5,510
Total                                              12,096      13,473      15,325      17,303       18,980      S,02?       25,036      27,508      30,-252      D'J,909     35,517
May 16, 1975



SINGAPORE
ENVIRGNMEIITAL COiITROL PROJECT
Estimated Operating Expenses of Incineration Plant
977/78   1978/79 1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   12/83    934              1984/85
Staff salaries & al2'zarnces      638      1,404     1,545      1,699      1.869     2,057      2,379      2,617
Daily rated emplo,-ees                      246       314        345        379       417        50 5       556
Maintenance                                1,01X1    2,1X7      2,297      2,411     2,532      3.138      3,295
Fuel & Oil                                    51         78        82         86         90       125        131
Water & Chemlcals                             17         22        24         26         29         !3        47
Electricity                                   61        128       134        141        148      258         217
Other Expenses                                 6        12         13         14         15        17         19
Total Operating Expenses
before Depreciation            638      2,826     4,286      4,594      4,926     5,208      6,415      6,882
Depreciation                       -       2,525     5,049      5,049      5,049     5,049      6,199      6,199
TOTAL                             638      5,351     9,335      9,643      9,975    10,337    12,614    13,0811
May 28, 1?75



SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated SoVroes & Application of Funds
Total
Project
Period
1974/75    1975/76     1976/77     1977/78     1978/79     197           6.77iod   1980/81     1981/82     1982/83     i983/84     1984/85
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Surplus (deficit) before
depreciation                       (5,023)     (1,681)      3,134       2,132       6,746      12,487      22,818      11,720      10,940      14,389      14,082      12,669
IBRD Loan                                -          315       6,192      27,383      19,502       2,608      56,ooo          -           -           -           -           -
Government contribution              *8,575      10,468      17,350      34,761       8,008       6,447      77,034         281       2,371      17,663      (1,867)      (1,738)
Total                            3,552       9,102      26,676      64,276      34,256      21,542     155,852      12,001      13,311      32,052      12,215      10,931
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures
Incinerator Project                846       3,o60      19,455      59,692      16,879       4,814     103,900          -           -           -           -           -
Vehicles                            -        3,671       3,053       2,491       9,493          -       18,708          -           -           -           -           -
Total Project                      846       6,731      22,508      62,183      26,372       4,814     122,608          -           -           -           -           -
Other capital expenditures       1,627       1,965       2,425         397       1,930      10,753      17,470       5,087       4,ooo       4,000       4,000       4,0ow
Fourth incinerator unit                         -           -           -           -           -           -           -        2,400      2040         1,200        _
Total Capital                    2,473       8,696      24,933      62,580      28,302      15,567     140,o78       5,087       6,400      24,400       5,200       4,0oo
Debt Service
Interest capitalized                -          213         594       1,367       3,763       2,304       8,241          -           -           -           -           -
Interest charged to revenue         -           -           -           -           -        2,380       2,380       4,636       4,459       4,266       4,057       3,830
Amort"zation                                    -           -           -           -          958         958       2,040      -2,217       2,41o       2            2,619
rotal Debt Service                  -          213         594       1,367       3,763       5,642      11,579       6,676       6,676       6,676       6,676       6,676
Increase in Currept Assets            1,079         193       1,149         329       2,191         333       4,195         238         235         976         339         255
Total                                 3,552       9,102      26,676      64,276      34,256      21,542     155,852      12,001      13,311      32,052      12,215      10,931
Debt Service Coverage (times)            -           -         5.3         1.6         1.8         2.2         2.0         1.8         1.6         2.2          2.1         1.9
/ Excludes 940 spent on the project before 1975/76.
May 28, 1975



' NGAPORk
i'V'l NMENTA,, CONTEOL PROJECT
Lstij, teoi Balance Sheets
As at March 31,                          1974        19ir75       1976         97'.,       'J8 rrrg                1980 (896                1982         1983        1984         1985
___----- _____.___I         __________-----------_------------------_----S$  O000------------------------- -----------------------------------------
ASSETS
Current Assets
Accounts Receivable                       780       1,700        1,769       2,779       2,953        5,057       5,507        5,779       6,052        7,070       7,495        7,802
Inventory                                 854       1,175       1,316        1,474       1,651        1,850       1,850       1,850        1,850       1,850        1,850        1,850
Total                              1,634       2,875       3,085        4,253       4,604       6,907        7,357       7,629        7,902       8,920        9,345        9,652
Fixed Assets
Gross Value                            18,524      20,079      25,201       29,946       30,704      40,435     164,005     167,497      171,436     173,595      196,612      195,687
Less Accumulated Depreciaion           3,316       4,047       4,693        5,727       5,933        9,192      17,490      25,582       35,596      44,273       51,178       57,962
Net Assets                        ::5,208     16,032      20,508       24,219      24,771       31,243     146,515     141,915      135,840     129,322      145,434     137,725
Works in Progress                         238         940       4,213       24,262      85,321      105,963         -                      2,4oo      22,800          -            -
Total                            15,446       16,972      24,721       48,481     110,092      137,206     146,515     141,915      138,240     152,122      145,434     137,725
Total Assets                      17,080      19,847      27,806       52,734     114,696     144,113      153,872     1.49,544     146,142     161,042      154,779     147,377
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                          -           138          153         I69         188          297         414          448         486          528         614          666
Deposits                                  -            24          26           29           2           35          35           35          35           35          35           35
Current Maturities                        -           -           _            _           _           958        2,4o        2,217        2,410       2,619        2,846       3,093
Total                                -           162         179          399        2".0        1,290       2,489       2,700        2,931        3,182       3,495        3,794
Long Term Liabilities
IBRD Loan                                             -           315        6,507      33,890       53,392      55,042      53,002       50,785      48,375       45,756      42,910
Less Current Maturities                   -           -           -            -           -            958       2,o4o       2,217        2,410        2,619       2,846        3,093
Net                                              -           315        6,50'      33,890       52,434      53,002      50,785       48,375      45,756       42,910       39,817
Equity
At beginning of year                               17,080       19,685      27,312      46,029       80,586      90,389       98,381      96,059       94,836     112,104      108,374
Contribution for the year                           8,575      10,468       17,350      34,761       8,008        6,447         281        2,371      17,663       (1,867)      (1,738)
Surplus (deficit) for the jear        ___          (5,970)      (2,841)      1,367       ( 204)       1,795       1,545       (2,603)     (3,594)       ( 395)     (1,863)      (2,870)
Equity at end of year                  17,080      19,685       27,312      46,029      80,586       90,389      98,381       96,059      94,836      112,104     108,374      103,766
Total Liabilities & Equity        17,080      19,847      27,806       52,734     114,696     144,113      153,872     149,544      146,142     161,042      154,779     147,377
Debt:Equity Ratio                                                1:99        12:88       30:70        37:63       35:65       35:65        34:66        29:71       28:72        28:72
March 21, 1975



ANNEX 13
Page 1
SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Statements
REVENUE
1.   Domestic Solid Waste Fees
The revenue is estimated at the rate of S$1.00 per month per
residential unit. The estimated number of residential units, as on March
31, 1975, is 110,000 excluding 171,200 units in the Housing & Development
Board (HDB) and the Jurong Town Corporation (JTC) housing complexes.  HDB
and JTC did not pay any fees for removal and disposal of refuse in respect
of their units up to December 1974, but effective January 1975 they are
also paying MOE at the same rate. HDB plans to construct about 30,000 to
35,000 new units every year. There would also be some construction by JTC
and by private parties. However, taking into account some demolitions and
slippage in HDB's program, 29,000 additional units only are assumed every
year for revenue projections. For FY 1975-76 additonal revenue for half
of 29,000 units has been adopted.
It is assumed that the fee will be raised to S$2.00 per resident-
ial unit in April 1976 and to S$3.00 in October 1978. An increase of about
12.5% is assumed in April 1982.
2.   Non-Domestic Solid Waste Fees
The fee for non-domestic solid waste collection (mainly from
shops and commercial establishments) was increased in January 1975 (see
Annex 9).   At the revised rates, the full year's revenue is estimated at
S$6.76 million. The projections for 1975-76 through 1984-85 assume an
annual increase of S$240,000 towards an estimated 2,000 new non-domestic
units every year at the minimum rate S$10.00 per month. Fees are not
collected for refuse removed from Government offices, schools, hospitals,
etc. However, on the basis of the volume of such refuse, the "imputed
revenue" for FY 1974-75 is estimated at S$63,000. An annual increase of
5% is assumed on the imputed revenue.
It is assumed that the fees will be increased by 50% in October
1978 (when the incinerator will commence operations) and a further increase
of 12.5% will be made effective in April 1982.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
3.   Industrial & Institutional Wastes
MOE does not collect wastes from industrial establishments, public
sector institutions and certain Government agencies. They arrange their
solid wastes to be transported to the dumping sites at their cost and pay
no charges for dumping. MOE agree that a charge should be levied for
dumping wastes partly to generate additional revenue and partly as a means
of conserving land. For revenue projections a charge of S$7.00 per tonne
is assumed beginning FY 1976-77 and S$15.00 per tonne from mid FY 1978-79.
A further increase of 12.5% is assumed from April 1982.
4.   PUB's Commission
Fees for solid waste removal are collected through the Public
Utilities Board (PUB) which includes them in their computerized bills for
electricity, water and gas. Until recently, PUB was paid a commission of
S$60,000 annually and this has been raised in FY 1974-75 to S$80,000. A
further increase to S$120,000 is assumed in FY 1979-80.
5.   Other Revenue
This consists mainly of fees paid by contractors for sorting out
and taking away metals from the refuse at the dumping sites, charges for
special pickups of refuse and other miscellaneous receipts. With the
incineration plant going into operation in mid 1978-79 the pre-sorting of
metals from the refuse to be incinerated will be discontinued. The revenue
projections, therefore, assume elimination of receipts for pre-sorting
of metals from mid 1978-79.
6.   Surplus Power
The average power generation of the incineration plant is esti-
mated at 10.5 MW of which 2.1 MW will be used for operating the plant. The
balance of 8.4 MW (approximately 56 million kWh assuming 80% availability)
will be sold to PUB for which PUB will pay MOE. No agreement on pricing
of the surplus power has yet been reached between PUB and MOE. To be on
the conservative side, the revenue has been assumed at the rate of 5.247
Singapore cents per kWh based on PUB's production cost at the current oil
price of S$190/tonne. For FY 1978-79, revenue is estimated at 50% because
the incinerator is scheduled to go into operation in October 1978. No
increase is assumed in revenue projections, except in FY 1983-84 when a
fourth incineration unit of 400 tonnes/day is assumed to go into operation.
7.   Sale of Scrap
It is estimated that the scrap metal recovered from the incine-
rated refuse will be about 6% or 72 tonnes/day. The quantity will increase
proportionately in FY 1983-84 when 1,600 tonnes of refuse is assumed for
incineration. Revenue projections are based on the current estimated
sale price of S$50 per tonne. No increase in price is assumed for the
revenue projections.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
OPERATING EXPENSES
Consumer Price Index (CPI) remained fairly stable in Singapore
in 1968 through 1972. Over the five years 1968-72 the index rose only about
4%, i.e. less than 1% p.a.  However, due to the worldwide inflation, con-
sumer prices increased about 26% in 1973 and 22% in 1974. But the rate of
inflation is now falling off. With the base of 100 for November 1972, the
CPI in April 1974 was 142.0 and rose to 149.7 in January 1975. Thus, in
the nine months, May 1974 to January 1975, CPI rose by about 5.4% only or at
an annual rate of about 7.2%. The National Wage Council awarded cost of
living adjustments for monthly and daily rated employees of 10% in 1973 and
9% in 1974. It is extremely difficult to predict how the prices will behave
in future and what increases in staff salaries will be allowed by the
National Wage Council hereafter. The rate of inflation could be assumed
to stabilize between 7 and 10% p.a. It is unlikely, in view of the previous
awards, that Government will fully neutralize the cost of living increases
for all staff in 1975 and thereafter. Therefore, a 5% p.a. increase seems
a fair estimate for annual cost-of-living adjustments and has been adopted
in the projections for operating expenses. Should this prove inadequate,
the tariffs for solid wastes services may have to be increased beyond those
assumed in items 1, 2 and 3 above to achieve a no-profit-no-loss result on
solid wastes operations.
8.   Salaries & Allowances
Staff salaries are projected to increase 10% annually to cover
roughly equally the normal increments and the cost-of-living adjustments.
Additional provisions are made for 135 staff for the incineration plant to
be in position from October 1, 1977, about one year before the incinerator
goes into full operation. For the fourth unit of 400 tonnes/day, 12 addi-
tional men are assumed in 1983-84.
9.   Daily Rated Employees
The wages and allowances of daily rated employees have also been
projected to increase 10% annually as for monthly rated staff. Provisions
have been made for additonal staff - (a) for incineration plant 48 skilled
and unskilled workmen and 14 drivers (for disposal of ash) in FY 1978-79;
(b) for additional refuse collection vehicles - 8 crew in 1977-78, 42 in 1978-
79, 42 in 1979-80 and 46 in 1980-81. No increase in number of unskilled
workers for refuse collection is proposed, because with the increased
mechanical support the existing numbers would be adequate to handle in-
creased workload.
10. Maintenance
For the incinerator plant, maintenance is provided at 2% of
civil works and cost of mechanical and electrical equipment as recommended
by the consultants. For ash disposal vehicles maintenance is assumed at



ANNEX 13
Page 4
S$100 per vehicle per month. The maintenance costs are projected to in-
crease 5% annually. For refuse collection vehicles, bulldozers and other
equipment maintenance costs are projected to increase 11.5% annually - about
6.5% for increased loads and 5% for inflation.
11.  Fuel & Oil
Consultants have estimated annual consumption of 120 tonnes of
oil for the incinerator. The expenditure projections are based on the
1974-75 price of S$300 per tonne escalated 5% annually. For 1978-79, 10
months consumption is assumed. In 1983-84 when the fourth unit of 400 tonnes/
day is expected to be added, a proportionate increase in expenditure is
provided.  For the 14 ash disposal vehicles a daily consumption of 75 gal-
lons at S$0.90 per gallon at 1974-75 prices escalated 5% annually is assumed
from October 1978.
Fuel and oil costs for the refuse collection vehicles are proj-
ected to increase proportionately with the increase in the weight of solid
wastes estimated to be collected by MOE. Projections for fuel and oil
consumption by bulldozers are based on the estimates of the refuse to be
dumped at the tipping sites. In both cases, a 5% annual increase
is provided for escalation.
12. Earth for Tipping
The projections are based on quantities for tipping with a price
escalation of 5% p.a.
13. Water & Chemicals (for the incinerator)
This is based on the consultants' estimate of consumption of
44,000 m3 water annually. Cost of chemicals for treating 30,000 m3 water
annually is also provided. For 1978-79, 10 months' consumption is assumed.
A 10% price increase is provided annually. In 1982-83, proportionate
additional provision is made for the 4th unit.
14.  Electricity (for the incinerator)
Consultants estimate a consumption of 860,000 kWh of power for an
assumed 14-day shut-down of the plant annually. Projections are based on
the 1974-75 price of 11.7 cents per kWh escalated 5% annually. Expenditure
in the first year (i.e., 1978-79) is assumed at 50%. Proportionate in-
crease is projected for the 4th unit in 1983-84.
15. Utilities (for solid waste collection and dumping)
A 5% annual increase is assumed on the current estimated costs
of the districts and the workshops allocated to solid waste management.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
16. Other Expenses
These comprise mainly office expenses, e.g., stationery,
telephones, uniforms, etc. and are estimated to increase 10% annually.
17. Overheads
A portion of the expenses of Engineering Services Department
and of the Environmental Public Health Department which can be identified
or apportioned to solid waste management are assumed as the overheads for
solid wastes. In 1975-76 provision is made for setting up an Accounts
Section with one accountant and three support staff. A 10% increase is
projected as for the staff salaries.
18. Depreciation
Depreciation has been worked out on the straight-line method on
the assumed lives of assets shown below:
Civil works for incinerator               30 years
Mechanical & electrical equipment         20   "
Buildings                                 30
Vehicles                                   8   "
Weighbridges                              15
Bulldozers                                10   i
Workshop Equipment                        10
Culverts, earthworks, etc. at
dumping sites                        8   i
SOURCES & APPLICATION OF FUNDS AND BALANCE SHEETS
19. IBRD Loan
A loan of US$25 million (S$56 million) is assumed repayable in
30 semi-annual installments (after a grace period of about 4 years)
at interest rate of 8.5% and commitment fee of 3/4th of 1%. Bank disburse-
ments follow the capital expenditures on the project with about 6 months'
time lag. Interest during construction will be capitalized. It is assumed
that the loan will be effective in September 1975; the Closing Date will
be September 30, 1979 and the repayments will commence January 1, 1980.
20. Government Appropriations
All funds required for solid waste management to the extent they
are not met from internal generation or the Bank Loan are assumed to be
provided by Government as equity.
21. Capital Expenditures
These are based on the project cost estimates (Annex 3) and MOE's
program of capital investments for dumping sites and purchase of bulldozers.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
22. Accounts Receivable
It is assumed that two months' revenue in respect of solid wastes
fees and one month's revenue from sale of surplus power and sale of scrap
metal will remain uncollected at the end of the year. Collections of solid
wastes fees are made through PUB and no bad debts are expected.
23. Inventory
Inventory is assumed to increase about 12% annually from 1975-76
through 1978-79 and remain constant thereafter.
24. Accounts Payable
Accounts payable are assumed equal to about one month's operating
expenses excluding salaries and overheads.
25. Deposits
Deposits, mainly from contractors, are assumed to increase by 10%
annually through 1978-79 and remain constant thereafter.
May 29, 1975



I



SI NGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT
I * I~
|PERMANENT SECRETARY
IENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING                                                          ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC |
LDIVISION                                                                   1     HEALTH DIVISION      I
I II|  |   I          I                   ,       r        11          1       1           I                   .5
|SEWERAGEd DEPARTMENT||DRAINAGE DEPARTMENT|                    | QUARANTINE DEPT.      FOOD SECTION        HAWKERS DEPT.      EPIDEMIOLOGICA
________                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~ III
ENGINEERING SERVICES DEPT.                                TRAINING &              CONTROL &      ENVIRONMENTAL        CEMETEORIES &
EDUCATION DEPT.      RESARCH DEPT.     I  HEALTH HO.          REMATORIA SECT.
7 DISTRICT HEALTH   PLANNING & EVALUATI0N   GENERAL SERVICES]  UILDING PLANS_   MECHANICAL SWEEPERS
OFFICES               UNIT                 UNIT               UNT                   UNIT
World Bank-9727






RlNVaRWIMEWTAa tOMNTOL PROJECT
INCINERATICN P1017
PROPOSEDORGANIZATION CWART
a         A1-A-
-1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |-T-LN M:C(
1-1-ZX1       -T-                                                                          ~TR                               lll                               caus                                            |seu 
FT ~                tMTQ  NhER                                                                                                        NEA EECIs



SI NGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
ENGINEERING SERVICES DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
SENIOR EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
HIGHEXE EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
CONSTRUCTION SECTION      REFUSE DISPOSAL &        MARKETS DEVTELOPMEN &
MINOR WORKS & STORES       INCINERATION SECTION         IMPROVEMENT SECTION
1 ENGINEER                 1 ENGINEER                   2 ENGINEERS
World Bank-9729



SINGAPORE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1975                                    1976                                       1977                               1978
MONTHS   1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32  3  4   35 36 1 371 38 139 40| 41
1. PRELIMINARY EARTH WORKS                  VA'AFA             F                                                                    Io   ~8N                IN   I   I
2. CIVIL WORKS                  F W   V      {               -  -  -       -              -             -                             -             -              - 
2A CHIMNEY                                FI[F .                                                                         I~j 
3. INCINERATOR AND                                                           IF t_                                                -  _
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT                                          -       -      *    7 I         *   *-* I                 * I*I*I*   *-Ilotmh 1mm gill
4. TURBOGENERATOR AND                                   IFr Ar  < j  2 A[ F         I-  -  3  f     -  .   .                                   E i    I,  M  M
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT                                                                            a     Mg                                                     i T_.    ... 1 
F F '~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5. CRANES AND LIFTS
6. WEIGHBRIDGE                                                                                                      *  IB    I M       M  I                                il
7. AIR CONDITIONING AND                                                                                                                         i  i           i  mIm
VENTILATION EQUIPMENT                                                                                        Blo smlIl
8. WORKSHOP EQUIPMENT       __                                                                  l+i 1  tt                                                            11
KEY:
evo  w' A_!DESIGN AND PREPARATION OF TENDER DOCUMENTS   _m I M g  MANUFACTURE
TENDERING AND EVALUATION                       _ _ M MCONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION
V     AWARD OF CONTRACT                              Bm,mmIIIIIIimCOMMISSIONING AND TRIAL
OPERATION                                                                              World Bank-9730






IBRD 11563
APRIL 1975
0 '1
00
ui~~~~    A
K                       A~~~~c 
\ t I A __ -
! i  o,                 \ \        w ~~~~~~~~~z J<   m     
.1~~ ~ -/                                   c , tkZ R     = F%   
' I'                   j 1
_VS
<                                                        ku~~~~~~~>
j 
- O =: ' \ \~~~~~ ( <   ')D 
t;  X  \  \ - \:W 3 \ o H t/ Dn -A
i'~~~~~~~ '.~0              0\0. N,,'',; '               &
A ~~~~~~~~A
2- ~ ~   ~    
- >  '  '  J - >  0(
e           '<,   ~~~  >   tgh    X '4  l0
t  0~~       'K- -gf                     '    'S    
IN,~N
<                   r        Z,~~~~~~~~N



