Dow=
The Worl L
Rep2t No. P-5266-YEM
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 10.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR THE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
AUGUST 14, 1991
Thbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipies only in the performance of
t|eir offidal duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be dscsed witou World Bank authorizadon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of July 1991)
US$1.00                    Yemeni Rials (YRls) 12.00
YR1 1.00              -    US$0.0833
YRls 1.0 million      -    US$83,333
Yemeni Dinar (YD)     -   YRls 26.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)     -    0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                3.28 feet
1 square meter (in)   -    10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)      -    0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)        -    10,000 sq. meters (2.47 acres)
1 metric ton (ton)    =    2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)           -    0.264 gallons
1 1/s                 -    One liter per second
1 m3/s                     One cubic meter per second
1 Mm3                      One million cubic meters
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS US-
AREA        Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IDA         International Development Association
MAWR        Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
NADP        National Agricultural Development Program
NATC        National Agricultural Training Center
PMU         Project Management Unit
PDRY/YDR    Peoples' Democratic Republic of Yemen
RDA         Regional Development Agency
ROY         Republic of Yemen
TA          Technical Assistance
WID         Women in Development
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOE OFFICIAL US ONLY
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
REUIIC  OF YEE
AGRICULT     SECTO 3NA         SUPPORT PROJaCT
CREIT AND PRWOJET SII
Borrower               :  Government of the Republic of Yemen (ROY)
DeneficLary            :  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
AMountM                :  SDR 10.8 million (US$14.4 million equivalent)
Terms                  :  Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Financina Plan         :  IDA                  US$14.4  million
Government of the
Netherlands       US$3.0 million
Government of ROY  US$4.6 million
Total               US$22.0 million
e1onoMic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff A22riLsal Report     Report No. 8432-YEK, dated August 9, 1991
No                    :  IBRD No. 22547R
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipl.nts only, n th petfotmun
of their offlc.a dudes. Its contents may not otherwe be discosed without We, n authotin.



INDRAUDUN AID UCOMMoTrIS  0 Tin PUESIDENT
OF THt IUTERN,TIONAL DEVEINEIT ASSOCIATION
TO THU suCWSVR DIRECTORS
03 A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC of TIEN
la AN AGURCM                                 n R
1.    I submit the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Yemen (ROY) in the saount of SDR 10.8
million (US$14.4 ailllon equivalent) for approval. The proposed credit would
be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and would help finance an
Agriculture Sector Management Support Project.  The project would be cofin-
anced by the Government of the Notherlands with bllateral aid amounting to
US$3.0 million equivalent. Part I of thls report discussvs Republic of
Yemen's development problems and prospects, the key priorities of the economic
reform program at the macro-economic and sector levels, and the Bank Group's
assistance strategy. Part II of the report describes the proposed credit
PATI I.  COUNTRY POLICIES ND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
2.          Ig4tgduction.  The Republic of Yemen (Yemen) was forvr4d on May 22,
1990, unifying the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and the People's Dewocratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY). The unification occurred sfX montis ahead of
schodule. A transition period through 1991 was envisaged to complete the
institutional mergers; it will now be extended to 1992. The preparation of a
common development plan has slipped due to the Gulf crisis and is now
scheduled for 1992. An IDA mission to prepare a Medium-Term Economic
Framoeork Paper (MTFP) vLsited Yemen in Kay 1991 and a Country Implementation
Review (CIR) took place in July 1991. The unified country faces challenges
and has the potential to meet them. Time, however, is needed to consolidate
the unification process. The recent Gulf crisis has made this process even
more difficult than anticipated.
A. THE BL3IQN
3.          IMkgrmmg.  The unification of YAR and PDRY brought together two
markedly different economies. The economy of YAR, was based largely on market
principles, and that of PDRY, based on centralized planning. The combined
population of North and South Yemen was estimated in 1989 at over 11 million;
the GNP per capita, at $6401. This seemingly high GNP per capita, however, is
tempered somewhat by other social indicators usually associated with a lower
level of income: a life expectancy of 50 years, a primary school enrollment
rate of 67 percent, and an adult literacy rate of 20 percent. These
indicators reflect, to a great extent, Yemen's limited resource endowment and
late start at modern development. Both YAR and PDRY were designated by the UN
as least developed countries.
I/   Calculation based on preliminary data of the combined national accounts
indicates that the 1990 GNP per capita, in current dollars, is likely to
remain below the effective threshold for continued IDA eligibility. Due to
the difficulties of combining the two sets of accounts, prepared under
different approaches, however, GNP per capita calculations need to be
reconfirmed.



4.          Until the discoveries and exploitation of oil ilu the last four
years (oil production is currently estimated at 200,000 bpd), Yeoen depended
heavi.y on traditional agriculture, which was constrained by shortages of
arable land and water. Industry was poorly developed. A large number of
Ymesnis, mainly unskilled, depended on employment in noighboring oil-exporting
countries. Workers' remittances have been the main source of foreign oechange
mince the did-1970s. Unification has created a greater potential for long-
term development than if the two countries had remained separate. Yemen has
modest oil roserves (estimated at 600-900 million barrels) and substantial gas
reserves (estimated at 7 trillion cubic feet), with good prospects for
additional discoveries; under-exploited fisherios resourcos; some tourism
potential; and a dynamic, if bureaucratically encumbered, privat. sector.
With the recent eltiination of controls on prices, production, etc.,
particularly in the southern part, the economy Is expected to profit from
increased participation and dynamism of the private sector. An enlarged
market offers greater potential gains from economies of scale. Unification
has also eliminated the contested areas around the old border and allowed for
faster exploration of oil and gas in the promising area between the two major
oil fields of Earib and Sbabwa.
S.                             .    Prior to unification, both YAR and PDRY
experienced a prolonged period of high domestic demand far in excess of
domestic output, as Lidicated by negative domestic savings (Table 1). Both
countries depended heavily on workers' remittances and external assistane to
close the large resource gaps. Government finances sontributed significantly
to the excess demand, as the budget deficits were perslstently large,
wveraging alaswt 17 percent of GDP In YAR and 40 percent in PDRY during 1985-
89. A large part of the deficit, especially In YAR (64 percent), was financed
by borrowing from the Central Bank, creating inflationary pressures."
Reflecting the strong demand, the balance of payments current accounts showed
large deficits, averaging over 11 percent of GDP during 1985-89 for YAR and
about 28 percent for PDRY. These were financed largely by grants and
concessional loans. Despite the soft terms of most external borrowing,
external debt service became Increasingly burdensome. As a result, both YAR
and PMY resorted to repeated rescheduling of part of the debt. Furthermore,
in 1988, TAR first resorted to short-term borrowing, which had reached almost
$900 mlllion by the end of 1989. The present combined debt amounts to about
US$5.7 billion, or some 70 percent of the combined CDP. The 1990 debt service
ratio is estimated at 22 percont.
6.          Transition to FDll Inification. Since unification in May 1990,
the Government has been engaging in the difficult task of merging the two
government administrations. It has decided that a transition period, until
end-1992, will be allowed before all institutions are completely integrated.
Altbough a substantial part of this mergiug has been couplet -, the decision-
making process and administrative functions are still not operating smoothly.
This has adversely affected the timely adoption and impleamentation of the
policies needed to address economic issues. Work on unifying the monetary and
financial systems, customs and tariffs, and public finances has been largely
completed. Outch lse progress, however, has been achieved in rationalizing
public sector enterprises, which played a relatively larger role in the
economy of PDRY. The Government expects to address the issue of redundancy,
2/   DUe to price c.ontrols, inflation rates in PDRY were low. Such controls,
however, created general shortages throughout the country.



-3-
both In public administration and in public sector enterprises before the end
of the transition period.
7.          The trznsition has entailed additlonal expenss. Many civil
servants were relocated, requiring money for moving and housing. Lare
xpenses were also Incurred to raise the pay of the formr public soctor
employees of PDRY in order to equal the salaries of former YAR employees.
These expenses have further exacerbated budget deficits that are already in
urgent noed of reduction.
Tabl 1"-ftlected  ntar,18-0J.
R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
..~~~~~~~h                 "   ,  ,...i . J   *-"&  
f .A'                                                     t.
iso>~~~~~~~~~i
..  ,                   '
5.1   'IA1.  3.3  *J iiAL   5.3 1.6  'ss .69  o
J $4  ...    Wfi ~.Z.-23.0 -15.8: -5.3 -37. -4A.4-30.9 -3.'45  1.5
8.    IIL UYXJLIIX,_fto.         l^   The- alr -dy diflultecnoi
4! -2,4'  .    -,,3  C '   2.&' ''
~ u~j~,     -w.  -w.-&w. 4&.eu4 IV:1 ~~qj.
siwtSnha   ee   urhr  ^rasedb the Gul  Crlls   Sic             Auut90
abou  ~threeqarters of9 a    mllio   3nl8 have retr6 e  from th lr place  of
half. i1~I# Th  resultin  redutlo  ln2 remetsce     158ud  8tmt8  of0 those i  6#
N.'~~~~~~~~~'4
.4                                UW 13  .w35   80
8.b    7 phere Inat  t of the Gulf rr1 di.. The already difficult teonomic
situation has been further aggravated by the Gulf Crisis. Since August 1990,
about three quarters of a million Yemenis have returned from their places of
employment in the Gulf countries. These are mostly workers whose remittances
had been instrumental in the country's development for over a decade and a
half. The resulting reduction in remittances (including estimates of those
coming through unofficial channels) . now estimated at over $1 bilLon per year
(about 75 percent of total remittances), has severely affected the Yemeni
economy. BesLdes workers' remittances, Yemen also has lost earnings from
trade and servlce arrangements with regional countries involved ln the
conflict. These include sucn items as transportation, contracting, and oil



-4-
refinery fees estimated at close to US$400 million annually. The crisis also
adversely affected tourism, which grosses about US$45 million per year. With
traditional donors preoccupied with their own doestic problems, their
ssistance to Yemen, both in te!Ds of grants and concessional loans, is
expected to drop substantially. As a result, Yemen has to cut imports by some
17 percent, in nominal terms, adversely affecting consumption, invewnment and
prospects for future development. The returning migrants have exa-terbated the
unemployment and underemployment problem that have already been on the rise
due to slow economic growth and t J. large numbers of school leavers entering
the labor force each year. Without the returning migrants, unemployment is
estimated at over 400,000. With the prospectlve redundancy ln the civil
service and in public sector enterprises, unemployment, which is expected to
reach 25 percent of the labor force by 1992, will be one of the most pressing
problems for the country.
9.            am       Respn. The Government has taken a number of
measures in recent months to alleviate the economic difficulties. It has
liberalized the foreign exchange market, essentially abolishing foreign
exchange controls and allowing the private exchange market to operate freely.
Only importers of two basic goods -- wheat (including wheat flour) and rice -
- can get foreign exchange from the central bank at the preferential exchange
rate; everyone else must rasort to private markets where floating rates
reflect current sul ly and demand.' Furthermore, in order to raise additional
revenues, the Government doubled gasoline prices and raised the price of
diesel by AO percent. To reduce expenditures, it has withheld three days pay
from civil servants. Additional measur, s to cut expendttures have been
proposed and are due to be implemented shortly. The Government estimates that
expenditure cuts and improvements in tax administration will reduce the budget
deficit by 2.5 billion rials in the current fiscal year. In addition,
interest rates in the South have been rvised and unified with the higher
interest rates prevailing in the North- the resulting interest rates in real
terms are, however, still negative.
Short-teTm Outlook and Need for Stabi- ati
10.         Risk of Statnation.  The severe macroeconomic imbalances and
instability are expected to continue urless adequate stabilization measures
are put in place soor.. While the liberalization of the exchange market will
liait imports to the level of foreign exchange availability, and thus reduce
the external imbalance to a manageable size, the same thing cannot be said
regarding public finances. Although recent measures are expected to increase
revenues and create some savings, they are not enough to reduce the budget
deficit (estimated at 15 percent of GDP in 1990) to the sustainable level of
3-5 percent of GDP. Because external assistance is expected to be relatively
small,' due partly to the Gulf crisis and partly to economic difficulties in
the traditional donor countries (USSR and Eastern Europe), most of the deficit
would be financed by money creation. As a result, inflationary pressures will
3/    The free market rate was about Yrls 24/US$ in May 1991, compared to the
official rate of Yrls 12/US$.
i/    Disbursements from loans in the pipeline are estimated at $430 million
in 1991. Scheduled amortization, on the other hand, is about $570 million.
Net inflows will, therefore, be negative unless some rescheduling is taking
place. As in the past few years, Yemen plans to continue debt rescheduling
with the USSR; as a result, a small positive inflow could be achieved.



continue; the consumer price index in Sana'a went up by about 47 percent
during March 1990-March 1991. At the same time, with reduced external
resources, both from aid and from workers' remittances, 4ind perhaps less
revenue from oil exports (due to the recent fluctuations of the price of oil),
prospects for economic growth in the near future would look rather bleak
without the implementation of adequat} reforms.
11.         Stahil        MerBsan  zsu.  Clearly, the policy focus in this
situation should be to reduce the budget and current account deficits to
manageable levels. Simultaneously, there is an urgent need for donors to
provide adequate external resources at highly concessional terms to cushion
*        the contractionary impact.  In the present circumstances, such a stabilization
program would need to contain the following elements. F1rtt, the
liberalization of trade and of the exchange rate needs to go one step further
by allowing market forces to guide the setting of the official exchange rate
for use in all transactions. Such liberalization would not only help reduce
economic distortions but also substantially increase government revenues, in
local currency terms, and thus reduce the budget deficit.   egc   , additional
budget revenues need to be raised. These may come from changing most of the
tax and tariff structures from specific to ad-valg   ; valuing imports at the
market exchange rate for customs tariff calculation; and higher excises on
sutch items as qat (a mild stimulant), petroleum products, tobacco, soft
drinks, mineral water and entertainment.  Thjir, some expenditure items may
need to be eliminated, reduced, frozen, or curtailed. For example,
unclassified transfers should be eliminatsl; capital transfers should be
reduced; wages and expenditures on materials, services and defense should be
frozen. In addition, most other items should be curtailed after the initial
stabilization period. Adopting such a reform program would negatively affect
the welfare of the relatively poor. A well-designed set of safety net
measures, however, can be concurrently implemented to mitigate the effects on
this group.
12.         A stabilization program for the next 18 months, was proposed by
the MTFP mission. The sain components of this program included (a) adopting
the Minister of Finance's proposal to reduce the 1991 current expenditures by
about 7 percent; (b) allowing the expenditures for wages and services in 1992
to rise only at one half of the 1991 inflation; (c) maintaining, in nominal
terms, at the 1991 budget level, the non-interest current capital transfers
and the non-wage portion of defense expenditures in 1992; (d) freezing new
hiring of civil servants; (e) adjusting tax rates on goods, services, zakat (a
tax under the Islamic religious code) and stamps to achieve constant revenue
yields in real terms; (f) adopting a market-guided exchange rate as the
conversion rate for trade and for computing customs duties; (g) allowing
foreign exchange dealers to operate without administrative hindrance; and (h)
unifying the interest rate structure and adjusting it upward to reflect the
market value of credit. The Government indicated that it had no disagreement
with the general direction of the proposal. In fact, a Government-appointed
committee had completed a draft reform program before the mission's arrival,
and the High Economic Council has already discussed such a program. The full
Cabinet has discussed the proposed program. Although the Government has
agreed in principle with what the MTFP mission proposed, the timing of
implementing those measures is under discussion. The progress in this regard
will need to be updated for the next strategy presentation; further assessment
will also be made during the discussion of the draft KTFP, scheduled for the
fall of 1991.



-6-
13.          esv Obi-ctiv1s.   Long-term development prospects are reasonably
good (par*. 14). provided  easures such as those outlined above are
implemented to stabilize the economy in the immediate future. As discussed
ees'aetr, while the country's resource endowmont remains relatively limited,
unification does offer better propects for growth. During the period of
transition, which will lest until *nd-1992, the Government will be preparing
the first development plan for the unified economy. The development plan
needs to take into consideration the following two factors: (i) Yemen has a
large, currently underemployed, fast growing unskilled labor force; and (I1)
the country cmnnot hope to be self-suffliient in most goods, even at high
costs, with its limited resource ba8e. The development strategy, therefore,
will have to find a way to absorb the fast-growing labor force, as well as
earn sufficient foreign exchange to pay for necessary imports.
14.        DeveL1.ess.ntLs. As regards sources of growth, employment
and foreign exchange, it Is envisaged that the following sectors, which have
the necessary potential, would be playing key roles: The gil sector will
continue to be the most important foreign exchange earner. Whether the level
of output will increase or last far beyond this decade depends on additional
discoveries, which are being pursued.  Even without substantial additional
reserves, if manged prudently, oil exports, which will last some 6-10 years
at present extraction rates, will help the country buy some time tntil other
sources of foreign exchange are developed. Gas reserves also offer excellent
prospects, at least for meeting internal energy needs and allowing the export
of oil products that are now consumed for power generation. This sector,
however, will not be absorbing much labor. Despite limited arable land and
water, aggicYljj offers some potential for additional employment and
earning/saving foreign exchange. Growth in this sector would largely depend
on raising productivity from existing production factors. Flsheries resources
remain under-exploited. With cessation of traditional agreements in the
South, suitable additional harvests can be made on species for domestic
consumption, while several bilateral sources have shown interest in helping to
develop a modern fisheries sector, which could raise the harvest of export
species. Fisheries can be considered another important source of employment
and foreign exchange earnings.
15.         So for, M&ng&Wd=g g has played a rather minor role in the
development of both YAR and PDRY. With a relatively large, underemployed,
fast-growing unskilled labor force, Yemen needs to vitalize this sector as a
source of growth, employment, and foreign exchange. Labor-intensive export
industries would seem to offer the greatest potential. However, the absence
of coherent sectoral policies combined with a weak financial sector is
hindering the entry of new entrepreneurs. Services, being mainly labor-
intensive, would seem to have some potential for greater contribution.
XQYXin1 has been developed very little, compared to its potential.  It woild
seem to offer an additional source of growth, mployAent and foreign exchange.
The Government is also planning to revitalize the Port of kian and make its
surrounding areas a free-trade zone. While this seems Rrtaa Zola to be a
good idea, a decision to undertake the necessary investments should only be
made following a careful economic and financial analysis. IDA has already
offered assistance towards this end.  ffL&t&itz (and thus remittances) since
the mid-1970s, and until late last year, was the single most important source
of foreign exchange. Although i_ is difficult to predict how the present
regional events will play out, on the basis that the Gulf countries will
continue to need expatriate labor, some Yemanis may be able to return to their



-7-
former places of employment or find now opportunities and tesume sending
remittances home.
16.         PO _rty Alleviation. As nentioned above, both parts of Yemen were
UN-designated least developed countries. Although data on absolute poverty
remains scarce. limited available soclal indicators seem to show widespread
problems related to poverty. The infant mortality rate in Yemen, for example,
is almost double the average of the lower middle-income countries. The
*          primary school enrollment rate is about two thirds that of countries at a
similar development stage. The Goverment has made considerable ezforts in
the past two decades to improve the situation, through investments in basic
social services such as health and education as well as in sectors providing
sources of employment and income for the relatively poor. During 1989, health
and education current expenditures amounted to one third of the total public
sector expenditures. Health and education investments have amounted to 13-15
percent of public investment in recent years. Considerable resources have
also gone to agriculture, which is the most important sector in terms of
providing employment and food. Furthermore, substantial investment has been
made in rural infrastructure, such as roads and electricity, providing ready
access to markets for the majority of the rural poor. IDA has actively
participated in this endeavor, both in lending operations and in technical
advice.
Sectoral Challenmes and Constraints
17.         Until the recent liberalization in the foreign exchange regime,
restrictions on foreign exchange prevented the procurement of agricultural
production inputs like fertilizers, chemicals and machinery spare parts, which
seriously limited the ability to achieve optimum levels of agricultural
productivity. The Government needs to make specific provisions to ensure that
limited foreign exchange resources are channeled to these goods. Other
constraints on modernizing the agricultural sector include the constriction in
the recruitment of trained personnel, poor coordination of field operations
and the lack of operating funds; the diverse control over water management;
the low priority assigned to monitoring and supervising agricultural
development; and bureaucratic inefficiencies. The reorganized structure of
the Ministry, with four layers of decision-makers and numerous general
departments, exacerbates the institutional weaknesses. The new generation of
IDA projects, headed by the Agriculture Sector Management Support Project is
designed to tackle these constraints. The Government also needs to establish
better budgeting of recurrent expenditures. In Industry, the fiscal and
external imbalances and rising inflation due to rising public deficits and
overvalued currencies have led to a deterioration of the competitiveness and
performance of the industrial and financial sectors. Measures are required to
introduce more flexibility in the interest rate structure and adjust it to
positive real levels or market-clearing rates; in addition, the Industrial
Bank of Yemen (IBY), the country's primary institutional source of industrial
term finance, needs to be restructured. Over time, measures need to be
developed and implemented to broaden financial activities and instruments,
strengthen competition in the banking sector and improve financial disclosure
and enforcement mechanisms. The unification of Yemen has also interposed
other challenges, such as the need to manage the reform of the public
enterprises in the South in order to compete with the private enterprises in
the North.
18.         In the power sector, as in most public utilities, there is a need
for (i) pricing reform, of both input prices and electricity tariffs; (ii) an
efficient rural electrification strategy; and (iii) measures to address the



-8.
organixational and financial weaknesses of the power utilities, Yemen has a
limited availability of water and a hi&h population growth, especially in the
urban areas. The water and sewerage sector also has to counter the added
problem of strong trlbal proprietary rights regarding natural resources,
pa-rtlcularly water. Despite recent improvements ln the health sector, the
followlng constraints hamper the nationwide expansion of health programs:
weakn2sses in the regional admlnaistrative lnfrastructure; limited managerial
and operational capabilities and support services; and acute shortages of
health personnel, especially nurses and midwives, due to the lack of regional
training institutions and the limited number of females enrolled ln higher
education.
B. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
19.         IDA's economic and sector work, and its lending program, are
designed to address pressing short-term problems, as well as promote a stable,
longer-term growth strategy. In the wake of unification, IDA's focus should
be on merging the centrally planned economy of the South and the market-
oriented economy of the North. Consequently, institutional and policy issues
would receive special attention.
20.         Past  einz.  IDA's assistance to Yemen has been directed to
developing the basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure that are
the main prerequisites for Yemen's development. IDA lending is also aimed at
increasing production and income, especially in agriculture, and at supporting
the Government in its programs to combat poverty and meet basic needs in rural
and urban areas. As of Jury 30, 1991, IDA has made 96 cred1ts to Yemen for a
total of about US$905 million, net of cancellations. Of this total, about 30
percent has assisted the agriculture and fisheries sector; about 20 percent
has been given to the transport and human resources sectors; and about 15
percent each has been given to the water supply and industry/energy sectors.
In the remote areas, such as the Marib and Beihan valleys, where population is
isolated and incomes are low, the combined developmental impact of penetration
roads, agriculturas. development, education and health projects has been
significant in improving living standards. Recent projects, such as the
Eastern Region Agricultural Development Project and the Multimode Transport
Project, which are now entering initial implementation stages, will further
improve living standards.
21.         Through its own efforts and assistance from IDA and other doncrs,
Yemen has made progress in all of the above-mentioned sectors (particularly in
education, infrastructure and agriculture) in a relatively short time. During
the last decade, school enrollment has increased rapidly, the country has
improved its highway network and maintenance capabilities, and raised and
diversified its agricultural production. Since the unification, efforts have
been increased to convert the economy of the South to a market economy with
considerable success, particularly, in the agricultural sector. However, much
more needs to be done in every sector in terms of investment and policy,
because of Yemen's late start in development, its fast growing population and
unemployment rate, and ita fragile resources (water, soil and woody biomass).
The discovery of petroleum in modest amounts has been helpful, but the
Government realizes that this additional resource alone will not solve Yemen's
basic development problems.
22.         In the second half of the 1980s, the Governments of both YAR and
PDRY have been relatively slow in adjusting their macroeconomic and sectoral
policies, as well as improving their administrative copabilities, to reflect
rapidly changing economic and social structures. Major economic shifts, such



-9-
as declining labur remittances, were addressed with administrative controls,
thus further aggravating the problems. Foreign exchange allocation and
licensing procedures were among those that constrained private initiative the
most. The recent decision of the Yemen Government to allow, once again, the
purchase of foreign exchange in the free market is a very important step in
the right direction. This will encourage private enterprise; as will the new
livestment law that has been recently approved by the parliament; its
promulgation will benefit the Yemeni economy by stimulating private investment
and helping create jobs. During recent years, a disturbing decline in Yemen's
ability to use external assistence has occurred. Project implementation (also
planning and preparation) has slowed down in many aectors due to deteriorating
*       economic conditions, as well as policy, planning and administrative
constraints. As a result, IDA disbursements have shown a decreasing trend.
In FY89 annual disbursements were about $48 million; in FY90, $35 million; and
in the first half of FY91 (following the early stages of the Gulf crisis),
about $15 million. Disbursements were higher, $20 million, in the second half
of FY91. Thus the FY91 yearly total was equal to that in FY90. About $35
million was disbursed out of an undisbursed account of $361 million. It is
expected that disbursements will accelerate throughout FY92 as unification
issues further subside. However, to bring disbursements up to truly
satisfactory levels, the Government will need to revise economic policies
(para. 11) and address a number of administrative problems (para. 23). The
FY89 Institutional Development for Public Administration Project, as well as
many technical assistance projects in the sectors and similar components in
projects, was designed to improve administrative capacity.
23.         There are many reasons for the poor implementation and
disbursement performance over the last few years. Among these, the most
prominent general constraints are: prolonged ratification of credit
agreements (on average one year); a cumbersome and over-centralized structure
for evaluating bids (6-9 months); licensing and the lengthy customs clearance
of ptoject-related goot:s; and poor budgeting procedures and provisions for
counterpart funds. These obstacles conspire to generate exceptionally long
delays in :`e early stages of implementation. Most of these bottlenecks could
be alleviated through better organization, and the expedient implementation of
technical assistance projects/components. Improvements in these specific
constraints would yield quick results. IDA has addressed these issues under
its supervision work and through Country Implementation Reviews (CIRs). The
Government's response has been positive during the reviews.  However, the
authorities will need to move faster in adopting the agreed remedial measure'.
A CIR mission recently discussed these issues in the field. The Govornment on
its part also carried out an internal review of such issues prior to the CIR
and has included remedial measures in a reform program which is under
consideration. The Government has set up a high-level inter-ministerial
comittee to prepare a report for the Cabinet and make recommendations on
specific steps to reduce multiple review procedures and bureaucratic delays
that impact on project implementation and devise a system for quarteily
Cabinet review of those projects that are experiencing significant delays. A
computerized monitoring system to track project progress is an advanced state
of preparation. While IDA would like to see rapid progress on implemertation
issues, it is aware that the problems arising from unification and the Gulf
crisis are formidable and that the new political and administrative structures
will not be fully settled until the end of this year. The Gulf crisis, in
particular, has created problems in the supply of materials and equipment, in
cofinancing arrangements and in the deployment of consultants.



-10-
IRA Leindin Obtectiyee
TABLE   SaORL DIWIURIUTION OF  la m- IZNrnNO (9yj 1
O iiak% VA of asmUa*"Om)
MRICULTURE              mi20              31.6%
HUMA*W RESOURCU        174.43             13%
TPANSPOR                MeS              154%
VITEft SUPPLY          140646            155
POWER                   M1110             1.4%
INDUSTRY                2.04 63%
TA                      4.70              0.%
305.35       ~~~100.0%
24.         Thanks to its known and prospective oil reserves, Yemen will enjoy
the benefit of modest oil revenues for the rest of this century. The
Government's declared policy is to use this opnortunity wisely, i.e., to
diversify the economy and increase its external orientation in preparation for
the post-hydrocarbon era. Bank Group assistance strategy is formulated to
suprart this objective. IDA long-term objectives continue to be (i) the
development and sound management/conservation of human, agriculture (in
particular soil, woody biomass and fisheries), and water resources; (ii) the
lessening of emerging structural unemployment, essentially by encouraging
private economic initiative, diversifying the economy and supporting labor-
intensive investments; and (iii) the development of a diversified export
capability. In programming its lending to attain these objectLves, IDA faces
certain constraints. The objectives in (ii) and (iii) cannot be actively
pursued because zacroeconouic and financial sector policies need to be further
improved for them to support industry and private initiative. Under
discussion with the Government are the ways and means of assisting private
sector development. The Government is only now beginning to develop an energy
sector policy and plans for developing its considerable natural gas resources.
Pending progress on these constraints, the IDA lending program over the next
few years is focused on the objectives outlined in (i) above. Education,
training and health projects will support the human resources objectives;
agrLcultural projects will address resource development as well as good
management and conservation; both agricultural and urban sector projects will
stress water resource management. On a different front, considering the
economic circumstances in Yemen, IDA lending for macro and sector policy
adjustment is warranted. An arrangement with the IMF would also help Yemen
reschedule its debt. However, Yemen's policy dialogue with IDA and IMF, while
quite active this year, has not reached the stage where such operations are
possible.
25.         In order to implement the longer-term strategy, IDA will contlnue
to encourage (a) more of the urgently needed macroeconomic policy adjustments;
(b) pollcy improvements in the sectors; (c) measures to streamline project
implementation; and (d) cofinancing and close coordination with UNDP and other
donors. Undoubtedly, the most important contribution IDA can make to Yemen's
development effort in the immediate future ls to help the new Government
develop and implement a stabilization cum growth program and assist the
Government in all aspects of unification. The authorities' willingness to
work with IDA and the DMF to develop an MTFP is a positive sign. The
Government's macroeconomic measures should include: adjusting and maintaining
the exchange rate at appropriate levels; reducing the budget and current
account deficits and, in this connection, increasing resource mobilization;
bringing interest rates to levels that are either market clearing rates or
rates that are positive in real terms; and severely limiting non-concessional
external borrowing. These objectives are being pursued by IDA via NTFP



-11-
discussion and recommendations. Dovetailed with the above, the sector aaolic
ob1ectivs~ should include improving cost sharing, cost recovery and public
utility tariff levels; limiting public investments to high priority, viable
projects of appropriate size; planning, regulating ond monitoring water use;
improving the policy and legal framework for forestry and land conservation;
expediting gas development; and promoting safe motherhood and women's
participation in various sectors, in particular, agriculture, micro-
enterprise, education and training. These objectives will be pursued through
sectoral reviews and planned projects. The Government gives high priority tc.
providing basic services to its population, and thls pollcy and its
implementation should be supported. However, an assessment of relative
poverty levels is needed, and poverty could be tackled more syst.ematically
with such an assessment. After the unification, the Government introduced
market-oriented changes in the Southern Governorate, with significant gains
for private economic initiative. In general, the Government should move away
from the current over-regulated environment to a more liberal stance.
Progress Ln this area, while enhanced by the recent decision to allow the
private sector to secure foreign exchange in the private market, is still
slow. Also lacking, so far, are preparations for a privatization program
involving, in particular, public sector enterprises in the former PDRY. The
objectives stated in (c) above are being pursued essentially through the CIR
exercise (para. 23), and the objectives in (d) through continuous contacts
with donors and participation in a planned UNDP donors' round table (para.
34).
26.        Agriculture remains the principal source of employment and income
in the Yemeni economy. The proposed Agricultural Sector Management Support
Project is designed to build capacity at the national level for planning,
research, extension and training. It would strengthen some of the core
functions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources. The proposed
Land and Water Conservation Project (FY92) would strengthen the basis for
sustainable agriculture through institutional developments in the irrigation
and forestry subsectors; improve the efficiency of groundwater irrigation;
conserve indigenous forest areas and accelerate tree planting; and expand
actions for soil conservation. In the fisheries subsector, the recently
approved Fisheries Development IV project would assist the Government in
institutional development and the improvement of policies for the fisheries
sector; provide assistance in the design and construction of fishing and
village infrastructure. Given the importance of the sector, IDA would follow
up with other operations in later years. In industry, IDA assistance strategy
is focused on helping the Government improve the policy and institutional
framework necessary for efficient private sector investment and growth
including the development of the financial sector. This objective will be
pursued under a project planned for FY92.
27.         IDA assistance strategy in the energy sector is focussed on
providing advice and financial support through economic and sector work and
lending programs to improve policies on pricing, imestment choices and
institutional reform. The Energy Strategy Review update to cover the unified
country and reflect updated cost and price parameters, will review most of
these issues and provide recommendations. Pending the formulation of a
government program in this sector, an energy cum power project is planned for
the later years. Unification has had a considerable impact on the transport
subsector due to the free flow of goods and people between the North and the
South and changes in traffic-generating centers. Building access roads to
isolated parts of the country is also of key importance. The recently
approved Multimode Transport Project will assist in connecting the Northern
highlands to the coast. In the water and sewerage subsector, a national



-12-
strategy Including maintenance and cost recovery, needs to be developed. The
environmental Impact of solid and toxic waste disposal needs to be addressed
in the rapidly growing main cities. The proposed Tair Water Project would
help improve water availability and network rehabilitation. A proposed Rural
Infrastructure Project would address village water supply and other
infrastructure needs to assist the poorer seogents of the population. A
proposed Municipal Environment Project will address urban onvironmental
issues.
28.          Two ongoing health projects are designed to boost primary health
care in under-served regions. A follow-up project In the outer years would
help consolidate the gains in this sphere. An effort is being made under
several IDA projects (e.g. Southern Uplands I and II, TihamA III, IV and V) to
correct the bias in women's participation in extension services. Following a
women in development (WID) study conducted by IDA, future lending would
address the prospect of increasing project components addressing WID, with
focus on income generation, forming micro-enterprises, enlarging participation
in the labor market as well as education and training.
29.         MMe sectoral Allocation of Lendins. Because of its late start
(early 1970s) in development, Yemon has vast remaining needs in all sectors.
The availability of educated/skilled Yeaenis is still very limited, and the
country is highly dependent on foreigners. Expatriates occupy positions
ranging from secondary school teachers to power technicians. High population
growth, combined with a large rural settlement dispersed over a difficult
geography, renders the provision of basic services and poverty alleviation
efforts onerous and costly. The return of large numbers of Yemenis from the
Gulf countries has added considerably to unemployment, poverty and other
social problems. The recently approved Emergency Recovery Project will
address the needs of this group and support government assistance to the
returnees. In order to further alleviate hardships arising from isolation and
a lack of opportunities, the IDA lending program would emphasize education and
vocational training in unserved areas; it would also include health and rural
infrastructure directed to the same target groups (over one third of planned
lending). With full recognition of the environmental fragility of Yemen, it
would also stress land and water conservation, water supply/sewerage, and
solid waste handling (19 percent of planned lending). In addition to the land
and water conservation project, IDA assistance to agriculture would include a
fisheries project and an agricultural project yet to be identified (about one-
third of planned lending). These projects would strengthen the functions of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources and the Ministry of Fisheries;
help generate private initiative, emloyment and income in the poorer regions;
and contribute to foreign exchange earnings/savings. In line with
Government's longer-term objective of economic diversification, IDA would help
develop an energy project in the later years.
30.         For FY92-94, nine projects are planned totalling about US$125
million. These operations would cover agricultural sector management, water
system distribution, urban environment, power, private sector industry,
education, health and rural development. This level of lending, however, is
conditional on the restoration of economic balances and adequate progress in
removing structural constraints to growth and development.
Ank's Policy Recommendations and government's Resnonse
31.         PAst Dialpgue and Relations with la.  Both YAR and PDRY were
facing serious macroeconomic imbalances prior to unification. IDA had been
advising the governments to reduce imbalances in order to achieve their



-13-
development goals. Due to several corrective measures, YAR achieved
considerable growth and stability in the mid-1980s. The availability of oil
revenues in recent years and the expectation of more oil finds, however,
weakened the Government's stanes and led to the relapse of serious imbalances.
32.         To assist the Government of YAR in its adjustment effort in the
face of these imbalances, the Fund and the Bank proposed a Structural
Adjusezent Facllity (SAF) loan. A draft Policy Framework Paper was discussed
in Sana'a in March 1987. Agreement was reached on a certain number of issues
(e.g., progressive replacement of import liconsing by tariffs) but there was
little progress on the incerest rate and the exchange rate issues.
Subsequently, the YAR Goverument withdrew its request for SAP funds. The
economic dialogue with both institutions was blunted as a result of this
outcome. However, as the situation deteriorated, interest in the dialogue
with IDA was revived in 1989/90. This led to a Medium-Term Economic Framework
Paper (KTFP) exercise in 1990.  In both countries, policies pursued through
project lending were largely implemented. An IMF technical assistance mission
visited Yemen in May 1991, to assist the Government on monetary and flscal
issues resulting from the unification. IMF is also scheduled to visit Yemen
in September this year for regular Article IV consultations. However, no
specific plans regarding a possible revival of SAF are in the offing. Two IMP
advisors are stationed in Sana'a, one at the Central Bank and one at the
Ministry of Finance.
33.         economic  Seceor Work Program and Country Dialogun.  Economic work
in Yemen is centered on the preparation of the macro-framework analysis to
provide a basis for carrying out economic dialogue with the Government. While
adjustment lending is not actively considered, the Government was informed
that the level of future lending is essentially conditional on the restoration
of viable macroeconomic balances. The main vehicle is the MTFP currently
under preparation. To underpin our lending strategy as well as to provide
technical advice to the Government, a comprehensive set of sector work is
either ongoing or planned for the future. It includes reviews and studies in
these sectors: energy, industry and manufactured exports, agriculture,
education and training, infrastructure, and livestock subsector. In addition,
regular updating work will be carried out in the course of project
preparation, appraisal, and supervision. IDA has worked closely with the IMF
on assessing economic issues and prospects of Yemen using each other's
comparative advantage. IMF staff's views were sought at all stages of the
preparation of the YAR-METP during FY90. Two IW staff members participated
in the Bank economic mission to prepare the current MTFP to cover the unified
country.
34.         Availability and  glol of kiternal Aid. The former Yemen Arab
*          Republic (YAR) and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) were highly
dependent on grants and concessional loans for project financing, balance of
payments as well as budget support. Yemen will continue to depend on
concessional external aid to maintain a development effort that can offset
rising unemployment. However, the outlook for external flows is not
encouraging. The total coumitment of concessional loans averagrd about $500
million per year during the period 1985-88 but declined to about $110 million
during 1990.  The Government, with UNDP assistance, is preparing a donors'
round table for the first half of '.992 to discuss development and external
assistance strategies. It is perceived that Yemen will continue to remain an
IDA only country for the foreseeable future.
35.         Cofinanczin  with IDA.  IDA projects have benefitted from a very
substantial amount of cofinancing from OECD and Gulf sources. Between FY79



14-
and FY89, IDA lending (to YAR) was almost fully matched by co-financiers.
However, cofinancing may materialize at lower levels during the next few
years.
IFC OQnrations
36.        The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made investments
in agriculture, food processing, light manufacturing and oil refining. Its
total gross commitments as of June 30, 1991, amounted to US$22.45 million.
Further opportunities for IFC involvement are being explored in the
agricultural and energy sectors.
IgA Operatign
37.        MIGA has reviewed the possibility of providing technical
assistance to Yemen. Such assistance, involving a study of the investment
climate, is under consideration.
PART II - THE PROJECT
38.  Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA strategy In the sector has focused
on raising productivity through a series of area development projects, which
emphasized institution building and the creation of agricultural services and
infrastructure in the five ecological regions. At the same time, IDA has
supported the creation of national research and agricultural credit institu-
tions. Lessons from past projects have pinpointed the need for: better
sector planning, additional training for both MAWR personnrl and farmers,
improved coordination between research and extension systems, and expansion in
the supply of inputs. IDA assistance is now being adapted to focus on a
sector-wide National Agricultural Development Program (NADP) comprising a
series of projects that would: (i) emphasize subsector development priori-
ties; (ii) consolidate and complement past support to RDAs; (iii) foster the
creation of national institutions, e.g., for research and training, and
policies that would help to accelerate the modernization of agricultural
production and ensure sustained growth; and (iv) coordinate external aid for
agriculture. This is consistent with the Government's goal of strengthening
and unifying its longer-term policy capability and ensuring essential ser-
vices, like Inputs, research and extension. The proposed project would
support these fundamental objectives and also provide a vehicle for specific
actions to expand training and extension assistance for rural women and focus
research work on environmental considerations, particularly land and water
conservation.
39.   Prolect Objectives.  The project would have two main objectives:  (i) to
create within MAWR the management basis for a modern agriculture sector by
upgrading staff qualifications, developing policy analysis and planning
capacities, introducing modern techniques for financial and human resources
anangement, and developing functional links between general departments in
MAWR; and (ii) to strengthen agricultural research, technical training and
field extension services, reinforce research/extension linkages, and, thereby,
accelerate the development and adoption of appropriate technologies. These
objectives would complement the physical facilities and organizational
structures established under past projects. Project activities would also
contribute to improving the general operations at MAWR, following unification.
40.  Project Desoriotion.  The project would provide for the construction of
buildings, vehicles, equipment, technical assistance (TA) and training for:



-15-
(1) plannan. and  dmnistration in MAWR, to include office renovation,
equipment, training and TA, in order to develop or strengthen major functions
that are currently not fully operational, notably: policy planning, project
evaluation and implementation, budgeting and financial management and human
resources management; (ii) reeuuarh. to include research facilities,
equipment, vehicles, materials, training and TA, in order to consolidate
developments under previous projects (Cr. 1259-YAR and Cr. 1557-YDR),
strengthen management and organization, maintain priority research work in
farming systems, production technology and resource conservation, and develop
outreach links with regional extension services; and (iii) a2tenaLL   and
tr4ining, to Include construction of a National Agricultural Training Center
and associated facilities in Dhamar, equipment, training and TA, in order to
develop national strategies, information material and training programs and
strengthen linkages with research.
41. Proiect Cgsts and FinancinM Plan. The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$22.0 million, excluding taxes and duties, with a foreign
exchange component of US$15.5 million (70 percent). A breakdown of the cost
and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A, and the amounts and methods of
procurement and disbursement and the estimated disbursement schedule are shown
in Schedule B. The proposed IDA credit of $14.4 million would finance about
66 percent of total project costs, or 85 percent of the foreign exchange
costs and 18 percent of local costs. The Dutch Government has agreed to
provide finance of US$3 million equivalent to cover TA and other costs for the
training and extension components. A timetable of key processing events and
the status of IDA group operations in ROY are given in Schedules C and D,
?espectively. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 8432-YEN, dated August 9, 1991,
together with a project map (IBRD No. 22547R) are attached.
42. Prolect Imnplmentation would be through existing MAWR organizations,
including three general departments at ministry headquarters and AREA. Field
operations would be coordinated through regional agencies. A Project
Management Unit (PXU) would be established to coordinate annual work
programming, budgeting, procurement, management of project accounts and
reporting.  PMU would also provide the fulcrum for preparation and
coordination of the series of subsector projects under NADP. A senior and
well experienced MAWR manager would be appointed as Project Director General.
He would report to the Vice Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources. PHU
would be staffed with a Deputy Director General for administration, an
accountant, and support personnel. Work programs, progress reports and
proposals for sector development are to be approved by a Project Steering
Committee comprising the Minister of MAWR, the general directors of concerned
departments and of AREA, and a representative of the Ministry of Planning and
Development.
43.   Agements Reached.  During negotiations, agreements were reached on:
(i) the establishment of an Agricultural Policy Department (APD) within
General Directorate for Planning and Monitoring (GDPM); (ii) role of the
National Scientific Research Council (to advise on the annual work program,
budget and results of agricultural research); (iii) the provision of
sufficient counterpart funds to cover project recurrent costs; (iv) the
nomination of the Project General Director with qualLfications acceptable to
IDA, and assurances concerning the establishment of PMU; (v) the terms of
reference for key long-term experts; (vi) the roster of potential
counterparts, with adequate qualifications and experience; (vii) work programs
for the first two years of project implementation; and (viii) an interim
review of the project to be carried out jointly by IDA and the Government of
ROY 18 months after project start-up.



-U6-
44. The establishment of PMU and the appointment of its Project Director
General, the creation of the project Steering Committee, and a letter of
intent from Dutch authorities concerning project cofinancing, which were
conditions for Board presentation, hlave been met. The appointment of three
key technical assistance personnel (Sector Analysis Specialist, Budget and
Financial Control Specialist, and Human Resources Management Specialist) and
the signing of an agreement by the Dutch Government would be conditions for
effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
45.    rgl act Benefits.  By strengthening agricultural policy and project
planning and improving approaches to technical development, the project would
help to ensure a modern and sustainable agricultural sector. As the economic
benefits would be mostly indirect and not easily quantifiable, it is not
possible to calculate a rate of return. However, the project should bring
substantial institutional benefits that would ensure well-structured and
professionally staffed agricultural departments equipped to design and
implement appropriate national policies. This would translate into specific
sonitorable outputs, including the preparation of the agriculture section of
the fourth Five-Year Plan (1991-96), the definition of budget procedures and
personnel policies, the establishment of a five-year rolling agricultural
research program, and an increase in the number and qualificatlons of
extension personnel. Rural women, who have a key role in livestock, fruit and
vegetable production, would benefit from specifically targeted training and
extension programs, while environmental protection would be strengthened by
focusing agricultural research on farming systems and multidisciplinary
approaches, the management of water and soil resources, and rainfed farming.
46.  Rlsks. Although the project is widely supported in MAR and other
concerned agencies, it faces several risks, which are being addressed. The
major risk is a possible lack of adequate Yemeni counterparts for the project
management team. This is being countered by tailoring TA to the absorptive
capacity in each general department. Incentives for MAWR staff would center
on improved training and promotion opportunities and the payment of field
allowances. Possible resistance by the Government to finance TA personnel
from borrowed funds has been countered by minimlzing TA posts under the
project and by establishing precise terms of reference and critical procedures
for selection and evaluation; also, parallel arrangements are being made for
recruiting TA personnel bilaterally for extension, training and research
posts. Finally, given the present financial situation in ROY, and to cover
the risk of insufficient budgeting for recurrent costs, a firm commitment has
been obtained from the Government to provide adequate resources. As part of
the monitoring of the project, an interim review would be made 18 months after
project initiation, to assess progress and determine whether any components
should be adjusted. This arsessment would also reflect any changes resulting
from the unification of Yemen.
47.   Recgmg=Mio. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
August 14, 1991



- 17 -
s-or T
~~IN=
,stffimtdPQro 3et Cott                    Local        Fares=n         Total
.......- (.8$ illion) --------
A. NhNR Headquarters Development
1.  Headquarters Building               0.16           0.63          0.79
2.  Gen. Dir. Planning & Nonitori&g    0.26            1.05          1.31
3.  Con. Dir. Finance & Administration 0.23            0.51          0.74
4.  Project Management Unit             0.             0.2           Q.5
Subtotal                            0.96           2.41          3.37
D.  AREA:  Agricultural Researcla           2.66           5.90          8.36
C.  AREA:  Extension and Training           L1             LI3           S34
Total Baseline Costs                        4.99          12.28         17.27
Physical Contingencies                  0.45           1.22          1.67
Price Contingencies                    i10                          L3.
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            7          15.,02
/A    Exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.
7inancJUg Plan:
FABdbng Sources                         ----------- (US$  illion) -----------
IDA                                       1.1        13.3        14.4
Netherlands Government                    0.8         2.2          3.0
Government of ROY                         4.6        --            4.6
TOTAL FINANCING PLAN                      6.5        15.5        22.0



- 18 -
page 1 of 2
REPUILIC 01 TM
Item                                                           Total
ICB   LCB   Other       N/A    Cost=
___-__- ---- (US$ Millon) -
Civil Vorks                         4.0       3.0                     7.0
(3.4)     (2.6)                   (6.0)
Equipment12                         2.1              0.6              2.7
(2.1)            (0.6)            (2.7)
Vehicles&                           1.3                               1.3
(1.3)                             (1.3)
Technical Assistance & Studies                              3.3S      3.3
(2.2)     (2.2)
Training                                                    3.2h      3.2
(2.0)     (2.0)
Incremental Operating Costs                                 4.52)     4.5
(0.2)     (0.2)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 7.4       3.0   0.6   11.0       22.0
(6.8)     (2.6)  (0.6)  (4.4)    (14.4)
LS Figures in parentheses represent amounts to be fLnanced under IDA
credit.
Including contingencles.
2   Includes spare parts shown under recurrent costs In detailed cost
tables.
IA Of which US$2.2 million to be financed by IDA and procured under Bank
SuLdelines, US$1.0 million from Dutch aid and the blance by the
eovernment of ROY.
/A Of which US$2.0 million to be financed by IDA and procured under Bank
guLdelines; and US$1.2 aillion from Dutch aid.
Lt Of whlch, US$0.2 aillion to be financed by IDA, US$0.8 million from
Dutch aid and the balance by the Government of ROY.



19 -
Shhdle B
Page 2 of 2
hummt of
Category               Credit        of which          X of Expenditures
illocation    NAIR AREA           to be Financed
K.(S   illion)
Civl works                5.5         0.4   5.1      85X of expenditures
Equipment  Vehicles,      3.7         0.8   2.9      100l   of foreign
Spar. Pars & Materlals                            expenditures
1002 af ox-factory local
siuitures
9019 ofother local expen-
ditures
Technical Asslstance
Studies and Training   3.8        2.3   1.5       1OOX of foreign
loca pexpeiture
OperatSna Expenditures    0.2         0.1   0.1      902 of 1st *100,000,
for                                               60eld Allowaces  402 of 2nd 8100,000
and 302 of the Amounts
after i200,000.
Unallocated               1.2         0.5   0.7
TOTAL IDA CREIT                      1      ,1
The credit closang date would be December 31, 1999.
Estimated Irt Disbursements:
-----------------IDA Fiscal Year----------------------
1992    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
-----------------(U8$  illon) --------------------
Annual                   0.7     2.1    2.7   3.0    2.5    1.S    1.2    0.7
Cusastive                0.7     2.8    5.5   8.5   11.0  12.5   13.7  14.4
Percentage                 5      19      38    59     76     87     95    100



- 20 -
^                   ~~~~~~Schedule C
TAUS  I PU C 01  13
(a) Time to Prepare:                   Twenty-two months
(b)  Prepared By:                      Covernment vith IDA Asslstance
(c)  First IDA Mission:                October 1988
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure:       December 1989
(e)  Negotiations:                     may 1991
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    January 1992
(g) List of Relevant PCRa and PPARs:
TIHANA II and IV PROJECTS, Cr. 8054YAR and 978-YAR, respectively
(PPAR No. 7543)
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING, Cr. No. 636-YAR
(PPAR No. 5062)
LIVESTOCK CREDIT AND PROCESSING PROJECT, Cr. No. 662-YAR
(PPAR No. 6335)



- 21 -
................ ~ ~     ~       .......
sna x. mm
..._...............
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ....... ...  ......... ... _.............. .  
of w       vats, au f -s  "W,  Lm  W
I  tle of Vo               90"f   t                I&     -     r
"a     6011 164  of dm              am.aSW.te                      tm
ft~ss tS. III z *_  O_    ss.0            0.4
"a     Nspoft et VON"           eftels" v   U0*.0                         LT
Cg.      "a                                     Pws ofest      eqg   /       WA W  iso.  .
ut ~   ts        h.1* of Yin,           -f .~     v              11.0              1.4
1103  1111    11    Of Yo           co* SIIe C.1.7                            3.A
t11      1"     t_lto d, _.In b                    llt          19.0             10
13l      11      Re    Of tof Ttow        A t   C .O              4.0              0.4
134       o 116    bpstte of Tom         Ais.No  r 10.0                            LS7
346    1"W       31e  of v"              te  M-J.* W9. o.0                         1.
r 7S     1118    _10e et _w               sdW    n       tnd.do                    r..
iT       10   _sbk  at YOM               tfmt  a        o        10
136      1106    f"        *_ of* t*ow WII                       19..
1413     196    amelI   f 1mg             UtV1.0                                   1.
1733     1t16    opelAte of urns         ulo IJ1*        0. 1.0                    3.7
ITPI 1fpmoe 104                          Or "M VA. I t           tU                4.9
11       "W       111 Od   m             "W t_      10.0                          t.
1m      1W6    Rtlepl. Oe Tom            111 IO                   6.0              5.4
111    _1.    deeI Of" _m                tA 9s@                    .7       0       .
57n    1"W       R_epl of Tm             Ate  *td                 5.0              0.2
i617     190     Repel. Of Tm            11   *s      "          14.4              5.9
ins      11      Repe. Of TONt *_. SW. .oml  ml .                17.6             tI.
* 19I            W Replt. of Tm         Al    0t.0                               104
"7i      t909    R    IepCl of d*1       t       Is               4..              4.2
t17      1916   lp. of 1m                $a. tuNo.               1.S        10.4
1m       "W      RepAlI of Item          tree. MW V0". 11 50.                      4.9
20113    "W5    Repels of Tema#.o     w$II                       1*                9.0
18*       1W lO    ml. dO 1do vemo       I la           It       10.7             15.4
t1_d     196    Iep*IoOf Vase            Tots plod   O.    )       .6              4.1
19S      T9 R1WO        ete do *m          wl  tied ll tdr       13.0              10*
2170 4    t00    _to so dm               TV% M"_  01A            t2.0              12.1
2197     19               et Term        PAmi*_bt"   t"I          4.0             24.9
1164    119    Resell. of Tom            144110i  W.             15.0             14.4
202#     1119  RSeptel df 1              trot.      km t*        19*              10.1
1045w    1w119    Repel. Of Tm       ~     . ow 1 31 9) IN I"    ML?
31106/      at t roep    Of tt        o  Tutu  ato a             130O3
3666/   1991--  RpAloje  io sompo     tesA to "Ww*goyy          33.              32.?a
Ttal                   95.4             36.
of 050 *aa barn r       13. s7.-
21 %IMP~ lf1h rowl Ina-M, aot   otamm lies" bad Re' IS   inUl7 elfl
"W s stas of p sa  otedt       t A. do  asertbid I.e irote rom,t a    at
2k/ tIm otf iof t maflatt. fi _6 t1  __  .6lseIt _udaem  0 
_eak  31, 19go fi 06  _Od    m        .
St pr.md  -   or aftr t.
4/   t e of* fo w.



- 22 -
CHEDULE 0
S. "ATMT OF iFc INVsTmNTs
............................
CM of June 30, 1991)
REMLIC oF TIM
(Amunt In  mitlion)
Year            Olgor                                TM  of Uineus    Loan   Equity   Total
...     .............................    ....  ....                              .....
196    Ten Dairy ad Jufe Products                        O iry ai          3.15     0.00    3-15
Industrias Co., Ltd.                          Juice Products
19615  Yemen Dry Cell Sattorfes                      Dry Cott Satteris    3.25      0.00    3.25
1985    Natiout Compny for                             Vegtabte Ofl        4.65    0.00    4.65
Vegetable Oil an dhei incAtrie
1966    Yelon 0untl COf     ny                          Ol Rof fnry        9.00    0.00    9.00
1967    Narib Agriculture Cayssy                    Agriculturatl   Live    2.40    0.00    2.40
Total Gross Commtment                                             22.45    0.00   22.45
Less: Cancellation, termsitfos, repryments,                     14.87    0.00    14.87
sles and excha    rate adjustments                             ......  ...... .......
Total comotments now held by IFC                                  7.58    0.00      7.56
Totol Dfsbused                                                    7.58    0.00      7.58
Total Undfsbursed                                                 0.00    0.00    0.00



IBRD 22547R
45'                                            I                                                                       PROIECT.
REPUBLIC   OF   YEMEN   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bo                                                          3     NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTNSION CENTE (AREA)
R EP UB L IC    O  F  YE M  EN                                                           djMe/||                                      NATIONAL AGRICULTUAL TWNINr,aNTER
AGRICULTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                 , REGONAL RAESRCHULUnONR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL DEVELOPMEWTAGENCY BLNAE
_  ,*  SU  PPO  RT  PROJ ECT0    SELECTD TOWNS AND VILLANES
CGOVERNORAE CACTALS
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL
SAUDI ARABIA                              /+  Awous
ThmO .. d                                     POR
[   S A A D A H   '4vt                                         t    \ '         >                        )                         -     WAD(5
)\ss t 350edch /             <                       /     5< z        /  AL MAHRAH  _   GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(Y    S J          J        ~~~~~AL JAWF                      /                 .    
Moydiv   1   5/                        |            }      Ztwkh    f                                 /                      1 .                    .Ekh
I HIA  A  *                    .y        Tn      --" oHADRAMAWT 
9wduelODE10  21 JTwIM9b                                                                                       Ai GhToo 
A                                                                                                  +b---  Gho e  'y -hrraf                                               0 25 50   1oo   ISO
SaWg0f lEshlo,                                                                                                J           0 NAKJOMETERE
'~~~~~~~~~~-S lQtoE>Sul                                                        bHL E     iAs  9     -   -  RLPETATOT
~~~~~~~~~~A'AB 0H 4   =0                      r        \4  ETALHGLNSARCLUA
~~~~iM O<T I    0          ,      trwa         <     o         <DVLOMN   RAIA
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0-
21.S H A B WAH                                                                SbREGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES:ZIQ
K   Mccho ~~~~~~~~~~ ,* stc\  / 6@ar,9 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ hodo
a   \  H s    W    C'6r                                                                                                    6. WADI TUIAN DEVELOPh^ENT~~~~~~~~M.  A
Al01, AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
ETHrv                                                    +oAUTHORITY   SANKAS,ADAH-HAJJAH
RED                                                      0~~~~~~~~~O     A,d2. EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL
,'EA  0 ,  BEIDA                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
e)                  U*e3ndvwdy^-or                     'AN                                           r3. TIHAMA DEVELOPMEN  AUTHORITY
oold \                      zpyos ;tSt<> b        3k n  h taBnh7/>7ucr6              3   n}ex                        4. CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL
I.,-d-O                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION
5  Sbaqm                             GULF OF ADEN                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5. SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION
6. WADI TUBAN DEVELOPMENT
LAHEJ                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7. WADI A1BYAN DEVELOPMENT
urffkoAi'A,, dTI   -oAwdo  of                      8. WADI BEIHAN DEVELOPMENT>   SOCOTRA
qfr. odo,E AO..k .d o, Auorpd  o
'Z~oooooA/ AlAoo. c  ~eioo.9, WADI HADRAMAWT ADP-
D                          y                                                                                                                  54'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
VJIDVU 11 )  45^                                                                                                     C-                                   sr1
APRIL 1991



