DOCUB        l(~)IIE(~w
The Wo,
FOR OmFCI
~z          ;z                   C-J7007     Repot No. 8432-YEM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
AUGUST 14, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients o ly in the performance of
their offci duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(As of July 1991)
US31.00               -    Yment Riala (YRis) 12.00
YuR 1.00              -    PS*0.0833
YRis 1.0 million      -    US443,333
Yemeni Dinar (YD)          YRIs 26.00
VEXOHTS AND MEASURMS
1 millimeter (mm)     -    0.039 inches
1 ieter (m>)               3.28 feet
1 square meter (in')       10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)      -    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)             10,000 sq. meters (2.47 acres)
I metric ton (ton)         2.205 pounds
1 liter (1)                3.264 gallons
1 V/s                      O one liter per second
1 Is/s                -    One cubic meter per second
1 M0s                 -    One million cubic meters
PRIN9IPAL ABBIREVATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APD        Agricultural Policy Department
ARA        Agricultural Researcb Authority
AREA       Agrieultural Research and Extension Authority
ASMSP      Agriculture Sector Management Support Project
CACB       Cooperative and Agrieultural Credit Ba:nk
DRE        Department of Researeh and Extension
EPD        Extension and Programs Division
ES         Extension Supervisor
STD        Extension Trainling Iiviaion
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
FC         Fisheries Corporation
FPP        Farm Practices Project
GD         General Directorate
CDE        General Department for Extenslon
GDET       General Department for Extension and Training
GDFA       General Directorate for Finance and AdmLnistration
CDP        Gross Domestic Product
ODM       General Directorate for Planning and Monitoring
GDR        General Department for Research
5DS        General Directorate for StatistLes
GNp        Gross National Produet
InA        International Development Assoclation
IDD        Information and Documentatlon Department
1FAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
m&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MAWR       Xinistry of Agriculture and Vater Resources
-DRT       MultL-DiscLplinary Research Team
MOE        Ministry of Educatlon
MPD        Ministry of Planning and Development
NADP       Natlonal Agricultural Development Program
MNTC       National Agricultural Training Center
NBT        National Bank of Yemen
NSBC       National Scientific Researeh Council
06&        Operations and Maintenance
PDRY       Peoples' Democratic Republic of Yemen
PDG        Project Director General
PHU        Project Management Unit
PPAR       Project Performance Audlt Report
RDA        Regional Development Agency
RD?        Rural Development Project
ROY        Republic of Yemen
RWDD       Rural Women Development Divislin
5so        Subject Matter Specialist
SOt        Statement of Expenditure
TA         Technical Assistance
TD         TraLning Dlvision
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
YAR        Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
J ISCAL YEcR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-                             S~~~~~~~~~TAbW APPRISA&L XPR
mumC OF
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Sumary  ...... . ......                      i
I.  T           .......................  .                          1
II.  THEAGRICLT=USE          ....R   .     . . . . . . . .  .  .    .  3
Background                                                  3
Agricultural Development Strategy . . . . . . . . .         4
Previous Organizatlon of the
Ministries of Agrlculture . . . . . . . . . . .        4
Reorganization ar,d Now Agricultural Institutions  .        5
Major Constraints to Agricultural Development . . .         6
External Assistance ..                                     7
Lessons Learned From IDA LendLng  . . . . . . . . .        8
Future IDA Strategy for Agricultural Support .  . .        8
III. mm INSTITUT2Q2I.NAL PRAMU     . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAXR)          9
General Directorate for Planning and Monitoring,
and Finance and Administration  .   . . . . .          9
Agricultural Research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        11
Extension and Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
IV. TIM PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         16
Objectives and Concept  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
Overall Design  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        17
DetaLled Project Features . . . . . . . . . . . . .        19
MAVR Headquarters Operations  . . . . . . . . .       19
Agricultural Research . . . . . . . . . . . .22
Extension and Training  . . . . . . . . . . . .       24
Ps0 iid asums Um stYd _B Wi a      k _e lb s8 ud  at ciD. elisn7S
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,L -W =      b_<1=               111 44     l '4 1miaLst
:  .  80.                        .   . ti d-u          , .ueuwB~Ib~atN
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ab&1 ogf Contents (continued)
M=atgx                                                        Page_Q
V.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Cost Estmtes.. . . . .      .  . . . . . . . . . .    27
Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
VI.  AMAN*GN&QDn. Z rAiN  N. . . . .        . .    . . . . . .  34
Project Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . .   36
Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
VII.  SENEFITS AN RIIS.S  .. .         . . . . . . . . . . .    37
VIII. ASS§ACeS TO U SOUGHT. CONDITIONS TO BK SET
AND tCOgME ION  . . . . . . . . ...... .                  39
Assurances    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  39
Conditions  .....     . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .   . .  .   .  40
Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
zE ITT
Table
5.1     srjett Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
5.2     Project Costs by Category of Expenditure . . . . . . . . .   28
5.3     Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
5.4     Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .    31
5.5     Estimated Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
5.6     Disbursement Categorles  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
LIST 01 ANNEXES
A-
I:  Important Agriculture Commodities of Northern ROY. . .    41
II:  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
Organization Charts of:
(i)    the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources    42
(ii)   General Directorate for Planning and Monitoring    43
(Li)   General Directorate for Finance and Administration  44
III:  (M)    Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
Organization Chart  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
(it)   AREA Personnel in Northern Yemen  . . . . . . .    46



LI?8 01 hlUUB (continued)
Ann
IV:   (a) Technical Assistance and Consultancles  . . . . . .    47
(b) Terma gf ReferencellJb DescrDittons
- Agricultural Policy Division  . . . . . . . . . .     49
- Policy Planning Specialist  . .       . . . . . .     5 . .  S0
- Agriculture Sector Analysis Specialist (GDPI) . .     51
- Project lanning 8pecialist . . . . . . . . . . .      52
- Budget and Financial Control Specialist (ODIA)        53
- Ruman Resources Development/Nanagement
Specalist (OD)A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    54
(c) Summary of Technical Assistance and Counterpart
Staff Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    55
V:  Foreign, Long-Term, Short-Term and
Local Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    57
VI:  Costs by Investment Components by Year  . . . . . . . .     59
VII:  Costs by Beneficiary Agency or Service by Year  . . . .     60
VIII:   Costs by InveoLment Component and Beneficiaries . . . .    61
IX:  Esimasted Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit  . . .     62
X:  Overall mplementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . .      63
XI:  Objectives for the First Two Years of
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    64
XII:   List of Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    67
NAP: IBRD No. 22547R



a 4 c oF 
Credit and Prolect Kir
borrewe:    Government of the Republic of Yemen (ROY)
BenfLiea=             :    Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
Amounta                     SDR 10.8 million (US$14.4 million equivalent)
Term                        Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Lanmtlg  Lng hg2wnces       Minlistry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR)
and the Agricultural Research and Extension
Authority (AREA)
Prolect Objectlvs and escription
The project would have two main objectives:
$1)      to develop the management basis for a modern agriculture sector in
MAWI., by upgrading staff qualifications, strengthening policy
analysis and planning capacities, introducing modern techniques
for financial and human resources management, and improving
functional links between general departments in MAWR; and
(ii)      to strengthen agricultural researWh, technical training and field
extension services and to create research/extension linkages and,
thereby, to accelerate the development and adoption of appropriate
technologies.
These objectives would complement the physical facilities and organizational
structures established under past projects for Regional Development Agencies
(RDAs) and AREA.
Project financing would cover civil works for modernizing MAWR
headquarters, consolidating AREA facilities and constructing a National
Agriculture Training w.anter [NATC], and for vehicles, equipment and materials,
technical assistance (28 staff years), overseas training (90 staff years) and
incremental operating expenditures. Project implementation would be through
existing MAWR general departments and AREA, in collaboration with RDAs, and
funds would be provided for establishing a Project Management Unit (PHU) for
programming and coordination.
The proposed IDA credit of US$14.4 million equivalent would finance 85
percent of foreign exchange and 18 percent of the local costs, or about 66
percent of total project costs. The Dutch Government has agreed to finance
US$3 million equivalent, by parallel arrangement, to cover technical
assistance and other costs for the training and extension components.



- tii
The project would improve the management efficiency of agricultural
resources. The mber and quality of professional staff would increase,
sector analysis would be strengthened and greater coordination would be
achieved between services and agencies. As a result, sectoral policies would
be more focused and responsive to economic priorities. The project would also
help develop better technological packages for extension to farmers which, in
the long term, would result in sustainable yield and production increases.
As the economic benefits would be largely indirect, the project does not
lend itself to the calculation of a rate of return. However, the qualitative
benefits of institution building can be defined and converted into benchmarks
to monitor success in implementation. The strengthening of MAWR would be
assessed against the  mber and quality of sector analyses, policy papers and
development planring; the preparation of project follow-up systems and
manuals: the introduction of procedures for establishing fertilizer
requirements; the lntroduction of procedures for budget and financial
controls; and the improviment in personnel policies. The impact of the
research component would be gauged against the priority focus and ecological
coverage of AREA work and the mnber of noncrop specific research subjects.
The success of the extension and training component would be a function of the
number, quality and relevance of extension messages; the consolidation of
extension approaches and the special focus placed on women farmers; and the
number and qualifications of trainers and extension agents. Other intangible
benefits, like the improved capacities of the staff, are also expected. In
the longer run, the project would also have beneficial environmental effects
through the improved utilization of resources and the implementation of
environmental monitoring for sector developments, particularly relating to
land and water conservation and the utilization of inorganic chemicals.
Risk&
Although the project is widely supported in MAWR and other concerned
agencies, it faces several risks, which are being addressed.
(i)     The risk of an inadequate number of counterpart TA staff is being
countered by tailcring provisions to the absorptive capacities of
the concerned MXWR general departments. Incentives for MAWR staff
would center on improved training and promotion opportunities and
the payment of field allowances.
(ii)     There is a sensitivity in Yemen to financing technical assistance
personnel through borrowed funds. All TA personnel under the
project would be closely supervised by the PKU, in conjunction
with IDA, particularly with respect to their training and ability
to transfer knowledge; the Project Director General would monitor
institution building achievements and liaise with government
bodies.
(Sii)     There is also a risk of insufficient budgeting for recurrent
costs. As the project involves existing organizations, the
incremental recurrent costs would be limited and have been agreed
to with MAWR and the Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD).
In addition, the strengthening of the budgetary and financial
controls processes under the project should help in providing



I lil -
better projections and justifications for the required funds and a
better process of utilization.
An interim review would be made 18 months after project initiation, to
assess progress and determine whether any components should be adjusted. This
assessment would also reflect any changes resulting from the unification of
Yemen.
Estimated Prolect Csts'
Local     Foreign        Total
--*- US$ million --------
MAWR Headquarters                                   0.96        2.41         3.37
AREA - Agricultural Research                        2.66        5.90         8.56
AREA - Extension and Training                       1.37        3.97         5.34
Total BAseline Costs                                4.99       12.28        17.27
Physical Contingencies                              0.45        1.22         1.67
Price Contingencies                                 1.03        X,0          3.03
Total Project Costs                                _au         1$.          21.97
/a    Exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.
PimncaucI Plan
Local      FoQe              Total
Funding Sources                             ---------US$ Million----------
IDA                                          1.1          13.3           14.4
Dutch Government                             0.8           2.2            3.0
Government of ROY                            4.6            -             4.6
TOTAL                                      6.5          15.5           22.0
Estimated Completion Date: June 30, 1999
Estimated IDA Disbursements
--------------------IDA Fiscal Year-------------------
1992   1993    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
------------------- (US$ Million) -------------------
Annual                    0.7     2.1    2.7    3.0    2.5    1.5    1.2    0.7
Cumulative                0.7     2.8    5.5    8.5   11.0   12.5   13.7   14.4
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Map : IBRD No.    22547R



;EPUBLI     IC OFYMN
AORICUl¶RE SECTOR IWUEI5ENT SUPPORT PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORS
I. THE ECONOMY
1.01     Background and Physical aesources.  The Republic of Yemen (ROY),
formed in May 1990, includes the unified populations and territories of the
former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR, or the North) and the Peoples' Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY, or the South). With an estimated population (1990)
of 11.6 million people (22 percent of whom live in the South And 78 percent in
the North), ROY occupies an area of 537,000 sq. km of largely mountainous and
desertic terrain in the southwestern part of the Arabian Peninsula. There are
five distinct geographic regions: the arid coastal plain along the Red Sea
(the Tihama); the Indian Ocean desertic littoral; the rugged central and
southern highlands, rising to about 3,700 m, where most of the population
lives; the eastern plateau; and the Rub Al Khali Desert. Annual rainfall
mostly ranges from 150 mm to 450 mm, with up to 1200 mm in the highlands
region. Scarce and diminishing supplies of fresh water restrict the total
annual cultivated area to 1.4 million ha. Other natural resources include
approximately 2,000 km of marine coastline and limited oil reserves discovered
in 1984.
1.02     Introductjo.  With scarce natural resources and low annual per
capita GDP (estimated at US$640 in 1989), ROY remains a poor country. The
economy of the North &rew by nearly 14 percent in 1988, due to increased oil
extraction and good rainfall; however, this figure declined to less than 5
percent in 1989. The North's share of industrial output rose to 26 percent of
the GDP in 1989, compared to 20 percent in 1986. Output from crops, livestock
and fisheries accounts for 18 percent of GDP, and some 75 percent of the
population is dependent for their livelihood on the sector. Oil extraction
has substantially changed the export structure. Value op total merchandise
exports increased from $16 million in 1986 to $1,186 million in 1989, while
value of oil exports increased from nil to $1,119 million. This has assisted
in reducing the current account deficit from 16 percent of GDP in 1987 to 8
percent in 1989. Notwithstanding these changes, the northern economy
continues to display many of its former characteristics. The trade deficits
were financed largely by short-term borrowing. As a result, debt service has
sharply increased from only 9 percent of foreign exchange earnings in 1985 to
23 percent in 1989. The Government has been rescheduling debt with the USSR,
which accounts for two thirds of all public debt (1989). Virtually all
production goes to consumption, and gross domestic savings were negative in
the 1980s. Fixed investment is low, 12 percent of GDP in 1989, and is largely
financed through external resource transfers, mainly in the form of workers'
remittances and L rrowing.  The budget deficit has grown in recent years,
comprising 24 percent of GDP in 1987; however, expenditure restraint reduced
the deficit to about 10 percent in 1989.
1.03     Improved economic activity in the South has, since 1988, partially
compensated for the losses in 1986 caused by civil disturbances and the sharp
decline in workers' remittances; GDP grew about 1.5 percent in 1989. The



-2-
current account deficit increased sharply, from 18 percent of GDP in 1987 to
abour 60 percent of GDP in 1989, due to accelerated short-term borrowing and
reduced remittances. The budget deficit, which reached 45 percent of GDP in
1989, has been financed through domestic borrowing, leading to inflationary
pressures. Long-standing centralized controls over production, investment,
distribution and prices have created pervasive rigidities and distortions
that, in turn, have undermined economic efficiency.
1.04     When YAR and PDRY were created as independent states in the 1960s,
both countries adopted policies focused on economic and social development
that emphasized arrietulture, communications, infrastructure. health and
education. These policies were implemented through parallel Development
Plans, the Third (1986-91) of which is ending in 1991. Under these plans,
both states made significant progress in transforming subsistence economies
with small external sectors towards more developed market economies.
Unification brings together two sets of resources tnat have gre&ter
development potential when combined. The North has modest oil and gas
reserves, tourism potential and a dynamic market system. The South also has
some oil reserves, large fishery resources, a strategic location and the Port
of Aden. However, unification also unites two economies that are faced with
serious problems and macro-imbalances that need to be addressed urgently. In
the absence of further discoveries, revenues from oil extraction would barely
be able to compensate for the drop in private and public transfers from abroad
that have been constant since 1982.
1.05     The economy, which was already stressed by the transition to a
unified country, has, in addition, been severely affected by the recent crisis
in the Middle East. In the immediate future, the effect of the crisis will be
to reduce remittances and further worsen the shortage of foreign exchange, as
well as to exacerbate the serious unemployment problems of the country. To
address some of the problems emerging from the crisis, IDA has recently
approved an Emergency Recovery Credit (Cr. 2258-YEN).
1.06     Government Administration.  Fo4iowing their emergence as separate
states in the 1960s, similar government organizations were developed in the
North and in the South. These involved: central planning ministries linked
with finance/economic ministries; sepaTate ministries dealing with the major
sectors; and an administrative organization based on governorates (11 in the
North and 6 in the South), which included representatives from the central
ministries. As part of the amalgamation and reorganization following national
unification, the Government has adopted an interim organization that will
extend through 1992. This involves expanded and redefined ministries based on
the combined administrations of the two former countries. The Government
recognizes that unification has produced a massive civil service that cannot
be sustained in the long term and must be addressed during the interim period
for unification, which ends December 1992.



-3-
II.  THE ARICULTUM=  SECTTD
2.01     An estimated 1.4 million ha are cultivated annually in ROY, of which,
300,000 ha are irrigated, either from wadi spate flows (60 percent) or from
controlled sources (groundwater, reservoirs, perennial streams --40 percent);
1.1 million ha are rainfed. An estimated 75 percent of the population live in
rural areas and are dependent on agriculture. Crop production is constrained
by the scarcity of water. Much of the rainfed cultivation occurs on the
slopes of a mountain range, centrally situated on a north/south axis and
rising to 3,750 m, where an estimated 40 percent of the traditional cropping
occurs on terraces built on the steep hillsides. Livestock forms an important
integral part of the farming system and constitutes about one million cattle,
nearly seven million sheep and goats and 150,000 camels. ROY is self-
sufficient for poultry products. A listing of important agricultural
commodities in the North is given in Annex I.
2.02     Although there were once areas of high forest in the central and
northern regions, continuous uncontrolled exploitation over several centuries
has diminished both density and area to a state of very open woodland and
scattered shrubs, which occupy an estimated four million ha. Rangelands total
an estimated 10 million ha.
2.03     Most land is cultivated by individual farmers (which, in the South,
are often organized on a cooperative basis; in the North, some 10 percent are
share croppers). About 5 percent of the land (mostly in the South) is state
farms. Cultivation is divided between cereals (47 percent); forage (20
percent), tree crops [coffee, fruit and qat--a mild stimulant, which is widely
consumed in ROY] (12 percent); vegetables (8 percent); and others [including
cotton] (13 percent). Of the cereals, sorghum and millet, the traditional
staple foods, are the most important, particularly in the rainfed areas.
Production estimates indicate that annual outputs of sorghum and millet
declined in 1980s (1981: 300,000 tons; 1988/89: 250,000 tons), while the
output of wheat and maize has doubled to about 250,000 tons per annum, mostly
under irrigation and in high rainfall areas. Other field crops include
limited quantities of pulses and oil seeds and steadily expanding areas of
irrigated forage crops (especially alfalfa). Traditional permanent crops of
cotton (South) and coffee (highlands) have declined in the last decade,
although the planting of fruIt trees has expanded dramatically in the same
period. In areas of assured water supply, farmers have become increasingly
market-oriented since 1980, especially for fruit and vegetalles.
2.04     During the 1980s, the contribution by agriculture to GDP in the North
declined from 25 percent to about 20 percent, due to the deterioration in
sector performance resulting from persistent drought and higher growth rates
in other sectors. Conversely, in the South, agriculture's contribution
increased from 10 percent to about 15 percent, due to stagnation in other
sectors. Overall, domestic food production has been insufficient to meet the
demands of the growing population and increasing standards of living; imports
of food and live animals have increased steadily, to exceed US$400 million in
1989 (3 percent of GDP). Wheat and flour, rice and meat constitute the major
food commodity imports. Fruit and vegetable imports have been officially



-4-
banned in the North since 1984, which tended to stimulate local production but
at a higher cost to consumers.
gricultAral Dve oument Strategy
2.05     Building on the rudimentary government structures and services
existing in the 1960s, both parts of ROY established ministries of agriculture
for planning and supporting economic development. The central focus for
agriculture under the three National Development Plans has been on food self-
sufficiency, improved production efficiency and import substitution.
Assistance from bilateral and multilateral aid agencies has helped in creating
institutions for developing a modern agricultural sector. Despite these
efforts, the objectives have fallen short of expectations, due mainly to the
unrealistic self-sufficiency target, inadequate government support services in
the North, and policy disincentives in the South. Assistance under the
proposed project would help to strengthen sectoral planning capabilities.
Previous OrManization of the Ministries of Agriculture
2.06     While policy emphases varied considerably, the organization of the
Ministries of Agriculture in both parts (centered in Sana'a and Aden) were
broadly similar. They were controlled by a Minister and Deputy Minister, with
technical departments at headquarters dealing with the major subsectors
(crops, livestock, irrigation, forestry, etc.), as well as departments for
planning, statistics and administration and finance. Key technical
departments had field representatives working in the administration of each of
the 17 governorates. The main differences between the two ministries were:
Mi)   fisheries resources was part of Agriculture in YAR (handled by a
Public Corporation), whereas it was a separate Ministry in PDRY;
(ii)   the organization of agricultural production was centrally
controlled in PDRY, with emphasis on state farms and group
activity, while it was largely delegated to the Regional
Development Agencies) (RDAs) and individual farmers in YAR;
(iii)   the handling of inputs and outputs was by both private and public
sectors in YAR, while it was centralized through public
corporations in PDRY; and
(iv)   cooperatives played an important role in PDRY, while the "self-
help" principle was less strong in YAR and was provided by Local
Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCD).
2.07     In tbe Ngrth, five semi-autonomous RDAs have been established,
covering the main ecological zones: the Tihama Development Authority (TDA,
1978); the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDP, 1975); the Central
Highlands Agricultural Developmer.t Project (CHADP, 1985); the Sana'a, Saadah
and Hajjah Agricultural Rural Development Authority (SSHARDA, 1988); and the
Eastern Region Agricultural Development Authority (ERADA, 1988). The chairmen
or general directors of the RDAs have considerable autonomy and almost all
report directly to the Minister of Agriculture. IDA has supported the
evolution of RDAs as the institution best geared to responding to farmers'



-5-
needs at a local level and the most capable of attracting and retaining
technical and managerial talent. Developments under TDA and SURDU have
expanded in geographic coverage, and they are now implementing fifth and third
project phases, respectively. The authorities established with nationwide
responsibillty for implementing specific subsector developments were: the
Agricultural Research Authority (ARA, 1982), the Cooperative and Agricultural
Credit Bank (CACB, 1979) and the Fisheries Corporation (FC, 1979).
2.08     Although RDAs have not been formally established in the South, the
main areas of agriculture production- -Wadi Hadramawt, Wadi Tuban, Wadi Abyan
and Wadi Beihan have been the focus of coordinating developments (also
supported by IDA assistance). Apart from this, the Department of Research and
Extension (DRE) has been evolving systems (with assistance from IDA) for
coordinating research and extension in the three main governorates (Lahej,
Abyan and Shabwa). Traditionally, agricultural credit in the South has been
provided (mostly through cooperatives) by the National Bank of Yemen (NBY).
Reorganization and New Agricultural Institutions
2.09     Under the unified Government, a Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR) has been established, with the following organizational
arrangements:
(i) fish wealth is split off as a separate ministry;
(ii) major emphasis and control over national water resources is vested
in MAWR;
(iii)   production organization will be decentralized (with the
possibility of establishing RDAs in the South);
(iv) national organizations will be retained for agricultural credit
and research/extension coordination; and
(v) state farms and public corporations are required to be self
support'.ng, or they will be "privatized" or phased out.
MAWR is headquartered in Sana'a, with a subsidiary administration in Aden. It
is headed by a Minister and a Vice Minister and operates through three
subministries: Plant and Livestock Production, Irrigation and Water
Resources, and General Administration; each is headed by a Deputy Minister.
The organizational structure (Annex IT) is centered on 18 general
directorates, including: 2 for Planning and Monitoring (GDPM) and
Agricultural Statistics (GDAS); 10 with technical focus--Plant Production
(GDPP), Livestock Resources (GDLR), Water Resources (GDWR), Irrigation and
Maintenance of Water Installations (GDI), Irrigation Studies (GIS), Farm
Mechanization and Land Reclamation (GDFMLR), Ple-t Protection (GDPPR),
Agricultural K.rketing (GDAM), Forestry and Rangelands (GDFR), and
Cooperatives and Rural Development (GDCRD); A for administrative matters--
Agricultural Documentation and Information, Legal Affairs, Authorities and
Organizations, and Control and Inspection; and 2 for Finance and
Administration and Personnel and Training. Each general directorate is
theoretically divided into a number of specialist departments and sections.



-6-
However, these are mostly nominal and hsve few personnel resources and no
systematic recruitment or training procedures. The overall structure is,
therefore, complex and overambitious for the requirements of the Agriculture
Sector in ROY, relative to personnel and fiscal resources available. The
proposed projecc would support actions to assist the Government in
rationalizing MAWR organization during the interim period to 1992
(para. 3.01).
2.10     The agricultural office in each governorate is being maintained to
provide field representation for the technical departments. In the North, the
activities of these MAWR offices will mostly continue as an integral part of
the RDAs, especially for field extension operations. In the South, these
operations will continue to be coordinated by DRE during the interim period.
2.11     Although the institutional capacities of the RDAs are still evolving,
they have had an impact, to varying extent, on initiating and accelerating
rural development. Their main impact has been through: (i) creating
administrative capabilities for planning, organizing and monitoring priority
developmet_s; (ii) initiating farmer training and mobilizing field extension
services; (iii) creating infrastructures (buildings, irrigation, drinking
water, and access roads); and (iv) forming a core of middle -management
technicians capable of stimulating sustainable production. In general, there
is a need to further strengthen the planning, budgeting and monitoring of RDA
operations and to improve the technical coverage for priority subsectors. In
common with regional developments, the evolution and developmental status of
the national authorities (AREA, DRE, CACB, NBY and FC) have been similar in
both parts of ROY.
Nalor Constraints to Agricultural Develonment
2.12     With past emphasis on regional development and national authorities
over the last decade, the central capacities of MAWR for policy and strategy
planning, development coordination and trouble shooting, technological backup,
and the monitoring of developmental impact have been neglected. Consequently,
the general directorates have not developed the essential supportive role to
RDAs and national authorities necessary to ensure the fulfillment of the
Government's development policies, resulting in a tendency for RDAs to develop
in separate vacuums. This has reduced the effectiveness of area development
projects and extension activities.
2.13     Other constraints include: (i) delays in IDA credit effectiveness,
which have retarded project implementation and caused some escalation in
costs; (ii) overly anbitious agronomic research programs with excessive focus
on commodities and inadequate attention to technological and farming systems
topics or to long-term development objectives and the solution of farmers'
problems; (iii) insufficient technical training for extension staff and
farmers; (iv) the absence of O&M for irrigation structures; (v) limitations in
field extension services and inadequate incentives, including a tendency to
reach too few farmers and messages that are inadequately linked to both
research and target group requirements; (vi) the neglect of potential
livestock developments; and (vii) a persistent shortages of inputs,
particularly for crop production. These problems are generally recognized,
and there is a consensus, both in MAWR headquarters and by managers of RDAs,



-7-
that there is a need to develop more efficient institutions and to create
modern procedures for coordinating planning, specifying policies and promoting
subsector development strategies.
2.14     The shortfalls in agriculture sector development have been in-
fluenced, both in the North and South, by weaknesses in the central
governments.  Farst, the shortage of foreign exchange has prevented the
procurement of adequate supplies of agricultural production inputs,
particularly fertilizers, chemicals and machinery spare parts.  Sac      con-
straints on the Government's recurrent budgets have constricted the
recruitment of trained personnel, limited field operations and starved
projects of operating funds. Thirt, the diverse control of water management
(with several ministries directly involved) has obstructed the formulation of
clear policies for water resources and appropriate development strategies and
the enforcement of regulations. Fourth, the low priority given to monitoring
and supervising of agricultural development means that statistics are
imprecise and the knowledge of development impact is vague. There is an
active ongoing dialogue between the Government and IDA to find solutions to
these problems, both at the sectoral level and through the preparation of a
Medium-Term Economic Framework, which is expected to be completed in CY1991.
2.15     The combined MAWR investment and operation budget has been
approximately YRls 600 million (US$50 million); however, at least 25 percent
of this amount has regularly been returned to the Treasury due to
inefficiencies in budget and disbursement procedures. Government budgetary
provisions for investments have been good generally. However, the incidence
of inadequate provisions for operating expenditures has increased since 1985,
despite the advent of oil revenues, which permitted some relaxation in foreign
exchange restrictions.
2.16     The new Government is expected to give high priority to improving tax
collection, in order to raise local revenues. At the same time, the
streamlining of MAWR finance and administration operations under the proposed
project is even more critical, since the process of unification has introduced
overmanning and created one of the largest ministries in ROY. Unless this
situation can be rationalized, the recurrent budget problems which have arisen
in recent years will be exacerbated. Provisions have been made under a UNDP
Technical Assistance Project for preparing proposals for streamlining and
modernizing budget, accounting and control procedures in MAWR, and the
proposed project would support measures for implementing management
improvements.
External Assistance
2.17     The agricultural sector in both parts of ROY has received significant
assistance from multilateral and bilateral sources. IDA has underpinned
agricultural development through assistance for: (i) regional development
agencies (RDAs) in the North; (ii) broad based developments in the three
principal wadis in the South; and (iii) national developments for agricul-
tural research, extension, fisheries and credit in both parts. In addition to
IDA assistance (totalling approximately US$15 million per annum for
agriculture throughout the 1980s), UNDP, with FAO technical expertise, has
supported a broad program of technical support projects in soils, irrigation



-8-
and institutional development. IFAD has financed free standing projects in
both parts, as well as cofinanced (with IDA) research and three area
development projects in the North. USAID has been active in statistics,
monitoring and horticultural developments. Assistance for rural development,
livestocV. development and extension has been provided by the Arab Fund, the
Kuwait Fund and the Dutch, German, Italian and British Governments. The Abu
Dhabi Government assisted in the construction of the Marib Dam in the 1980s.
In the South, substantial support has been provided by the USSR and East
Germany, particularly in developing state farms and wadi control structures in
Wadis Tuban and Abyan. The proposed project would complement past and ongoing
assistance, and there would be no duplication of activities with any ongoing
programs.
Lessons Learned From IDA Lending
2.18     IDA assistance to the sector has generally been more effective in the
South than in the North, due mainly to a higher degree of management
attention. This particularly applied to developments in Wadis Hadramawt and
Beihan. In the North, the Project Performance and Audit Reports (PPARs) on
the Tihama I (Cr. 376-YAR), SURDP I (Cr. 545-YAR) and Tihama II (Cr. 805-YAR)
Projects, were generally positive on the achievements, particularly with
regard to institution building and extension services, and the implementation
of physical infrastructures. The UNDP Institution Support Project
(YEM/82/025), which was completed in December 1989, provided the basis for
planning operations, which would be expanded under the proposed project. In
the South, PPARs on wadi developments in Tuban, Hadramawt (Phase I) and Beihan
were mostly favorable, with some qualifications on the adequacy of preparatory
planning.
2.19     The PPAR for the Tihama IV Project (Cr. 978-YAR) questioned the
efficiency of investments made for surface water improvement in terms of the
economic rate of return, cropping pattern and cropping intensity. This PPAR
and the PPARs for the Grain Storage and Processing Project (Cr. 636-YAR) and
the Livestock Credit and Processing Project (Cr. 662-YAR) highlight the
principal difficulties for agricultural development throughout ROY. In
addition, technical and administrative weaknesses have arisen after the
completion of some projects, and some O&M operations are inadequate.
2.20     The lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects have been
taken into account in formulating the scope and design of the proposed
project, which would introduce a national approach for resolving these
problems.
Future IDA Strategg for Aqricultural Support
2.21     Since 1987, IDA assistance has been focussing more on a sector-wide
National Agricultural Development Program (NADP), to build on the developments
achieved under previous projects. NADP is envisaged as an umbrella operation
through which the Government can: (a) strengthen key departments of MAWR;
(b) give national focus to priority subsector developments; (c) expand and
strengthen the specialist technical skills of RDAs; and (d) improve the
coordination of aid for the agricultural sector. The proposed ASMSP would be
the first project under NADP and aims to develop the sector management



.9-
capability in MAWR, to strengthen services to farmers through research and
extension, and to provide associated facilities. Following this, a series of
projects are being prepared under NADP to focus on priority subsectors,
namly, land and water conservation (with emphasis on irrigation and
forestry), livestock and fisheries.
III.  THE Z  TINEUZXONMLIUhDK
Ministry of Atriculture and Vater Resources (NAWR)
3.01     General Organization and Issues.  The post-unity reorganization of
MAWR has created 4 layers of decision making (Minister, Vice Minister, Deputy
Ministers and Assistant Deputy Ministers) and 18 general directorates (GDs).
While this represents an increase of eight GDs (in the North), it is the
outcome of an upgrading in the status of existing directorates and does not
represent a net increase in organizational entities. Nonetheless, the overall
management structure is more complex than before, and there is the risk that
coordination between directorates and RDAs will be more difficult and day-to-
day administration will deteriorate. This could further exacerbate delays in
MAWR decision-making.  The Government has recognized that this new general
organization is complex and unsustainable. The proposed project would provide
assistance to analyze the overall organizational structure and to strengthen
and improve the core functions in planning, administration (including finance)
and monitoring of the Ministry. An interim review would be made 18 months
after project start up, to assess the situation and determine whether any
components need to be adjusted.
3.02     The main challenges for MAWR are centered on: (i) the increased
complexity of organiization; (ii) the number of personnel and the corresponding
recurrent cost implications; (iii! the relative inexperience of personnel; and
(iv) the lack of management experience. It is important to capitalize on the
relative strengths of the previous ministries in order to create an efficient
organization. Particular attention should be given to strengthening and
modernizing key parts of MAWR and to developing technical and managerial
skills. Activities such as policy planning and regular sector reviews need to
be introduced, and routine functions, like programs in support of private
sector development, input planning, budgeting and financial control, personnel
management and development, which are only rudimentary now, need to be
strengthened and upgraded. The Government's capacity to monitor and guide
agricultural research and training and extension, which are the basic elements
for technical improvement, are also insufficient.
General irectorates for Planning and MonltoriLn and for Finance and
3.03     The General Directorate for Plannin and Monitoring (GDPM) combines
the personnel from similar directorates in the North and South, where they
played leading roles in the organization of the respective ministries of
agriculture. GDPH has broad responsibility for implementing agricultural
planning; these functions are to be carried out by six departments
(Agricultural Policy, Agricultural Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation,



-10-
Computers, Loans and Aid, and Technical and Economic Cooperation)[Annex
11(ii)]). GDPM differs in two significant and positive ways from the two
previous ministries. First, the Agricultural Policy Department (APD) consists
of a separate Policy Division (PD) for policy planning and a Studies Division
(SD) for commodity analysis and project preparation. The creation of a
separate policy unit has been strongly encouraged by IDA and should help to
overcome past neglect in basic planning. Second, the responsibility for the
collection and processing of statistics has been separated by an upgraded
General Directorate for Statistics (GDS). This should help to improve the
focus and quality of agricultural data processing. On the other hand, the
creation of planning divisions in GDPM for plant, livestock, water resources,
and rural development duplicates support provided by the relevant technical
divisions in MAWR, e.g., GD Plant Production and GD Livestock Resources.
Similarly, the creation of separate back-up departments for computers, aid
liaison and cooperation is somewhat excessive. Support under the proposed
project would help to rationalize GDPM organization.
3.04     The staff of GDPM are generally young and enthusiastic; however, most
lack advanced training and experience. While the structure of GDPM is a
distinct improvement on that of the previous ministries, it is important to
take action to ensure that previous operational difficulties are overcome.
For example: (i) senior staff should not be diverted from planning work by
routine administrative tasks related to projects and other GDs; (ii) GDPM
should develop capabilities for policy planning and in-depth sector analysis
work; and (iii) for the organization of planning work, it is necessary to
improve information systems, ensure a clear-cut delegation of
responsibilities, and create precise programming for work priorities. At
present, GDPM operates out of cramped offices in MAWR headquarters, with
insufficient transportation and equipment and too few support staff.
3.05     A sound basis has been created in GDS, with support from USAID, for
processing agricultural statistics. GDS has adequate numbers of staff and
hardware but requires further management training. In particular, it is
necessary to strengthen its data collection and to improve the reliability of
information disseminated, in order to meet the requirements of the planners
and policymakers.
3.06     The General Directorate for Finance and Administration (GDFA) now
operates through seven departments (Accounts and Budgeting, Revenues, Audit,
Contracts and Tenders, Stores and Procurement, Services and Fittings, and
Secretarial and Archives)[Annex IT(iii)]). In the past, GDFA (in both the
North and the South) suffered from excessive demands and insufficient
resources in facilities and qualified/experienced staff. This arose when GDFA
responsibilities, originally designed to provide support services to the
Ministry of Agriculture's technical departments, were expanded to cover RDAs
and agricultural development projects.
3.07     The management of the annual MAWR budget requires more efficient
organization.  The expansion of MAWR operations has stretched limited resour-
ces to the point where MZWR activities are virtually confined to mandatory
recording procedures, leaving little time for improving financial management,
accounts analysis, reporting, documentation procedures and follow-up, or
information distribution. There is a shortage of qualified accountants and



-11-
modern technology for handling business affairs on the scale needed at MAWR;
this has provoked delays at all stages of the administrative process.
Personnel management and manpower development need to be considerably enhanced
to improve the administrative efficiency and overall effectiveness of MAWR.
There are major weaknesses in budgeting, auditing, reporting, and internal
control functions. In many cases, funds are not spent in accordance with
original commitments, while the maintenance and operational needs of the
development projects are not being fully met due to poor budget management on
the part of MAWR and concerned agencies. In order to counter the shortfalls,
the project would introduce modern techniques for financial and human
resources management and improve functional links between directorates in
MAWR.
Aulbtural Researh
3.08     Background and Organization.  Agricultural research in the North was
initiated in the 1970s through three UNDP/FAO projects (executed by IDA) that
focused on the rainfed highlands, the supplemental irrigated midlands and the
wadi-irrigated lowlands. Several crop-specific research developments were
financed by bilateral organizations in various regions. The Agricultural
Research Authority (ARA) was established in 1983 and IDA, IFAD and the Italian
Government contributed to financing the new organization through the
Agricultural Research and Development Project (Cr. 1259-YAR).  In the South,
parallel assistance was provided by IDA (Agricultural Research and Extension
Project--Cr. 1557-YDR) for developing DRE. Both organizations were charged
with planning, coordinating and implementing adaptive research, generating a
cadre of research scientists, and developing and strengthening links with
institutions engaged in education and extension. ARA work was carried out
from headquarters in Dhamar and at a network of stations and substations
located in the four other ecological regions. DRE work was headquartered in
Aden, with regional stations in Abyan and Hadramawt. In both cases, the
facilities, especially at the research farms and at the network of
substations, need to be completed in order to provide the optimum agro-
ecological coverage.
3.09     Under the unified MAWR, responsibilities for agricultural research
will be combined with the national coordination of extension services under
the Agricultural Research and Extension Authority (AREA)[Annex III(i)]. The
headquarters for AREA operations is at Dhamar, and there are research stations
in each of the five agro-ecological regions: Marib and Seiyun (Eastern), Al
Baun (Northern), Dhamar (Central), Taiz (Southern), and Surdud and El Kod
(Tihama Coastal). AREA operations are controlled by a Board of Directors,
headed by the Minister of MAWR, and managed by a Director General, a Deputy
Director General and three Assistant Deputy Directors General, one for
Extension, one for Research, and one for Finance and Administration. The
General Department for Research (GDR) consists of Departments for Livestock,
Plants and Agricultural Economics. Each research station is headed by a
director. The Extension and Training Department (ETD) is complemented by the
Information and Documentation Department (IDD). The Department of Finance and
Administration provides back-up services to both GDR, ETD and IDD.
3.10     A team of some 50 research scientists has been brought together
through provisions for post-graduate training under the research projects.



-12-
These scientists have been supported by specialist technical assistance
personnel in key disciplines. Training is still needed for specializations
that are not yet covered. Furthermore, the development of a cadre of research
technicians has been delayed, and this has tended to reduce the efficiency of
researchers. The persistent shortages in recurrent budgets, which has
curtailed essential field operations, was rectified in 1990; it is crucial
that field operations be maintained in the future.
3.11     eseaach PQ1iCy and Progrxmming.  Research programs have, in
principle, been based on guidelines provided by the country's development
plans, i.e., directed towards increasing agricultural production with the
focus on strategic crops. In the North, programs were decided annually at
National Agricultural Research Coordination Workshops involving MAWR general
directorates, RDAs and project managers. These programs were subsequently
adopted by the ARA Board of Directors and progress was reviewed at quarterly
Board meetings. In the South, programs were decided by the National
Agricultural Research and Extension Council, which was superseded by the
National Scientific Research Council (NSRC) in 1989. In both parts of ROY,
close liaison has been maintained with relevant agricultural international
centers, such as: the International Centre for Agricultural Research in the
Dry Areas (ICARDA), the International Centre for Research in the Semi-Arid
Tropics (ICRISAT), the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
(IITA), and Centro Internacional Mejoramiento Maize y Trigo (CIMNYT). This
has enabled the location of technical and material support for training
research cadres, the introduction of new crops, and guidance on research
programs.
3.12     Both research organizations have been successful in developing a
number of crop varieties and in improving technical packages for the major
field and vegetable crops, for example: new varieties of millet, wheat, maize,
grain legumes, and vegetables (notably onions, okra, cabbage, and tomatoes)
have been introduced, as well as new fruit tree varieties such as mangoes,
apples, peaches, and sapota; and improved plant protection has been put in
practice both through crop selection of resistant varieties and the
development of cultural practices (banana, watermelon), or chemical control
(dates, maize, sorghum). Animal improvement programs, introduced in the
1980s, focused on selecting local breeds and upgrading the nutrition of sheep
and goats. Other activities have included soil and water analyses, on the
basis of which soil and water maps have been produced for selected areas of
the country. However, the broad demands for research and limitations in
manpower and budgetary resources resulted in overambitious research programs;
in addition, some important topics have been neglected. This situation has
been exacerbated by the inadequate monitoring of research programs. For
example, the 1988/89 program for Northern Yemen included research trials and
studies, which were mostly crop oriented, with cereals, legumes, fruits and
vegetables accounting for about 70 percent of the program, and livestock,
industrial crops and forestry for the rest. Legumes and industrial crops only
have a small share of the research funding, and rainfed cropping, farming
systems, irrigation and mechanization studies have barely started.



-13-
3.13     Impact of the Ongging Research Projects.  The Agricultural Research
and Development Project (Cr. 1259-YAR) in the North was initiated in 1983; the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Cr. 1557-YDR) in the South was
initiated in 1985. At completion in 1991, these projects will have achieved
the following: (i) the establishment of research operations in the seven
agro-scological zones; (ii) the creation of multi-disciplinary research teams
(MDRTs) linked to research/extension coordinators in the South; (iii) the
completion of all civil works planned, including a central headquarters,
regional stations and housing; (iv) the equipping of research laboratories and
farms; (v) the provision of postgraduate training for 40 research scientists;
and (vi) the launching of reports, workshops and liaisons with RDAs. On the
other hand, the full benefits anticipated at appraisal probably will not be
realized, for the following reasons: (i) the construction for the major
research facilities provided under the projects has been too; (ii) the
fragmented approach to research development in the North, with financing
included under several different IDA projects; (iii) a majority of research
scientists were under training overseas for most of the implementation period,
thereby severely limiting the capacity for research work; (iv) persistent
shortage of recurrent funds, especially for personnel and operating expenses;
(v) the research program has been too broad and ambitious, thereby preventing
adequate in-depth focus on priority topics; and (vi) the transfer of
information and technologies to farmers has been inadequate, due to
insufficient liaising with RDAs.
3.14     In order to counter these weaknesses, the proposed project would
focus AREA developments on consolidating the existing organization,
strengthening operations and developing closer monitoring procedures.
Provisions for civil works and equipment would be directed at strengthening
and consolidating the capacities of regional research stations. Provisions
for training would highlight research skills in priority subsector topics and
would create a cadre of research technicians.  Provisions for technical
assistance would support planning, analysis and the dissemination of research
findings, with the aim of developing realistic research programs geared to the
limitations in resources (especially manpower and recurrent funds) at AREA.
3.15     Research Outreach.  Linkages between research and farmers have
varied. In the North, they have been implemented through a system of meetings
with extension workers and farmers; in practice, these outreach activities
have not received high priority. Conversely, in the South, a direct liaison
has been developed through experienced personnel assigned full time as
research/extension coordinators. As well as transferring messages in both
directions, these personnel also work with multi-disciplinary research teams
(MDRTs) and organize research/extension committees. These operations would be
extended nationwide under the proposed project.
Etension and Tranixng
3.16     The modernization of the agriculture sector in ROY requires an
efficient extension system capable of promoting and transferring new
technologies and management systems to the largest number of farmers.
Extension services have expanded rapidly since their inception in the 1970s,
and there are currently some 500 extension agents throughout the country.
Services are provided mostly by RDAs in the North, by ETD in the South, and by



-14-
provincial agricultural offices in areas not covered by development agencies.
Extension services in RDAs and in ETD have been supported by IDA credits and
other external funding. The approach followed is a modified training and
visit (T&V) system adjusted to local conditions. This system was proposed
primarily because of the dearth of qualified agricultural extension personnel
and the possibility of training selected village youths reasonably quickly to
operate as extension agents. To be suecessful, the system requires an
organizational structure that ensures unified programming, regular
supervision, technical back-stopping, and mobility. The present structure
varies among projects but basically consists of regional headquarters, block
centers and extension centers. At the farm level, extension is based
primarily on field demonstrations for groups of farmers and training visits by
extension agents, who are supported by extension supervisors (ESs) and subject
matter specialists (SMSs). In practice, the system has not functioned
thoroughly due, in particular, to the absence of a coordinated national
approach for extension services; too few farmers are being contacted. Efforts
must be made to remove the many constraints preventing the system from being
fully effective.
3.17     The correct implementation of agricultural extension has been
hampered by the following constraints:
(a)   Institutional Constraints.   Since the beginning of IDA support in
the secror, development has concentrated on RDAs, as the
institutions best geared to farmers' needs. However, there is now
an acknowledged need at all levels, including the RDAs, to provide
agricultural development with a focus on national sectoral
objectives and central support. The Government, faced with
compelling claims of limited resources, realizes the urgency of
providing technically-sound policy guidance to its RDAs. In YAR,
a General Department for Extension and Training (GDET) was created
in 1987 to provide a coordinating role. In fact, its impact has
been less than that of DRE in PDRY, with its system of linking
extensionists with research workers for passing messages and
solving problems. The creation of AREA provides the opportunity
for reorganizing technical training and for developing subsector
analysis, policy-making and strategies for extension. Basically,
this should extend the DRE approach nationwide. As with most MAWR
departments, the extension staff have been few in number, young
and inexperienced. The directors have operated from dilapidated
offices in ministry headquarters. They lacked equipment and
operating resources, in particular, transportation and extension
materials. An important effort has been made by the ROY
Government to provide facilities in RDAs for the extension
services (block centers, extension centers). However, a number of
these are not operational and lack furniture, equipment, and
operating funds. The mobility of the extension agents has been
hampered by the lack of vehicles, although this situation has
improved in recent years.
(b)   Technology Transfer Constraints.  Extension workers have had
little to offer to the large number of producers in rainfed areas,
although some technological packages based on research results are



-15-
available for crop improvement in irrigated areas. In general,
solutions to problems are either not being produced by research,
or the results of research are very slow in reaching extension
agents. Since 1985, both ARA and DRE have published annual
research results, but this information has tended to be scientific
and not generally oriented to field extension operations.
Linkages between research and extension need to be strengthened
nationwide along the lines of DRE operations. Only through a
continuous, two-way relationship between research and extension
services ar.d farmers can appropriate technological packages be
developed.
(c)   &=over, onstrain.  Beginning in the early 1970s, pre-service
technical training for extension agents was provided by the
Ministry of Agriculture. However, the courses were generally too
short '12 months YAR; 24 months PDRY) and poorly organized, and
classeb consisted of people with widely differing levels of
education. This proved the major constraint to extension services
and was countered in part by individual RDAs (e.g., SURDU and
SSHADA), which created their own training courses for new
recruits. A second manpower constraint is the quality of the
curriculum, which has hitherto been inadequate throughout ROY,
with little attention paid to training in management, farming
systems approaches, farmers' participation, or the training of
female extension agents. Lastly, equipment for practical training
is often lacking and there are no formal training facilities for
women. The issue of the role of women in extension and
agricultural development is economically important. Women are
traditionally in charge of the livestock and poultry, as well as
fruits and vegetables; this gives them a key role in production
and in production shifts towards high-value products.
Furthermore, in some regions, women constitute 70 percent of the
agricultural work force because of the overseas employment of men
and other socioeconomic factors.
(d)   In-Service Training.  Reflecting the fragmented extension systems,
in-service extension training programs have been neglected in both
parts of ROY. In the North, training programs have generally been
organized and carried out by RDAs without central ministry
coordination; in the South, these needs have been regarded as
secondary to develuping field services. In-service training at
both the national and regional level needs to be developed. The
supply of ESs and SMSs is severely constrained in all areas. A
consequence of the lack of trained personnel is the absence of
effective planning and the weakness of supervision and follow-up.
Therefore, training in management skills for the personnel in
supervisory positions should be offered on a priority basis, with
the focus on human resources development, motivation, planning,
communication, time management, job monitoring, evaluation
techniques and data collection. Short-term training courses
should be provided at the national level to MAWR staff. Support
to agents at the local level is also insufficient, as there are
not enough teaching materials or extension aid kits.



.16-
3.18     Since October 1988, UNDP has been assisting in tackling the
weaknesses in technical training in the North through preparations for a
National Agriculture Training Center (NATC); the project is being implemented
with FAO assistance and provides for a UNDP contribution of US$0.67 million,
mainly for technical assistance, with a government contribution in kind.
However, the Government was not able to provide adequate building facilities
for NATC, and project operations are housed in temporary premises in Sana'a.
New buildings are essential to provide in-service training and support to MAWR
staff, especially in the context of the united Ministry. Using the premises
of the Agricultural Faculties at the University of Sana'a or Aden has been
ruled out because these are already operating at full capacity.
3.19     For extension activities, the project would aim at progressively
removing the key constraints listed above by developing the capability of ETD.
This would enable the three constituent divisions to carry out their
responsibilities and develop their credibility with those institutions they
are expected to serve (RDPs, in particular). These improvements would be
achieved by developing facilities and providirg training, technical assistance
and operating costs.
IV. TI  ZROC
A. Objectives and Concept
4.01     The Republic of Yemen's natural resources, arable land and, more
particularly, water, are now almost fully used. Future agricultural growth to
meet the demands of an increasing population can only be derived from
intensification underpinned by more efficient policies, institutions and
technology.
4.02     The project would have two main objectives:
(i)   to develop the management basis for a modern agriculture sector in
MAWR, by upgrading staff qualifications, strengthening policy
analysis and planning capacities, introducing modern techniques
for financial and human resources management, and improving
functional links between general directorates in MAWR; and
(ii) to strengthen agricultural research, technical training and field
extension services, and to improve research/extension linkages
and, thereby, accelerate the development and adoption of
appropriate technologies.
These objectives would complement the physical facilities and organizational
structures established under past projects for RDAs and AREA.
4.03     Assistance for the post-unification reorganization of MAWR, as
outlined in Chapter III, should be considered in the context of a long-term
strategy to upgrade human resources and to streamline operating procedures.
The proposed project, therefore, represents the first stage in a program



.17-
which, if successful, could be extended in other phases to promote
developments in other priority subsectors. The design of the project is based
on the following precepts:
(i) the blend of training and organizational improvements, the
rehabilitation of physical facilities, and technical assistance
must be aimed at developing effective support capabilities for
linklng key servlces tnd agencies in MAWR; and
(ii) the sustainability of development is a priority and calls for a
high degree of government commitment and the adequate provision of
resources, including the nomination of sufficient numbers of
competent counterpart personnel; there must also be an emphasis on
trainLig, both in formal courses and through technical experts
passing cn skills to Yemeni counterparts.
4.04     To ensure commitment by the Yemeni authorities, the project concept
has evolved through a thorough consultative and appraisal process. This
process involved obtaining Lnitial proposals from MAWR general directorates,
AREA and the directors general of RDAs, followed by extensive analysis and
discussions with senior personnel in MAWR, the Ministry of Planning and
Development (NPD), and the management of the Confederation of Local Councils
for Cooperative Development (CLCCD). The appraisal mission ensured that the
main members of the National Assembly had been briefed on the objectives of
the project and what it entailed in technical assistance (TA) and financial
terms. Finally, close contact was maintained with other donors to avoid
overlapping with ongoing or planned projects ln the agriculture sector. This
consensus-building led to a project concept, objectives and composition that
are understood and accepted by all involved. The proposed project has been
welcomed by managers of RDAs, sance it aLms at providing a more precise and
efficient policy framework and additional institutional support, without
restricting their operational autonomy.
B. Oherall Design
4.05     The project would have three main components:
(i)   Planning and Administration In MAWR.  The project would
concentrate on developing or strengthening five major functions
that are not adequately carried out:
-       policy planning and the preparation of policy options;
-       commodities review and analysis, and private sector
support policies;
-       project implementation planning (including monitoring and
evaluation [M&EI, and coordination);



-18-
-      budgeting and financial muanagement; and
-       personnel management and human resources development.
This would be achieved through: the provision of training and TA
to upgrade staff skills e~nd qualifications, institute management
systems, improve procedures and flows of information and
strengthen communications; the provision of equipment; and the
rehabilitation of MAWR facilities. Studies would also be carried
out to determine the future MAWR manpower needs and, bosed on such
projections, to assaess future building requirements.
(ii)   A;ricultural Research.  The project would consolidate past
developments through:
-       strengthening the management and organization of AREA to
focus its program on priority research programs, and
improving the focus and quality of research;
-       continuing ?riority research work; and
-       developing effective linkages with field extension
operations.
This would be achieved through providing facilities and equipment
to improve existing research operations, training, technical
assistance, and linkages with international scientific
organizations.
(iii)   Extension and Training.  The project would enable AREA to create
unified approaches to extension services for both male and female
farmers, through:
-       establishing national policies and strategies for exten-
sion services and in-service training programs and
information material; and
-      helping to create, organize and equip national training
facilitJes,
This would be achieved through developing facilities, training
(including for trainers) and technical assistance and providing
operating costs. A multi-media information center would also be
established to disseminate appropriate extension messages to
farmers (including women) and extension workers.
4.06     The proposed TA and training programs for each GD are based on
reviews with the staff concerned and on growth projections carried out during
project preparation; these details were critically reviewed during appraisal
to identify potential counterparts. The objective was to strike a balance
between requirements and absorptive capacity (in the case of TA) or critical
mass to carry out basic tasks (in the case of training). Technical assistauce
and consultancies requirements (Annex IV (a)) were defined taking into account



'19-
(1) essential functions not performed and for which no Yemenis were available;
and (ii) the number and qualifications of prospective counterparts. The basic
objective of technical assistance would be to establish methods and to
transfer know-how in a number of critical fields, and to provide continued
coaching (e.g., in budgeting and financial analysis). It would also aim at
providing discrete assistance in specific technical fields (e.g., project
preparation techniques). Similarly, the training requirements (Annex V) were
decided by comparing the need to perform fundamental tasks with the available
qualified staff, and the need to stagger training to maintain a critical mass
in each department. Concerning AREA, outside experts would find natural
counterparts among the researchers already at work, and a training program has
already been prepared and is being implemented under the ongoing IDA project.
C. Detailed Prolect Features
MAWR Headquarters Operations (US$4.1 million)
4.07     General Directorate for Planning nd Monitoring (US$1.5 million).
The newly created Policy Division (PD) in APD would concentrate exclusively on
reviewing sector performance, analyzing the role of agriculture in national
development and advising on policy options. It would advise the Minister of
MAWR on policy-related issues; however, it would have no involvement in
routine MAWR operations. The PD work program would be established and
reviewed periodically by a Committee for Agricultural Policy (CAP) composed of
the Vice Minister, Deputy Ministers and Directors General of MAWR under the
chairmanship of the Minister. It would also coordinate the preparation of
MAWR submissions for the Five-Year Development Plans and other major sector
reports, which would subsequently be approved by CAP. The policy alternatives
chosen would be presented and reviewed by the existing High Council for
Agriculture. The Studies Division (SD) would be responsible for commodity
analysis and for coordinating all project preparation and implementation work
for MAWR. The APD would be staffed with a small number of well-trained and
experienced officials supported by three TA specialists (policy planning,
sector analysis, and project preparation) and, in addition, would call on
specialized personnel in MAWR GDs for technical advice and support. The
project would provide for consultancies (both local and foreign) on
sp.cialized topics or fields of expertise. At negotiations, assurances were
reached with the Government regarding the organization and work program of APD
(para. 8.01(i)). Funding would be provided to ensure that the reorganized
departments in GDPM, including APD, would be adequately equipped to fulfill
their functions.
4.08     The project would provide for the following assistance to GDPM:
(i)   Technical Assistance and Studies (US$0.7 million).  Provisions
would be made for long-term TA (36 staff-months (s/m]), one
specialist in sector analysis (18 s/m) for APD and one specialist
in project planning (18 s/m) to assist in developing methodolo-
gies and procedures for project preparation, evaluation and
supervision and in training staff for these tasks. This would be



-20-
complemented by short-term TA and special studies (36 s/m)31 in
particular in the following areas: agricultural pricing policy
(4 s/m), comodity analysis (6 s/m), information processing
systems (4 s/m), performance monitoring of agricultural
development projects (6 s/m), and export analysis and agro-
industrial development (4 s/m).
(ii)   TSainUng (US$0.3 million).  Provisions would be made (108 s/m)W
for well-selected staff members to complete M.A./H.Sc. in
agricultural planning. This would supplement provisions already
committed through USAID assistance for higher training in
agricultural economics.  Short-term training  (16 s/m) would be
for project preparation, monitoring and evaluation, and
procurement/disbursement. Finally, local training (6 s/r) is
envisaged for project supervision.
(iii)   Flitl&a  (US$0.5 million). To complement rehabilitation of the
MMhR building under the project (para. 4.13), GDPM would be
provided with improved office space. The project would also
finance office equipment and furniture, transportation for field
work and incremental operating expenses.
4.09     To upgrade "implementation planning" and streamline the regular
functions of GDPM, formats, methodologies and work schedules would be
developed under the project. Areas to be covered include budget-making,
statistical data analysis, progress monitoring, and the coordination of
foreign-aided projects.
4.10     Provisions would be included for financing training for the General
Directorate for Plant Production staff and for studies to establish a unit for
improving the coordination of procurement and distribution (eventually through
the private sector) of agricultural inputs (seed/planting materials,
fertilizer, machinery and pesticides).
4.11     General Directorate for Finaneg and AiLnistration (US$0.9 million).
To overcome outdated MAWR administrative procedures, GDFA personnel
management, human resources development and budget and financial management
would be streamlirled and enhanced. The staff of GDFA would be strengthened by
the recruitment of qualified and experienced senior personnel, who would be
supplemented by a TA Budget and Financial Control specialist, and by training
for existing staff. At the same time, organizational efficiency would be
streamlined and simplified by computerizing accounts and installing
communications and information systems, which would be centralized in MAWR
headquarters and linked to CDs, RDAs, development authorities and project
units.
4.12     The project would provide:
(i)   Tecbnical AssistaMa (US$0.3 million).  To streamline GDFA's
routine workload, computerization would be developed, together
Including the General Directorate for Plant Production (GDPP).



-21-
with management analysis and supervisory procedures, thereby
releasing staff for managerial tasks. In particular, TA inputs
would cover:
A Budgeting and Financial Control specialist (24 s/m). There is a
need to strengthen the management and control of all financial
transactions in MAWR that concern investments or recurrent
operations, and all sources of funds. The specialist would help
set up systems for the programming of resource requirements and
uses (budget preparation and justification) and would follow up on
the use of funds and the control of disbursements. This would
include forecasting, reporting and methods. These improvements
should result in a better utilization of budgetary allocations and
external assistai ce funds, and a better balance between investment
and operating resources.
- A Human Resources Development and Management specialist (9 s/m)
would be recruited to assist in streamlining and defining
objectives for MAWR personnel management. He would coordinate an
analysis of the existing personnel, relative to current and future
job requirements for the new Ministry, and define a personnel
development policy and a program for in-service training. He
would also assist in the design of the new organizational
structure of the Ministry.
- A Storage and Inventory Control specialist (24 s/m, UN volunteer)
would be hired to help institute modern systems of monitoring and
controlling inventories by MAWR.
- A Management Systems specialist (4 s/m) would be recruited on a
short-term basis.
(ii) .uizTrang (US$0.2 million). For upgrading staff and introducing
new personnel management and budget techniques, two fellowships of
12 s/m each would be provided for postgraduate training in public
administration management and accounts and budget management.
Short-term technical training amounting to 19 s/m would be
provided for seven officers, including: budgeting and financial
control (computerization) (1) (2 s/m); personnel management
(computerization) (1) (2 s/m); personnel management (1) (3 s/m);
general management and administration "2) (6 s/m); and procurement
and storage (2) (6 s/m). Igocal trai ginf (21 s/w), planned for
105 staff members, would include: budget preparation (15) - one
week; budget follow up/monitoring (10) - one week; information
systems (30) - one week; and secretarial procedures (50) - two
weeks. In addition, English languaMe courses (22 s/m) would be
set up for 45 MAWR staff in 3 groupings. The training would
extend over six months for each group and would be arranged by the
Ministry, possibly in collaboration with the British Council or
the American Center. Funds are provided for under the project.
(iii)    F jlitesa (US$0.4 million).  GDFA would also be provided with
rehabilitated office space to accommodate its present staff and



-22-
computing operations and to set up a registry and typing pool;
office furniture and equipment (in addition to the computer help
from USAID to produce payroll and establish personnel records)
would be provided.
4.13     MOWR Headquarters Building and Facilities (US$1.1 million).  In order
to accommodate the incremental staff in GDPM and GDFA following unification
and to address the need for more efficient work stations, provisions would be
made for improving the out-dated, over-crowded and poorly laid out facilities
in MAWR headquarters at Sana'a. Apart from the services housed outside
headquarters, the offices for the general departments at MAWR need to be
upgraded. The offices in the main building would be refitted with a modern
communications system (i.e., telephones, direct intercoms and computing
terminals). Provisions would be made for associated furniture and equipment.
The investment would result in substantially increased efficiency. During
technical discussions, agreement was also reached with Government on the need
to carry out studies to determine the future manpower needs of MAWR and to
assess building requirements based on such projections.
4.14     Proiect Kanagement Unit (PMI) (US$0.6 million).  Provisions for a
PMU, to be established in MAWR headquarters, would include: vehicles and
equipment (US$0.1 million), local consultants and training (US$0.2 million),
and local personnel and operating costs (US$0.3 million).
Aaricultural Research (US$11.0 million)
4.15     AREA plans to strengthen its operations to more fully address the
ecological diversity of the country. Although, ideally, this would require
doubling the research and technical staff over the next ten years, expansion
will have to be in keeping with the availability of recurrent funds. This
underlines the need for improving the focus of research priorities. In
addition to completing AREA infrastructure, there is a need to strengthen the
management and organization of research. The project would provide assistance
to AREA to:
(i) strengthen research management, develop procedures for deciding
research priorities, and adjust research programming and projects
(US$3.5 million);
(ii)   consolidate physical developments at AREA headquarters and in the
regional stations (US$4.5 million); and
(iii)   continue essential research programs and outreach development
(US$3.0 million).
4.16     Research Management.  The current GDR research program provides good
co erage of commodity-related issues.  Research organization and management
should be improved through the better utilization of available resources to
extend the practice of MDRTs for deciding the balance between strategic and
applied research relative to national policy objectives, local constraints,
and the needs of farmers. GDR is an emerging organization, and limitations in
resources demand that clear priorities be adopted for the range of possible
research topics on commodities and farming systems approaches. Future



-23-
programs have to be based on the realization that soil and water resources are
threatened: soil by the depopulation of marginal agricultural land and the
consequent erosion of terraced slopes; and water by the accelerating decline
in water tables. GDR should, therefore, refocus its activities towards the
management of natural resources based on a better knowledge of the ecological
diversity of ROY. The priority research program for the next five years would
center on improving productivity from existing agricultural resources,
particularly land and water. Emphasis would also be given to: improving
farming systems (developing better crop rotations, rangeland management,
forestry and soil conservation), improving rainfed crop production techniques,
developing oil crop production (for import substitution), increasing
irrigation efficiency and farm mechanization, and raising output from
indigenous ruminant livestock.
4.17     The future programming system has to be sufficiently flexible to
allow for relatively quick adjustments, given the rapid changes in the
country. AREA would deploy MDRTs in all regions. NSRC would meet at least
biannually (April and October) and its functions would include: (i) advising
on long-term agricultural research policy and associated short-term
priorities, which would be defined as a five-year rolling program updated
annually; (ii) advising on annual research programs and associated budgets;
and (iii) monitoring results of agricultural research. Such programming
would lead to a better definition of short-term needs for each research topic
(staff, operating expenses, etc.) as well as help to focus on priorities and
ensure the stability of funding. To these ends, the project would provide for
advisory assistance by specialized consultants of international repute for
research management and management training, priority setting and programming,
the economic evaluation of programs, and linkages with extension.
4.18     Arrangements also must be made to ensure the longer term, maximum
scientific efficiency of the AREA research effort. The AREA annual budget is
about US$5 million equivalent, and a mechanism for an independent review of
research orientation and results is important in order to counter past
inadequacies. This would be provided by NSRC reviews, which would focus on
priorities and be timed to provide advice to the Minister of MAWR as part of
the approval process for annual work programs and budgets. An assurance was
reached at negotiations on the continuation and specific role of NSRC for
reviewing AREA operations (para. 8.01(ii)). In addition, as occurs in other
research institutes, an international scientific panel would be set up,
consisting of about seven specialists qualified in the major research topics
for ROY; these specialists would be nominated by the Consultative Group of
International Agricultural Research Centers (CGIARC). The panel would meet
annually to review achievements and to help AREA reassess the rolling plan
(thereby strengthening AREA budgetary requests); the panel would also liaise
with NSRC. These meetings could be organized under the aegis of the UNDP.
AREA does receive independent advice from donors and FAO and maintains contact
with international centers, but irregularly; moreover, MAWR does not have the
technical skills to review research activities. The tasks of the panel would
be to:
- review research results; assess ongoing and future research; and
provide information on new fields of research abroad; and



-24-
- make recommen&tions on AREA methodology and priorities, to help
provide a clearer focus for the program, and on financing needs,
training, etc.
The project would provide for hiring experts not covered by CGIARC.
4.19     Consolidation of AREA Infrgstructure and Continuation of Essentlal
Research. The project would aim to consolidate actions for agreed priority
programs and to strengthen long-term GDR research planning. This assistance
would be in the form of long-term (84 s/m) and short-term (24 s/m) research
experts over three years. In accordance with the areas of priority outlined
above, technical assistance would focus on: rainfed agriculture, farming
systems, livestock improvement and range management, industrial crops,
diversification of plant production, and agrometeorology. To allow for
consolidation and further improvement of GDR research operations, the project
would provide for 36 s/y of long-term training; 60 s/m of short-term training;
and 90 months of local training for technicians. The project also provides
for the construction of facilities to complete the development of the regional
facilities, e.g., research farms at Taiz and Surdud and El Kod; offices at
Xarib, Al Baun and El Kod; and staff houses at Marib, Al Baun, El Kod and
Seiyun. Other provisions would include vehicles to ensure staff mobility,
field research equipmen- and materials.
4.20     Linkages with Extension.  To be fully effective, research must
involve a two-way flow of information. Verification trials should improve and
expand as research work is better focused and constraints on operating funds
are reduced. Demonstrations are normally set up by extension services, but
they require the organization of collaborative systems between researchers and
extension agents. This would be assured by a specific full-time outreach
unit, consisting of a research/extension coordinator and crop and livestock
specialists. This unit would: (i) assist in diffusing varietal and
technological information, proven by research and verification trials, through
extension departments in RDAs and coordinate demonstrations in farmers'
fields; and (ii) relay farmers' questions and problems to AREA. The outreach
unit would be assisted by the short-term information specialist (12 s/m), and
financing would be included for outreach equipment for extension work and for
two micro-buses to facilitate field visits and meetings.
Extension and Training (US$6.8 million)
4.21     The project aims to provide assistance in three major areas:  (i) the
development of national policies, strategies and programs for agricultural
extension, including animal production; (ii) the construction of offices and
training facilities for ETD at AREA headquarters in Dhamar; and (iii) the
establishment of a modern multi-media center within the Information and
Documentation Department (IDD) at Dhamar, to expand techniques for
disseminating extension messages to farmers and extension workers. GDET needs
to be strengthened to enable it to oversee the overall development of policies
and strategies for agricultural extension at the national level and to assist
with the planning and implementation of regional policies and programs.



-25-
4,22     Extension and Trining Department (ETD) (US$1.7 million)1 would be
strengthened to provide for active liaison with the RDPs through the newly
created Extension and Programs Division (EPD). Short-term technical
assistance specialists would be provided for extension (24 s/m) to assist in
defining the methodology to be used for overall development and subsequent
evaluations. EPD staff would be expanded to handle the additional work load
and training would be provided to upgrade their skills. Long-term training,
short-term fellowships, study tours, and local training courses in English
would be provided. A vehicle and office and printing equipment would also be
provided.
4.23     Training needs at all levels of MAWR services would be identified by
the newly created Training Division (TD), which would help to arrange training
programs at national and regional levels. It would liaise with the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and other institutions involved in agricultural training to
ensure that all training programs comply with national priorities. To this
end, the Director of ETD should participate in the Agricultural Education
Council set up by MOE. Based on identified skills gaps at the national level,
TD would identify specialists in the country in each field, provide them with
training. skills and training aids, and make them availab:e to the NATC and to
the regional projects for training programs. A long-term extension training
specialist (24 s/m) would assist in organizing and supporting ETD work, as
well as assist part-time at NATC. In addition, overseas training (one long-
term course, two short-term fellowships, and one study tour) would be
provided, as well as local language training. Vehicles and equipment would
also be provided.
4.24     Rural Women's Development Division (RWDD)V.  The existing unit would
be strengthened within ETD specifically to integrate rural women in
agricultural development projects. Communication, networking and coordination
among different women's programs would be encouraged and promoted. A long-
term extension specialist for rural women (24 s/m) would be provided to assist
in organizing and enlarging joint work programs with RDPs and AREA concerning
programs for women in development (WID). The specialist would work in NATC,
coordinate with and provide ad hoe support to RDPs, and assist IDD in
producing audio-visual materials appropriate to the varying needs of women
farmers in the regions. Given the paucity of training in agriculture for
women, a female teacher would be given a two-year fellowship for training
female trainers. A short-term monitoring and evaluation specialist (12 s/m)
would be hired to develop a national monitoring and evaluation system for
women's programs and to liaise with RDPs. Staff would be recruited by IDD to
handle the additional work load, and training would be provided to upgrade
staff (three long-term courses, two short-term fellowships, one study tour,
and local training). Equipment (one photocopier, one typewriter, and a
computer with printer for data storage and data processing), as well as one
vehicle, would also be provided.
I/       Including Rural Women's Development Division.
2/       Cost included under extension and Training Department.



-26-
4.25     Ntial Amrcultural Training Center (ATC  (US$3.7 million).  The
UNDP/FA0 project (para 3.18), which has been assisting in reorganizing
technical training in MAWR, has also prepared proposals for establishing NATC;
this initial development work is progressing well. The center is essential
for ensuring adequate in-service training and short-term training at the
national level and would be supported under the project. NATC would provide
for:
(i) training trainers (in particular a core of women trainers);
(it) training extension supervisors and subject matter specialists;
(iii) training researchers in extension linkage; and
(iv) ad hoc training (management, monitoring and evaluation, etc.).
Training would be through technical workshops, lectures and seminars and would
be organized in collaboration with the Faculty of Agriculture at the
University of Sana'a.
4.26     Project funding would provide for the construction of NATC facilities
adjacent to AREA headquarters at Dhamar, complete with furnishings, equipment
and operating expenses. The construction, totalling about 1,500 sq m, would
include: classrooms, an auditorium (to be used for research and training
purposes), offices and staff housing.
4.27     A long-term extension training specialist would be provided to TD to
assist the Director of NATC in organization and management; in the preparation
of annual training programs and a training manual; and in the teaching of
extension methodology, planning, supervision and evaluation. In addition,
technical training abroad would be provided to the center staff (four long-
term courses, four short-term fellowships, and one study tour), as would local
language training. The project would finance the construction of facilities,
furnishings, and equipment at NATC to replace the present, temporary
accommodations. Financing would also be provided for vehicles and for two
buses (for staff and for taking groups of trainees to field locations).
4.28     Information Dpartmnt (US$1.4 million).  Project funding would cover
the construction (about 400 sq m) and equipping of a multi-media informatign
center to enable IDD to expand provide all the media needs for MAWR
headquarters and for RDPs. The creation of an effective information center at
the national level would allow the department to develop new technologies,
especially television and video recording, thereby giving access to a greater
number of farmers (including women), even in very remote areas, and to
distribute proven technology packages to rural farmers. All the production of
technical information material would be carried out by a recognized IDD.
4.29     A short-term information expert (12 s/m) would be provided to assist
in organizing the department and providing on-the-spot training in modern
communication techniques. Technical training abroad would be provided to the
staff of the department (one long-term course, seven short-term fellowships,
and two study tours), as well as local language training. The department



-27-
would be provided with facilities in NATC and with equipment, two cars and
three audiovisual vehicles.
V.  PROJCT -COSTS MM pIAnC
Cost, stimates
5.01     Total project costs are estimated at US$22.0 million (YRls 779.6
million), including physical contingencies of US$1.7 million (YRls 20.1
million) and price contingencies of US$3.0 million (YRls 552.2 million).
Total foreign exchange costs were estimated at US$15.5 million, or 70 percent
of total cost. Baseline costs were calculated using unit costs as of
September 1990 but have been adjusted for inflation to Nay 1991. The cost of
vehicles, equipment and machinery includes spare parts. The project would be
implemented over an eight-year period. Physical contingencies have been
calculated at 20 percent for civil works and 15 percent for vehicles,
equipment and materials. Price contingencies are based on increases in local
costs of 40 percent in 1991, 30 percent in 1992, 25 percent in 1993, and 20
percent thereafter, and on foreign costs of 3.4 percent per annum (p.a.)
throughout the project period. Calculations have been based on the assumption
that purchasing power parity would be maintained over the project
implementation period. These estimates do not include taxes and duties, from
which the project is exempt. The total incremental recurrent cost (including
contingencies) during the project implementation period is estimated at US$5.5
million, or about 25 percent of the total cost. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that sufficient funds would be provided, in
a timely manner, to meet the operating costs of the project (para. 8.01(iii)).
Cost estimates are summarized in Tables 5.1 and 5.2, and detailed in
Annexes VI, VII, and VIII.



-28-
Table  5.1:   PROJECT  COST SUMMARY
YR                               US$                           X Total
,,, ,.........................    ...........................        Foroign   Buse
Local   Foreign      Total       Local  Foreign    Total       Exchange     Costs
A. PAWR Headquarters
1. Headquarters kultdings         1889.9    7578.3    9668.1         137.5    631.S     89.0          80.0        4.6
2. GOPN                           3160.6   12580.4   1741.0          263.4   1048.4   1311.?           79.9       7.6
3. GDFA                           27S5.4    6087.6    8843.0         229.6    507.3    736.9           68.8       4.3
4. Project waaeet Unit            3774.8    2651.2   6426.0          314.6    220.9    S35.S           41.3       3.1
Sub-Total                            11580.6   28897.5   40478.1        96S.0   2408.1   3373.2           71.4      19.5
B. AREA:Agricultuat Research        31921.7   70774.5  102696.2        2660.1   5897.9   8558.0           68.9      49.5
C. AREA:Extension & Training         145S4.6   47655.5   64110.1       1371.2   3971.3   5342.5           74.3      30.9
Totat BASELINE COSTS                59956.9  147327.5  207284.4        4996.4  12277.3  17273.7           71.1     100.0
Physical ContingencIes            5374.6   1469S.4   20070.0         467.9   1224.6   1672.5          73.2        9.7
Price Contingencles             192392.4  359809.5  SS2201.9        1034.5   2001.3   303S.7          65.9       17.6
total PROJECTS COSTS               2S7723.9  521832.S  779SS6.4        6478.8  15503.2  21982.0           70.5     127.3
......................... :...................                               ......................
Va:=  mead by mua
Table 5.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
YR                               USS                           XTotal
.....................    ....................... .           Foreign     Bas
Local   Foreign      Total       Local  Foreign    Total      Exchang       Costs
;. 1WVEST1ENT COSTS
...................
A. Civil Works                      15309.6   45928.9   61238.5       1275.8   3827.4   5103.2           75.0      29.5
B. Equipuent snd Vehicles            2675.1   24731.9   27407.0        222.9   2061.0   2283.9           90.2      13.2
C. Technicat Assistance              1520.5   28889.5   30410.0        126.7  2407.S   2534.2            95.0      14.t
0. Studies                            228.0    4332.0    4560.0          19.0    361.0    380.0          95.0       2.2
E. Training                          2434.7   30413.3   32848.0        202.9   2S34.4   2737.3           92.6      15.8
....................................... ..............................................   ....................
Total INVESTNENT COSTS              2167.9  134295.6  156463.S        1847.3  11191.3  13038.6           85.8      7S.S
........... ....................  ......... ...........................   .........................................
II. RECUMRENT COSTS
...................
A. Operation & Maintenance
1. Civil Works                   2149.2    2149.2    4298.5         179.1    179.1    358.2          50.0        2.1
2. Equipment & Vehicles         10461.8    9064.2   1952S.9         871.8    755.3   1627.2          46.4        9.4
3. Incr. Suplies & NaterIal    2428.0    1818.S    4246.S           202.3    1S1.5    3S3.9          42.8        2.0
..............................    ................................................
Sub-Total                           1S039.0   13031.9   28070.9       1253.3   1086.0   2339.2           66.4      13.5
B. Other Inc.Operating Costs
1. Incr. Persomel Cost          20305.0        0.0   20305.0       1692.1      0.0   1692.1           0.0        9.8
2. Travel Altowanres             244S.0        0.0    2445.0        203.7      0.0    203.7           0.0        1.2
..............................    ................................................
Sub-Total                          22750.0        0.0   22750.0       1895.8       0.0   1895.8          0.0       11.0
...............................    ................................................
Totat  OEJURENT COSTS              37789.0   13031.9   S0820.9        3149.1   1086.0  4235.1            25.6      24.5
Total BASELINE COSTS               59956.9  147527.5  207284.4        4996.4  12277.3  17 27.7          7.1       100.0
Physicat Contingencies           5374.6   14695.4   20070.0         44r.9   1224.6   1672.5          73.2        9.7
Price Contfngencies            192392.4  359809.5  552201.9        1034.S   2001.3   303.7           65.9       17.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS              257723.9  521832.S  779556.4        647B.8  15503.2  21982.0           70.5     127.3
..................................      ...........................................................................
vam  .cw  by_



-29-
5.02     ZtLanen. The IDA credit of SDR 10.8 million (US$14.4 million
equLvalent), on standard terms, would flnance about 85 percent of the foreign
exchange component and about 18 percent of local costs, or about 66 percent of
the total project costs. Cofinancing of approximately US$3 million (lncluding
US$0.8 mllion in local costs) by the Dutch Government bllateral assistance
would be applied to TA, tralnlng and incremental operating -osts for the
extension and trainlng component and would be by parallel arrangoments. The
detailed flnancing plan by agency, as well as by component, was finalized at
negotiations (para. 8.01(iii)) and the signing of an associated agreement
would be a condition for IDA credit effectiveness (para. 8.02). The
Government would finance the balance of local project costs of US$4.6 million
equivalent, which includes an average of less than $0.6 million per year and
is well within the historlcal and projected increase in the operating budget
of MAIWR. The amount of incromental operating costs was discussed and agreed
with MMAR and MPD at appraisal and was reconfirmed at negotiations
(para. 8.01(1ii)).
3abl 5.3:   PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Netherlands     ROY
eroj ct Element                DA           Got.        ffi   TOTAL
- ................US$ milon----------
Civil works                        6.0          -          1.0       7.0
EquLpment                          2.7 **       -          -  *      2.7
Vehicles                            1.3**       -          -  *      1.3
Technical Assistance and Studies   2.2         1.0         0.1       3.3
Training                           2.0         1.2             *     3.2
Operatrng Expenditures            0.2         0.8         3.5       4.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  14.4        3.0         4.6      22.0
* Less than US$100,000.
** Includes spare parts ($0.7 million for equipment and $0.3 million for
vehicles), which are shown under Recurrent Costs in the Detailed Cost
Tables.
5.03 The procurement of works, goods and services financed by IDA would be
carried out in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement (May
1985) and the World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981)
as detailed below and summarized in Table 5.4:
(a)     Works.  The construction of buildings for the National
Agricultural Training Center, the Multimedia Information Center
and the offices at Al Baum for the Research and Extension
Department (total cost US$4.0 million, IDA US$3.4 million) would
be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). The
development of farms, staff housing for AREA, and offices at Marib



-30-
for research, which cannot ba grouped and which would each cost
less than $250,000 (total cost US$3.0 million; IDA US$2.6
million), would be procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).
These works are scattered and their value is too small to interest
bidders under ICB. While LCB procedures in ROY are generally
consistent with Bank procurement guidelines, some inconsistencies
exist, such as the right of administrative units to apportion
bids, the rejection of low bids if prices are higher than past
purchases, etc. The Government has undertaken to revise its LCB
procedures for the proposed project in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA, and the first bidding documents under this
category would be submitted to IDA for review and comments.
(b)      goods.  The total cost of equipment, furniture and machinery is
estimated at US$2.7 million (all IDA), including spare parts and
contingencies, of which US$2.1 million would be procured through
ICB. A domestic preference of 15 percent or applicable customs
duties to nonexempt importers, whichever is less, ould be given
to local bidders for the supply of locally manufactured goods
under ICB. Miscellaneous goods, which cannot be grouped and which
would each cost less than US$50,000, would be procured through
local shopping procedures based on comparisons of at least three
price quotations, up to an aggregate cost of US$600,000 over the
entire implementation period.
(c)     Vehicles, estimated to cost US$1.3 million (all IDA), including
spare parts, would be procured through ICB.
(d)     Technical Assistance and Training, estimated to cost US$3.3
million (IDA US$2.2 million) and US$3.2 million (IDA US$2.0
million), respectively, and recruitment for IDA financing would
follow World Bank Guidelines. Foreign long-term and short-term
specialists would total about 28 staff-years. Training and the
specialists to be financed by bilateral assistance would be
procured in accordance with rules agreed to with the donor; IDA
would be kept informed of all decisions.



-31-
t^tl 5.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
-*--Procurement Method----
Item                                                            Total
ICB    LCB    Other     N/A    Cost4
------------  (US$ Million)      -
Civil Works                         4.0        3.0    -                7.0
(3.4)     (2.6)   -               (6.0)
Equipments                          2.1               0.6              2.7
(2.1)            (0.6)            (2.7)
VehiclesL                            1.3                               1.3
(1.3)                             (1.3)
Technical Assistance & Studies                               3.31i     3.3
(2.2)     (2.2)
Training                                                     3.2'      3.2
(2.0)     (2.0)
Incremental Operating Costs                                  4.5f      4.5
(0.2)     (0.2)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  7.4       3.0    0.6   11.0      22.0
(6.8)     (2.6)  (0.6)  (4.4)    (14.4)
Note:       Figures in parentheses represent amounts to be financed under IDA
credit.
a.      Including contingencies.
b.      Includes spare parts shown under recurrent costs in detailed cost
tables.
C.      Of which US$2.2 million is to be financed by IDA and procured
under Bank guidelines, US$1.0 million by Dutch aid and the balance
by the Government of ROY.
d.      Of which US$2.0 million is to be financed by IDA and procured
under Bank guidelines; and US$1.2 million by Dutch aid.
e.      Of which, US$0.2 million is to be financed by IDA, US$0.8 million
by Dutch and the balance by the Government of ROY.
5.04        Control Review.  All civil work contracts estimated to cost more
than US$200,000, and goods contracts exceeding US$100,000, would be subject to
prior IDA review of procurement documentation, as would the final award of the
related contracts. These arrangements would result in a coverage of about 70
percent of the value of total contracts. The balance of contracts would be
subject to random ex-post review by IDA personnel during supervision missions.
DLsbursements
5.05        Special Account.  Provisions would be made for the Project
Management Unit (PMU) (para. 6.01) to open and maintain a US$600,000 Special
Account at the Central Bank of Yemen for the items to be financed by IDA. The
Special Account would be operated on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.



-32-
In appropriate cases, IDA would accept withdrawal applications in excess of
US$50,000 for direct payment to the supplier. Full documentation would be
necessary for all foreign and local currency contracts exceedlng U$50,000
equivalent. For all contracts under US$50,000 equivalent, withdrawals would
be carried out on the basis of statements of expendituie (SOE). Related con-
tracts and supporting documents, such as invoices, bills of lading, receipts,
etc., would be retained by PMU and made available for review by IDA
supervislon missions and project auditors. The estimated schedule of disbur-
sement is shown in Table 5.5 and detailed in Annex IX. The schedule is
consistent wlth the overall profile of disbursements in ROY.
MIl 5,5: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
----------------IDA Fiscal Year-          -------------
1992    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
....----------- (US$ Million) ----------------------
Annual                    0.7     2.1    2.7    3.0    2.5    1.5    1.2    0.7
Cumulative                0.7     2.8    5.5    8.5   11.0   12.5   13.7   14.4
Percentage                5      19     38      59     76     87     95    100
Gen. Country Profile:
Cumulative%
Disbursed               5      19     39      58     72     82     94    100
5.06     The proposed IDA credit of SDR 10.8 million (US$14.4 million
equivalent) would be dibbursed over eight years in line with the categories in
Table 5.6.



-33-
Zale S.6: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Amount of
Category               Credit        of which          X of Expenditures
Allocation    MAWR  AREA          to be Financed
------(US$ Million) ----
Civil Works               5.5        0.4   5.1       85X of expenditure
Equipment, Vehicles,      3.7        0.8   2.9       1001 of foreign
Spare Parts & Materials                           expenditure
1001 of ex-factory local
expenditures
901 of other local expen-
ditures
Technical Assistance      3.8         2.3   1.5      1001 of foreign
expenditure
Studies and Training                              901 of local expenditure
Operating Expenditures    0.2         0.1   0.1      901 of 1st $100,000,
for Field Allowances                              601 of 2nd $100,000
and 301 of the amounts
after $200,000.
Unallocated               1.2         0.5   0.7
TOTAL IDA CREDIT         ILA          "    22i
The credit closing date would be December 31, 1999.
5.07     PMU (para. 6.01) would maintain separate records and accounts
reflecting the project receipts and expenditures and clearly identifying the
goods and services procured and works performed. Also, continuing the
excellent performance under the Agricultural Research and Development Project
(Cr. 1259-YAR), AREA would maintain separate accounts and records of project
expenditures related to its activities under the proposed project.
5.08     The project accounts would be audited annually, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA.  The auditor's report would include, inter, alia, statements
that the funds advanced by IDA for the Special Account and SOE were used for
the purpose for which they were provided. NAWR's auditing practices on the
previous and ongoing IDA-assisted projects have been generally satisfactory.
Assurance was sought from the Government during negotiations that auditing
firms with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA would be employed
for the completion of audits of project accounts for MAWR and AREA, and that a
certlfied copy of all audited accounts, together with the auditor's report,



.34-
would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of each fiscal year
(para. 8.01(iv)).
VI.  NAN&GIMN AND LZMLEN      ION
Project Nanaftement
6.01     In view of the importance of this project for long-term institution
building, a Project Management Unit (PMU) would be created in MAWR, under the
leadership of a senior and experienced manager as Director General. Because
the project includes both institution building and investment financing, PMU
would have two distinct tasks: (i) the coordination and monitoring of
progress towards institution building objectives; and (ii) the coordination of
physical implementation. The institution building function would involve
comparing objectLves and achievements; strengthening collaboration with other
parts of the Yemeni Administration and with other segments of the Government;
assessing the efficiency of TA; preparing reports on implementation issues for
review and decision by the Minister of MAWR; and coordinating annual
implementation programs for the institutions and agencies included in the
project. This function should be established at a high level and have both
authority and independence; it would be vested in the Project Director General
(PDG), who would report to the Minister of MAWR. Day-to-day implementation
work would be the responsibility of a Deputy Project Director General. He
would liaise with the various MAWR departments and other agencies involved in
the project and would be responsible for coordinating contracts for goods and
services under the project, and for organizing payments, credit disbursements,
and general financial and physical follow-up. He would report to PDG and be
assisted by an accountant with knowledge of procurement matters and by support
staff. At negotiations, assurances were obtained concerning the establisbment
of PHU, with provisions for staff, office facilities and operation support;
PMU would be maintained throughout the project implementation period and have
staff with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the IDA
(para. 8.01(v)).  The creation of PRU and the appointment of PDG are
conditions for Board presentation and have been met (para. 8.02).
6.02     The recruitment for all TA posts would be coordinated by PDG, in
collabnration with MAWR/AREA Directors General and in liaison with IDA, on the
basis of the agreed terms of reference (Annex IV(b)), which have been
reconfirmed at negotiations (para. 8.01(vi)). Recruitment for the three key
posts of Sector Analysis Specialist, Budget and Financial Control Specialist
and Human Resources Management Specialist would be conditions for credit
effectiveness (para. 8.02).
6.03     The coordination and monitoring of institution building would be
carried out by a Steering Committee to be approved by the Minister and
composed of PDG, the Directors General of MAWR concerned with the project, the
General Managers of the RDAs, the General Manager of AREA, and a representa-
tive of MPD. The Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of MAWR, would
meet twice a year to review progress in project implementation and to clear
budgets and progress reports. It could also meet on an ad hoc basis at the



-35-
request of the Minister. The creation of the Steering Committee is a
conditlon for Board presentation (para. 8.02).
6.04     The project would be implemented through existing institutions, MAWR,
AREA and RDAs; there would be no need for new agencies or services. The
selection of counterpart personnel to work with TA experts would be a key
element for project success since their availability and qualifications
determine the effectiveness of TA and thus the sustainability of project
actions. MAWR is currently establishing a roster of candidates, with suitable
qualifications and experience; this roster was discussed during negotiations
(para. 8.01(vii)). Some of the civil works for research would be small,
modular constructions or minor works; they would be carried out using LCB
procedures. For larger, one-of-a-kind works (NATC), consultant architects
would be employed to prepare bills of quantities, technical specifications,
cost estimates, tender documents and construction drawings. During project
implementation, the architectural consultants would check the quantity and
quality of work, certify work, and assist the Government in handling
disbursement applications. Subsequently, the architects would verify the
quality of the completed work and advise the Government during the period of
warranty. For the construction of NATC and GDET offices, the Government has
confirmed the availability of state-owned land in the vicinity of AREA
headquarters at Dhamar; proof of the ownership of the land and the location
and size of the plot for these constructions was provided at negotiations.
6.05     The project would be implemented over an eight-year period (Annex X),
consistent with the implementation period of other agricultural projects in
ROY. The project's institutior.-building objectives require flexibility to
adjust to changes in needs and to unrorseen developments. A specific work
program for the first two years of implementation (Annex XI) have been agreed
to at negotiations (para. 8.01(viii)). An interim review would be conducted
jointly by MAWR/MPD and IDA 18 months after project initiation, in order to
take stock of progress and constraints and, if necessary, adjust components,
objectives and fund allocations. This review would also make suggestions
concerning the remainder of the work program and any adjustments that might be
desirable in the context of the unification of Yemen. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations on the carrying out of the interim review
(para. 8.01(ix)).
6.06     Work Plans. Budgets. and Progress Reporting.  MAWR and AREA would
prepare annual work programs, including budgetary requirements, and PMU would
consolidate such plans and submit them to IDA for information by September 30;
PNU would also confirm to IDA corresponding recurrent budget allocations by
December 31 of each preceding year (para. 8.01(x)). PMU would inform IDA
every two months by telex of the progress made towards implementation; in
addition, PMU would prepare a yearly progress report for submission to IDA
within two months of the close of the year. A project completion report would
be prepared and submitted to IDA no later than six months after the credit
closing date, or at such later date as the Government and IDA agree upon.
Assurances on these points were obtained from the Government during
negotiations (para. 8.01(xi)).



-36-
tatu s of rjtect PspAt
6.07     As part of the reorganization following unification, MAWR acted on
changes proposed at appraisal, notably, the creation of APD and the direct
coordination of research and extension under AREA. In addition, and in order
to minimize start-up delays, the following efforts have been made to ensure
the early readiness of all necessary factors for effectiveness and for the
actual commencement of operations.
(i)  Prolec&  S&s0U. The composition and status of PMU were
discussed and agreed to with the Minister of MAWR during
appraisal; its establishment only requires the approval of the
Minister. The Deputy Project Director is already at work, and the
final nomination of the Director General was made at negotiations.
The creation of the Steering Committee (para. 6.03) was agreed at
appraisal; it should be operational at the time of Board
presentation so that its members are involved in the choice of key
TA specialists.
(ii) Te.hnical Asssane and Training. The terms of reference for the
main TA personnel have been prepared (Annex IV) and were finalized
and agreed to by MAWR at negotiations. Short-listing and the
contracting of TA experts, and contracting with training
organizations for MAWR staff, would be initiated by specialized
consultants during the second half of CY9l.
(iii) Facilities. There would be no problems of access for the project
construction at Dhamar. and preliminary designs were agreed to at
appraisal. The services of architects were retained to prepare
detailed designs for these constructions, and the contracting of
an architect was a condition for negotiations. hREA staff houses
and offices are modular buildings for which detailed designs
already exist. As to equipment, including office furniture and
information systems, machinery and vehicles, detailed lists were
agreed to during appraisal with MAWR and MPD; bidding documents
would be prepared by MAWR.
(iv) Initial Work Program. During appraisal, the steps to be taken and
the objectives to be reached during the first two years of
implementation were discussed with the services and agencies
participating in the project. A detailed program has been
prepared (Annex XI) and was agreed to during negotiations. The
program defines actions and objectives monitorable during
supervision; its results would be assessed at the interim review,
at which time a program for the remainder of the project
implementation would be agreed upon.
(v)  PRggress RIoots. Agreement on the contents and presentation of
progress reports has been reached at negotiations.



.37-
6.08     The Bank has accumulated some knowledge of TA projects in ROY through
its operations in NPD and MAWR (with UNDP), but the proposed project is the
first covering several major activities with TA teams in the Ministry. An
average of at least 15 s/w per year would be necessary to allow biannual
supervision. A project launch mission is planned for the second half of 1991.
To advance project start-up, this mission would review the status of
effectiveness and other legal conditions and proposals for credit
disbursements. Subsequent supervision missions should include human resources
and institution specialists, in addition to the task manager, to monitor the
training and transfer of know-how from TA specialists to their Yemeni
counterparts. Generally, one supervision a year should include a specialist
in extension (with particular emphasis on extension for women) and a
specialist in research administration. Every year, a detailed program of
objectives would be defined with PMU and AREA and agreed to with the Minister
of MAWR. The interim review would make an in-depth assessment of objectives
and means. The PDG and his deputy would be in charge of preparing documents
for IDA supervision missions and for ensuring coordination in the field with
other interested donors and with other government agencies, notably MPD. The
proposed supervision missions would be coordinated with the Dutch aid
authorities.
VII. BKNEIITS AND RISKS
7.01     Overall Benefits. By strengthening agricultural policy and project
planning and improving approaches to techrical development, the project would
help to move ROY toward building up a modern and sustainable agricultural
sector. As the economic benefits would be mostly indirect and not easily
quantifiable, it is not possible to calculate a rate of return. However, the
project should bring substantial institutional benefits, which would provide a
core of well-structured and professionally staffed agricultural institutions
equipped to design and implement appropriate national policies. This would
translate into specific monitorable outputs, including inputs to the
agricultural section of the next Five-Year Plan, the definition of budget
procedures and personnel policies, the establishment of a five-year rolling
agricultural research program, and an increase in the number and
qualifications of extension personnel. Rural women, who have a key role in
livestock, fruit and vegetable production, would benefit from specifically
targeted training and extension programs.
7.02     E mrgnen. The Bank has classified the proposed project as "B" for
environmental assessment. Particular attention would be given under the
research component to redirecting the AREA work program to give priority to
the sustainable utilization of resources. The continuation of ongoing
research would emphasize soil and water conservation by focusing increasingly
on rainfed farming systems, the prevention of erosion and the rationalization
of mechanization. A similar emphasis would be put on pesticides and
fertilizer management, which do not represent a serious problem, being
restricted to irrigated low lands where small quantities of chemicals are
used. In addition, special procedures, with regular checks, would be adopted



-38-
for the disposal of waste materials from AREA establishments. The terms of
reference of the research consultants, to be agreed to with IDA, would include
specific objectives in the above fields.
7.03     Women in Development.  Since the mid-1970s, IDA-financed projects
have evolved from pilot assistance to home economics (SURDP) to more fully
developed components under the Southern Region Agricultural Development
Project (SRADP) and the Fifth Tihama Development Project. This has resulted
from effective cooperation among government organizations and aid agencies.
However, progress has been limited, and, while a wider and more sophisticated
range of activities has been added to agricultural projects, there has been
less progress in improving training for rural women and for associated
institution building. The project would counter this by creating a special
section for women's development in GDET (AREA), by providing facilities and
trainers at NATC for training extensionists and women farmers, and by
expanding extension operations with women. Working with AREA, this section
would propose overall extension strategies and agricultural research programs
that would focus on the role of rural women. TA advisors would develop
curricula for in-service training courses for female trainers, who would be
sent to RDPs to provide local training to female extension agents and/or women
leaders in the villages. The section would also work with the Multimedia
Information Center to develop extension kits and other didactic material (for
radio and television broadcasting) in order to reach a larger number of rural
women in remote areas.
7.04     Risks.  The project is supported within MAWR and other concerned
agencies. However, there aro several risks, which are being addressed.
(i)  The major risk is a lack of adequate Yemeni counterparts to form a
competent and dedicated project management team for the TA
specialists at MAWR headquarters. This has been countered by
tailoring TA to the absorptive capacity in each General
Directorate. Although the lack of a civil service tradition and
the impact of low salaries on qualifications, dedication and
efficiency cannot be entirely mitigated, progressive improvements
in the levels of education are reducing the problem of
qualifications. While direct salary supplements for specially
qualified project personnel are not feasible under public service
salary rules, the project would act to rectify past problems with
the payment of field allowances. Other incentives are the
opportunities for training, greater job satisfaction and
possibilities for faster promotion.
(ii)  Possible resistance by the Government to the financing of TA
personnel from borrowed funds has been countered by minimizing TA
posts under the project and by establishing precise terms of
reference and stringent procedures for selection and evaluation.
All TA personnel under the project would be closely supervised by
PNU, in liaison with IDA, in particular with respect to their
training and ability to transfer knowledge; the PDG would monitor
institution building achievements and liaise with government
bodies. Also, parallel arrangements are being made for recruiting



-39-
TA personnel bilaterally for extension, training and research
posts.
(iii)  The risk of insufficient budgeting for recurrent costs should be
minimized as: (a) project actions would mostly relate to existing
organizations and, therefore, the requirement for incremental
recurrent funds would be accommodated within annual MAWR budget
increases; (b) e central project objective is to improve the
efficiency of MAWR budget and financial control procedures, which
would ensure better utilization of existing recurrent budget
allocations; and (c) the definition of recurrent budget categories
is currently being reviewed by MAWR and MPD.
An interim review would be made 18 months after project initiation to assess
progress and determine whether any components should be adjusted. This
assessment would also reflect desired changes in the context of the
Government's 30-month interim period for post unification adjustments
(para. 6.05).
VIII. ASSORANCES TO BE SOUGRT. CONDITIONS TO BE MET AND RECOMNKENDATION
Assuranes
8.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government on:
(i)   the establishment of an Agricultural Policy Department (APD)
within GDPM with advisory responsibilities to the Minister of MAWR
(para. 4.07);
(ii)   the role of the National Scientific Research Council for reviewing
AREA policy and the five-year rolling program for research,
including meeting biannually (April/October) to advise the
Minister of MAWR on AREA annual work programs and budgets and to
review research achievements (para. 4.18);
(iii)   the provision of sufficient counterpart funds in a timely manner
to cover project recurrent costs (paras. 5.01 and 5.02) and the
finalization of the proposed financing plan (para. 5.02);
(iv)   the completion of the audit of project accounts for MAWR and AREA,
by firms with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, and
the submission of a certified copy to IDA within nine months of
the close of each fiscal year (para. 5.08);
(v)   the nomination of the Project Director General, with qualifica-
tions acceptable to IDA, and the establishment of PMU with office
facilities and the provision of maintenance throughout the project
implementation period, including staff with qualifications and
terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para. 6.01);



-40-
(vi)   the reconfirmation of the terms of reference for key long-term
experts for which drafts have been prepared with MAUR (para. 6.02
and Annex IV(b));
(vii)   the roster of potential counterparts, with adequate qualifi-
cations and experience (para. 6.04);
(viii) the work program for the first two years of project implements-
tion for APD, 1MAWR general departments and AREA (para. 6.05 and
Annex XI);
(ix)   an interim review of the project to be carried out jointly by IDA
and the Government of ROY by end June 1993 (para. 6.05), or by a
later date approved by IDA;
(x)   the submission to IDA, by September 30 each year, of work programs
for the following year for project activities in MAWR general
departments and AREA; and confirmation, by December 31 of each
year, of corresponding recurrent budget allocations (para. 6.06);
and
(xi)   accept ,le reporting formats, procedures and timetables for the
submi&Aion of periodic, annual progress and project completion
reports (para. 6.06).
Gosditons
8.02     The creation of PMU and the appointment of the Project Director
General (para. 6.01), the ministerial decision creating the project Steering
Committee (para. 6.03), and the submission to IDA of a letter of intent for
project cofinancing from Dutch authorities, which were conditions for Board
presentation, have been met. The appointment of the three key TA personnel
(para. 6.02) and the signing of an agreement for the Dutch Governmont grant
(para. 5.02) would be conditions for effectiveness of 'he IDA credit.
8.03     Subject to the above conditions being met, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 10.8 million (US$14.4 million equivalent) on
standard terms, with 40 years maturity. The Borrower would be the Republic of
Yemen.



-41-                               ANEX% I
REPULIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR XANGCENENT SUPPORT PROJEC!7
Important Agriculture Commodities of Northern ROY
Agro-ecological Zones                             Commodities
(a)   Southern Uplands                   Sorghum, Mango, Maize,
Banana, Papaya, Vegetables,
Coffee and Livestock
(b)   Coastal                            Sorghum, Millet, Papaya,
(western and southern)             Cotton, Banana, Maize,
Citrus, Sesame, Date-palm,
Mango, Vegetables and
Livestock
(c)   Central Higlands
(nearly temperate)                 Wheat, Deciduous fruits,
Barley, Coffee, Alfalfa,
Vegetables, Sorghum, and
Livestock
(d)   Northern Highlands
(semi-arid)                        Sorghum, Wheat, Pastures, and
Livestock
(e)   Eastern and Southern Region        Sorghum, Millet, Wheat,
(arid)                             Citrus, Alfalfa, and
Livestock
Sg=ce: ARA - Agriculture Research in the ROY (UTFN/YEM/011) (1989).



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR MCMET SUPPOR ROJCT
INIISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND WATER RESOURCES
ORGANZAION CRABT
---------------- - - - - -                             -C F
FLANNU  AND Norm=I      A3A INSFECTIOP                   LEGAL AFFAIRS       C1aoftIP'n (A
A(UICULTURA  STATISTtCS                                                  MUI W                                             LIVESTOCK RESOURCES
4 Focus for prjoect actions                                         "IUTUA  lAwtIR
0 UndersecKe|ar fer~  era). Lainja  one
nse. fr Irr.atio  wd We Rsource
FIJU~~~~~~~~~~~~~n  AssIDt UIIese, and8 | genra  AFIRec|t4)r
and saves ~mnraw¶----ra.                                  WD(CUE3TAT  & IEF"I&TIOS
AI rculur l Reearh 6five Rural Deve                       FI nm=C  MW AUIIUITRATI
Etenhiol)uthority4       opasutAgenciesl



NLUM     F ARUICULIMI AN U=       I
OMRL  gt=- ai F  amxamu ORMArN  -SN                  o
AL DIR~Tc  DIRECTOR FUN NERAL IFMUIS- AIUVO   N
w~~~~~~~~~~~
.D  MD  LOAISIANDNAID  BI ARESN
_RDIRECO  FIIR A  kLC
ORATION    ISIO       DIVISION |O|1&ATAD AID     ICAO  D             O AGRICULUIRAL  + I    rITOEING ANVD        APUCNNINL DAI
D|VISION               DIVISIOo DTPA                                SUI DIVISION           EVALUATION DIV.       FNING DIVISION
IXB"AN                 la    AN 1MJUD          BUDO                                    l                                  |  8ItJanI|Pl#IUtE
OPEIUIC1118 DlmSIa   D m81CiI               CWFUODSPt.       PCItO "ND10 DIVSION
TRAINITNG ERm!ANC         AUMT A                         me
DIVISION               DX8tOIVISION           IOll^                8sUD    m                                    RE= =8 DV  0 DI 
ARB OOERTION 
FUNILD DIVISION
m~~~~atuiA        outlmslS  + rooms toc proJect wte=ln =mm=i8 
omIo            D       IVSICo           I          D^1e                                   .AK     . DIVN18
-   g  .                      .  |                 _ '                                                r      -        -  .gmsla
IEtLECTRIC INMD       FI IK  -lUL
PROCESSING DIVISION   ANSTATION                                                                                 I VBR
tITNINo DIvIIOin                                                                         |AII; DIMUS



3ENUCDLIC   an NM13p 
wU18  IV   UZc J  -  vAISE
DI3IU            ALFO
ssECETAw IM. NW +             me                OT 3mSECES mm                                                                                 AlJT  MMD   +
ARCHIVES DBARMU         F R         DEPT.       TNDS DT.                                        A__IT DEPnIE            ?TTIS DEP. _U,T    DT.
IUFOMATIW l         FERTILIZER MID                                                        SArLARI ICUUUR    6  1  miJ0ES & C t?
DIISIO       |   PESTICIDES SuT" 0.      |TEDERS DIISIO          SE |RCEEVE D.    E|PES ADIt DIv.                IMS      y DmISO          D    DVSIN
ICNG NAL                SpARE PARTS           CONTRACTS. ARCHIVES      AS. REVENS RC-         JEvESmE   & LA           VECLE RIPAI an         DtSSURSDEH
|DIVISIN                STORES DIVISION            IDIA         V.     SEARCH | STUDM   . |     PSE AUDIT Div.         H&IUTELO=  DIV.         DIVISl
OUTOIN     IL NMD   1AOETS                         l STIlRFINAICIAL EVALUTION   I AFiuC AID TRAMIS- l    lS}
| RITRIDG DIV.         StOE S DIVISICON                                                           t ICRDITIOI t   DIl.  lO| DIVSiO             DII
iTN.. WTIJG            mcU       ?                                                            BUDSET AND AD1               SRICS    r          oIIr
AND X1KE DIVISION       STOMES DIV. |i4                                                       STATENT OF                                      DIVISIOl
ACOUNTS AUDit DIv. 
SaLE STORMS                                                                                                            CAPrnAL DWESr-
CLrunAC a               A                                             + Feous for pcouS    actiom
STONES DIVIlSIOIIN     DOCIIUTT   DIV.                                   



UZBUILIC OF TOM
GRICIILTURE SECTOR MAGMT SUPPORT PRJECT
MUICULTURAL RESEARCH JUIMD       hhO    AUMRITY - OR      ZTION CHT
r cluu9*^ OF E Bo^   ,...................................
I~~ ~[                                                          lgU,I|  
Docimetutatit.                                                   _oc tnS 
Audlx and   aining  atores
Dlr  ctor            nins   Ctr.  F)uu nce     N  nti e n c  D .r                                           *4
Ubrfl?ech 6                                                          zlrxit,reicasBY tefaa
tar ai~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~oioa  esac 
JUDAUNon ~~~~~~~~~~~~~m xtnIn
LA  noti                       attic and~~~~~~Dgh                                        Tchican
. oc  got pz*joot. Acti



-46-                         ANNE-IIli-ii
REPUBLIC OF' YEN
AGRICLTURAL S-EC-TOR HAN&GEMT SUPPORT PROJECT
AMEA Personnerl ia Nogrtber Yemen
Eh_        M.Sc.  DLSe.    Techrz   Cler    Otber    Total
Management                   1       2                                           3
Administration                       2                         60      80     142
Ag. Ecs. Stats. & Comm.              2        3       5                        10
Mechanization                        1        4       8                        13
Soil & Water                 1       6        9       7                        23
Livestock & Forage           1       1        6       6        30              44
Plant Protection             4       2        5       4                        15
Plant Research, of which
Cereals                   3       6       5        8                        22
Food Legumes                              2                                  2
Vegetables                        1        2       5                         8
Fruit*                    1       2                4                         7
Industrial Crop                   1       1        1                         3
Forestry                                  1        3                         4
Total          11       `6      38      51        90      80      296



-47-A
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OP YE=EN
AGRICTURE SECTOR MANAEM=ENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Consultancles
(Staff Months)
project Year
12.   U     U     94    U      9i6 17-98 Total
A. LONG 1
Genera1 Department of
Planning & Monitoring
Sector Analysis
Specialist (APD)           1    --     6    12    --    -i --         18
Project Planning Specialist    1    --      6    12    --    --    --      18
General Department of
Administation & Fiuance
Budget & Fin. Control          1     6    12      6          --    --     24
Human Res.Dev./Ngt.            1     3      6                 _    __       9
Storage & Inventory Control*   1            6    12     6    --    --     24
AQrLcultural Research and
Extension Author it-
(1) general Department for
a2search
Rainfed Crops Advisor      1    12    12    12    --    --    --       36
Farming Systems            1    --    12    12    -    --    --       24
Communications/Outreach    1     6      6    --    --    --    --     12
Livestock                  1    --     6      6    --    --    --     12
(ii) General Department for
Extenslon & Training
Training Trainers         1     6      6    12    --    --    --     24
Rural Women's Extension   1     6    12      6    --    --    --     24
Sub-Total Long-Term        11                                         225
*    UN volunteer



-48-                          AN=  IV (Al
Pago 2 of 2
Technical asistaScS and 2ansultancies
(Staff Months)
-         Project Yea r-1
Ng.   1 22  9      A         9  2S19   97-98 Total
8. SHORT-TER
General De_artment of
Planning and Moni=torin
Inf. Processing Systems         1    --      2     2    --    --    --       4
Agro-Ind/Expt. Studies          2    --      2     2                          4
M&E Project Performance         1    --      2     2     2    --    --        6
Agri. Pricing Analysis          1    --      2     2    --    --    --       4
Agriculture Commodity
Analysis                     3    --      2     2     2    --    --       6
Agri. Inputs & Supp.*           1     1      .           --    --    --       2
Agri. Nachinery - testing
& Selection procedures*       1    --      3    --    --    --    --       3
Research Co-ordination*         1    --      1     1    --    --    --       2
Ag. Policies/Legislation*       1    --      2    --    --    --    --       2
Neo  Crops Identification*      1    --      1     1     1    --    --       3
General Department of
Finance & Administration
Management Systems              1     2      1     1    --    --    --       4
AaXicultr-alRsarch and
Extension AuthoritY
(i) General Depfartment for
RBesArgh
Industrial Crops            1     2     2    --    --    --    --        4
Seed technology             1     2     2    --    --    --    --        4
Plant protection            1     3     3      2    --    --    --       8
Range management            1    --     2      2    --    --    --       4
Agro-meteorology            1     2    --      2    --    --    --       4
(ii) General Department for
Extension & Training
Extension Adviser          1     6     6      6    --     6    --      24
Monitoring & Evaluation   1      4    --      4    --      4    --     12
Information £pecialist    1      6     6    --    --    --    --
Sub-Total Short-Term       22    --    --    --    --    --    --    112
TOTAL                      33                                          337
* For GDPP.



-49-                          ANNtt JVQ)
Page 1 of 6
REPBLC O  
A¢RICTULTl  SeCTOR NmomNrGVW  ME=RtP032
Tems of Referennce
Loa the Aariculturatl Policv Div-ision
armsIzation
The Agricultural Policy Division (APD) is part of the General
Directorate of Planning and Nonitoring (GDPK) and would work in close
cooperation with other MAWR Departments. In an administrative sense the APD
would be responsible to the Director General DOPM and, operationally, it would
be supervised by the Committee on Agricultural Policy (CAP), which would be
chaired by the Minister of 4griculture and Water Resources. Committee
membership would comprise the Deputy Ministers for Water Resources and for
Plant and Livestock Production, the General Directors of the Ministry, and
members at large selected by the Minister. The APD would advise the Minister.
on policy issues.
Sgaff L
Initially  APD wou),d be staffed as follows:
Plicy Planning Specialist          1
Sector Analysis Specialist          1
Project Preparation Specialist      1
Plannin  Oficers (K. A. /Ph.D)      3
ako Prolz
The APD would be responsible for designing/developing its work program.
Rowever, the work program would be reviewed and approved by the CAP, which
would meet at least every siz months for this purpose.
The maior task facing the APD is the preparation of a sector strategy
which would form the basis of the Five-Year Plan.
Within the context of an agricultural strategy the APD would formulate
annual work programs which vould encompass two principal activities:
i.    providing counsel in response to the Minister's requests (which
may involve requests being transmitted from other authorities such
as Parliament  the Prime Minister's Office, etc.) to assess
specific developments and problems and preparing options for their
resolution.  Often  this would entail short term "quiclk and dirty"
studies, but ideally the work program would anticipate the major
problems likely to arise and technical work would be Initiated
prior to their arising on the political front.  Thus, one of the
mportant functions of policy analysis is the monitoring of
developments In the sector the economy and the international
arena; lnterpreting the efkects and implications of these
developments and developing options to react to them; and
il.   This element of  reparedness requires a well defined program of
research by the APD staff.  A policy research progpam would cover
such topics as the effects of changes in macroeconomic variables
(echange rates, Interest rates, etc.) on sectoral variables such
as a ricultal investment, exports and Imports.  Research also
would be needed to develop or adapt agricultural model& to assist
in evaluating the effects of different poliey scenarios.
The structured work Program would consist of a series of studies on various
topics including, inter a&LA, the following:
- import substitution vs export promotion;
- review and assessment of sector prospects;
- resource conservation and range management;
- food and feed security;
- research and extension policy;
- water management policy options;
- price and subsidy pollcies;
- marketing policy- and
- risk and uncertainty dimensions of agricultural production due to
climatic (or irrigation water) variability.



-SO- A5M= 0V(.
Page 2 of 6
JREPULI or m
The Policy Planning Specialist will report to the General Director of Planning
and Monitoring, MAWR and will act as advisor to the Minister of Agricule
and Water Resources (MAIR). Ile will work vith the Agricultural Policy
Department (APD) in liaLson with directors of relevant departments of the MNOR
in support of the project activities.
More specifically, he will perform the following tasks:
(i)      Establish procedures for analyzing and reviewing agriculture
sector performance In order to identify trends, problems and
constraints and future development potential.
(ii)      Analyxe and advise on sector policy options in terms of
investment, production trade and resource development strategies.
(iii)      Advise on rational policy choices and on determining suitable
long-term and short-term development strategies.
(iv)      Advlse on major agricultural development issues and problems.
(v)      Prepare formats and methodological notes for sector reviews and
selected issues for policy analysis.
(vi)      Train MAVR personnel in agriculture sector analysis with focus on
the overall socio-economic framework of the country
(vii)      Any other task related to the above duties or which ma1 be
required for the implementation of the project activit es.
Selection CrIteria
- Age range 40-55 years.
- Ph.D. level in Economics with specialization in agriculture sector analysis
and policy formulation.
- Minimum of ten years experience ln agriculture policy analysis in
developing countries.
- Previous work experience reporting to and working with senior policy
makers.
- FamiliarLty with the Middle East Region.
- Proven communication skills and ability to work as team leader and to guide
counterpart staff.
- Proven ability in training sector economists.
- Fluency in English, with some knowledge of Arabic as minimum requirement.



-51-                           jNNE     b
Page 3 of 6
,cSlbtre §cX,qX Anal%Odz Oneci,tst
JOb Dsceitu
he Agriculture Sector 8pecialist wil  report to the General Director of
Planning and Monitoring lODPN) in the  nistry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAVR). He will work with the Agricultural Policy Department (APD)
in liaison with directors of relevant MAN general departments and In support
of project activlties.
Nore specifically, he will perform the following tasks:
(1)      Advise and assist In the analysis of agriculture sector
perforance concerning decisUio on priority national goals.
(Li)      Make recommendations for future agriculture sector development
plans and programs.
(Li)      Collaborate on e*amining policy options for agriculture sector
develoyment, with a view to determning thelr implementation
potential.
(iv)      Advise and assist In translating chosen policy options Into
development programs.
(v)      Examine the project portfolio well before the finalization of the
Annual Budget with a view to determining its relevance in
achieving the desired goals.
(vi)      Train the MAVR staff In organization of sector analysis.
(vii)      Any other task related to the above duties or vheich may be
required for the Implementation of the project activities.
Selection C&iterla
- Age range: 35-55 years.
- Ninium N.Sc., preferably PhD, in Agricultural Economics.
- Ni:nmum of  sIl years ezperience In applying economic policy in developing
countries.
- Familiarity with Middle East Region.
- Proven verbal communication skllls and ability to work as a team leader.
- Proven skills in training sector analysts.
- Fluency in English, wlth some knowledge of Arabic as minimum requirement.



-52-                          AM=  Istb}
page 4 of 6
Proiect lannina Syecialist
---ob poscriptlot1
The Project Planning Speclalist will be responsible to the General Director of
?lsannig and M_nitoring (GDPX) in Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
(MAUl). Be will work within the Studies Divis ton (SD) In lialson with
directora of relevant MAWR general departments In support of project
activities.
More specifically, he will perform the following tasks:
(i)      Provide technical support to and train the staff of the GDPU in
agriculture project plarinu.
40i)      Prepare formats and methodologies for key agriculture sector
analyss tasks.
(iii)     Advise and assist in evolving procedures and methodologies
for project planning and appraisal functions as veil as for
reviewing progress and impact of aided projects.
(iv)      Propose procedures for and assist In reviewing the impact of the
current Five Year Plan and in evolving development strategies and
pro8rams for the next Five Year Plan.
(v)     Asslat in preparlng quarterly agriculture sector reviews, in
collaboration with directors of other MAWR general departments,
highlightiag the main trends and problems faced by both the
private sector and the public sector.
(vi)      Organize training programs and workshops to strengthen and
streamline implementation planning procedures and practices.
(vii)     Any other task related to the above duties or which may be
required for the implementation of the project activities.
Selection Criteria
- Age range:  35-55 years
- Minimum N.Sc. In Agricultural Economics
- Minimum of ten years of experience in project planning and Implementation
in developing countries.
- Broad knowledge of macro-micro linkages In agriculture and of M&E for
projects.
- Familiarity with Middle Eastern Region.
- Proven verbal and written communications and pedagogical skills and ability
to work as a team leader.
- Proven abilities in training sector planners.
- Fluency in English; with some knowledge of Arabic as a minimum requirement.



-St-                          AMNEX5V
Page 5 of 6
RRPMIL!C OP Y
CULTA    T  SITO        r      8UPT JECS
XudRee_and X&Mcigal ;gnrl §26glazlst
The Budget and Financial Control Rxpert will be responsible to the General
Director of Finance and Administration (GDA) n the Mlnistr1 of Agriculture
and Water Resources (NAVR).  He will work closely with officials or other
relevant MAWR agencies in carrying out the project activities.
His responsibiltites wi1l be as follows:
(i)      Train ¢DFA and other MAWR personnel In preparina the annual budget
for the Ministry Departments  projects and relsaed agencies.
(ii)      Advise and assist in streamlinng and Improving budgetlng
procedures.
(iLi)      Advise and assist in modernizing accounting procedures at central,
MAWR level and in RDAs and Projects%
(iv)      Advise on the introduction of management accounting procedures for
GDFA, MAWR departments, RDAs and  rojects.
(v)      Advise and assist in introducing formats work schedules and
methodological notes to improve the timeliness and quallty of
financial analysis and reporting (both revenues and expenditures).
(vii)      Advise and ass st in the on-going computerization work involving
bud"et data and financial reportl.
(vli)       Assfst and traln GDFA personnel In preparing expenditure forecasts
and reporting procedures in order to improve the flnancial
anagement capacities of the Ministry and liaison with appropriate
departmnts in the Ministry of Plannng and Development and the
(inistry of Finance.
(is)      Any other task related to the above duties or which may be
required for the Implementation of the project activities.
Selection Criteria
- Age range: 40-55 years.
- Formal accountancy qualiflcation and postgraduate training in business
administration or public admlinstration.
- Minimu ten years experience in analyzing/designing budgetary systems and
In data processing in developing countries.
- Extensive experience managing budget, accountancy and financial analysLs
operations in public sector or large-scale prlvate corporation.
- Familiarity with Middle East Region.
- Proven abilitles In training accountants and financial controllers.
- Fluency in English wLth some knowledge of Arabic as minimum requirement.



-54-                          AM    ZVOI
Page 6 of 6
I}aeksourcrs 1U12MM"JuAnagegaen  §Mcialalt
REP C Job U Xid
The Suan Resouces Development/Management Specialist will report to the
General Director of FirAnce and Administration (GDFA) In the Ninistry of
Agriculture and Water Resources (MAVR).  He will work closely with other MAIR
agencies in carrying out the project activities.
Xore specifically, the will perform the following tasks:
(L)      Advise and assist MAVR in preparing job descriptions for the key
it n In the gtnral department of MrAR.
(in)      Assess the total manpower in MAWR and make recommendations for
adjusting nubers of personnel.
(ili)      Update preious studies on manpower supply gaps and make
recommendations to resolve questions or manpower availability and
skills In MAMR.
(iv)      Assist in assessing the long-term manpower needs and in preparing
a human resources developaent proram.
(v)      Review and evaluate the suitability of the existing staff
vis-a-vis their functional responsibilities.
(vi)      Follow-up and advise on the  laementation of previous studies
concerning office procedures, nternal communications and
information systems, to release manpower from routine tasks and to
improve overall operational efficiency.
(vii)      Train senaor ad middle level officers of the MAWR in personnel
management principles and practices.
(Viii)      Any other task related to the above duties or which may be
required for the Implementation of the project activitLies.
Selection Criteria
-    Age range:  35-55 years.
-     Post graduate training with specialization in human resources
management.
-    Minimum ten years experience in planning and management of public sector
administration operations.
-      iXnimum six years of experience in human resources management in
developing countries including extensiove working experience in Middle
Eastern countries - preferably Yemen.
-     Sensitivity to cultural background and diplomatic skills.
-     Proven verbal and written communication skills and ability to work as
team leader.
-     Proven skills in training personnel managers.
-     Fluency in English and Arabic.



REpUBLC or Arm
Snma  of  eV SAl Assistae and  outrnart Staff Reanfre_ets
Directorae and Technical Assistance                     Counteroarts Reauired & Deslred
Re-guramnts                                             Ouslif LeatLofs
1. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oaenau
1. General Diraecgtort of Planninit and- 
Nlontorina (GMPl)
A.    icultural  Policy Denartmet (APD)
L&an-Term Sgecialist
Polliy Plaming Speciallst                  MA/BSc in Economics, Agriculture Economics           2
or Planning with at least five years
experience in senior positions
Commodity Analysis Specialist              MA/BSc in Agriculture, Agri. Economics,              2
Public Administration or Management with at
least three years experience in senior
positions
Project Planming Specialist                MA/BSc in Agri. Econ.  Development Economics         3
Director, Project Nonitoring and Evaluation
(MSc./BSc.)
Director, Research & Studies (MA Econ./Agr.
Econ.)
B. Short-Term Consultants
Consultants (12 s/m in specialized         Local specialists in the relevant fields            2
areas)
Monitoring & Evaluation of Project         Director (MA/BSc) plus four officers with at         5
Performance                                least graduate degree in Agri. Economics,
Engineering
Information Processing Systems             Director (BSc) pJj  two officers                    3
(MSc/BSc)
Agro/Indus try/Export Research &           Director (MA/Bac) nlRM four officers with           5
Studies                                    MA/BSc degrees in Agri. Economics, Business
Marketing                   
Agricultural Statistics - Evaluation       Director (M&/BSc); Director Statistics
of Data for Plaming                        Department; Deputy Director (Statistics             3      3
Department) with MA/MSc degree in Economics                    o d
or Statistics                                                    _



DirlStorate and Technical- Ass-istance                 CouEfiegparts LeguiLrgd AL Desired                 a.o
LeqOuLroments                                          Oualifications                                      U
2. General Directorate Plant Production fGDPP=
Short-Term Consultants
Agriculture Inputs Supply                 Officers dealing with input planning                3
(fertilizers, seed/planting material,
agricultural machinery
Agricultural Policies & Legislation       MA/BSc in Agricultural Economics, Economics,        3
Agricultural Business, Marketing
Investment Opportuinities for New         Director Fjlu  one specialist in Agriculture        3-5
Crops                                     Policies
Agricultural Machinery Selection          Officers of the Agricultural Machinery              3
Department
Research Coordination                     BSc (1) D    officers attached to Research          2-3
Coordination
3.            Directorate of Finance and
Adi tation (GDFA)
A.  Lonu-Term SDecialist
Budget and Financial Control              General Director (1)       three to four            5
Specialist                                officers with MA/BSc degree in accounting
and/or business with three to five years
experience in Accounts/Budget
Human Resources Management Specialist    General Director (1)        officers with            5
KA/BSc in Public Administration/Management,
Economists (2); officers responsible for
personnel management (2)
B.  Short-Term Consulants
Management Consultant                     General Director GDFA; General Director GDPS        5
olus two officers with MSc/BSc degree and
Specialist in management science
Storage and Inventory Control             Deputy General Director (1) plw two                 3         a
Specialist                                officers with KSc/BSc degree and responsible                  W
for these functions                                          ° g



-57-                               ANN= V
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC or YEMEN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Foreitn. Long-Term and Short-Term. and Lccal TrainiLn
j-Project Implementation Year           Total
C4NDIpATE                  No     2        21    U   21    PA  27-91   In S/Months
A. FOREIGN LONG-TERM
Prolect Mnauement Unit
Management Planning         1      --   --   12   12   --   --            24
GD Plantnin & Monitoring
Statistics (M.Sc./MA)       1      --  --    4   12    8   -- a           24
Agri. Planing (NA)          1      --  --    4   12    8   --             24
Crop Production (NA)*       2      --   12   16   12   12    8            60
GD Finance & Aministration
Public Adm./Mgt. (MA)       1      --    4   --    a   --   --            12
Accounts & Bgt. Ngt (NA)   1       --  --   --    4    8 a -              12
dREA - Research            27      60  180  120   72   --   --            432
AREA - Extension Training 13       --   48   72   84   72   36            312
Subtotal                37      60  244   228  216  108  44            900
B.  FOREIGN SRORT-ER4 (staff months)
GD Plan. & Monitoring
Project Planning            5      --    3    3    3          -            9
Monitoring & Evaluation    3       --    2    2    1   --   --             5
Procurement/Disbursement
of coftnanced projects    2       --    1    1   --   --   --             2
GD Finance & Administration
Budgeting & Fin. Control   1       --  --    2   --   --   --              2
Personnel Adm. & Ngt.
(Computer Programing) 1        --   --    2   --  _-- -                2
Personnel Management        1      --   --   --    3   -    --             3
General Management
& Administration        2      --   --    3    3   --   --             6
Procurement/Storage         2      --   --    3    3   --   --             6
AREA -Research             10      20   20   20   --   --   --            60
AREA - Training and        33      12   24   27   24   --   --            8i
Extensina
Subtotal                60      32   50    63   37                     182
*For GDP?.



-58-
Page 2 of 2
r-Project Implemtat ion Year--           Total
nlot    9 .       2i,  .U  2U I7-L8  InS /Knths
OR plannine & foti4orins
Data Collection
& Analysis                30      --  --   0.25   --   --    --        0.25
Projoct Supervision           15      --  --   0.25   --   --   --         0.25
gD Adminisrat ion & Finance
Budget Proe pration           15      --  -.   0.25                        0.25
ludget Follov-up/Nonitoring   10      --  --   0.25   --   --   --         0.25
lufouatiou Procedures         30                  --   -- 0.25             0.25
Sectr. Proc. (2 batches)      50       -  0.50  0.50   --   --    -        1.00
"a
Research Technology                    -- 30.00 30.00 30.00   --    -     90.00
--u_l Lauuae  (NkVRW
English Language (I)          1S       --  6.00  2.00   --    _.   __      8.00
cnglish Lausae (X)            1S       --  --   6.00  2.00   --    --      8.00
English Language (III)        15       --  --   6.00   --    _      __     6.00
Subtotal                     195       -- 36.50 45.75 32.00   --    --   114.25
3/   English language tratiufg for staff In GDDN, GDPP, ODFA, AFEA au4 PEU.



Sw_ry Aecsta by Tear
Ta*tes IlttEdfl9 Conti nge 1lee
1991     1992      1993      1994     199       196       199?     1998    Total
1. * IWInE  COSTS                                                                              
........  ......................... 
A. Civil works                        0.0      A.4     60.3   3130.1    S41.0    491.?    126.0          0.0   69S9.
6. EqApmnt and Vehicles              0.0    159.6    713.S   1415.6    443.2    169.2          60.0     54.5   3015.5
C. ledmicel Asslstuo                 0.0    SSS.2   1104.S    881.2    1SS.2    132.9          16.9      0.0   2"S.9
0. Stdius                             0.0    118.0    221.8       4S.9     35.6       0.0       0.0      0.0    421.3
E. Training                          0.0    22.4    810.2    95.0    715.2    300.3    178.3             0.0   315S6.
..................................................................... .................  
Total INESTNEUT COSTS                0.0   1124.6   5490.3   697.8   1890.2   1094.0    362.1           54.5  163.6
I I IM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A. Oper8tiOn  S Nsintawu 
1. tivil Works                    0.0       0.5      19.0      66.3      8.7    106.S    110.7    114.4    516.1
2. Equipent 4 Vebietes             0.0     27.6    131.6   3t5.1    409.8    435.2    458.7    473.9   22S1.8
3. bcr. Seqplies a Naterlal        0.0      3.8      26.0      49.9     79.2    102.3    107.0    111.2    479.4
S*l1otsl                             0.0      32.0    16.S    431.2    s7.7    644.0    676.4    hs.s   3247.3
S. Otwer Inc.Operstivw Costs
1. Iner. Persmtl Cost             0.0      82.4    186.2    278.0    357.7    372.2    383.7    396.2   2056.5
2. Troel Atltomes                 0.0      20.2      31.9      35.9     37.1      38.?      39.7     41.0    24U.S4
Sub-Total                            0.0    102.6    218.1    314.0    39.8    410.9          2.4    4.2   23o,.
................................................... .........................
Total REOuEIST  tOSTS                0.0    134.6    394.7    745.2    92.-           1.9   109.8   1136.?   SS48.4
Totat POECT COSTS                    0.0   12S9.2   58S6.0   74.0   2672.7   214.9   141.9   1191.2  21982.0
................ ..............................................          ........................
nununu  nnnauunnnunnwuunnnunsnsnununnnnunscnnununnuv
a;



-60-                                        amIEl
2==LU SAM__ NUNN= SUPPORT n
Costs of Iv  lanaf1gla=r  Agenc   or sorvtca bw  Xag"
Pr#ojeCts C_zawnb  Fear
Totals InIudfng Cantfngmncts
TR
1991      1992f 1993           1994     1995       19        1997       19998    tout
A. NM  WeedqArts
1. Ng     reva BuildIn.              0.0    2424.6      984.3   17385.5    561.8    671.6        09.4      971.9  31747.4
a. 0w                                0.0   269.6   16939.7   13266.2   7747.4   3585.4    3M.0             224.7  51167.9
3. S0A                               0.0   2315.0    £8.2         M2.0    2423.7   2150.2   2S82.3    3099.2. 2W.6
4. Project N UOW snMt Unit           0.0   266.5    3036.8    331.9   3519.5    314.0   4471.0  * 3M.4   243.1
....................................................................I.....I...................
Sub*Tout                                0.0   10237.?   3754.2   41463.6  14252.4  10121.2  .1143.6   11029.2  136* .0
S. AREAsAgrutual  R_eerch               0.0   13278.2   77?977.G  10541.2  45n.5   5444.0  40 .4  404.? 40393.1
C.  ZA:Atatison & Traingtt              0.0    4941.6   4870.4   86000.4  2975?.0   2962.3   243.9   19601.7  2487.3
Total EC     CoS                        O. 0  28437.5  164191.6  2330.2  1093.9  94351.6   76317.9   7123.6  M556.4
Projects Canhnts by Veer
Totals  mtulding Cantiqenles
uss
1991      1992      1993       1994      t9o       1996      199?       1996     tota
A. "a ueedqiareers
1. U     iftdn'P                     0.0     107.3      322.0     526.5      14.7       15.3      15.7      16.2    1017.8
2. am                                0.0     116.4      607.2     403.2     202.8       61.       73.3      53.9    138.2
3. Wf                                0.0      111.3     307.6     228.9       63.4      48.9      50.1      51.8    662.1
4. Project Nanagmat UrIt             0.0      118.1     108.8    101.6       92.1      44.4       86.8      42.4    45.2
.......................................................I....................................
Bs*.Tot                                 0.0      453.0    1343.7    1260.3    373.1       230.0    226.0      184.3   4072.3
S. AMASHrICUtua  Researh                0.0      547.5    274.9    328.7    170.?   12.9    794.9             676.1   11080.7
C. ARlFAsstex in A Trafning             0.0      218.7    1744.5    2614.0      M.0    681.0    461.0         330.9    62.9
...........................................................................................
tout PQCnT  cmsTS                       0.0    1259.2    5885.0    7143.0    2867.7   2148.9   1481.9    1191.2  21962.0
........................................................................................................................



kuarty Accasut by Project topwat
Physical          Price
taIr                         Project AREA:Ar AREAuExt                    Contingencies     Cont!gwavies
Suilding                       magewNon    icuttual *nslin £              .        ....-. .
s      60Pm       *DFA     at Unlt Reserch  Training       Totat        K    Aeount           Dimt
an ~     ~       ~        3r
lnmimm~~____ crs
t. JSINEUT LISTSo 
A. Civil gg'k5                      4654.5       0.0        0.0       0.0  36485.0   20099.0  6M238.5        20.0  12241.7  250.6  1S3447.S
i. Equip2ent and Wehicles           1806.0    1168.0     807.0    1036.0  14623.0    1347.0  27407.0         15.0   4111.0  2S2.8  69294.7
C. Technical Assistance                0.0   5400.0   3810.0        S00.0  10620.0  10080.0  30410.0          0.0       0.0   179.5  54590.2
0. Studles                          2400.0    2160.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   456O.0        0.0       0.0   157.1   7164.3
. training                             0.0   350.0    1640.0  i15S.0  14070.0  12423.0  32841.0               0.0       0.0   228.5  75048.0
.................................... ............................................................................  
Total INlWITET COStS                8J60.S  12908.0   6257.0   2691.0  1S796.0  49949.0  156463.S            1.5  163s.7  229.3  359544.6
II. RECOJK     OSTSD
A. Operation I Waintnucen 
1. Civil works                      470.7       0.0       0.0       0.0   1999.2   1828.6   4299.5          17.1    734.s  434.9  18695.5
2. EqAipmnt & Vehicles              136.9    680.0    440.0    800.0  12613.0   4796.0   19S25.9            13.1   25S2.1  406.5  79369.2
3. inr. snpplet A material            0.0      72.0       0.0        0.0     076.0   3290.S   4246.5        10.0    424.6  411.S  17473.5
..............................................     ....... ..............................                   c        c
Suhbtotsl                            607.6    752.0    440.0    800.0  15548.2   9923.1   28070.9            13.2   3711.3  411.6  145538.2
S. oth5r Int.opersting Costs
1. locr. Pereenrwat Cost              0.0    1136.0   1936.0    2620.0  11350.0   3263.0  2030s.0            0.0       0.0  341.9  69418.2
2. trawl Allewances                   0.0    945.0      210.0      315.0      0.0      915.0   244S.0        0.0       0.0   315.0   7700.7
.............................................................................. ,.................
Subtotal                               0.0   2081.0    2146.0   2935.0  113S50.0   4238.0  22750.0            0.0     "0.0   339.0   m  i.9
........  .W...  ;-W... i;.w....                      .....  ..... ;;    .......... ...;.Y .; ...............................................-
Total SEURE  IT COStS                607.6   2833.0    2586.0    3135.0  26896.2  14161.1  50820.9            7.3       1.3  379.1  192657.1
Totat SAOU£1E COSTS                 9468.1   15741.0   8843.0   6426.0  102696.2  64110.1  207284.4           9.7  20070.0   266.4  SS2201.9
Physical Contingencies            1316.S     377.4      187.0     27S.4  11458.3   645S.4  20070.0
Price Contingencies              20962.7  35049.5   198S5.5   17783.7  286238.6  172311.8  S52201.9         8.7  48106.4
Total PIOJECT COSTS                31747.4   51167.9   2888.6   24465.1  400393.1  242677.3  779556.4         8.7  68176.5    70.8  SS2201.9
Taxes                                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
foreign Exchange                 24538.4  38218.0  17153.5    9284.9  260165.3  172472.4  521832.5          9.3  40552.7
............................................-.........................................................................................



- 62 -
RxstlMted Schedue of Disburseet  gID_A CredM
IDA Fiscal Year                Biannual         Cumulative         Percentage
Semester Ending              Disbursementg    DisbUsemt_XL__-
--------US$ Million Equivalent-----------
December 31, 1991                 0.0                0.0              0.0
June 30, 1992                     0.7                0.7              5.0
Am3
December 31, 1992                 0.9                1.6             11.0
June 1993                         1.2                2.8             19.4
December 31, 1993                 1.2                4.0             27.7
June 30, 1994                     1.5                5.5             38.2
December 31, 1994                 1.5                7.0             48.6
June 30, 1995                     1.5                8.5             59.0
December 31, 1995                 1.3                9.8             68.1
June 30, 1996                     1.2               11.0             76.4
December 31, 1996                 0.8               11.8             81.9
June 30, 1997                     0.7               12.5             86.6
December 31, 1997                 0.7               13.2             91.7
June 30, 1998                     0.5               13.7             95.1
December 31, 1998                 0.4               14.1             97.9
June 30, 1999                     0.3               14.4            100.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1999.



~EULIJC OF YouE
AGRICILURAL SECTOR  ANAGEMT SUPPORT 1m         C
OVSerall IamleMentation Schedule
Aztivrlti Caendar!r JL -1     - - .1992  1 - -        1- S   -ie   I .n V                    -
Qwerter           1   34i   3ir 3I  2 3 4              r 2 341234    a 3 41  2 23  4  rX   3      234
%~l- A-- Lmmt: 
Contracts Documents -
Costruction
Vehles"
Furniture
Sbort-ter
Long-termi-     --
Final ~~--- D-Is
contracts Documents~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~



-64-                             ANN    Xt
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC 01 YEMEN
A¢RICULTURE SECTOR MANJGEMENT SUPPORT PJECT
Objectives for the Eirst $wo Years of PXgject IMglementation
The objectives defined below constitute mutually acceptable
implementation criteria to measure progress towards the overall objectives of
institution-building of the project. These "implementation objectives" are
limited to the first two years which coincides vith the period up to the
proposed interim review, after which, possible adjustment of the project will
take place. The presentation of objectives is complemented by that of the
administrative steps or measures which the Government is to take to make the
achievement of the objectives possible.
A.    Implementation Objectives
APD   -    Prepare and agree with General Directors and Minister of
MAOR and in cooperation with the Regional Development
Agencies on a list of policy analyses and recommendations to
be made during the first two years of operation of the unit.
Actually prepare two such studies (topics to be determined).
ODPM -    Define statistical needs for planning in parallel with
preparation of sector data base under the aegis of USAID.
Prepare manual for physical and financial follow-up of
projects.
Set up special monitoring system for externally assisted
projects.
Review and make recommendations on the structural
organization of the Ministry.
GDPP  -    Establish methods for planning and programming the
procurement and distribution of fertilizers and other
inputs.
GDFA  - i. Budget.  Define procedures for recording and controlling
movements of funds *oncerning the operating and investment
budgets of RDAs and projects.
Define procedures for the use of funds.
Define system for account management to monitor and assess
variations between budgets and actual expenditures.



- 65 -                          ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 3
Define indicators for various users within MAWR.
- ii. Human Resources. Determine personnel resources and needs
for MAWR departments.
Define the objectives of the personnel services in MAWR.
Prepare procedures for staff management cooperate with AREA
Extension Department in preparation of training and re-
training policies.
am
Research - Set up Task Force on Five year rolling research program.
-    Define criteria for research priority setting and establish
priorities for first Five Year research program both at
regional and national level.
-    Prepare first draft of first Five Year rolling research
program.
-     Set up review panel in National Scientific Research Council.
Extension and Training
-     define major extension needs and national
approaches/policies to meet these objectives;
-     in cooperation with RDAs and CLCCD, take stock of trained
manpower resources; and
-     initiate selection/training process with two RDAs.
B.    Measures to be Taken
Civil Works                     Action               Tentative Dates
National Training Centre    Bidding Documents         January   1992
and
Multimedia Information      Contract Approval         September 1992
Centre                Beginning Construction   January   1993
Complete Construction    September 1993
MAWR
Technical Assistance
Confirmation of terms of reference and sources of procurement of TA
personnel to be obtained at negotiations.



-66-                             ANNEX XI
Page 3 of 3.
CounterDart Personnel       Actio                  Tentative Dates
Finalizing Roster   Negotiations
Short List          Before Effectiveness
Assignment          Depending on
Key Positions
Key Positions TA
Agricultural Policy            Short Listing     Before Effectiveness
Planing Department           Draft Work                 ditto--
(Sector Analysis and         Program
Project Planning            Recruitment
Specialists)
Budget
Fuman Resources Mgt.
rraining Specialist           Short Listing            Year 1
(Organization)                Work Program
Recruitment             Year 2
Short Term Eiperts
Assignment              Yrs. 1 and 2
Specialist Research EAxoerts
Short Listing           Year 1
Detailed TORs
Recruitment             Year 2
Training
TechnicaL                     Program by               Starting Year 1
General Departments           and
reviewed yearly
-------ditto ------    ------ditto-



-67-                             AN=5 XI
PuBLC OFF m
AgIGRXUL2J  SECTOR NANALGENEN SUPPORT  Ru&
List of Selocted Documents and Data Available in the Project Pile
1.   Preparation Report (March 19, 1989) by IDA Consultant
D.N. Nasterton.
2.   Report on NAF Component (August 1, 1989) by IDA Consultant Mushta4
Husain.
3.   Report on the ARA Component (July 1989) by IDA Consultant.
4.   Staff Report on Agricultural Extension and Training Component
(February 1990).
5.   Detailed Cost Tables.
6.   Brevin report on Agriculture Education and Training (Oct. 1988).
7.   Mission Report "H. Stoetzer Dutch Bilateral Assistance", (Dec.
1989).
8.  De Haan Livestock Working Document (Nov. 1989).
9.  Study of Internal Administration and Central Procedures in MAP
1989.
10.   UNDP interim project.
11.   Training needs of Agricultural Personnel in YAR.  Consortium for
International Development, (Feb. 1988).
12.   Proposed Strategy for Rural Women Activities MAY, (Sept. 1989)
(Document Approved by Parliament). Unofficial English
Translation.
13.   ARA - Directory of National Agricultural Research projects
Agricultural Research in the YAR (2 vols.) (1989).
14. YAR Utilizing Women Power for National Development (August 1989),
WB EK3PH.
15.   Women in Development Components in IDA financed Agricultural
projects in YAR (Nov. 1988), WB.SPRD.
16.   Evaluation of Extension Services of the Southern UplX.nds Rural
Development Project. Dr. Ali El Bar, Sana'a, YAR, (May 1989).



IBRD 22547R
45                                     4W.                                                          PROJECT.
REPUBLIC  OF YEMEN                                                          d                                     NAnONAL REsERCH AND ExTENSION CENTER (ARA)
WJNTONAL AGRICULTURAL TRAININ* CENER
AGRICULTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT                                                                              aTo,s        n   EGtoNALRCHSTATIONS
SUPPORT  PROJECT                                         7                                                   SELECTETOW AND O/LAGES
GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
SAUDI ARABIA                                          Th.mud                            +    omwoom
gi    /  (      Themud     {1t   1                't;  POUS
SAADA/                                                                                           AL ADAHRAH              OERNORATE BOUNDAES
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \                                                           HA DRAPAH                               AJ rh yah,,
9td420D8DS ;,,,+ oNU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RtUErmA GIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES:    1 
R             AND UAL DEVELkOMENT
0    ,-MARIB  SHABWAH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATORT -SAAA-ADA-AJA
2                                         0Aid                                           1. AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENTAUHRT
ABYAN             At Humio             gufal                                 3. TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
b                                              9                                                  J 11 tawooro >>( \ ,- 4. CENTRAL HIGHLANDS AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION
so  5  5  9 6   q      S h o q            O               GULF OF ADEN                                    5. SOUTHERN REGIONAGRICULTURAL
aqr                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION
T \ O    H.. ttibr 6. WADI TUBAN DEVELOPMENT
ET7H 6  IALA                                                                                                                 7. WADI ABYAN DEVELOPMENT
r/,h nwp    - p-nd bLrhe Vd Awn'f         f*                                8. WADI BEIHAN DEVELOPMENT
1. .  A.-C/y  A~~~d ti- lb&~~rlnl                                       SOCOTRA >
InC on the flutt of Jb t rh  .                  n      t - 09. WADI HADRAMAWT ADP
DJIBOUTI')                       [5             on rne MoZp/tvs of sny rer>wsvrvveanSvendorr v o  orsvda vvnAPI/19
APRIL 1991



