Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21741-YEM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-22990)
On A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.8 MILLION
(US$14.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN AGRICULTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 7, 2001
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 10, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
YR 1 = US$ 0.00625
US$ 1 = YR 160
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFPPF         Agriculture and Fisheries Production Promotion Fund
AREA          Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
ASMSP          Agricultural Sector Management Support Project
COCA           Central Organization for Control and Auditing
CPPR          Country Portfolio Perfornance review
ETD           Extension Training Division
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GDPM          General Directorate for Planning and Monitoring
IDA            International Development Association
MAI            Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MMC            Multi-Media Center
MOPD           Ministry of Planning and Development
NATC          National Agricultural Training Center
PMU           Project Management Unit
PSR           Project Status Report
RDA           Regional Development Agency
RIP           Rapid Impact Program
ROY           Republic of Yemen
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Inder Sud
Sector Manager/Director:   Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader:     Christopher Ward



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2299-YEM)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   12
6. Sustainability                                                                       14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      16
9. Partner Comments                                                                     18
10. Additional Information                                                              19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   33
Annex 8. Project Evaluation Sunmnary from Borrower's Perspective                        40
MAPS:      IBRD Map Nos. 22547R1 and 30295R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005810                                      Project Name: NAT.AGRIC.SECT.MGMT
Team Leader: Christopher S. Ward                          TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: Februag 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: NAT.AGRIC.SECT.MGMT                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-22990
Country/Department: YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                                  Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension; AG - Agency Reform;
AR - Research
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/26/88                               Effective: 03/10/92           09/15/92
Appraisal:  11/30/89                                  MTR: 01/17/95             03/16/95
Approval:  09/17/91                                Closing: 12/31/99            06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT. OF ROY/MIN. OF AG. & IRRIGATION
Other Partners: AREA, Netherlands Government
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         W. Wapenhans
Country Manager:     Inder Sud                                 R. Chopra
Sector Manager:      Doris Koehn                               P. Garg
Team Leader at ICR:  Christopher Ward                          Mick Nightingale
ICR Primary Author:  Christopher S. Ward;
Jean-Francois L. Barres
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
The project was identified in 1988. At the time, the Government of the former Yemen Arab Republic had,
with IDA support, invested in a broad network of decentralized and relatively autonomous rural
development services, (authorities and projects) including extension services. Central services existed for
credit, and for research and research/extension coordination.
The decentralized rural development services were backed up by a central ministry (then called the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries). The problem that was diagnosed at identification was essentially the
weakness of the ministry headquarters and of the central services for research and research/extension
coordination. In the ministry headquarters, there was lack of effective capacity for policy formulation,
planning, investment programming and appraisal, and personnel and budget management. In the central
services for research and research/extension coordination, the problem was essentially one of lack of cross
fertilization in research activities between regions, lack of information flow between the centralized
research services and the decentralized extension services, and lack of coordination of extension approaches
between the various decentralized services.
The project was prepared in 1988/9 and appraised in December 1989. In mid-1990, the unification of the
former Yemen Arab Republic and the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen was decided, and a
follow up mission in July 1990 discussed the implications of the unification for the project. It was agreed
with the new govemment of the now united Yemen that the project design should be adapted to help with
the restructuring of the new Ministry of Agriculture (then renamed Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources). A two year transition period for restructuring (up to 1992) was envisaged. Government also
stated its intention to create decentralized rural development services in the southern govemorates similar to
those already existing in the northem govemorates.
In this context, the project was conceived as a technical assistance project to develop central functions to
back up field services that were themselves perceived as relatively well-performing, and to support a
restructuring of the ministry as a whole. It was intended as the first of a series of projects to strengthen
public services in agriculture. Subsequent projects were expected to have a sub-sectoral focus - land and
water conservation, fisheries, and livestock (of which the first two materialized). The project was approved
by the Board on September 17, 1991 and the Credit became effective on September 15, 1992.
SAR objectives:
The project objectives set out in the SAR were to:
(a) develop the management basis for a modem agriculture sector in the sector ministry by
upgrading staff qualifications, strengthening policy analysis and planning capacities, introducing
modem techniques for financial and human resources management; and improving functional
links between general departments in the ministry; and
(b) strengthen agricultural research, technical training and field extension services and create
research/extension linkages and thereby to accelerate the development and adoption of
appropriate technologies.
-2-



3.2 Revised Objective:
A restructuring mission visited Yemen in March 1995, and the project was formally restructured on May
17, 1995. The restructuring was essentially a downsizing occasioned by implementation problems, and the
original objectives remained largely valid. However, the second objective was slightly revised to read "to
strengthen the management capacity of key staff in AREA, train and provide technical assistance in
agricultural research...". A revised set of performance indicators was agreed through the supervision
process in 1996/7 (see Annex 1 for indicators).
After 1995, project implementation put more emphasis on a participatory approach (both for policy and
planning, and for research and extension) and on a farrner and field orientation (in the research and
extension component). This shift in approach was again accommodated within the original project
objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were:
(a) Planning and administration in ministry headquarters. The component comprised support to
two headquarters departments (Planning & Monitoring, Finance & Administration) and to a project
management unit (PMU), in order to improve services and generate the following outputs:
(improved) policy planning and the preparation of policy options;
commodity review and analysis, and private sector support policies;
project implementation planning, monitoring and evaluation and coordination;
(improved) budgeting and financial management; and
(improved) personnel management and human resource development.
The investments were in training and technical assistance, the development of management
systems, equipment, and the rehabilitation of facilities.
(b) Agricultural research. The component comprised support to the Agricultural Research and
Extension Authority (AREA) to improve research management as follows:
* strengthening the management and organization of AREA to focus its research programs and
improve their quality;
continuing priority research work; and
* developing effective links between AREA and field extension operations.
The investments were in research facilities and equipment, training, technical assistance, and links
with intemational organizations.
(c) Extension and training. The component comprised support to AREA's Extension and Training
Department, its Rural Women's Development Division, its National Agricultural Training Center
and its Multi-Media Center to improve extension management as follows:
developing national policies and strategies for extension services and in-service training
programs and information material; and
creating a national training function.
- 3 -



The investments were in extension facilities, training and technical assistance, and the creation of
the multi-media center.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were initial implementation delays and problems - by mid-1995 four of the eight years
implementation period had elapsed but only $1.6 million or 10% of the credit had been disbursed. The
principal causes of delay were:
* unification and the subsequent diversion of political and management energy to dealing with the
challenge of unifyfing two large and very different civil services;
* political turmoil extending up to and beyond the war of 1994;
* very cumbersome procurement and disbursement procedures;
* macroeconomic factors (rapid inflation and devaluation) that delayed procurement (as contract
prices were in devaluing rials);
a fiscal crisis that led to the dwindling of operating budgets and growing dysfuncionality in the
public service; and
erosion of the value of civil service salaries through inflation (in 1996 salaries were worth 9% of
their 1990 levels) and consequent dissipation of work ethic in the public service.
In the 1995 restructuring, the description of components remained the same, but $5.77 million was trimmed
from project costs, representing civil works Oargely for AREA) canceled from the project and savings
resulting from exchange rate movements and the shortened period available for actual project
implementation. The IDA Credit was reduced from US$14.40 million equivalent to US$9.38 million
equivalent.
Subsequent modifications to components were introduced in 1996-8 but were sufficiently minor not to
require a formal change in either the project description or the disbursement schedule. These modifications
were agreed through the supervision process and are documented in the PSRs. Although they fit within
original objectives and components, they were nonetheless significant in terms of impact. They included:
support to a long process of decision taking on institutional restructuring and agricultural policy
known as the Aden Agenda;
support to the revival of field oriented and applied research through AREA's Rapid Impact
Program;
support to a rethinking of the Government's "diesel fund" through a full scale review of the
Agriculture and Fisheries Production Promotion Fund (AFPPF); and
support to the identification of the follow on project to support development of farmer services.
The Credit closing date was extended once only, from December 1999 to June 2000, in order to allow
completion of several components, including some of the identification studies for the project to support the
revival of field services to farmers, together with the Rapid Impact Program and follow up to the Aden
Agenda.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR rating: Unsatisfactory
-4 -



Project Objectives
The project objectives were in line with the IDA lending strategy to Yemen at the time, which emphasized
revival of the rural economy to cope with the impoverishing effects of the Gulf War and which promoted a
"sector-wide" approach to agricultural lending after a decade of decentralized and regional projects.
Project objectives reflected the findings at appraisal that the ministry headquarters set up was complex and
overstaffed, with no systematic recruitment and training procedures. The project correctly identified
functions that have to be assumed by central government - policy formulation, investment appraisal and
programming, financial and human resource allocation. Evidently, a complete restructuring, downsizing
and modemizing was in order, and this was to be provided under the project.
In an institutional development project, it is hard to put the objectives into clear and measurable terms. The
project objectives contain references to value-loaded but rather vague benefits like "modem agriculture"
and "modem techniques" which raise problems of both definition and measurement. However, an attempt
was made to list as many objective outcomes and outputs as possible to assist in measuring achievements.
Appraisal rightly considered that managing so much construction, equipment, technical assistance and
training would be a challenge, especially for a weak administration. There was not much track record with
the ministry and the implementation problems encountered in the early years show that the design was
relatively complex and risky in such an untried environment. From the records it is clear that there was
considerable debate within the Bank as to whether the project was not too complex to be readily
implementable. Although the advice of the appraisal mission was eventually accepted, the number and
nature of the components certainly heightened the risk in the Yemeni implementation context. After
restructuring, however, the reduced scope and improved implementation environment allowed the project to
be implemented largely as redesigned.
The project appears to be only poorly responsive to the Borrower's circumstances at the time of entry. At
a time when recurrent budgets were already tight, the project brought a large investment in technical
assistance, training, vehicles, etc disproportionate to the levels of salary and operating budget prevailing in
the public service. In the event, the problems grew worse. This could perhaps not have been foreseen at
appraisal but the existing weaknesses coupled with the likely challenge of unification brought into question
the appropriateness of launching a project on this scale at the time it went to the Board.
The SAR states that "there is a consensus that there is a need to develop more efficient institutions and to
create modem procedures for coordinating, planning, specifying policies and promoting subsector
development strategies" (SAR 2.13). Although this consensus may have existed at appraisal, it was quite
frail. It is evident from mission reports that there were considerable differences of opinion between the
minister and his staff about the project, particularly about the idea of a Committee for Agricultural Policies
and about the need for so much technical assistance. In addition, although it may be logical in a country
where decentralized services have performed relatively well to move in a second stage to development
coordination functions at the center, the experience in Yemen of central planning and support functions is
quite poor. With hindsight, it may be said that the assessment of prospects of improving the central
ministry was over-ambitious.
In any case, the development priority of the Borrower changed abruptly after appraisal, when Yemen had to
meet the challenge of restructuring the ministry to cope with the effects of unifying two large bureaucracies
with very different cultures and structures. Support to this restructuring became nominally part of the
project but little change was actually made to the components between appraisal and Board presentation.
- 5 -



With hindsight, it can be seen that much of Government's lack of commitment to the project in the early
years stemmed from the fact that it was struggling with the effects of unification on which the project
initially provided little help. Only from 1994 did the project provide assistance to ministry restructuring,
and this proved to be a lengthy process (still continuing under the "Aden Agenda").
Project components
The challenge posed by any institutional development project is to provide instruments linked to the
development of specific capacities. Appraisal made a major effort to identify in detail for each unit both
the outputs targeted and the inputs required, and probably went as far as was possible to put in place the
safeguards to ensure that equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and training would produce the results
intended. However, in the Yemeni context of a resource-starved, weak and politicized civil service, it was
inevitably hard to monitor the links between inputs and outputs, avoid diversion to other purposes, and
evaluate outputs and outcomes. A smaller, less ambitious project would have been less risky and easier to
manage.
Risks
In the SAR, several risks were identified that did in fact materialize:
It was anticipated that national staff would not be motivated due to poor civil service salaries etc. This
turned out to be correct. The assumption that incentives would be provided through improved training
and promotion opportunities, and the payment of field allowances, proved partly true but evidently did
not provide for sustainability. Also, the assumption that training represented an incentive opened the
door to the diversion of some training from its purpose of creating capacity. This remains a key issue
that will have to be addressed under future projects, notably the proposed project to support farmer
services.
The SAR raises the question of the effectiveness of technical assistance, and proposes that performance
be monitored to ensure the required transfer of know how and capacity building. In the event,
performance was very mixed, and raises the question of how a weak administration in need of technical
assistance is supposed to control that technical assistance. After restructuring, the steering committee
played a role in monitoring and guiding the delivery of technical assistance, and so this provided at
least a partial solution.
The likelihood that there would be insufficient budget for recurrent costs was raised. In the event this
proved problematic not so much for the project - as the Government contribution was provided for in
the "protected" investment budget - but for the whole operation of the ministry, particularly the field
services.
The SAR also identifies other risks: an overstaffed civil service and problems of unification; foreign
exchange shortage, recurrent budget problems, weak monitoring and evaluation, and little knowledge of
impacts, but these risks were not fully evaluated or taken into account in project design. A proper
assessment of these risks could again have argued for a smaller, simpler project. The problems of
unification and recurrent budget contributed to the slow implementation that led to the project
restructuring.
-6 -



Covenants
The DCA has three non-standard covenants that provide for the establishment of three bodies - one for
agricultural policy (the Committee for Agricultural Policies) and two for research (a National Scientific
Research Council, and an International Scientific Panel). During implementation, Government never
expressed interest in these bodies, and they were never set up. It is clear that this part of project design was
only "theoretically" correct - perhaps too early in the development process - and that the related covenants
were irrelevant. However, Government did evolve its own variant on the policy committee - the Aden
Agenda group, a less formal but effective mechanism that had the advantage of being "home grown" and
accepted within Yemen.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated overall as satisfactory. The expected outcomes of the project (per SAR) and
the actual outcomes were:
In MAI:
Sector Resource Management. The project was expected to improve efficient management of sector
financial resources, judged by introduction of procedures for budget and financial controls, and by the
introduction of programming and monitoring systems for projects. During the project, MAI financial
staff were trained in resource management, including masters degree students trained overseas and
numerous short overseas and in-country training courses. Systems were developed and computerized
for financial management and budget control within MAI. A project programming, appraisal and
monitoring system was developed. As a result, MAI budget management and monitoring has certainly
improved. However, the results of the recent Public Expenditure Reviews (1998-2000) carried out by
the Bank show that major resource allocation decisions are still only partly based on use of these
systems; decisions also reflect political preferences. The tools and the information have been developed
and they serve to provide the information needed but they have not yet become part of the resource
management process. The recently approved Aden Agenda provides for a progressive restructuring of
the MAI investment and recurrent budget, all of which is based on analysis carried out under the
project. Continued technical and political support and donor involvement will be required to help MAI
to undertake the effective restructuring of the investment and recurrent budgets that has been approved
by Government in the Aden Agenda.
Human Resource Development. The project was expected to increase in the number and quality of
professional staff in MAI, and to improve personnel policies. Numerous MAI staff were trained both
overseas and in-country.  A study was carried out that provides the basis for the "personnel
restructuring" decided under the Aden Agenda, designed to reduce the overall personnel numbers,
improve the quality and proportion of front line staff, and to improve incentives. A training
management system was developed and a training department established. The project has been
successful in raising skill levels and in providing a much-needed motivation for ministry staff. With
the cabinet approval of the Aden Agenda in April 2000, the ministry also has the green light to proceed
with its proposed personnel restructuring. However, the training management system set up but came
under pressure from decision makers promoting candidates, and its operation has been suspended. As
a result, the effectiveness of training declined in the last two years of the project, and IDA refused
approval of further training from 1999. The execution of the Aden Agenda personnel restructuring will
- 7 -



require strong support (from decision makers and donors) to be carried through.
Policy Analysis. According to the SAR, sector analysis would be strengthened under the project and
sector policies would be more focused and responsive to economic priorities, judged by the number and
quality of sector analyses, policy papers and development planning. Under the project, MAI staff were
trained both at home and overseas, and a motivated cadre of specialists has grown up in the General
Department of Planning and Monitoring. The department worked intensively in partnership with the
IDA team for the agriculture strategy (1997-8) and produced a number of outputs (see below).
Subsequent achievements include the agricultural chapter of the Five Year Plan and the national
agricultural strategy (part of the Aden Agenda) approved by the Council of Ministers in April 2000.
The department is currently working (in partnership with FAO) on domestic resource cost analysis and
on a Farm Management Handbook.
In AREA:
Improved Research, Back Up to Extension and Research/Extension Linkages. According to the
SAR, better technological packages would be developed which in the longer term would result in
sustainable yield and production increases. This would be judged by a number of parameters: (i)
research work would be focused on economic priorities and achieve a greater ecological coverage; (ii)
research attention would move from commodity research to farming systems work, with a particular
focus on rain fed and livestock; (iii) the number, quality and relevance of extension messages would
improve; (iv) there would be a consolidation of the different extension approaches adopted in different
parts of the country; (v) special focus would be placed on women farmers; and (vi) the number and
qualification of trainers and extension agents would improve. At the end of the project, the AREA
components have achieved considerable output. Numerous staff have been trained overseas, largely in
skills and disciplines needed for the new approaches. On the research side, the 1997 national research
strategy set out the program for focusing more on farming systems work, for the concentration on
rainfed and livestock systems, and for a problem solving approach based on applied research and
demonstrations done in partnership with farmers and extension. The Rapid Impact Program (see
below) that AREA started in 1996/7 under the project has put into practice all of these new departures,
and by the end of the project had become part of AREA's "culture". On the extension side, AREA has
successfully created a capacity in extension methodology and training, has developed a productive
relationship with the field extension services and has tested numerous new departures in extension
(including program budgeting, the multi-disciplinary team approach and private extension).
Research/extension collaboration has improved greatly, with systematic teamwork, research open days,
varietal release, and partnership with the seed companies. AREA has developed a "gender sensitive"
approach to extension. Overall, the project output on research and extension is considerable, but
remains constrained by the prevalent poor "incentives" within the public service, the still unclear
relationship between AREA and field extension, and the continuing "top down" tendency built into the
current system, that inhibits the development of a truly problem solving service responsive to farmer
needs. All of the above provide the background for the further development of research and extension
under the proposed project to support farmer services, which has to address the continuing problems
mentioned above.
Achievement of Objectives
In the light of the above, the project can be said to have largely achieved its objectives in both the MAI
component and the AREA component. However, some outcomes were only partially achieved, and there
are two major questions that may make sustainability vulnerable.
- 8 -



First, at MAI technical tools are largely in place, and the project can be said to have achieved most of its
capacity building objectives. The institutional development impact, however, is less and the performance
of the ministry has not kept pace with improvements in its capacity. In particular, there is a question over
political commitment - as evidenced by the failure to carry through on intentions in resource allocation, and
by the breakdown of the training management system. This gap between technical capacity and political
comnmitment may be bridged by continued pressure from the reform-minded segment within Government
and from the donors (who may even be able to "sweeten the pill" by some form of financing and/or
continued technical support). But the gap represents a risk to sustainability of project achievements.
A second problem persists regarding the level of performance that can reasonably be expected from the
civil service in general, given the low pay and poor working conditions. Even the incentives that can come
from good management are rare in the Yemeni system. There is a risk that people trained under the project
may not be available or even willing to work as expected under the prevailing conditions in the civil service.
Long term, civil service reform may offer some hope. Short term, second best ad hoc solutions will persist.
Again, this is an issue that must be faced in future projects, notably the proposed project to support farmer
services.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Planning and Administration in MAI
Under this heading the following main outputs were produced:
Policy planning and the preparation of policy options. In 1997-9, 13 working papers were produced by
MAI (jointly with IDA as background work for the agriculture sector note). These papers were discussed
in a week long workshop and subsequently formed the basis for the agriculture strategy (part of the Aden
Agenda) approved by the Council of Ministers in (April) 2000 and for the MAI submission for the
Five-Year Plan 2001-5. From 1997-9, MAI conducted a highly participatory process called the Aden
Agenda to review MAI role and services. Three major workshops were held, and three major studies
conducted (field services, personnel downsizing, budget). The Aden Agenda was approved by the Council
of Ministers and forms the basis for MAI restructuring plans over the period 2001-5.
Commodity review and analysis, and private sector support policies. A study of the wheat subsector
was produced but the balance of the commodity analysis component was canceled at restructuring. During
1997-9, MAI produced crop budgets, farm models, and DRC analysis. This component is the subject of a
follow up TCP project with FAO, underway from June 2000. The private sector support activity was
dropped, as this became redundant with the privatization program. Certain aspects (e.g. on seeds and
chemical inputs) were taken up under the Seeds and Agricultural Services Project.
Project implementation planning, monitoring and evaluation and coordination. In 1997, MAI
introduced a project appraisal and monitoring system and a project database is currently under
development. In 1996-8, an information technology system (hardware and software) was implemented.
Budgeting and financial management. Under this component, MAI (GDFAA) developed a standard
project accounting system; conducted a survey of revenue resources; and computerized the MAI accounts.
Under the Aden Agenda, a budget study was conducted, and this was complemented by work with IDA on
the public expenditure review for agriculture 1998-2000. A study of the Agriculture and Fisheries
-9-



Production Promotion Fund was carried out (1998).
Personnel management and human resource development. A restructuring proposal and revised
organization chart were prepared in 1994-5, with support from technical assistance. This provided the
basis for the restructuring of MAI carried out in 1995. The main features were the reduction in the layers
of conmnand and reduction in the number of General Directorates from 18 to 13. A persormel data base
and a staff manual (daleel) were prepared in 1996. Under the Aden Agenda a review was carried out of
how to restructure field services, as well as a study on downsizing.
In addition to the above, a number of background activities were carried out for the identification of the
project to support the revival of field services to farmers.
Although delayed and reduced in scope, all the activities originally foreseen were carried out at a lower cost
than originally foreseen. The delivery of inputs was substantial - most notably, vehicles, equipment,
consultancies and training (see Annex 2). In addition, extra outputs were delivered beyond what was
foreseen at appraisal, notably the participatory effort of the Aden Agenda family of activities, which
engaged MAI top management in intensive discussion of the need for change over more than two years,
three major workshops and thirty long brainstorming meetings, and which produced three studies not
originally foreseen, in addition to the Aden Agenda cabinet paper, which was recently published in "glossy"
format. A second major additional set of outputs were the policy papers and the subsequent cabinet policy
paper.
Agricultural research
AREA management and organization. The project was to support AREA management and organization
to focus its research programs and improve their quality. An institutional study of AREA was carried out
(ISNAR), a revised statute for AREA was prepared, and technical assistance from ICARDA was provided
to strengthen research management and to introduce new approaches like farming systems research and
research program budgeting. The component was successful, after considerable delays and threat of
suspension in 1998, in formalizing the statute and top management of AREA and in implementing
improved management systems. However, a proposed sub-component to upgrade financial management
and accounting was begun (with a study by KPMG Peat Marwick) but then suspended due to problems
with COCA and the Ministry of Finance about designing an accounting system specific to the needs of a
research agency. It should be noted that the comparatively successful development of AREA under the
project is linked to the better salaries enjoyed by AREA staff (based on university salaries and with
additional allowances).
Continue priority research work and develop effective links with field extension operations. Under the
project a contract was signed with ICARDA for technical assistance (in research management, farming
systems approach and livestock) and for overseas long and short term training. With this support, AREA
produced a national research strategy (1997) and a medium-term research plan (1998). From 1997,
AREA also implemented under the project the "Rapid Impact Program for Research and Extension" (RIP)
to kick start research and extension by providing modest resources for a program of field demonstrations
and trials in partnership with farmers, initially based on existing technology, later on innovations. The
above activities were largely successful in effecting AREA's shift towards farming systems research,
applied research, and a focus on rainfed and livestock systems. The RIP and the parallel efforts under the
extension components were largely successful in putting research back in a working relationship with
extension.
- 10-



Extension and training
National policies and strategies for extension services and in-service training programs and
information material. The extension components were cofinanced by IDA and the Netherlands, with the
Netherlands financing the technical assistance elements. The components suffered initially from the lack of
clarity about the role of AREA's Extension and Training Department (ETD). The role of this unit -
intended to develop a common methodology of extension, conduct extension training, and facilitate research
extension linkages - was unclear to most participants. Only once ETD staff had been trained overseas and
retumed to take up their jobs (from 1997) did ETD begin to gain strength. The component was finally able
to produce the agreed outputs, including a national extension strategy, a system of program budgeting, and
a joint research-extension team concept that was operationalized in three pilot extension areas.
Create a national training function. The National Agricultural Training Center (NATC) and the
Multi-Media Center (MMC) were set up, staffed and equipped, and they became operational by 1998.
Both are intended to be ultimately self-financing, but progress towards this goal is slow, and the "business
plans" prepared are not convincing.
Overall, after delay, the research and extension components were successful in producing the outputs
agreed. The extension component suffered from a very slow start in which technical assistance intervened
(from 1993) well before national staff were in place. However, the ETD "identity crisis" seems to have
been largely resolved, and the project has been successful in putting in place trained staff and systems for
both research and extension that are technically competent and motivated. AREA is thus ready to play a
catalytic role in research and extension nationwide under the project to support the revival of field services
to farmers.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
This section assesses the extent to which the project has improved MAI and AREA ability to make
effective use of their human and financial resources. In the SAR, this was the key objective of the project,
defined in terms such as "helping Yemen move towards a modem and sustainable agriculture sector", and
more specifically as the creation of a "core of well-structured and professionally staffed agricultural
institutions equipped to design and implement appropriate national policies".
The impact of the project against these criteria is rated as modest but different according to components.
Regarding the MAI components, the project has created management and information systems for financial
and human resources and improved the skill level of several hundred ministry staff. Policy analysis
capability has certainly developed and thus has played a role in justifying policy changes affecting the
sector, such as moving the diesel price toward import parity, liberalizing agricultural trade, and
undertaking privatization of input supply. However, some of the systems (notably the training system) are
not all in use as designed. In addition, the problems of political (rather than technical) factors playing an
- 11 -



important role in decision making, and of low motivation in the civil service certainly reduce the value of
the project achievements. Whether the proposed restructuring of personnel and budget under the Aden
Agenda will take place is likely to be the litmus test of the effectiveness of the institutional development
impact of the MAI components.
Regarding the AREA components, the answer is clearer. The project has been successful in creating
management systems for research and AREA's role in extension and in training the needed staff. The
institutional autonomy and competent management put in place under the project make the chances that
AREA can use these systems as designed high. The principal fault in institutional development in AREA
has been the failure to overhaul the financial systems, and the related delays in the production of accounts
and audits. This is a major threat to any AREA role in the future proposed project to support farmer
services, and will require continued attention until it is resolved.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Early implementation problems were in part linked to the unification of the two Yemens and the subsequent
diversion of political and management energy to dealing with the challenge of unifying two large and very
different civil services. This phase culminated in a brief but disruptive civil war in 1994. Linked to this
were: (i) the fiscal crisis (shrinking of the operating budget for agricultural services and consequent
dysfunctionality of the system) and (ii) the crisis in the public service (overstaffing, lack of incentives) that
undercut much of the original project rationale. In the second half of the project period, after restructuring,
these factors were taken into account by the Aden Agenda process which was designed to rethink the role of
Government in agricultural services in an era of much reduced expectations from the public service, and to
design the resource allocation and personnel policies needed to reduce Government's role and to support the
private sector and farmer organizations. A further "spin off" of this process of adjustment to reality was
that the notion of farmer involvement and of "demand driven" services became more palatable to
Government.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Early implementation of the project was affected by a number of "generic" implementation problems that
were within Government control. Effectiveness was held up for eleven months by slow procedures and
inertia. There were too many approvals on procurement and disbursement, contracting was all fixed price
which was inappropriate at a time of rapid inflation, the High Tender Board was a cumbersome and
interventionist body, and the project manager lacked authority to take decisions. These problems were all
addressed at the country-wide CPPR of 1995. The PIU was given adequate authority and procurement
and disbursement rules were streamlined. Thereafter, implementation problems and delays were minor.
Implementation of the AREA component was affected until 1998 by the fact that AREA had no legal
statute and that its managers were all "acting" and not confirmed in their jobs.  In 1996-8, IDA
downgraded the project in the PSR to U on DO, largely on the reasoning that permanent institutional
development was not possible in a " temporary" institution with acting management. In 1998, IDA
threatened suspension if the problem was not resolved within 90 days. Government at once issued the
statute and appointed AREA top management. Subsequent performance was good.
By contrast, opposition within Government from COCA and the Ministry of Finance to the upgrading of
AREA's financial management has not been resolved. The Government agencies concerned appear
- 12 -



unwilling to understand that AREA will retain its official Government financial accounting system, but
build on that a set of cost and management accounts and a management information system appropriate to
the highly specific needs of a specialized research agency and its donors.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The principal areas of MAI performance subject to question are financial and human resource
management. The poor performance in using the new financial management information to restructure the
budget has been mentioned above; in fact, the structure did improve in 1998 and 1999, with an increase in
operating budget for front line services and the closure of several redundant projects. But this progress was
largely reversed under political pressure in 2000 and in the draft budget for 2001. The role of MAI senior
management in effectively undermining the training management system has also been mentioned above.
Set against this is the achievement of the Aden Agenda, which is a product of great effort and commitment
on the part of ministry senior management.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Project Costs
Total project costs were estimated at appraisal at US$22.0 million, of which US$7.0 million for civil
works, US$2.7 million for equipment, US$1.3 million for vehicles, US$3.3 million for technical assistance
and studies (337 person months), and US$3.2 million for training (including overseas training for 1,082
person months). The IDA Credit was initially for US$14.40 million equivalent.
In the 1995 restructuring, the overall cost estimate was reduced to US$16.23 million, of which US$1.56
million for civil works, US$2.96 million for equipment and vehicles, US$8.61 million for technical
assistance and training, and US$3.10 million for operating expenditures. The IDA Credit was reduced to
US$9.38 million equivalent.
Disbursement was significantly slower than expected. Initially this was due to the implementation
problems encountered. Subsequent to 1995, the main factor in delayed disbursement was the difficulty that
the PMU had in liaising with MAI departments and with AREA to determine requirements and agree on the
procurement process.  In some cases, PMU procurement staff proved inadequate (training was
subsequently given).
Disbursements (Cumulative)
(US$ million      FY92   FY93    FY94     FY95     FY96    FY97     FY98     FY99    FY00   FYOI
equivalent)
Appraisal estimate  0.70  2.80   5.50     8.50     11.00   12.50    13.70    14.40   -
Estimate after    -      0.61    0.83     1.39     2.35    4.68     6.68     8.52    8.90   8.90
restructuring
Actual                   0.61    0.85     1.46    2.67     4.19     5.66     7.24    8.29   8.44
Actual as % of           22       15      17      24       34       41       50      58     59
appraisal estimate
Date of final disbursement: September 5, 2000.
-13-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Projects results are likely to be sustainable. Government comrnitment to improving resource allocation and
to restructuring MAI personnel and units is uneven, but has recently been strengthened by the approval of
the Aden Agenda by the Council of Ministers. The likelihood of a successful outcome is high, provided
that external political and financial support is continued. Following the adoption by the Council of
Ministers of the agricultural strategy, (part of the Aden Agenda) the policy environment is good for
reviving agricultural services with a demand-driven orientation and involving farmer organizations and the
private sector in setting the programs, and financing and delivering services. Again, this will require
external support (as foreseen under the proposed project to support the revival of field services to farmers).
MAI effectiveness in policy formulation has increased markedly and is likely to continue. AREA
effectiveness has also grown, and will be further stimulated by mechanisms under the project to support the
revival of field services to farmers, such as, the competitive grant system for research. Specific issues of
sustainability attach to the NATC and MMC (see Section 4.2). AREA should rework the business plans
(if possible, with support from the Netherlands).
The principal risks to sustainability are political will, financing of the recurrent budget and the pervasive
dysfunctionality of the public service. The mitigating mechanisms have been discussed above - consistent
external support, including a sustained dialogue and project support, and increasing reliance on farmer
organizations and on the private sector. The problems encountered during the project over AREA
accounting show that the dialogue has to be not only with the Ministries of Agriculture and Planning, but
also with the Ministry of Finance and with COCA.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project is not a separate entity but a series of capacity building measures for permanent institutions
which are funded from the regular budget. The budget process and the reshaping of the budget were the
object of support under the project; this is a process that is far from complete, and the ongoing annual
Public Expenditure Review and the follow up project to support the revival of field services to farmers will
continue the process through: (i) supporting implementation of the Aden Agenda budget "rebalancing" (see
above); and (ii) overhauling the financing of farner services by introducing competitive grants for research
and extension and generalizing the program budgeting system piloted under the current project.
Performance indicators for the final achievement of project objectives would include:
budget restructured according to the Aden Agenda
personnel downsizing and upgrading accomplished
institutional restructuring studies undertaken and implemented
competitive research and extension grant system set up
farmer organizations structured and well represented in decision-taking
IDA and other donors should continue to support the change process within MAI through dialogue, through
- 14 -



the Public Expenditure Review and through the project to support the revival of field services to farmers.
Experience shows that this kind of change process requires vision and sustained application over many
years.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
Bank performance at identification was satisfactory. The logic of carrying the development agenda up
from the regional to the national level was clear and well though out, and was consistent at the time with
both Government development strategy and the Bank's vision for the sector. Preparation and appraisal
were unsatisfactory, as they took inadequate account of risks and capacity that were then existing. More
analysis should have been done in the post-appraisal period on the assessment of Government commitment
and on the institutional challenge of the merger of the two ministries, as in the event the consequences of
unification dogged the project and effectively held up implementation right up until project restructuring in
1995.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was satisfactory. Missions were regular and reports (PSRs) were ample to document
progress. Most problems were identified early on; problem solving was difficult in the early years of the
project as implementation was largely delayed by generic implementation problems and by country
problems (political difficulty and ultimately civil war). Subsequently, and after the resolution of the
generic problems and the restructuring of the project, response to problems was satisfactory, except that the
AREA financial management and audit issue was never fully resolved. Through the supervision process
and with the prospect of possible suspension, Government acted decisively on IDA advice to resolve the
issue of AREA institutional status. In general performance ratings were realistic, with the project slipping
into unsatisfactory status for two periods: from June 1994 up to restructuring in May 1995 due to slow
implementation; and from May 1996 up to June 1998, when the Rapid Impact Program had revived
research and the issue of AREA status was finally resolved. Supervision paid especial attention to
development impact, and in fact innovations were introduced with great flexibility during the second half of
the project (Aden Agenda, Rapid Impact Program) specifically in order to ensure that the development
impact was attained, despite changes in the environment. Supervision missions were adequately staffed
with strong continuity, field time was adequate and advice given in a spirit of partnership was evidently
valued and acted upon. From 1996 the project was supervised from the field office, and the proximity and
"hands on" approach was a material factor in the ultimate satisfactory implementation performance. The
participatory approach adopted for the Aden Agenda and other sector analysis tasks was important in
mobilizing consensus and donor support for the reform process in the sector.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. During the post-appraisal
discussions, the Borrower could have been more forthright about the specific challenges and needs for
- 1 5 -



assistance with the fusion of the two ministries as this subsequently turned out to be a problem for
commitment to the project and for its implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, Government implementation performance was unsatisfactory during the first half of the project, as
macroeconomic and fiscal policy got out of hand, overstaffing and underfunding became rampant in the
civil service, and sector policies favored urban consumer subsidies over rural producers. Moreover,
interference in project operational decisions was frequent, particularly on procurement and disbursement.
However, Government did appoint a competent project manager and provided counterpart funds. During
the second half of the implementation period, after restructuring, Government performance was generally
satisfactory. Government set up a steering committee that met regularly to resolve project issues,
Government implemented all the CPPR agreements to free up project implementation, and the Council of
Ministers promulgated the AREA statute and appointed AREA permanent management. However,
interference in decisions about project training and failure to sustain improvements in sectoral resource
allocation were negative points.
7.6 Implementing Agency
Following restructuring, MAI implementation was generally satisfactory. There were some problems with
varying quality of technical assistance in the early years, and the management of the training program
became problematic towards the end of the project period, but overall MAI implemented the project largely
as designed. MAI management commitment to the whole Aden Agenda process is a remarkable example of
self-criticism and proactive change management. AREA implementation was also generally satisfactory.
Technical assistance was used prudently for research, but there were some problems on the technical
assistance for extension which was put in place before the Extension and Training Department was fully
established and which worked for some time without counterparts. The failure to meet the accounting and
audit covenant and to upgrade the financial management system was not entirely AREA's fault, but AREA
management must shoulder part of the responsibility; had they pushed harder and with persuasiveness, the
Ministry of Finance might have been persuaded to let the upgrade go ahead.
The PMU set up with four professional staff to implement the project performed satisfactorily. Up to
1995, it was plagued by the generic implementation problems that were beyond its control. Subsequent to
1995, the main factor in delayed disbursement was the difficulty that the PMU had in liaising with MAI
departments and with AREA to determine requirements and agree on the procurement process. In some
cases, PMU procurement staff proved inadequate (training was subsequently given).  Monitoring
information on project inputs and costs was well maintained and distributed, and periodic progress reports
were full and informative. Project accounts were produced on time and in an acceptable format.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
A.     Lessons About Capacity Building and Institutional Development Projects
Complexity is a relative concept that can change as project agencies acquire skills. A debate about
complexity dogged this project from the beginning. Ultimately it was resolved by a crisis in which a
number of factors contributed to the conclusion that the project could not be implemented on the scale it
- 16 -



had been designed. The lesson is that complexity is a relative concept - relative to implementation (and
supervision) capacity. In the case of this project, implementation faltered from inadequate implementation
capacity, but by the end of the project the ministry had evidently acquired much greater capacity for this
kind of project, as is shown by its more mature management of the Aden Agenda process.
National ownership is vital in a capacity building project - but such a project can also build
ownership. At its beginning, this project had only partial ownership in the ministry and this contributed to
poor implementation performance, including marginalization of technical assistance and the slow progress
on ministry reorganization. By contrast, at the end of the project at least the reform-minded segment within
the ministry was actively taking initiatives in change management. The lesson is that a capacity building
project can only work if there is ownership - but the process of capacity building itself can also build
capacity for taking ownership of an increasingly demanding reform agenda. Hence lack of unanimous
ownership at the start of the project should not necessarily be a reason not to proceed - provided that there
are indications that the project will create the right momentum. A related lesson is that even where the
public sector environment is weak, ownership within a ministry can still help a project to succeed.
Institutional development is a longer term challenge than capacity building. This report makes a
distinction between capacity building - the acquisition of skills and tools to do the job  and institutional
development - the exercise of those skills in improved management performance. The achievement of the
project was greater in capacity building than in institutional development. The lesson is that longer term
support through successive projects or an "APL" approach is likely to be necessary in order to produce
sustainable improvements in institutional performance.  In the case of Yemen, for example, the
implementation of the Aden Agenda and the revival of field services to farmers - both major institutional
challenges - are only likely to be successfully carried through if there is continued project support.
Every means possible should be sought to ensure national ownership and control of technical
assistance. Technical assistance is hard to manage for a weak administration but this is made harder if the
assistance is selected and largely managed by the donor, as was the case with the Dutch-financed assistance
under this project. Government in its own evaluation report (see Annex 8) expressed a preference for
competitive bidding and involvement of Government in selection of all technical assistance. The lesson is
that every means possible should be sought to ensure national ownership and control of technical
assistance, and transparency and competition in consultant selection help to secure this ownership.
Close supervision of capacity building projects brings results. Supervision of this project was
conducted from 1996 on from the field office in Sana'a and this permitted both more intensive formal
supervision and regular informal contacts on a partnership basis. Government's own report (Annex 8)
raises the need for even closer contacts - more participation of its own staff in supervision missions and the
possibility that donors sit on the project steering committee. The lesson is that close supervision of a
capacity building project is a key to joint ownership and can contribute significantly to project success.
Crisis can produce beneficial change - if a flexible approach can be taken.  The project was
implemented during a difficult period in the life of the nation and during a critical phase for the Yemeni
public service. Although this created initial difficulties for the project, ultimately the project evolved to
provide some flexible and creative responses to crisis. As a result of this flexibility - at restructuring, and
in the inclusion of the Aden Agenda and the Rapid Impact Program - the project was finally able to
reshape outcomes towards a leaner less ambitious ministry and a more demand-driven and participatory
approach to agricultural services. This approach will drive the new project that will support the revival of
farmer services. The lesson is that capacity building projects are particularly sensitive to changing political
and economic conditions but that crisis can produce beneficial change - if a flexible approach can be taken.
- 17 -



B.     Lessons about Yemen
Civil service unlikely to be high yielding under existing incentive framework. The project showed that
in Yemen not too much reliance should be placed on the concept of a "modem civil service". Even where
staff were trained and equipped to do their job, the overall incentive, management and career system of the
Yemeni civil service is a serious constraint to performance. This was true at the start of the project and
became more so through the fiscal and public sector crisis that occurred during implementation The lesson
is that realism is needed about the role of Government in development, and that the maximum involvement
should be sought of the private sector and of farmer organizations. This lesson has to be taken into account
in the proposed project to support farmer services.
The budget problem has yet to be resolved.  The problem with resource allocation has been discussed
above. There is an anomalous situation where there is no overall shortage of resources, but inadequate
allocation to finance incentives and operations. The investment budget mops up most resources -
allocations for recurrent expenditures, including operation and maintenance, have actually dropped from
74% (1999) to 52% (2001) of total sector budget resources. In effect, the technical tools for better decision
making exists but there is a lack of consistency in political commitment to change. The proposed budget
restructuring is required, and the possibility of program support, perhaps from a grant donor, could be
envisaged during a transition period.  There are some signs of improvement - for example, the
commissioning of the AFPPF study at Government request, and the budget restructuring proposal under the
Aden Agenda - but it is likely that continued dialogue and technical support, and perhaps conditionality,
will be required to resolve the problem.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower has submitted a summary evaluation report (see Annex 8). The principal points raised are:
The project achieved its targets, notably through the Aden Agenda, RIP, and the research and extension
strategies, and the overall outcome is satisfactory
The project was somewhat complex and this created problems. In addition, as the project covered only
a few departments within the ministry, it had the effect of reducing incentives still further in the
departments not covered
Sustainability may be a problem, particularly for activities like the Multi-Media Center and the NATC
that have not yet really established themselves. Even implementation of the Aden Agenda and of the
research and extension strategies, for all of which there is strong commitment, extemal financial
support will be essential.
Short term training was unfocussed and was a less good investment than long term training. Technical
assistance in general made a good contribution to capacity building. Government would like all
technical assistance, including that provided by bilateral grants, to be procured through competitive
bidding.
Borrower performance was mixed, with some departments treating the project largely as a source of
- 18 -



cars etc. and with some failures to follow up on supervision mission recommendations. Part of the
failure can be traced to management problems, including lack of confirmed AREA management and
weak control over decentralized agencies; both these issues are being dealt with.
Bank and Netherlands performance was good, although there should have been more coordination
between the two and more insistence on full Government participation in supervision. Government
would have liked the donors to take part in the project steering committee.
Lessons include the need to strengthen ownership, to streamline procedures and to include systematic
monitoring and evaluation.
(b) Cofinanciers.
The draft report was been sent to the Government of the Netherlands. Comments were received on January
15, 2001. The comments conceming the extension component, part of which was financed by a
Netherlands Grant are:
-  the need to train AREA staff in extension meant that officers were absent for long periods,
affecting implementation;
-  effectiveness of trained AREA extension staff is not yet clear, and it is not clear that progress in
rainfed agriculture, livestock and special focus on women is adequate;
- AREA has a large number of staff, and some assessment is needed of what is the "right size" for
its job;
-  the Netherlands's assessment of the actions which it had financed is that they fall below the agreed
output; and
-  the Netherlands would like to review the role and performance of the PMU to draw lessons about
the value of such units.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
MAI Component
(1) Ministry restructured             1995                                   1995
MAI Component
(2) Sound agrcultural policy          April 2000                            April 2000
and strategy in place
MAI Component
(3) Critical actions taken to put     2001 (under FSP)                      2001 (under FSP)
field services on sustainable
footing
AREA Component
(4) On farm demonstration             1998                                   1998
programs in place at all stations
AREA Component
(5) Research strategy in place and    1998                                   1998
operational
Output Indicators:
lndicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR!                ActuallLatest Estimate
N/A
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate     Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            USS million   USS million  |
Investnent Costs:
Civil Works                                         5.10           1.56           31
Equipment & Vehicles                                2.30           2.96          129
Technical Assistance, Studies, Training             5.58           8.61          154
Recurrent Costs:
Operation & Maintenance, Other Inc. - Operating Costs  4.20        3.10           74
Total Baseline Cost                                17.18          16.23
Physical Contingencies                             1.70
Price Contingencies                                3.12
Total Project Costs            22.00          16.23
Total Financing Required            22.00           16.23
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ir_            Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     4.00         3.00        0.00         0.00        '.00
(3.40)       (2.60)       (0.00)   _   0.00)       (6.00)
2. Goods                     3.40         0.00         0.60         0.00        4.00
(3.40)       (0.00)       (0.60)       (0.00)      (4.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         3.30         0.00        3.30
Technical Assistance        (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.20)       (0.00)      (2.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         3.20         0.00        3.20
Training                    (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.00)       (0.00)      (2.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         4.50         0.00        4.50
Incremental Operating       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)      (0.20)
Costs
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     7.40         3.00         11.60        0.00        22.00
(6.80)       (2.60)       (5.00)       (0.00)      (14.40)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB          Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           1.56          0.00          0.00          1.56
(0.00)         (1.56)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.56)
2. Goods                        2.30           0.66          0.00          0.00          2.96
(2.30)         (0.66)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.96)
3. Services                     6.00           2.61          0.00          0.00          8.61
Technical Assistance           (3.00)         (1.39)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (4.39)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Training                       (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          3.10          0.00          3.10
Incremental Operating          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.47)         (0.00)        (0.47)
Costs
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        8.30           4.83          3.10           0.00         16.23
(5.30)         (3.61)        (0.47)        (0.00)        (9.38)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv alent)
|Percentage or Appraisal
( oniponenl            Appraisal Estimate          Akctual/Latest Estimate    Ban    e of    -
riank     GCFo.                                            Bankn  Govt.  CoF.
Civil Works              6.00      1.00                1.56                         26.0   0.0
Equipment, Equipment     4.00                          2.96                         74.0
Technical Assistance &   4.20      0.10      2.20      4.39                4.22    104.5   0.0   191.8
Studies, Training
Operating Expenditures   0.20      3.50      0.80      0.47       1.80     0.83    235.0   51.4   103.7
TOTAL PROJECT            14.40     4.60      3.00      9.38       1.80     5.05     65.1   39.1  168.3
COSTS
- 22 -



Technical Assistance and Consultancies (Staff Months)
I              - Project Year                    total
No.   92    93   94    95    96   97    98    99  2000 S/M
A. LONG TERM
GD for Planing & Monitoring
Sector Analysis Specialist       1    3     9    _     _                                 12
GD for Administration & Finance
Budget & Fin. Control            1    _     11    5                                      16
Human Res. Dev. / Mgt.           1    3     9          -                                 12
Agricultural Research
and Extension Authority
1- GD for Research
Rainfed Crop Advisor /TL         1                           6    12    12   12    2    44
Farming System                   1                           7    12    12    5    _    36
Livestock                        1                           7    5                      12
2- GD for Extension & Training                                                               0
TLI/ Extension Advisor           I    _     2                                            2
TL2/ Extension Advisor           I    _     6     6    12   12    6                     42
Training Expert              I     _    8     3    _     _     _    _     _11
WID Extension Specialist         I    _     8     6    12   10    5                     41
TL3/ HRD Expert                  1               _     1    12    6                _     19
M&E Expert                   I                _     3    12    6                     21
Junior Expert                I                _     8    4     _                     12
13                                                      280
Appraisal estimate                                                                  225
- 23 -



Technical Assistance and Consultancies (Staff Months) (continued)
Project Year              total
No. 92    93   94  95   96   97  98   99 2000 S/M
B. SHORT-TERM
GD for Planing & Monitoring
GD for Administration & Finance
Agricultural Research
and Extension Authoritv
1- GD for Research
2- GD for Extension & Training
Audio Visual Media Expert   1   1                                          1
Sr.Extension & M&E Expert  1    2                                       *2
WID and M&E Expert         1    2                                          2
Agric. Communication Expert  1  2                                          2
Multi Media Expert         1    1                                          1
Mass Communicate. Expert   1    1                                          1
Institutional Develop. Expert  1  1  2                                     3
HRD Expert                 1    1    _                                     1
Environmental Expert       1    1    _                                     1
LACTraining Expert         1    2    _    1   _    1                       4
Extension Communicate. Exper 3  _    -   10   -    _      _  _             610
Extension.Training Expert  1    _    3   3    _    _                       6
Appropriate Technology Expert  I  _  _    1   _    _                       1
Moderator
15                                             35
Appraisal estimate                                                     112
- 24 -



Long-Term and Short-Term and Local Training
rI           Project lmpl.Year -           Total in
No. 92    93   94   95  96   97   98   99 2000 S/Month
A. Foreign Lona Term
GD for Planning & Monitoring
Agric. Economic (MSc.)      1    _    6   12   6    _    _    _    _    _     24
Agric. Economic (MSc.)      1    _    6   12   6    _    _    _    _    _     24
Agric. Economic (PhD.)      1    _    _   _    _    _    6    12   12   6     36
Agric. Marketing (Ph.D..)   1                   _ _ _ _ _  _ _     3    6     9
GD for Administration & Finance
Public Administ.. (MA)      1             _ _ _  4  8            _ _ _ _      12
Accounts    (MA)            1    _      _ _    _    4    8    _    _    _     12
Agricultural Research
and Extension Authoritv
1- GDforResearch               17            _         42  180  144  120  72    558
2- GD for Extension & Training  14           _         33   50  86   60   17    246
37                                                921
Appraisal estimate                                                        900
- 25 -



Long-Term and Short-Term and Local Training (continued)
Project Impl.Year -           Total in
No.  92   93   94   95   96  97   98   99 2000 S/Week
B. Foreign Short Term
GD for Planing & Monitoring
Management                  6    _    _   _    _    37    -   -    -    -     37
Secretary / Computer        8    _    _    8   25    -   10   6    -    -     49
Loan Account                5        14                  12   _               26
Agric. Policy & Project Analysis 21  _  5  _   35   _    20   27              87
Agric. Planning             8    _    _   48   15   _    _    _               63
Tech. And Econo. Co-Opration  2  _    _   _    _    12    -   -               12
Project Monitoring & Evaluation  2  _  _  _    _    _    8    _               8
Sub - Total             52    0   19   56   75   49   50  33    0    0    282
GD for Administration & Finance
Managing of Procurement     8    _    6    2   8    2    _    3    _    _     21
Budgeting & Fin. Control    16   _    2   10   8    12   8    15   3    _     58
General Management & Admin. 24   _   14   24   14   17   21   6    12   _    108
Secretary / Computer        16   _    _   11   16   16   12   -   12    _     67
Sustainable Rural Dev.      1                                 1               1
Human Resource Mang. & Dev. 1                                 4               4
Personnel Management        6                                 18              18
Privatization               1                       2                         2
Sub -Total              73    0   22   47   46   49  41   47   27    0    279
H-Q. and Agric. Offices
Management                  16   _    _    6   _    5    20   9    16   _     56
Secretary / Computer        3    _    _    3   -    -    6    -    -    -     9
Agric. Marketing            1    _    _    _   _    _    _    3    _    _     3
Documentary Information     1    _    _   _    _    _    4         _    _     4
Seed Technology             1    _    _   _-        -    2    -    -    -     2
Contracts & Intern. Law     3                       6    4    3               13
Agric. Fertility            1    _    _    8   _    _    _    _               8
General Public Relations    2         4                                       4
Sub-Total               28    0    4   17   0    11   36   15  16    0     99
P M U
Management                  4    _    _   _    4    14             5    _     23
Budgeting & Fin. Control    3    _    _   _    4    6    4    _         -     14
Procurement / Disbursement  1    5                                     I      5
Sub - Total              8    5    0   0    8    20   4    0    5    0     42
S/Week
Total MAI Components in S/Neeks 161  5  45   120  129 129  131   95  48    0    702
S/Month
Total MAI Components in S/Months 161  1  11  28   30   30   31   22   11   0    164
AREA - Research Component     128   _           _ _    14   14   27   11   _     66
AREA - Extension & Training Comp 55  -   _    9    8   7    9    _    1    _     34
344   1   11   37   38   51   54  49   23    0    264
Appraisal estimate                                                        182
- 26 -



Long-Term and Short-Term and Local Training (continued)
l            Project lmpl.Year -          Total in
No. 92    93  94   95   96   97  98   99 2000 S/Month
C. Local Training:
GD for Planing & Monitoring
English Language           25   _    _   _    _    3    _   _    _    _     3
Computer Courses           15   _    _   _    _    6    _   _    _    _     6
Computer                   18   _    _   _    _    _  0.75  _    _    _    0.75
Sub - Total             58   0    0   0    0    9  0.75  0    0    0    9.75
GD for Administration & Finance
Personnel Management       25   _  0.25  _    _    _   _    _    _    _    0.25
Budgeting & Fin. Control   44   _   0.5                                    0.5
Accounts                   27            _        0.5                      0.5
Human Resource Mang.       30   -      -               0.5       _         0.5
Government Accounts &      62                      _       0.75  _         0.75
Procurment.
Sub-Total              188   0  0.75  0    0   0.5  0.5 0.75  0    0    2.5
Aaricultural Research
and Extension Authority
1- GD for Research
2- GD for Extension & Training  1843  _  6  15  152  47   61   17             298
2089  0   6.75  15  152 56.5 62.3 17.8  0   0   310.25
Appraisal estimate                                                     114.25
- 27 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
St 1p;, fProiec.i C%Ic    '         N-.. tPeim:i. ani Spc,iuIt.              Performancc Rating
(.- y     ^L..: I... I FI'4S. ct .  Implementation     Development
Month/Year     Count      Specialty                        Progress         ( ICL .
Identification/Preparation
04/88                         6    Economist, Water Resource
Specialist, Agriculturist,
Livestock Specialist, Forestry
Specialist, Ag. Credit Specialist
06/88                         1    Economist
09/88                         7    Livestock Specialist, Forestry
Specialist, Economist,
Agriculturist, Financial Analyst,
Ag. Devt. Specialist, Ag.
Education Specialist
06/89                         6    Economist, Research Specialist,
Institutional Expert, Civil
Engineer, Research & Training
Specialist, Tech. Cooperative
Specialist
06/90                         5    Economist, Financial Analyst,
Engineer, Agronomist,
Rangeland Specialist, Forestry
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/89                         4    Agriculturist, Ag. Research
Specialist, Extension
Specialist, Economist
06/91                         1    Resource Mgt. Specialist
Supervision
09/91                          1  Resource Mgt. Specialist
02/92                          4  Resource Mgt. Specialist, Civil     HS                HS
Engineer, Research Specialist,
WID Specialist
07/92                          3  Resource Mgt. Specialist,           HS                HS
Research Specialist, Financial
Specialist
05/93                          1  Ag. Economist                        S                 S
08/93                         5   Resource Mgt. Specialist, WID        S                 S
Expert, Research Specialist,
Civil Engineer, Communications
Specialist
06/94                         2   Resource Mgt. Specialist,            U                 S
Agriculturist
10/94                         I . Resource Mgt. Specialist             U                 U
- 29 -



03/95                          7  Resource Mgt. Specialist,            U                 U
Agriculturist, Irrigation
Engineer, Environmental
Specialist, Economist, Financial
Analyst, Institutions Specialist
11/95                         3   Resource Mgt. Specialist,            S                 S
Agro-Economist, Agriculturist
05/96                          1  Financial Analyst                    S                 U
10/96                         3   Financial Analyst, Research          S                 U
Specialist, Institutional Devt.
Specialist
06/97                          3  Operations Officer, Extension        S                 U
Specialist, Research Specialist
12/97                         4   Operations Officer, Agriculturist,   S                 U
Research Specialist, Extension
Specialist
06/98                          1  Operations Officer                   S                 U
12/98                         3   Operations Officer, Technical        S                 S
Specialist, Research Specialist
05/99                         2   Operations Officer, Technical        S                 S
Specialist
11/99                         1   Operations Officer                   S                 S
06/2000                        4  Operations Officer, Technical        S                 S
Specialist, Research Specialists
(2)
ICR
10/2000                       2    Operations Officer, Research        S                 S
Specialist
(7) Staff.
SIaSc of Project C%clc                   Acrual Latesi EsLimate
l___________________                No. Staff weeks             US$ (,OOUi
Identification/Preparation                1.0                        2.90
Appraisal/Negotiation                   166.1                      454.29
Supervision                             147.5                      565.10
ICR                                       6.0                        25.0
Total                                   320.6                     1047.29
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
F Sector Policies                     O H  * SU O M   O N  O NA
Z Physical                            OH   *SUOM      ON   ONA
X Financial                           O H OSUSM       O N  O NA
X Institutional Development           0 H O SU * M    0 N 0 NA
ZEnvironmental                        O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
X Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Z Gender                        O H OSU*M O N        O NA
M Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
I Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N * NA
Z Public sector management            0 H O SU * M 0 N 0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       O N * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
 Lending                                          OHS OS *U OHU
 Supervision                                      OHS OS       Ou     OHU
F Overall                                          OHS IDS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
I Preparation                                      OHS OS       * U    O HU
Z Government implementation performance            O HS O S     * U    0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS       O u    O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A. Within Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
Documents and Papers Prepared by GDPM 1998:
1. Basic Facts: the Economics of Crop Production in Yemen.
2. Review of Market Policies.
3. Policy Simulations (Sources of Growth).
4. Rural Finance.
5. Public Expenditure of the MAT.
6. Divestiture.
7. Farmer Organizations in Yemen.
8. Phenomenon of Qat.
Documents, Papers and Reports Prepared by PCU
1. Project Progress Reports (1992 - 1998).
2. Future of Agricultural Development in Yemen The Aden Agenda), March, 1997
3. The Manpower, in the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation. October, 1998
4. Policy on Rural Women Development in Agriculture and Food Security from a Gender Perspective
(RWDD).
5. Review of the Agriculture and Fisheries Production Promotion Fund, 1998.
6. The Study of Preparation of a Budget and Expenditure Adjustment Program, March, 1998
7. Field Services Review Study, April 1998.
8. Workshop Document on the Restructuring of MAI, December 1998.
9. Workshop Document on the Framework of Restructuring and Reform of the Agriculture Sector
(A2 IA),
August, 1999
10. Workshop Document on the Policies and Strategies of Livestock Sector, March 2000.
1 1. Feasibility Study of Piloting Veterinary Privatization and Contracting out at Provincial Level, October
2000.
Documents, Papers and Reports Prepared by Dr. Zuhair Alsabage the Manpower and
Administration Expert (October 1992-1993
1.   Situation Assessment Report on General Directorate for Finance and Administration Affairs
(GDFAA).
2. The Proposed Organizational Structure for the Financial and Administration Affairs Sector (FAAS).
3. Work Procedures Simplification in the General Directorate of Personal Affairs and Training
(GDPAT): (i) Department of Personal Affairs; (ii) Department of Organization and Administration
Development; (iii) Department of Wages; and (iv) Department of Training.
4. Work Coordination between Department of the General Directorate of Personnel Affairs.
5. Proposal for Development of Filling System in the GDPA.
6. Proposal on the Procedures and Implementation Evaluation Formn for GDPA.
7. Training Plan for the Staff in the FAAS for the Period 1993-1998.
8. Terms of Reference.
9. Incentive System for the MAWR Employees in the Republic of Yemen.
- 33 -



10. Proposal for Organizing the Work of General Directorate of Secretary.
11. Manpower Structure in MAWR and the Future Planning.
12. Evaluation Results for the Training Course on the Personal Management (17-22/7/1993).
13. Organizational Structure and Tasks Proposed for the General Directorate in MAWR.
14. Terminal Report.
Documents, Papers and Reports Prepared by the Budget and Financial Control Specialist 1993
ZRI. Situation Assessment Report on the GDFA as for Feb. 1993 Feb. 28, 1993 (in Arabic).
ZR2 Ditto but in English Feb. 28, 1993.
ZR3. Document No. ZR 1, but amended + B&FCS work program April 2, 1993.
ZR4. Incentive System for the MAWR Employees (in Arabic and English), May 1993.
ZR5. Scholarship Forms, May 1993.
ZR6. Training Plan for GDFA Employees on Financial Aspects, May 1993.
ZR7. Arrangement for Periodic Meetings in FAAS and GDFA, May 1993.
ZR8. 1st Quarter Progress Report (Feb - April 30, 1993), May 1993.
ZR9. Instruction to Motivate GDFA Employees to enroll in the Training Programs, May 1993.
ZRIO. 1st Half Year Progress Report (in Arabic), June 1993.
ZRI 1. Ditto but in English, June 1993.
ZR12. 1st Training Program on Governmental Accounting (in Sana'a), Aug. 1993.
ZR13. Cash Flows Forms for the ASMSP, June 1993.
ZRl4. Work Procedures Simplification in the Department of Procurement and Warehousing, July 1993.
ZR15. Training Program on Governmental Budgeting and Financial System in ROY, June 1993.
ZR16. Training Program on PC (Lotus 123), Aug.1993.
ZRl7. Summary of the B&FCS Activities, (Feb - July 31, 1993), Aug. 1993.
ZR 18. Working Paper on the Obstacles and Problems Facing the Agricultural Projects, Aug. 1993.
ZRI9. A Report on Evaluation of the Governmental Accounting Training Course, Sep. 1993.
ZR20. Work Procedures Simplification (Disbursement of additional wages), Sep. 1993.
ZR21. Work Procedures Simplification (Travel Expenses), Sep. 1993.
ZR22. Suggested Training Work Program for the GDFA for 1994 -1995, Sep. 1993.
ZR23. TOR and Ist draft of the suggested Accounting Bureau Service to be Hired by the ASMSP (in
Arabic &
English), Oct. 1993.
ZR24. Accounting System in the ROY, Oct. 1993.
ZR25. The Unified Financial System, Oct. 1993.
ZR26. World Bank Recommendations Concerning PMU and PFU, Nov. 1993.
ZR27. A Suggested Archive System for the PMU and PFU, Nov. 1993.
ZR28. Work Procedures Simplification (Monthly Salary for MAWR Staff), Nov. 1993.
B. Within AREA
Publications by ICARDA-Yemen Collaborative Program, 1996-1999
Abedin, M. Z. 1996: Concepts, Definitions and Principles of Farming Systems Approach, National
Workshop on Fanning System, June 1996.
Abedin, M. Z. 1996: Methodological Steps in Fanning Systems Approach to Research and Extension,
National Workshop on Farming System, June 1996.
Abedin, M. Z. and A. Dameem, 1996: Issues in Implementing Fanning Systems Approach to Research and
Extension (FSARE) in the Research Programs of AREA, National Workshop on Farming System,
- 34 -



June 1996.
Reynolds, L. & Al Sagheir, 0. 1996 Introduction to the Farming Systems Approach to Research and
Extension from a Livestock Perspective, National Workshop on Farming System, June 1996.
Shetty, S. V. R. and H.A. Mukbel, 1996: Cropping Systems Research in Yemen. Research Review
Workshop, Sept. 1996.
Bamatraf, A. Dameem A & Shetty, S. V. R. 1996: Agricultural Research Management in AREA: Some
Critical Issues, Research Review Workshop.
Al-Sagheir, 0. & Reynolds, L. 1996: Livestock and Forage in Yemen, Research Review Workshop, Sept,
1996.
AREA/ICARDA, 1996: Research Review Working Group Recommendations on : (1) Guidelines for
Identification of Research Programs and Projects; (2) Guidelines for Priority Setting and Planning
for the Long Term Strategy, Short term Objectives and Annual Research Planning Process; (3)
Guidelines for Future Organization and Structure, Research Resource and Program Management; (4)
Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation, Proceedings of the National Review Workshop, Sept,
1996: 2 Volumes.
ICARDA and AREA: An Assessment of Agricultural Research in the Republic of Yemen: A Status
Report, 1996.
Hariri, G. 1996: Strategic Planning, Program Planning and Priority Setting in Agricultural
Research, Orientation Workshop, Republic of Yemen, Nov, 1996.
Abedin, M. Z. Shetty 1997: Planning of Research and Extension Activities at Regional Level:
Guidelines, AREAIICARDA.
ICARDA and AREA 1996: Database on Researchers and their Research Activities Highlands, Coastal and
Plateau Regions: AREA/ICARDA, Republic of Yemen: 3 Volumes.
AREA, 1997: Livestock Sector Task Force Report, Dhamar.
Reynolds,L. 1997: After Diagnostic Data Collections, Training Workshop Paper.
Reynolds, L. 1997: Economic Evaluation of Agricultural Technology, Training Workshop Paper.
Reynolds, L. 1997: A Quantitative Guide to Designing Surveys and Experiments, Training Workshop
Paper.
Al-Sagheir,0.& Reynolds, L. 1997: Livestock and the Environment in Yemen, AREA/ICARDA - Yemen.
Reynolds, L. 1997: Livestock Research in Yemen, End of Contract Report, ICARDA/AREA, Dhamar.
Reynolds, L. 1997: Crop-Livestock Interaction Research in Yemen: A Research Proposal for AREA.
Reynolds, L. 1997: Small Holder Dairy Development in Yemen: Research Proposal for Yemen.
Reynolds, L. 1997: Agroforestry Research in Yemen: A Research Proposal for Yemen.
Reynolds, L. 1997: Range Improvement Research in Yemen: A Research Proposal for Yemen.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1997: Research for Rapid Impact: A Concept Note for Implementation of RIP Program,
January 1997. AREA/ICARDA.
Dameem, A & Shetty SVR 1997: AREA Strategic Planning Orientation Workshop: Objectives and
Expected Outputs, AREA/ICARDA
Shetty, S. V. R. 1997: National Agricultural Research Strategy: Scope and Vision for AREA,
AREA/ICARDA, Republic of Yemen.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1997: Towards Strengthening AREA's Research Management: Some Guidelines for
AREA, AREA/ICARDA, Republic of Yemen.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1997: National Agricultural Research Strategy: Some Guidelines for Implementation by
AREA, AREA/ICARDA.
Dameem, A & Shetty. SVR 1997: Agricultural Sector Management Support Project: A Summary Progress
Report of the Research Component.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1997: Rainfed agriculture improvement in Yemen: Some Research Issues,
AREA/ICARDA, Republic
of Yemen.
- 35 -



Shetty, S. V. R. 1997: First Annual Research Coordination Meeting: Working Group Recommendations,
AREA/ICARDA.
AREA & ICARDA 1997: Agricultural Research Strategy, Final Draft AREA/ICARDA.
AREA&ICARDA, 1997: ASMSP-Research Component: Project Planning Matrix, 1997-1999,
AREA/ICARDA, Republic of Yemen.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1997: ICARDA-Program in the Republic of Yemen, Summary Note Prepared for
ICARDA-Board visits, AREA/ICARDA.
Shetty, S, V. R. et al 1997: Visit to Agricultural Research Institutes in India: A Summary Report,
AREA/ICARDA, Republic of Yemen.
ICARDA-Yemen, 1997 Monthly Reports and Mission Reports.
Abedin, M. Z. 1997: Farming Systems Approach to Research and Extension: Concepts and Methodologies,
ICARDA-AREA, Dhamar.
Abedin, M. Z, Shetty: Guidelines for Planning Research Activities at Regional Level in AREA,
ICARDA, AREA.
Abedin, M. Z. 1997: Tips on Using Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) Tools, Lecture Note, AREA
Training Course.
Abedin, M. Z. 1997: Ex-Ante Evaluation of Technologies, Lecture Note, AREA Training Course.
Abedin, M. Z. et al 1997: Selection and Characterization of On-Farm Trial Sites, Field Document,
FAO/ERARLUP, ICARDA and AREA, Dhamar.
Abedin, M. Z and Sailan A. 1997: On-farm Trials: Brief Guidelines for Implementation,
ICARDA/AREA, Dhamar.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1998: Partnership in Agricultural Research for Development: Collaborative Projects and
Activities by Republic of Yemen and ICARDA.
Shetty, S. V. R. and Bamatraf A: A draft proposal for Yemen to be a Member of the Consultative Group
on Intemational Research (CGIAR), July, 1998.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1998: Strategy for ICARDA Intemational Cooperation: ICARDA-Yemen Vision for
Future Collaboration.
Shetty, S. V, R. 1998: Introduction to Orientation Workshop on Implementation of Research Strategy,
Presented at the Research Management Orientation Workshop, March 28, 1998, Dhamar, Republic
of Yemen.
ARE A and ICARDA 1998: Medium Term Research Implementation Plan: 1998-2000, Dhamar, Feb.
1998, Republic of Yemen.
Shetty, S. V. R 1998: Collaborative Projects and Activities by Republic of Yemen and ICARDA, June
1998, Dhamar, Republic of Yemen.
M. Al-Nassiri, 1998, Establishing the new National Research Center in AREA, ICARDA/AREA, March,
1998, Republic of Yemen.
Shetty, S. V. R: and M. Al-Nassiri: Socio-Economics Research in AREA: Some Thoughts for
Implementing the New Research Strategy: Consultative Meeting on Socio-Economic Research in
AREA, June 1998, Republic of Yemen.
Shetty, S. V. R. and M. Al-Nassiri, 1998: Research-Extension Linkages in Yemen: Some Issues Involved
in Developing and Managing Effective Links, National Workshop on Research-Extension Linkages
in Yemen, July 1998.
Khawlani, M et al 1998: Rainfed Cropping Systems in the Highlands of Yemen: A Review Paper,
AREA/ICARDA, Republic of Yemen.
AREA 1998: Productivity Improvement and Resource Conservation in Rainfed Agriculture in Yemen: A
Project Proposal, Aug. 1998.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1998: Introduction to Participatory Farming Systems Approach to Research and
Extension: Training workshop, November, 1998.
Hariri, G. and Shetty SVR 1998: Planning, Programming, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation of
- 36 -



Agricultural Research: Research Management Workshop.
Shetty, S. V. R. and M. Al-Nasiri 1998: ASMSP: Research Components, Summary Activities and
Achievements, 1996-1998. Annual Research Coordination Meeting, 1998, AREA/ICARDA,
Republic of Yemen.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1998: A Coordinated Rainfed Agricultural Research Initiative for Productivity
Improvement and Natural Resources Management, Annual Planning Meeting, 1998,
AREA/ICARDA, Republic of Yemen.
ICARDA-Yemen, 1998: Summary Proceedings and Recommendations of the National Research Review
and Planning Workshop, Sept. 1998.
ICARDA-Yemen, 1998: Summary Proceedings of the In-Country Training Workshops: 1. Statistical
Design arid Analysis, 2. Scientific Writing, Feb. 1998.
AREA/ICARDA 1998: Generalized Rapid Impact Program (GRIP): Objectives, Procedures and Future
Directions, May 1998.
ICARDA/AREA: Monthly Progress Reports, 1996-99.
ICARDA/AREA: Annual Progress Reports, 1996-98.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1998: From Strategic Vision to Implementation: Issues in Human Resources Management
and Development in AREA.
Abedin, M.Z et al 1998: : Farming Systems Approach to Research and Extension: AREA 1998.
Abedin, M.Z. and Sailan, A. 1998: On-Farm Trials in Republic of Yemen; Brief Guidelines for
Implementation.
Sailan, A. and Abedin, M.Z. 1998: Rapid Impact Program: Progress Report, 1997-98, Paper presented in
the National Technical Review Workshop held at AREA HQ in Dhamar, September, 1998.
Singh, Murari 1998: Design, Analysis and Presentation of Agricultural Experiments.
Abedin, M.Z. 1998: Why We Are Talking About Socio-Economic Research in Agricultural, Research and
Extension Authority (AREA).
Abedin, M. Z. 1998: Need for Research-Extension-Farmer Linkages, Paper presented in the National
Workshop on Research - Extension Linkages in Yemen held during 12-14 July, 1998 in Taiz, Yemen
(Mimeo).
ICARDA/AREA 1999: National Agricultural Research Program (NARP): A Concept Note, January
1999.
ICARDA/AREA 1999: Yemen Agricultural Technology Program (Yemen ATP): A Concept Note,
March 1999.
Abedin, M. Z. 1999: Application of Farming Systems Approach to Research and Extension in AREA,
Yemen: Experiences Gained and Future Needs, End of Contract Report, ICARDA/AREA, Dhamar.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1999: Evolution of Agricultural Technology and Productivity Program in Yemen,
Workshop on ATP in Yemen.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1999. Introduction to Changing Factors Influencing Future Agricultural Research System
in Yemen, Workshops on Review of Agricultural Technology Generation System in Yemen, Sept.
1999.
Shetty, S. V. R. 1999. Team Leader's Terminal Report, ICARDA/AREA, Republic of Yemen.
Muharram. I. & Shetty S.V.R. 1999: Institutional, Organizational and Management Challenges to AREA:
A Vision for Next Decade, A working paper prepared for ATP-Preparation AREA, Dhamar,
November, 1999.
Principal ETC/ETD Project Documents
Aktabasi, S. 1993: The use of audio-visual media in the agricultural sector in Yemen, Background
Document, ETC Report No 7.
Ban, A. W. van der: Extension Strategies and Monitoring and Evaluation, Background Document ,ETC
- 37 -



Report No 3.
Ban, A.W, van der: Proposal for a Library on Extension Education, Discussion Paper 7.
ETC: Training Needs Assessment in Extension and Training Report of the ETC Workshop Training Needs
Assessment, June 22-24 1993.
ETC/RWD: Overview Rural Women Development Section AREA.
Graaf, M. de: Institutional Aspects of Agricultural Extension and Research, ETC Report No 4.
Lavieren, B. van: Environmental Issues in Agricultural Extension, Background Document, ETC Report
No 5.
Ludamanni R.: Training Needs Assessment, ETC Report No. 2.
Naber, G.: Yemen Agricultural Information Network Library Documentation and Development of a
Multi-Media Center Using Video Techniques for Agricultural Extension and Training in Yemen,
ETC Report No. 8.
Theisen, A.: Intermediate Report of the Human Resource Development Specialist Special Report, ETC
Report No 6.
Urben, R.: Monitoring and Evaluation: ETC Report No 1.
Akerboom, A.M. Bijleveld, C. and C van Schoot: Women's Roles in Agriculture and Livestock in
Yemen.
Al Hakimi, A.L.: Activity report on Extension Pilot Activities 1993 - August 1994, Reports 1-4.
Ban, A. van der: Extension Strategies, ETC Report No 14.
Brand, J.: Training in Rapid Rural Appraisal, Report on a training course for AREA staff, Oct. 11, 1994.
IAC: An action Plan for the Establishment of a M&E System.
IAC: Monitoring and Evaluation: A tailor made course for staff from AREA/ETD, RRC Lahej and DoA,
Lahej
Muayyad, M. and J. Brand: The National Agricultural Training Centre (NATC), Towards a Training and
Development Centre for the Agricultural Sector in Yemen.
Reddy, B.: Report of the Workshop on Research Extension Linkages at Agricultural Training Centre
(GIAR), ETC Report No 18.
Mukred: Research and Extension Linkages.
Al Hakimi, A.H.: Preparation and Organization of RRA Field Survey at Tihama.
Al Sooki, K: The Supervisory Skills for Middle Management Training Course, Training course book.
Al Sooki, K: Writing skills Training Course Book.
Al Sooki, K.: Daily Expenses for Area Training and Field Work, A proposal for standard per diems and
allowances.
Al Sooki, K. and J. Brand: Towards Effectiveness, A Next Step in AREA Organization and
Development.
Reddy B: Guidelines for Organization of On-Farm Research and Joint On-Farm Trials at Regional Level.
Reddy, H.N.: Guidelines for Organizations of Joint Field Visits of Researchers and Extensionists.
Hoenderdos, W.: Assessment of the State of M&E Affairs: ASMSP/M&E Report, Special Report 13.
Mukred, A.O.: Report on the Training course on Research and Extension Linkages, November 1995.
Reddy, H.N.B. and Mukred: Operation of Diagnostic teams Jointly by Research and Extension at
Regional Level.
Hoot, C.M.E van,: Rural Women Extension in the Balance: A Critical Review of 20 Years of Rural
Women Extension Efforts in Yemen.
Hoot C.M.E Yemeni Women in Agriculture and Rural Development 1975-1995, Annotated bibliography.
Visser EAK: Labour Reducing Tools for Rural Women in the Republic of Yemen.
A.K. AT Magaleh: Establishment of a Multi-Media Centre in Yemen.
Reddy N: Communication Techniques and Extension Methodology for Scientists and SMS (Extension
Report on training course.
Sudharshan Rao and N. Reddy: A Training Course on Communication Techniques and Extension
- 38 -



Methodologies for Regional Level Specialists.
Reddy, N. and M. Sudharshan M: Management of Communication Technology, Training course book.
Hoenderdos, W.: Design of a Monitoring and Evaluation System at AREA: Assessment of Information
Needs for Research, Extension and conclusions.
Hoenderdos, W.: Planning and Monitoring Agricultural Development in Yemen.
A.W.O. Mukred: Agricultural Compendium Tihama Vol I Plant Production (Arabic), Final Report.
Al Hamiki, S.: Accounting for Farmers Associations (principles of farm accounts), Training course book.
Marwani, M.: Status Report on RRA Collected Data and Main Problems in the Agriculture Sector
(Arabic and English).
Schoot, C. van: Focus on Farmers Report on First Phase Pilot Extension Activity.
Staring, G.: Assessment of Pilot Extension Activities (Central Highlands).
Hoenderdos, W.: Monitoring and Evaluation Status Report (November 1997).
Mukrid, A.W.O.: Aden Agenda and the National Extension Strategy Paper in English/Arabic.
Mukred, A.W.O.: Report on the visit to Lahej and Abyan Govemorates to review Rapid Impact Program
in Extension.
Mukred, A.W.O.: Description of Farming Systems under Tube Well Irrigated and Flood Irrigated
Conditions on the Tihama Plains (Arabic).
Mukred, A.W.O.: Description of Farming Systems under Irrigated Conditions in the Central Highlands
(Arabic).
Jan Castelein: Training Marketing of Agricultural Services.
Al Muayyad M.: Strengthening the Role of the National Agricultural Training Centre and Improving the
Links and Coordination between the Training Organizations in Yemen.
Hoenderdos, W.: Monitoring and Evaluation-A selected Bibliography, Overview of English Titles
Relevant to Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation of Rural and Agricultural Development. Research
and Extension. Rapid Appraisal of Private sector in Agriculture Central Highlands and Sana'a.
Al Soki K.: Business Plan for Agricultural Multimedia Centre.
ETD/ETC: National Extension Strategy (Third and Final Draft).
Wadea Mikhlafl: A Study on Knowledge on Potato Production, thesis MSc Degree.
Reddy H.N.B.: Proposal. and Outlines for Establishing Extension and Training Division AREA.
Reddy H.N.B.: Research and Extension Linkages Handbook.
Reddy H.N.B.: Joint Planning of Research and Extension Programs at Agro Climatic Zonal Level (Draft).
- 39 -



Additional Annex 8. Project Evaluation Summary from Borrower's Perspective
INTRODUCTION
This summary evaluation report is an integral part of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Agriculture Sector Management Support Project (ASMSP), containing a final evaluation from Borrower's
perspective (the Government of the Republic of Yemen GROY). The report will briefly present an
analytical and selective review of key issues related to the project. This includes a retrospective assessment
of the project objectives, design and implementation, in addition to evaluating the Borrower's own
performance as well as the performance of the Bank, cofinanciers and other partners. Also, the
effectiveness of the relationships among the borrower, the Bank, cofinancier and other partners will be
discussed. Special emphasis is given to lessons leamed that may be relevant in the future. It ends up with
indicating proposed arrangements for future operation of the project, along with a tentative definition of
performance indicators to be used to monitor future operation and development impact.
Realizing the importance of agriculture as a major profession of most Yemenis and a source of national
wealth, contributing to the country's economy, the GROY decided to launch a massive development
program for the agricultural sector with the support of IDA (referred here to as the Bank) and cofinanced
by the Government of the Netherlands (GON or referred here to as the Royal Netherlands Embassy in
Sana'a RNE). The ASMSP, the first project within the National Agricultural Development Program
(NADP) aim to develop the sector management capability in MAI, to strengthen services to farmers
through research and extension, and to provide associated facilities. The original total cost of the project (to
be implemented over a period of seven years) was estimated at US$22.5 million, with foreign exchange
component of US$19.5 million. The cofinancing arrangements include an IDA credit of US$14.4 million,
an Netherlands grant of US$3.0 million, and GROY's contribution of US$5.1 million. Due to the
restructuring of the project during late 1994, the total cost of the project was reduced to US$16.25 million.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at 80% of the new total cost. The civil works for agricultural
research and extension and training components, which mainly caused significant delays , have been
significantly reduced.
ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
Project Objectives: The formulation of main objective of developing the sector management capability in
MAI upgrading staff qualification, strengthening policy analysis and planing capacity, introducing modem
techniques for financial and human resources management, and improving functional links between general
departments (GDs) in MAI. At the time of project evolution and inception, the newly emerged ministry of
Agriculture and water resource (MAWR) as a result of merging the two ministries of Agriculture in the two
parts of Yemen was a desperate need to develop the above-mentioned management aspects. However, the
forner MAWR-HQ was under the burden of an expanded/enlarged organizational structure, (3 divisions or
"sectors" each headed by a deputy minister with one or more assistant; under which there were 15 GDs
with endless number departments, sections... etc; in addition to 6 GDs directly linked to the ministers).
Such an intricate organogram hampered the establishment of any functional links between GDs. At the time
of re-organizing MAWR in 1996, there was only one deputy minister assisted by three Assistant Deputies
heading the three divisions with only 9 GDs, and there was only 4 GDs linked to the minister. The matter of
expanded and poor functioned (unfocused) structure remained to be an obstacle that was only addressed at
the time of developing the Aden Agenda. This specific managerial problem among others not well
comprehended at the time of objective formulation, and continued to throw its shadow over the
effectiveness of MAI-HQ.
- 40 -



The second main objective of strengthening agricultural research, technical training, and field extension and
improving R-E linkages in order to accelerate technology development/adoption seemed to be appropriate
during the time of project evolution and implementation. But, again, this objective had fallen within the
misunderstood "extension" function of AREA, as will be discussed later.
Project Design and Organizations. To achieve the objectives the project was designed to have three
components: (i) Planning and Administration Component (PAC in MAI: To concentrate on developing and
strengthening five major functions which were not adequately carried out: (1) policy planing and
preparation of policy options, (2) commodities review and analysis, and private sector support policies, (3)
project implementation planing including monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and coordination (4)
budgeting and financial management, and (5) personnel management and human resources development.
This would be achieved through the provision of training and TA to upgrade staff skills and qualifications,
institute management systems, improve procedures and flows of information and strengthen
communications, provision of equipment, and rehabilitation and expansion of MAI facilities. (ii)
Agricultural Research Component (ARC) in AREA: to consolidate and focus past development through (1)
strengthening the management and organization of AREA to focus its program on priority research
programs, and improving the focus and quality of research (2) concentrate on priority research work and
(3) developing effective linkages with field extensions operations. This would be achieved through
provision of facilities and equipment to improve existing operations, training, TA, and linkage with
intemational scientific organization. (iii) Extension and Training Component (ETC) in AREA : the project
would enable AREA to create unified approaches to extension services for men and women farmers
through establishing national policies and strategies for extension services; providing for in service training
programs and information material, (including for trainers), TA and providing operating costs; and
establishing a multi-media center.
There are three components as conceived, organized within only three GDs of MAI, and within two of the
three GDs of AREA. The GDPM rested the first three functions of the component-I, and the other two
functions were absorbed by the Finance and Administration sector FAAS ( GDFA and GDPT ). The rest
of MAI and AREA GDs had felt excluded and hence had not shown any ownership towards the project.
Detailed account of such a major obstacle that had faced ASMSP sustainability will be given in sub
segment paragraphs (c.f. para. 7,8 and 10). Here, it should be mentioned that the exclusion of other GDs
could easily be conceived from the brief description of the project design para. 5 above). Although the
project objectives call for improving functional links between GDs, the components formulation explicitly
has focused upon functions that fall within the responsibilities of five specific GDs (in MAI and AREA).
More over, this organizational "bonding" seemed to have affected, to varying extent, the linkage of ASMSP
to MAI provincial offices as well as to AREA regional stations/center.
Project Implementation. Since its inception in 1992, several factors have hampered timely implementation
of ASMSP, as indicated by low level of disbursement from the credit( not exceeding 7 %) , by late 1994.
Consequently, it was decided that the project should be restructured, in terms of cost, especially for civil
works, but the original project objectives and design remained unchanged. The overall unsatisfactory status
of the project could mainly be attributed to the general political instability of the country, the temporary
incompatibility of procedures among the two merging administrative systems imposed on the newly
emerged MAWR of the united Yemen. Moreover, the weak management and ineffective bureaucratic
measures at all levels of project organization. A situation that has been much exaggerated by lack of
ownership, poor coordination and shortage of committed local resources, e.g. recurrent budget and
counterpart staff; both of which have been identified as potential risks at project appraisal. The
restructured project strengthened its management bodies; i.e., follow up committee was established from the
- 41 -



heads of concemed MAI GDs and AREA; the PMU has been charged with coordination role, and
strengthened with recruitment of two local associate experts one for goods procurement and the other for
civil work. In the following paragraphs, a brief analysis/assessment of constraints to project
implementation within each of its three components.
Within the three components (PAC, ARC and ETC), project funds were utilized to implement three
domains: organizational restructuring, in terms of strategy development, methodological adjustment and
function definition; technical assistance, in terms of expertise provision and staff training; and physical
resources provision, in terms of procuring, field and office equipment, civil works and vehicles.
Implementing the first domain (organizational restructuring) met with several difficulties such as delay due
to shortage of local funding, low levels of staff commitment, and lack of coordination. Some of the
attributes of this domain are facing the threat of being unsustainable due mainly to insufficient recurrent
budget after stopping extemal project funds. For instance, the rapid impact program (RIP) and the pilot
extension areas (PEA) which could be considered as "methodological adjustments" introduced by ARC and
ETC, respectively; we are facing the possibility of lack of funding. Like wise, the "function definition" of
the multi-media center (MMC) and the national agricultural training center (NATC), both supported by
ETC, may loose grounds as less commitment and low coordination prevail. All these drawbacks are a
consignment of heavy dependence on available external funds at project implementation. Fearfully, the
strategy documents for MAI( Aden Agenda), ( research strategy) and extension services (extension
strategy) may not become operational as they were developed under high commitment and strong ownership
but implementation may be difficult if there is no financing.
Technical assistance varied considerably in quality and quantity during implementation. Long-term
expertise quality ranged from poor to excellent, depending on local staff response, compatibility of
qualifications, work experience and/or accountability/control over experts performance. Examples of lower
quality expertise include sector analysis (for GDPM), monitoring and evaluation (for AREA) and the last
TL (for ETC). Among the excellent ones are TL for research component, extension expert (for ETC),
human resource expert (for GDPT) and finance and budgeting expert (for GDFA). The quantity of s/m has
either been decreased or increased as a result of project restructuring in 1994, and ETC mid-term review in
1996. In both cases the project did not match benefit from this s/rn adjustments. Short-term expertise were
utilized in an ad-hoc manner. On the other hand, staff training seemed more beneficial and met with
positive response of local staff. Shortcomings inequitable, unfocussed and ad-hoc) were noticeably
associated with short-term training, mainly due to lack of clear criteria of selecting trainees, inclusion of
non-project related staff, and irrelevant fields of training. Long-term training seemed very beneficial to staff
capacity building at both MAI and AREA, and proved to be more matching AREA purposes quantitatively
as well as qualitatively.
Physical resources provision has been subjected to numerous unjustified delays and frequent last-minute
changes in both items' specifications and quantity. Procurement of physical resources (civil works,
equipment, vehicles...etc) had not taken momentum until the project restructuring, after which the
implementation of this domain continued to become satisfactory until credit closure. However, inadequacy
of counterpart fund, and slow bureaucracy within concerned government agencies, which sometimes
showed resistance to purchasing project vehicles, were the main obstacles that disrupted smooth
implementation. Institutions and agencies included in the project had contributed, to some extent, to the
delays in procurement through hesitation/changes when preparing specification for these facilities.
Project Results and Impact. The project has achieved its targets. It provided for the preparation of the
Aden Agenda (a framework for structural adjustrnents in the agriculture sector; i.e. agriculture policy and
Strategy, in addition to prospects for institutional development for field services), the Research Strategy
- 42 -



and the Extension Strategy documents, and many practical guidelines on methodological adjustments and
function definition for the project agencies. Also, the project agencies had absorbed all planned technical
assistance expertise and staff training. Despite the constraints mentioned above, it can be noted that the
technical assistance/training funded by the project had substantially contributed to capacity building of
staff in the three components. Moreover, the project has reached almost all its target civil works including:
(i rehabilitation of MAI HQ and the buildings for Research stations in Taiz, El-Kod, Seyoun, Dhamar and
Al-Irra; the Inrigation Engineering Institute in Aden; and training and extension centers in Ja'ar, Ataq and
Dhamar; (ii) construction of the MMC building in Sana'a and trainers' housing in Aden; and (iii)
experimental farm's development at Al-Kadan, Seyoun and Taiz. Additionally, it procured office and
housing furniture, office equipment, information/training materials and aids, field and laboratory
equipment, as well as various types of vehicles; which were handed- over to MAI-GDs and AREA.
Considering the results in various project components, the overall project outcome is considered
satisfactory. The project has provided for substantial institutional benefits such as enabling MAI staff to
prepare a framework for sector restructuring, to introduce and adopt improved managerial procedures
(budget and personnel), and to institutionalize function definition for certain MAI GDs (GDPM, GDFA
and GDPT). AREA capability has been improved in terms of: research strategy, medium-term research
plan and AREA restructuring, extension strategy resulting in extension service guidance, and AREA's
extension role definition. Methodological adjustments in research (RIP) and extension (PEA's) programs
have had obvious impact on the targeted rural communities. Evidently, the overall outcome of RIP/GRIP
and PEA's activities gained positive response, ensured good linkages between R&E and farmers
involvement at the farm and station levels, and paved the road for increased technology adoption.
Moreover, function definition for AREA, especially GDR, GDE, NATC and MMC, are well appreciated
by many of those connected with AREA. This has been a direct outcome resulting from utilizing project
inputs both physical and technical/human. Adjusting functions need strong management and commitment
towards R/E strategies, as they are susceptible to loss of sustainability at the after-project operation phase.
From experience, such adjustments frequently cannot be sustained after external support comes to an end.
If sustainability cannot be reached the long time and efforts of many people who worked in the project, the
training they received and the project funds/inputs are likely to be wasted. The improved staff skills and
attained better work conditions due to project physical investment need to be well capitalized upon in order
to avoid factors endangering sustainability.
Lessons Learnedv The project was the first of its kind linking MAI, AREA, and to some extent TDA,
MAI-Offices in Dhamar,   Seyoun and Al-Mahwit; (PEA's and RIP) along with technical assistance
recruited from three different sources (direct recruitment for PAC, ICARDA-recruited for ARC and
Euroconsult-recruited for ETC). Such complicated project design and organization have caused varying
levels of expertise performance and relationships among partners. Simple-design projects my work better.
Strong coordination and feeling of ownership among implementing partners are vital for project
implementation. Skill improvement of local staff may prove to be crucial to project sustainability,
providing that strong management commitment towards capitalizing upon staff capability and physical
investment. Risks identified during project evolvement need to be well addressed and managed during
project implementation. There is little attention at implementing agencies that the ASMSP was the first of a
series of projects within the National Agricultural Development Program (NADP), as the
program-approach at MAI still seems to be premature, and hence the NADP idea may fade-out.
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
A.   Borrower's performance was mixed. Some activities were well implemented and helped to build
ownership- Aden Agenda, Rapid Impact Program, Computerization, DRC analysis and farm management
- 43 -



hand book etc. Other activities suffered of low levels of ownership from the concerned units, as indicated
by poor coordination, misunderstanding of project concept and objectives, and the general understanding of
the project as a source of inputs.
B. In some cases, concerned units failed to submit their work programs and treated the project only as a
source of cars, equipment and training trips.
C. PMU performance was good but was sometimes affected by slow government procurement and budget
procedures and by interventions from other agencies. Project reporting was good, but MAI monitoring and
evaluation of the project was week. The project had lost a year after Bank approval (May, 1991) waiting
for issuing the legal certificate of the credit and for signing the grant agreement with the Government of the
Netherlands. The latter affected the inception of ETC, contracted for by Euroconsult. Similarly, the ARC
inception has been delayed due to unstable situation during the period 1992-1994. Untimeliness have been
characteristic to almost all project procurements and counterpart budget. The absence of a functional M&E
capacity at MAI and AREA resulted in failure to quantify and analyze project's bottlenecks and associated
adverse consequences on loan utilization as well as project's impact on beneficiaries. Another aspect of the
weakness of this capacity was reflected in the lack of commitment towards results of supervision missions.
D. Some institutional aspects like the transitional organizational set-up of AREA and the lack of
governance of MAI on its field-services organizations have depressed the Borrower's performance, despite
the follow up by PMU. The first aspect has affected confirming the recruitment of AREA's top
management, and consequently delayed AREA restructuring. Whereas, the second aspect left those service
organizations (including AREA and RDA's) in a state of mis-guidance and irresolution.
E.  However, MAI acted decisively through the project on both these issues. AREA statute and
management were confirmed, and solution to the field services problem were developed under the Aden
Agenda and have already started implementation in seed, input supply, irrigation management and credit.
Lesson Learned. It is important to institutionalize the notion of ownership towards projects, in order to
enhance project implementation and impact. The ineffective bureaucratic procedure will remain as a major
encumbrance to development projects and will impose a serious obstacle to sustainable utilization of loan
funds. Finally, there is an urgent need for building a functional M&E capacity in MAI and its organizations
as well as for strengthening MAI governance on its different agencies and the agricultural sector as a
whole.
PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS
The Bank (IDA) has shown well performance during almost all stages of the project and assisted in
initiating bilateral contribution (GON) to project activities. In addition, the Bank appreciated the project
difficulties and agreed to restructure the project and to extend its period para. 7 Nevertheless, there were
some encumbrances that have thrown shadow on project implementation. These include: (i inadequate
coordination with the cofinancier (GON), and (ii) one-sided supervision with minimal ineffective
participation of the borrower. Furthermore, the project supervision missions appeared to be a Bank's job.
This shortcoming may rather reflect a negative sign on the Borrower's performance, than on the Bank's.
However the role of the Bank during supervision ensured continued support to the project; as the IDA task
team surmounted several obstacles and supported the project on to satisfactory completion.
- 44 -



The cofinancier (GON) has generously supported the Borrower's efforts in different stages of the project,
particularly at project implementation, and showed well performance. In addition, the GON appreciated the
country's difficulties during early implementation years (1992 and 1994), as well as it contended to project
restructuring. Also, the cofinancier provided for a comprehensive mid-term review mission to ETC (mid
1996), through which a critical evaluation has been undertaken on different aspects of ETC including the
contractor's perception, management and execution of the ETC/ASMSP. Appropriate recommendations on
refocusing and correcting the component's implementation were given. However, the GON agreed to
provide for funding an extra 2-year bridge period as an extended-period project (1998-2000) called ETC2
to complement unfinished work of ETC., furthermore, the GON, through its sector wide approach (SWA),
confirmed its position to assist in the agriculture sector development and extended its support to Aden
Agenda implementation, one of ASMSP outcomes.
The other partners included two contracting agencies to cater for TA and training inputs: one was an
international center for agriculture research (a member of CGIAR) dealing with ARC, and the other was a
consulting firm (from the Netherlands) dealing with ETC. On the one hand, the first partner has shown well
performance in almost all technical aspects of its Terms of Reference. It even helped in involving AREA
with ongoing regional research programs (RRP), such as the Nile Valley and Red Sea (NVRSRP), the
Arabian Peninsula (APRP) and the Cereals and Legumes Asian Network (CLAN). Such involvement gave
an eco-regional dimension of AREA's program. Also, it coordinated additional donor funding for special
research projects; e.g. Mountain Terraces Project funded by IDRC (Canada). On the other hand, the second
partner performance is well described in its Final Report 1993-1999 (p.3) as: "Management of the project
(meaning ETC) was centralized in one person. Involvement of the Embassy (meaning RNE) and the
consultant (meaning the contractor) headquarters in running the project was reduced considerably,...".
In the same page of that Final Report, the contractors (Team Leader of ETC) mentioned:" Consequently
the project and Embassy developed new initiatives to give the project a more practical footing. In the
consequent years a more pragmatic and practical approach was being developed". These phrases as
copied from the Final Report are self-explanatory !!. The project (ETC) became a " one-man show", with
minimal involvement from anybody. Involvement of others (RNE, AREA,..etc) was excluded in all project
aspects: approach, budgeting, management... etc. It is beyond the scope of this ICR to include judgments,
so it is believed that the above quoting from that Final Report is restricted to mere "facts" and thus
describes the second partner's performance.
The effectiveness of the relationships among the borrower, the Bank, the cofmancier and other partners
have been touched upon in previous paragraphs. Basically, a remarkable relationship between the Bank
(IDA) and the borrower (GROY) has prevailed during all stages of the project. Both parties along with
cofmancier (GON) have worked together to avoid and/or alleviate common constraints encountering the
implementing agencies, considering the accumulated experience in Yemen with similar development project.
But in as much as the complexity of ASMSP's design and organization, drawbacks of this partnership
have occurred, which could partially be related three major shortcoming. First, failure to establish a proper
framework for M&E at both project and implementing agencies levels. This framework could have served
dual purpose: achieving M&E capacity building, and enabling the three cooperating partners to timely
identify and confidently alleviate project's bottlenecks. Secondly, overlooking the importance of
participating in the project steering committee (PSC), which could have helped ASMSP's PMU/PCU and
its implementing agencies to consolidate their management capabilities and effectiveness. And thirdly,
underestimating the role of continuous coordination/consultation among themselves on "hot" issues of
project conceptualization, implementation and institutionalization.
Lessons Learned. In addition to issues pointed-out in previous paragraphs, experience with development
project's partnership demonstrates that difficulties may arise due to deviation from planned project design
- 45 -



and isolation of project components, according to source of funding and/or housing-agency. Also, in order
to assure substantial transparent and coherent relationships among partners of such projects, three points
should be considered: (i) understanding project risk and extending support to borrower in proper risk
management, (ii) involving all donor agencies in project steering committee to ensure transparent and
collective management, and (iii) contracting for consultant firrns (from grants funds ) should also be
procured through competitive bidding , in accordance with rules agreed upon among partners; as this has
proved to be much beneficial, less cumbersome to deal with, and more accountable service provider. At
last, but not least, lack of transparency when managing/disbursing grant funds would provide better work
environment.
- 46 -



IBRD 22547Rl
42'                          44'                           46'                          48'                           55'                           52                            54
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                 SAUDI ARABIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT
SUPPORT PROJECT                                                                       .
O   NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION CENTER [AREA)  *  NATIONAL CAP TAL                                                     Sd_I                                                       r I 6 '.  '
G   NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TRAINING CENTER  4   AIRPORTS                                       ,"                    ,,'
*   REGIONAL RESEARCH STATIONS                PORTS
, REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOUNDARIES        WADIS                                 /                        --soi w                                      \ __
ER'4        O TOWNS AND V LLAGES                          GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES              /
GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       Thmud                I                      H '
-~~~~~~~~                                             '                hr-d P                                     3ou 
-------.  A L-
;~---""                  -                                                4-44_ r  E --- -._._  -  ^R d   5/AARA  H-fED
N                                A ;L  '.u                              r I t- H      4  L' li .s  ;i L' LU  r               C.                  -.u   
r!         ii                                                                                                                             T< liEt.;
-        I        l,h; .  w  PEGIONAL DEVELOPM.mENT AGENCIES
I AGBICJLTLUI?AL AND PUEAL DEs ELOPMENI
AUTHORITY SANA A.SAADAH-4HAJJA%H
I 314~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Or ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 EASTEfRN REGION AGRICIJLTURAL
DEVELOPMENT AUTIHRRIn
!H. UtH r "   i  ,  H i  FI  Mr  .t, '"1  2 3  TIHAMA  DEVELOGPIENT  ALITHiORITv
U                                                                       '"ks'                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A CENEReOL HIGHLANDS AGRiCULTUPAL
DEVELOPMENT OCRGANIZATION
.3t iplc.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~SOUTIHERN REGION AC4RICULTURAE
DEVELOPMAENT CORC.ANJIZAIION
6 WJADi TUBAN D-E wELOPMAENT
G   L) I  o  A  cl e n  ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   -WADI ASEYAN DEVELOPMAENT
u  F  o I  A  d e n                    ~~~~~~ WADI BEIHAN DEVEEGENiENT
1:                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9. WADI HAL)RAMOUT ADP
-3   jl                          j11J         ~              <:r
ADE_q                                     -         i      yT  OEE JILCiAF7                        I :hUDIBOPEn
ETHIOPIA   t-*                                                                  '  . - ,. i.                                             t-
DJIBOLJTI                                            ..'                                                                                            ::






42'      43'       44'                          47       48'       49'      50        Sl'       52,      53'       54'       55'
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
This mop was procduced by the
AGRICULTURE STRATEGY NOTE                                     s A U D I  A R A B I A   The bound arideans
Farms and Public Services to Agriculture                                      _      anch anyother inforomstdn ohown 1n
iE  T  T  T,f  i f.                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~this map do not imply, on the part of
I ii I I Il .tl.irErtr  il- nTis ( t In,, -  a~                 _ I            The World Bank Graup, any judgment
-  -  . i ,., ,, ru9i  1 i > - ge: i:                                               on the leotgal status of any territory, or
19-  .'  I  I I liii .1 I  II-  F                                   /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  any endorsement aracceptance odmemntf, acepanc   o
II1 III l I' .I .- . I               , _ ,  _        Sa uh      /    *     such boundaries.
ii  - - -  '*'iU  /  S /      K         A          OMAN
-18 ~ ~    *  1  I  fl l l  'El. i,IiF   -  .1,  rj   -IFl/                                 
4*  I - i- 11r           ,      ..i..., /L  I J ' -   dEI  i-                             r run I IC  ' I
A. .-i.rHRAH
V17  0      ,   SAADAH   ,                        _       h                                    e              -P-Y
Al -JAWF                  )  (NARAMOUT!                            -                           16"
d8  kI-ld                                  7umJI$
-16o     IHAJJAH    * -0      -IN..                                            -
.4- ;..7.                                       -   -->  rti                               '                           15-
''-t,  rOP7 '5ANAY..-      '.6 ,o n  *'~  S8K| \O
Ai L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~5
(P     lBS SA           *s~2''jNA '"A                        #J I "/
H>D Bt 11 ,1)  H                                        Aldo : ,"i
14'~~~~~~~~o
l  1  /   ,   I   I   I   I   I   I   _      I        I          I         I         I          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c  4 
IBB ~ ~     ~          ~         ~        ~         ~ 
LO  ~
j  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~G        UL   F  C )   A   D   E   N '                           3
0 ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~  ~    ~   ~   ~   ~    ~  ~    ~   ~~~     ~    ~  ~    ~   ~    ~  ~~~~ 0~  i n j 00   Qr0 -.e m . 
Soinhob   cotr
SSHRDA   ERADA AL-MAHWIT  TDA    DHAMAR   SURDU    LAHEJ   ADEN   AL-BEIDA  ABYAN  SHABWA   WHADP h4AMT MAHRA
oD  Number alFarms  296,901  25,052  38,227  113,050  111,540  317,212  54,392  4,427  37,462  40,304  25,843      45,638   5,4664v
3 NumberolPersonnel  782  357   133     1,038   286      740    1,559    762      188     1,167   613      221     601      77   
rn   Farms: StnfA 380  71  288     109     390     429      35       6      200      35       43 M            76       71     O
-110'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
o     RNsper Farm  2,023  22,496   1,409   4,925  269    1,547   3,266   42,139    597    8,973    2,768     -      2,693   1,508   Fi
0                                                                                                                                   w



