Decument of
The World Bank
IFOIR EDlCIAL USIE ONLY
Repprt No. P-2150-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
December 8, 1977
TDei tmemt bh n Fcg(      i   X               I         o b2 ue byileSp  ony Im &e p2firm pce ofi
er ofielDa mies. io oee  gDFy imoa cbAene be disoeaBI wfihonn Woirna MEam amAOghflon.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT                              CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                                       CFAF 245 1/
CFAF 1,000                                US$4.1
CFAF 1,000,000             =              US$4,082
1/   Floating exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
BEAC      -    Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CAMDEV    -    Cameroon Development Corporation
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CDC       -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
EDF       -    European Development Fund
EIB       -    European Investment Bank
FONADER   -    Fonds National de Developpement Rural
HEVECAM   -    Societe Hevea - Cameroun
ONAREST   -    Office National-de Recherches Scientifiques et
Techniques
PAMOL     -    Societe Pamol - Cameroun
SAFACAM   -    Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             United Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:          Cameroon Development Corporation (CAMDEV)
Amount:               US$15.0 million
Terms:                20 years including 5 years of grace at
interest rate of 7.9 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:      US$12.9 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan would
be relent to CAMDEV on the same terms applicable to the
Bank loan; US$1.1 million would be passed on as grants
to FONADER and CAMDEV for the outgrower program; the
Government would apply the remaining US$1.0 million
against the financing of a master plan study.
Co-Financing:         The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique of France
(CCCE) and the U.K.'s Commonwealth Development Cor-
poration (CDC) would make loans to the Government for
the same project amounting to US$7.5 million equiva-
lent each.
Project Description:  The proposed project, a follow-up to a successfully
completed first stage project, aims at increasing the
production and efficiency of CAMDEV, introducing a
smallholder development program, and preparing for
future development of CAMDEV and its surrounding area.
The project would be implemented over a 4-1/2 year
investment period and would include: (a) establishing
7,900 ha of estate rubber and 600 ha of estate oil
palm and 2,000 ha of outgrower rubber and oil palm;
(b) management and administration including provision
of technical assistance services; and (c) preparations
for CAMDEV's future expansion program anticipated to
begin in 1982/83, including a Master Plan for the
coastal region.
Main benefits from project-financed investments would
consist of increased output of rubber and palm kernels
which would help significantly improve Cameroon's balance
of payments and of palm oil mostly to meet a growing do-
mestic demand. The project would also provide for the
continued strengthening and development of CAMDEV on
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
which the prosperity of the western part of Cameroon is
based. Employment and substantially increased incomes
would be provided for about 5,000 estate workers most
of whom are expected to come from the poorer parts
of the region and about 1,300 farming families in the
outgrower program. There are no major risks involved
with the proposed project although initial difficulties
may be encountered in attracting participants for the
outgrower program. However, CAMDEV's experience and
good reputation would facilitate recruitment of estate
laborers and the financially attractive outgrower
returns should induce local farmer participation in the
program.
Estimated Cost:       The total estimated cost net of taxes of the project is
US$37.2 million. The foreign exchange component is
US$21.2 million. Contingencies total US$9.4 million
with price contingencies 21 percent and physical con-
tingencies 10 percent of base cost.
x of Total
Local     Foreign      Total       Project
---------US$ million…---            Costs
Rubber Estate Development      10.1       11.5       21.6          54.9
Oil Palm Estate Development     0.6        0.5        1.1           2.8
Outgrower Program               1.3        1.2        2.5           6.3
Technical Assistance            0.4        0.8        1.2           3.1
Preparations for future
CAMDEV expansion              0.8        0.7        1.5           3.7
Master Plan                     0.6        1.4         2.0          5.2
Contingencies                   4.3        5.1        9.4          24.0
Total Project Cost         18.1       21.2       39.3         100.0
less taxes                2.1                   2.1
Total Project Cost Net
of Taxes                 16.0       21.2       37.2
Financing Plan:            Estates,                                    % of
Tech. Assist.,               Master          Total
Devpt. Prepar.  Outgrowers    Plan   Total  Financing
---------       US$ million--------------
IBRD                     12.9          1.1       1.0     15.0      38.0
CCCE                      6.0          0.6       0.9       7.5     19.0
CDC                       6.9          0.6        -        7.5     19.0
CAMDEV                    7.6           -         -        7.6     20.0
Government                 -           1.0       0.7      1.7       4.0
Total                33.4          3.3       2.6      39.3    100.0



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement of
Bank Loan:                            (Amount in US$ million)
Bank FY                       1978    1979   1980   1981   1982    1983
Annual                    0.7    2.9     3.3    3.5    3.7     0.9
Cumulative                0.7    3.6     6.9   10.4   14.1   15.0
Rate of Return:      The project's overall economic rate of return is
estimated at 17 percent.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1676-CM dated November 30, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Bank loan to the United Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$15.0
million to help finance the establishment of 7,900 ha of rubber and 600
ha of oil palm estate plantations and 2,000 ha of rubber and oil palm out-
grower plantations. The Bank loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. The Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of France, and the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) of the United Kingdom would make loans to the Government
for the same project amounting to US$7.5 million equivalent each. The CDC
loan would have a term of 20 years including 6 years of grace and the same
interest rate as the Bank loan. The CCCE loan would also have a term of 20
years, including 6 years of grace but with an interest rate of 7 percent. Of
the proceeds of the above three loans, which total US$30.0 million, an amount
of US$25.8 million would be relent to CAMDEV on the same terms as those
applicable to the Bank loan. Of the remaining funds, US$1.9 million would be
used by the Government for a master plan study included under the project, and
US$2.3 would be passed-on as grants by the Government to the Fonds National de
Developpement Rural (FONADER) and CAMDEV for the outgrower programs.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program,
A Special Study, Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1976. In October and November 1976, an economic mission
visited Cameroon and its findings are incorporated below; a report is in prep-
aration.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon ha2 a population of about 7.6 million (1976) and covers
an area of 475,000 km . The country's natural resources are varied, but
not always easily accessible. Soils and climatic conditions permit culti-
vation of a wider range of crops than is commonly found in West Africa, and
the forest areas of the southeast contain large untapped timber resources.
The north holds promising potential for livestock development.
1/   Parts I and II are substantially unchanged from the corresponding
Parts of the President's Report for the Feeder Roads Project, dated
August 26, 1977 (R77 - 2132-CM).



4.        The main opportunities for development in Cameroon lie in the
expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, and the processing
of agricultural and forestry products for exports. A bauxite project is in
the early stages of preparation, and offshore oil and gas exploration is also
being carried out and has yielded some promising results.
5.        Commerce, transportation and transit services are other important
economic activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by
vast underpopulated areas. The country moreover serves as a main export route
for landlocked Chad. As a result, large investments in port and inland
transport infrastructure are essential for promoting agriculture, forestry and
industry, and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
Past Performance
6.        During the first decade of independence (1960-1970), the Govern-
ment's primary objective was to unify the nation and to ease serious internal
political and social tensions. Output of agriculture and industry grew
rapidly and, along with high world prices for cocoa and coffee, resulted in
a 7 percent per annum real growth rate. Gross investment averaged about 14
percent of GDP, slightly over half in the public sector with the largest part
devoted to the transportation network, the most immediate development con-
straint. A major effort was also directed at expanding education and diver-
sifying agriculture. Significant increases in fiscal revenues combined with
stringent expenditure controls produced sizeable budget surpluses that made it
possible to accumulate reserves and to finance a large part (up to 40 percent)
of public investment out of local revenues. However, this policy also imposed
excessive restraint on much needed current expenditure in such areas as road
maintenance, public health, and education.
7.        During the period 1971-1976, growth of real GDP slowed to about
3 percent per annum compared with a population growth rate of about 2 per-
cent. This was caused by factors largely outside Cameroon's control such as:
(i) low export prices for cocoa and coffee during 1971 and 1972; (ii) several
years of drought in the north; (iii) a decline in domestic and foreign private
investment, triggered primarily by the relative stagnation of the agricultural
sector and by the completion of the first wave of import substitution projects
during the preceding decade; (iv) a drop in 1975 in world demand for both
cocoa and timber; and finally (v) rapidly rising import prices. Per capita
income in 1976 reached about US$300.
8.        The Government reacted to these developments by stepping up public
investment, which increased by 50 percent to reach annual averages of about
US$190.0 million in constant 1974 dollars during the Third Development Plan
(1972-1976). At the same time, it placed greater emphasis on agricultural
output. Within a public investment program averaging 9 percent of GDP,
rural development comprised about 18 percent, transport and communications
42 percent, energy 6 percent, and education 9 percent. Since nearly 75
percent of public investment was in sectors where its contribution to domestic
output is both indirect and delayed, the impact of this substantial invest-
ment effort on economic growth was limited during the Third Plan period. In



addition, physical realizations were in many cases less than projected
due largely to substantial cost increases and the subsequent need to either
reduce the scope of projects or defer them.
9.        The balance of payments was not a major constraint until recent
years. However, imports increased rapidly in 1974 and 1975 as a result of
worldwide inflation and heavy public development expenditure, especially
in capital goods. At the same time agricultural exports declined, particu-
larly exports of timber, causing a sizeable current account deficit in 1975.
Together with a decline in private capital inflows this resulted in a fall
in reserves from a level equal to nearly three months of import requirements
in 1970 to one-half month at the end of 1975. Due mainly to considerably
improved export demand and higher prices, especially for coffee and timber,
by May 1976 gross reserves had recovered to the level of 1972 and 1973.
However, because of continuing international inflation, Cameroon's official
gross international reserves in mid-1977 still covered less than one month of
import requirements, a low level by usual international standards but still
acceptable considering Cameroon's membership in the Central African monetary
union.
Prospects and Development Strategy
I
10.       Cameroon's development effort over the next five years will be
carried out under the Fourth Plan (1977-1981). A Bank economic mission
discussed its recommendations on the level and composition of public invest-
ment with the Government in November 1975 and agreed on overall priorities.
It is anticipated that short- and medium-term growth of GDP will be about
6 percent per annum in real terms, slightly lower than achieved during the
1960s. The new Five-Year Plan has set a very ambitious public investment
target of over US$2.0 billion in constant 1974 dollars or more than two
times that achieved during the preceding Plan period. The Plan gives in-
creasing emphasis to the development of directly productive sectors, par-
ticularly agriculture. The share of transport infrastructure investments
will decline somewhat but remain high in absolute figures, while invest-
ments in electric energy will increase. These changes in sectoral priorities
are very much in line with the recommendations of the 1975 economic mission.
11.       To ensure that appropriate priorities will in fact be achieved,
the Government will need to strengthen its ability to choose, prepare, and
implement projects, particularly in the rural and transport sectors. Some
progress is being made in this direction. Special planning units are grad-
ually being established within the technical ministries. A Government-owned
consulting firm, the "Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique",
has been created under the Ministry of Economy and Planning to accelerate
project preparation.   Commercially-oriented public corporations are also
serving to strengthen the project implementation capacity of the public
sector. Nevertheless, further improvements are needed, particularly in
the management of public corporations and in strengthening and coordinating
rural development institutions. A Technical Assistance Credit will support



efforts recently undertaken by the Government in these fields by providing
technical assistance experts, training local staff, and financing high
priority studies and project preparation in key economic sectors.
12.       Even assuming these improvements take place, absorptive capacity
is likely to limit the rate of investment in the high priority sectors. With
respect to the overall investment level, financial considerations also sug-
gest that public investment during the Fourth Plan is unlikely to exceed
US$1.7 billion in constant 1974 dollars, or some US$450.0 million per year
in current dollars. Budgetary revenues have reached about 17 percent of GDP
and cannot be expected to increase much faster than the economy as a whole.
Current expenditures, on the contrary, will expand more rapidly as a result
of recent increases in public investment in transport, education, and health.
Furthermore, public debt charges will grow rapidly, particularly those of
public enterprises, and will absorb an increasing share of public savings.
In the first two years of the Fourth Plan period (1977-1978), thanks to
favorable terms of trade, public savings after debt service are estimated to
about 65 percent of total public investment. However, in 1979-1981, public
savings after debt service are projected to finance only about 30 percent of
total public investment and this share of domestic public financing is likely
to continue in the longer run. Cameroon will thus have to rely increasingly
on external financing for the bulk of its public investment. Under these
circumstances, foreign lenders should continue to finance a high proportion
of total project costs of externally financed projects including local costs
in appropriate cases.
13.       An increasing reliance on foreign borrowing during a period of
deteriorating terms of trade will require careful foreign debt management.
Cameroon continues to be creditworthy for World Bank financing on the basis
of its ability to maintain and improve productivity in the utilization of
the country's resources in the medium-term and its potential in the long-
term to further diversify the economy by developing still unexploited re-
sources. On the reasonable assumption that at least 50 percent of foreign
public capital inflow will be on concessionary terms, the foreign debt ser-
vice ratio could be maintained below 13 percent by 1983.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon as of October 31, 1977
amounted to US$283.5 million and cover 22 projects: nine in agriculture,
seven in transportation, three in education, one in public utilities, one
small- and medium-scale enterprise project, and one technical assistance
project. Transportation represents the largest share (48 percent) of our past
commitments followed by agriculture (35 percent). Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of October 31, 1977 and includes
notes on ongoing projects. Although delays and setbacks have been oc-
casionally encountered in the execution of projects, the Government has
consistently collaborated with the Bank in finding solutions to such prob-
lems.



15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and increase the efficiency of Cameroon's in-
stitutions.
16.       Bank Group assistance to Cameroon supports the priority the Govern-
ment rightly attaches to the regional distribution of agricultural development
and to a sound balance between improving conditions in the traditional sector
and promoting plantation agriculture, including smallholder schemes. We
have thus helped the Government create an effective and well-managed planta-
tion sector by financing oil palm and rubber plantations in the south and
west, the latter including the first CAMDEV project. At the same time, we
have assisted in promoting smallholder rice irrigation in the north. The
ongoing cocoa project is helping to modernize smallholder cocoa growing and to
raise rural productivity in areas south and west of the capital. The rubber
project of 1975 is aiding development of the southwest coastal region. Rural
development projects in populated but poor regions are being established with
the assistance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project
will help finance studies and three-year trial activities required before a
full-scale rural development program can be launched. The Rural Development
Fund Project is designed to help the Government establish the machinery for
processing and implementing small-scale rural development schemes initially in
the north. Field appraisals for the ZAPI-East Integrated Rural Development
Project and for the Western Highlands Rural Development Project have been
completed and the projects are scheduled to be presented to the Board during
FY 78. The Second SOCAPALM Project is a follow-up to a successful Oil Palm
Project (SOCAPALM I), which has been completed, and is a first step in pro-
moting smallholder oil palm plantations in Cameroon. The Second CAMDEV
project presented in this report, also a follow-up to a successful first-stage
project, would further CAMDEV's crop development and management improvement
programs, while setting the stage for the corporation's longer-term develop-
ment. The proposed project would also include a smallholder rubber and oil
palm plantation program. Increased Bank Group lending for agriculture will
support the Government's effort to focus on rural development in order to
improve income distribution and to achieve a better balance in regional
development.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially aided development
of adequate transport facilities. The Second Highway Project of 1973 was
designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The proj-
ect has encountered severe cost overruns partly alleviated by a Supplemen-
tary Credit approved in March 1976. The Second Railway Project of 1974
has focused on track improvement and expansion of the equipment needed to



- 6 -
maintain and augment the railway's overall carrying capacity. Given pro-
jected sharp traffic increases, and the backlog of required investments,
substantial capital outlays are still necessary particularly for the expan-
sion of the Port of Douala, which is being assisted by a Bank loan and IDA
credit of 1976, and for some related facilities such as a railway station
and marshalling yard to be built outside the port area. An engineering
loan, approved in May 1976, will help complete the engineering of this sta-
tion and marshalling yard. Improvement of the Douala-Yaounde transport
corridor will also require substantial investment. A study carried out under
a Bank-financed project and designed to help determine an economically optimal
investment strategy for this corridor is in the process of completion. Its
principal recommendations and a proposed investment package are being dis-
cussed between the Government and a number of aid-giving agencies including
the Bank. A high proportion of future road investments should be for road
maintenance and for the development of feeder and farm access roads. Our
future operations in the road sector have been planned accordingly. The
recently approved Feeder Roads Project would establish institutions for feeder
road administration and maintenance in addition to providing the necessary
resources for a feeder road program to support high priority agricultural/
rural development projects. The proposed Third and Fourth Highway Projects,
which are expected to be presented to the Board during this and next fiscal
year will include reconstruction of the Garoua-Figuil road, the last un-
improved section of the North-South primary road system but otherwise will
concentrate on road maintenance and rehabilitation. In other sectors, the
Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project, approved in 1975, focuses mainly
on developing local entrepreneurship. A Third Education Project, approved in
April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education and training.
18.       In all our projects we include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions
and improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project is designed
to help strengthen Government services in several key ministries involved in
investment planning, policy analysis and project processing. In addition,
through our economic work we will continue to advise the authorities, at their
request, on development questions in general, and on particular matters such
as economic management, problems of urban migration, and manpower development.
To help achieve the Government's priorities and to support our future lending
strategy will require continuing emphasis on strengthening the institutional
framework, particularly concerning project planning, preparation and imple-
mentation in transportation and rural and urban development.
19.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements to
Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year. While at the beginning
of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the proportion of loans
slowly increased. A major part of external assistance was provided by France
and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive sectors. The European
Development Fund and European Investment Bank directed their lending mainly
to agriculture, with infrastructure in second place. Bank Group disbursements
were small during this period. From 1972 to 1976 overall disbursements of
foreign aid increased to about US$90.0 million with one-fifth as grants. The



Bank Group's share of these inflows amounted to about 23 percent. Our lending
to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with other donors; in 11 of our
22 projects, joint or parallel co-financing arrangements have been made.
20.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1976
amounted to US$529.3 million and is projected to reach US$1.5 billion in 1981.
Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to 5.9
percent in 1975 and is projected to reach 12.4 percent in 1983. At that
time annual foreign aid disbursements may be over US$400.0 million with only
7 percent consisting of grants. At end-1976 IBRD debt accounted for 10.9
percent of Cameroon's public debt outstanding and disbursed, and 11.4 percent
of its public debt service. IDA credits accounted for 12.8 percent of public
debt outstanding and 1.1 percent of public debt service. The Bank Group is
expected to account for about 22 percent of total public debt and 13 percent
of public debt service in 1983.
21.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.   IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an
equity investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate
(SAFACAM). The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversi-
fication of an existing estate that will produce rubber for export and palm
oil for the domestic market. The investment will also facilitate participa-
tion of domestic shareholders in the estate. The second operation, an in-
vestment of up to US$125,000 in the share capital of a promotional company
for maize development was approved on November 29, 1977.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture plays a major role in Cameroon's economy, providing a
livelihood for about 75 percent of the population and accounting for about
35 percent of GDP and over 70 percent of the value of exports. The traditional
subsector accounts for about 90 percent of agricultural output, plantation
agriculture the remainder. The traditional sector produces food crops for
subsistence and the local market, and cocoa, coffee, cotton, and groundnuts
for export; cattle raising is undertaken by pastoralists in northern Cameroon.
Cameroon is largely self-sufficient in foodstuffs, with production expanding
at about 5 percent per year during the last five years. Per capita agri-
cultural incomes are highest in the cocoa and coffee producing areas of the
south (estimated at about US$150 per capita), whereas in the Northern Plains
and the Western Highlands they are estimated to be about US$70.
Development of Rubber and Oil Palm
23.       The main tree crops are oil palm and rubber with estate produc-
tion in 1975 of about 47,000 tons of palm oil and 19,000 tons of rubber. In
addition to CAMDEV (14,000 ha rubber; 16,000 ha oil palm), the other major



tree crop corporations are the state-owned SOCAPAL4 (15,500 ha oil palm) and
the private SAFACAM (6,000 ha, mainly rubber) and PAMOL (9,000 ha, mainly
oil palm). A third state-owned company, HEVECAM, was established in 1975
for rubber production.
24.       With Bank Group assistance, a large estates program, involving
rubber, oil palm, and eventually coconut, has been launched in the sparsely
populated coastal areas on either side of Douala. This program comprises
HEVECAM's Niete rubber estate and SOCAPAIM's Kienke oil palm estate. Pre-
paration of a master plan for development of the southern coastal area is
being financed under the HEVECAM Project. SOCAPALM is also undertaking a
program to complete its three other oil palm estates in areas adjacent to
Douala, and is inaugurating a smallholder oil palm development program.
The proposed Second CAMDEV Project to the north of Douala would be comple-
mentary to the above developments, and would concentrate on rubber produc-
tion, smallholder development, and an agricultural development study. To
coordinate development activities and provide certain central services for
the estate corporations, a joint Coastal Estates Center for both private and
public companies -- including CAMDEV - is being set up under the SOCAPALM
Project.
Institutions
25.       The Cameroon Development Corporation (CAMDEV) is a public corpor-
ation in which 87 percent of the capital shares are owned by the Government
and 13 percent by the Produce Marketing Board. Under Cameroon law, such
companies have a supervisory ministry, which in CAMDEV's case is the Ministry
of Economy and Planning. More direct supervision is provided by a Board of
Directors representing both national agencies and local business. The cor-
poration's day-to-day management is undertaken by a qualified Cameroonian
General Manager. This institutional framework has worked well and would
continue under the project.
26.       CAMDEV was created in 1946 to rehabilitate and develop large tracts
of land in West Cameroon. At present, CAMDEV controls approximately 80,000
ha, under leasehold from Government, of which some 30,000 ha are planted with
either oil palm or rubber and employs about 12,000 workers. Most of CAMDEV's
existing plantings are now in production, and as a result the corporation is
entering a period of relative prosperity, ending two decades of financial
stringency and enabling it to make a significant contribution to the financing
of the project.
27.       The National Fund for Rural Development (FONADER), created in
1973, was given the dual role of: (a) providing credit to farmers and
farmer organizations; and (b) appraising, financing and supervising a wide
variety of rural development programs, from farm input supply to village
water projects. It operates from its Yaounde Headquaters, relying on other
agencies for field services. The shortcomings of assuming such widespread
responsibilities from a narrow base are recognized by the Government, which
is preparing with assistance from FED proposals for streamlining FONADER's



- 9 -
activities. In the meantime, Government wishes FONADER to participate in
Bank projects to gain experience and strengthen its operational departments.
In the Rural Development Fund Project, a specialized unit is being estab-
lished within FONADER for channeling and monitoring the effective use of
funds for small-scale and repeatable rural development projects. Under the
second SOCAPALM Project, SOCAPALM's smallholder management provides farmer
credit through FONADER. Smallholder management in the CAMDEV project would be
similar to the SOCAPALM project and would also build up expertise in credit
supervision for tree crops which could later, if desirable, be centralized
within FONADER. During project execution, FONADER's own staff would also
gain experience through their liaison with the project's outgrower manage-
ment units.
28.       Several other organizations are associated with CAMDEV.   The Com-
monwealth Development Corporation (CDC) which was CAMDEV's managing agent for
15 years prior to 1974 and would be one of the co-lenders for the proposed
project, provides technical assistance to CAMDEV through regular visits by
selected specialists. It also provides marketing intelligence on a regular
basis and may become CAMDEV's marketing agent under a contract presently being
negotiated. A UNDP/FAO soil survey team is helping CAMDEV with its soil
surveys as part of a practical training program for Cameroonian soil scien-
tists. Technical advice is provided by the new National Research Organization
(ONAREST) and by two French institutes, the "Institut de Recherches pour les
Huiles et Oleagineux en Afrique" (for palms) and the "Institut de Recherches
sur le Caoutchouc en Afrique" (for rubber). These arrangements work well and
would continue under the project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
29.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Second CAMDEV project - Cameroon"
(No. 1676 of November 30, 1977) is being circulated separately. The project
was prepared mainly by CAMDEV with the help of a consultant. A joint mission
including Bank staff and representatives of CCCE and CDC appraised the project
in March 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington D. C. from October 25 to
October 31, 1977. CCCE and CDC were also represented at negotiations.
Background
30.       A long-term development program for CAMDEV began in the 1960s,
based on rubber and oil palm as major crops. Government now wishes CAMDEV to
further expand and diversify its activities and the proposed project would
set the stage for CAMDEV's progressive growth in line with its absorptive
capacity. The Bank Group assisted a first CAMDEV development project by
providing a US$7.0 million loan and a US$11.0 million IDA credit in 1967. By
June 1976, at completion, 10,500 ha had been planted and 4,700 ha of old
estates cleared for a net increase of 5,800 ha of oil palm and rubber.



- 10 -
The first project was successful in meeting its objectives and the rate of
return was estimated at completion to be 16 percent - the same as the ap-
praisal estimate as observed in the completion and audit reports.
Purpose
31.       The proposed project would aim at increasing CAMDEV's production and
efficiency, introducing a smallholder development program, and undertaking a
regional study and preparations for future development of CAMDEV and its
surrounding area.
32.       The proposed plantings would be in the vicinity of CAMDEV's existing
30,000 ha of estate plantings, on the lower slopes of Mount Cameroon. A
development planning component would focus on the remaining parts of the
west coastal region that are suitable for perennial tree crops. The project
would be implemented over a four-and-a-half year investment period and would
include:
(a) clearing and planting 7,900 ha of estate rubber,
maintenance during the project period, and construction
of estate infrastructure including two rubber factories;
(b) planting about 1,000 ha each of outgrower rubber and oil
palm, including the provision of credit, and extension and
management services;
(c) clearing and planting 600 ha of estate oil palm, maintenance
during the project period, and some estate infrastructure;
(d) providing managerial and administrative assistance to the
above estate plantings, including financing of three
specialists with project specific functions and three
additional specialists with company-wide responsibilities;
and
(e) preparing for the future expansion of CAMDEV. This would
include:
(i)   preparations for CAMDEV's next development phase
including land surveys, project preparation for a
follow-up five-year investment program for CAMDEV
anticipated to begin in 1982/83. This would include
the construction of a bridge and 40 km of dirt road
for access to the survey area, and establishment
of 80 ha for seed gardens and coconut variety
trials; and
(ii) a master plan for the west coastal region leading
inter alia to guidelines for CAMDEV's longer-term
development.



- 11 -
33.       Further maintenance and necessary processing facilities would be
provided for under CAMDEV's future investment program. In addition, CAMDEV
would carry on, with its own funds, the replanting of its existing estates
under a systematic replanting policy to be reviewed periodically in consulta-
tion with the Bank (Section 3.01(b) (ii) and (c) of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
Project Implementation
34.       The project would be implemented by CANDEV, with the exception of
the master plan (item (e) ii above) which would be carried out under the re-
sponsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Planning. CAMDEV's institutional
structure is considered satisfactory. The General Manager, a Cameroonian
with a strong financial background, has had a satisfactory record since he
took over in 1974. However, some staff strengthening is required to improve
the Corporation's general efficiency and to provide for the increased manage-
rial and technical requirements of the proposed project.
35.       Three specialists would therefore be provided to assist the General
Manager: a Development Officer primarily responsible for new plantings, a
Tapping Advisor, and a Crop Processing Engineer to improve the efficiency of
processing facilities. Furthermore three other specialists would be provided
for direct project function: a Manager for the new estate at Kompina, a
Manager for the outgrower program and a Chief Mechanic. These specialists are
in critically short supply in Cameroon and would therefore be internationally
recruited. The specialists would not only provide support for project manage-
ment, but they would also carry out on-the-job training as one of their
primary tasks. The six specialists would be employed under terms of reference
and have experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank (Section 2.03 of
the draft Project Agreement). The appointment of the Development Officer and
of the Manager for the new estate at Kompina would be condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan; CAMDEV would have particular need of these during
the initial months of project implementation. The other four specialists
would be appointed before June 30, 1978, although it was agreed that in case
it proves too impossible to find by that date a suitable Tapping Advisor or
Crop Processing Engineer, either function would be fulfilled by temporary
consultants. CAMDEV has a satisfactory record at staff development. Thus, in
addition to a conscious effort at on-the-job training, a number of courses and
exchange visits for junior to senior level management staff have been
arranged. This program will continue. Therefore no specific training com-
ponent would be incorporated in the project. In addition to the technical
assistance to be provided under the project - and to the existing on-the-job
training - CANDEV has initiated, following Bank advice, a review of its staff
remuneration policy in order to strengthen its general efficiency since it has
proven difficult to both recruit and retain staff. Various measures have now
been taken: remunerations for CAMDEV's top management positions have been
increased and the authority of CAMDEV's General Management to negotiate
remuneration levels for existing and prospective staff has been strengthened.
As a result of these changes, CANDEV's staff remuneration structure is now
considered satisfactory although it will need continual attention to ensure
that staff remunerations are adjusted in line with equivalent positions
elsewhere in Cameroon.



- 12 -
36.       CAMDEV has a sound financial position and the capacity to contribute
its share of project costs during the disbursement period. However, during
the four years following disbursement CAMDEV's cash balances are projected to
be at marginal levels due to the additional investments required to bring
the project plantings to maturity. In view of CAMDEV's strong long-term
financial position, short-term bank borrowing to meet temporary deficits
during this period would be within CAMDEV's debt servicing capacity. To
retain satisfactory liquidity, however, CAMDEV would maintain its liquid
assets during the loan repayment period at a level equivalent to its cash
expenditures during the three preceding months or such other level as would be
established in agreement with the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Project
Agreement). Furthermore CAMDEV's debt would not exceed the sum of equity
capital and cash surplus (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
CAMDEV would also agree annually with the Bank on its development proposals
and budgets for the forthcoming years (Section 3.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
37.       Plans and administrative arrangements for the studies for the Master
Plan would be agreed with the Government and the progress in the preparation
of this plan would be reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank; CAMDEV
would also review progress of the studies for its future expansion annually
with the Government and the Bank, and consult with them on the actions to be
taken for this purpose (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement; Section
2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
Management of the Outgrower Program
38.       Financial assistance to and supervision of smallholders under the
outgrower program would be managed by CAMDEV under a Credit Administration
Agreement with FONADER. The arrangements would be similar to those being
implemented under the Second SOCAPAIM Project (Loans 1391-T-CM and 1392-CM).
Signing of a Credit Administration Agreement between CAMDEV and FONADER and
of a Financing Agreement between the Borrower and CAMDEV/FONADER, both satis-
factory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for the outgrower
program (Para. 3 (b) Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       CAMDEV would establish an outgrower management division which
would provide technical assistance to the outgrowers and coordinate both
financial and agricultural aspects of the program. Initial outgrower plant-
ings would average about 1-2 ha. Each outgrower would have a personal usu-
fruct of his plantings when they are completed. CAMDEV would prepare, prior
to January 1 of each year, an outgrower development program to be mutually
agreed between CAMDEV and FONADER. The Bank would be given an opportunity
to comment on this program (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
On the basis of this program, FONADER would provide CAMDEV with the funds
and/or goods (e.g. fertilizer) required for the establishment of outgrower
plantings. CAMDEV would deliver inputs, maintain credit accounts, and
provide crop collection, processing and marketing services.



- 13 -
Proiect Costs and Financial Arrangements
40.       Project costs for the four-and-a-half year project period are
estimated at US$37.2 million net of taxes and duties estimated at US$2.1
million. The foreign exchange component would be US$21.2 million or 57
percent. Cost estimates exclude taxes of US$2.1 million. Cost estimates
include physical contingencies at 10 percent of base cost and provisions for
price increases based on Cameroon's expected rate of general inflation of 8
percent per annum.
41.       The proposed Bank loan of US$15.0 million equivalent and the CCCE
and CDC loans of US$7.5 million each, totaling US$30.0 million, would be made
to the Government and would altogether finance about 81 percent of the net-of-
tax project cost. They would be disbursed pari passu in the overall propor-
tion of 2:1:1. The proposed Bank loan would represent 40 percent of the total
net-of-tax project cost and about 70 percent of the project's foreign exchange
component. CAMDEV and the Government would provide the balance amounting to
US$7.6 and US$1.7 million respectively (including taxes of US$2.1 million).
42.       The Government would pass on to CAMDEV US$25.8 maillion of the pro-
ceeds of these loans at the same terms as the Bank, CCCE and CDC loans for
development of the estates, technical assistance and the preparations for
future expansion. Of the remaining US$4.2 million, US$1.9 million would be
used by the Ministry of Economy and Planning for the master plan, and US$2.3
million would be passed on as grants by the Government to FONADER and CAMDEV
for the outgrower programs. The loans would help finance all project compo-
nents except for the cash grants to outgrowers (US$0.5 million) which would
be financed entirely by the Government. The Bank loan would be for a term
of 20 years including a five-year grace period and would bear interest at
the rate of 7.9 percent per annum. CCCE loan terms are 20 years including 6
years' grace and an interest rate of 7 percent. The CDC loan would have the
same terms but will have the same interest as the Bank loan.
Smallholder Credit and Cost Recovery
43.       Financial arrangements for outgrowers are similar to those being
implemented under the Second SOCAPALM Project (Loans 1391-T-CM and 1392-CM).
During the crop development period, outgrowers would be provided with credit
for field inputs and supervision; cash grants to cover labor inputs would
be provided without charge only to outgrowers earning more than 75 percent of
their income from agriculture. Credit would be provided through FONADER
during the development periods - 8 years for rubber and 5 years for oil
palm - and would be recovered over the following 10 and 7 years respectively,
for rubber and oil palm. Interest would be at 9 percent per annum capital-
ized over the development period. Credit repayments would be recovered at
the time products are collected. Subsequently all costs for all services
provided to outgrowers would be recovered by CAMDEV through producer prices
to be established each year; the Government agreed to an annual exchange of
views with the Bank on these prices. The proposed arrangements for recovery
of credit and management costs would allow for adequate producer incomes and



- 14 -
incentives. An understanding on these arrangements particularly regarding
the setting of producer prices has been reached with the Government (Section
4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
44.       Except for the items specified below, procurement would be through
international competitive bidding (ICB), following Bank guidelines. Goods
and services subject to ICB - mainly machinery, vehicles and equipment,
fertilizer and some imports for construction - are estimated to cost about
US$11.6 million. Locally manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of
15 percent or the level of applicable import duty, whichever is lower, when
comparing domestic with foreign bids. Contracts not exceeding US$100,000
would be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Most land clearing, estate road building,
plantation work and minor estate construction would be done on force account
(US$13.6 million) using equipment purchased under the project. The remaining
project costs (US$14.1 million) would be mostly for staff and labor costs and
operating expenses. Specialists and consultants would be selected following
Bank guidelines.
Disbursement
45.       With the exception of the master plan, participation by the co-
lenders would be on a pari passu basis; the master plan would be financed by
the Bank, CCCE and the Government. Disbursements of the Bank loan would be
made at 39 percent of total expenditure for: (a) vehicles, equipment, civil
works, field investment, salaries and operating costs for the rubber and oil
palm estates (US$10.4 million); (b) salaries and operating costs for the tech-
nical assistance (US$0.6 million); (c) civil works, equipment, materials, sal-
aries and operating costs for the development preparations (US$0.7 million);
(d) vehicles, equipment, civil works, salaries and operating costs for the
outgrower management unit (US$0.6 million); (e) field investments for the
outgrower program (US$0.4 million); and (f) vehicles, equipment, salaries and
operating costs for the master plan (US$0.9 million). US$1.4 million would
be unallocated. Disbursements for estate field investments and operating
cost would be made against certificates of expenditures with documentation
retained for inspection by Bank supervision missions. All other disburse-
ments would be fully documented.
Markets
46.       The project's rubber output estimated at some 19,000 tons per year
at maturity would be exported, probably mainly as block rubber which is in
demand by manufacturers because its technical qualities can be specified
accurately. Projections of world demand for natural rubber are reasonably
good and real prices are expected to remain stable, and CAMDEV has established
market channels in Europe. For the oil palm products, the bulk of the 4,700
tons of palm oil that would be produced at peak output in 1990 would be con-
sumed domestically. Historically, palm oil production in Cameroon has been



- 15 -
predominantly for the domestic market with minor surplus quantities being
exported. Past annual export margins have been very variable: In 1974, when
the world price was US$825/MT or almost double the average prices of the
1960s and early 1970s of about US$450-500/MT (constant 1977 prices), about
18,000 tons or 25 percent of production were exported. By contrast, only
1,000 tons/year or less than 2 percent of domestic production was exported in
1972 and 1973 and 9,000 tons or about 12 percent of production in 1975. Look-
ing at the future, total production, including the ongoing and Government pro-
posed future developments of oil palm, is projected to grow at about 6 percent
per annum attaining 105,000 tons in 1980 and 138,000 by 1985. Gross domestic
consumption, which has increased during the last decade by about 4.5 percent
per annum is expected to continue to increase at about the same rate, to
reach 85,000 tons in 1980 and 106,000 tons in 1985. Thus, based on past
export performance and external supply and demand projections with allowance
for incomplete realization of Government's plans, it is reasonable to expect
that future oil palm exports will average about 15 percent of domestic
production. No difficulties are anticipated in marketing Cameroon's annual
surpluses. For both palm oil and palm kernels (kernels are almost entirely
exported at present) Cameroon has established European market outlets and in
adjacent Nigeria import requirements for palm oil are projected to grow
rapidly and to exceed 140,000 tons by 1985.
Benefits and Justification
47.       The incremental output achieved under the project would improve
Cameroon's balance of payments by providing increases in foreign exchange
earnings mainly from exports of rubber and palm kernels. At peak output the
influence on Cameroon's balance of payments is estimated to be about US$15.0
million. Moreover the added palm oil production would contribute to satisfy
a growing domestic demand. The project would also provide additional staff
for strengthening CAMDEV's technical management in key areas, development
studies and investments to prepare for the future growth of CAMDEV and the
surrounding area, and it would introduce the concept of organized smallholder
credit schemes for rubber and oil palm in the Cameroon. Employment and
substantially increased incomes would be provided for about 5,000 estate
workers and 1,300 farmer families.
48.       The families participating in the outgrower program stand to
benefit from much higher cash incomes at crop maturity. Net earnings per
man/day (after all costs and debt servicing, and in 1977 terms) would be
US$8.0 for rubber and US$10.0 for palm oil, and earnings per hectare would be
around US$800.00 for rubber and US$500.00 for oil palm. These returns should
provide good incentives to local farmers participating in the program.
49.       The financial rate of return to CAMDEV from the project investments
is estimated at 11 percent.
50.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 17 percent
with rates of return on individual components ranging from 16 percent to
23 percent. As sensitivity analysis indicates that a 20 percent rise in costs



- 16 -
or fall in benefits would lower the overall economic rate of return to 14
percent which would still be acceptable. Economic rates of return for the
outgrower programs were tested against the pessimistic assumptions of a
two-year slow down in the rate of smallholder participation or a 50 percent
overall reduction in the number of participants, and in all tests outgrower
rates of return were found to remain above 14 percent.
Risks
51.       The project's main risks concern possible problems of obtaining
estate laborers, and initial difficulties in finding participants for the
outgrower program. Although it has been a critical development constraints
for other plantations in West Africa, labor availability on the estates should
not be a major problem for CAMDEV which has recruitment experience and a good
reputation as an employer. Finally, for outgrowers, the financially attrac-
tive returns to be achieved at crop maturity, together with cash grants the
Government intends to provide during establishment of the plantations, should
provide sufficient inducement.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the United Republic
of Cameroon, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and CAMDEV, the
Report of the Committee provided for the Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, and the text of the draft resolution approving the
proposed Loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       In addition to the special features of the Loan and Project Agree-
ments which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III,
the following conditions are of special interest.
(a) Additional conditions of effectiveness including (Section
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement):
(i)  that the Financing Agreement between the Borrower and CAMDEV
has been signed and duly authorized;
(ii) that financing agreements with CCCE and CDC have been signed
and conditions precedent to disbursement have been fulfilled;
and
(iii) that satisfactory appointments have been made for the two
specialized staff positions referred to in para.35.
(b) A condition of disbursement for the smallholder component of the
project would be that a satisfactory Financing Agreement between
the Borrower and FONADER and a satisfactory Credit Administration
Agreement between FONADER and CAMDEV have been entered into.



- 17 -
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 8, 1977



-  18   -                                          ANNE   I
TABLE 3A                                 Page 1 of 4 page.
CAMEROON            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND  AREA  (THOU  KM2)              - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - -
LAND- AREA (THDU KM2)CAMEROON **                                                     REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      47?.4                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     15 .                        1980       1970   ESTIMATE          GnANA          IVORY COAST    MALAYSIA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    100.0*    210.0*     300.0*             430.0*      350.0*      440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            5.7       6.8        7.6                8.6         5.4        10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       12.0       14.0      16.0               36.0        16.0        33.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        36.o      44.0       49.0               64.0        32.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         43.5       42.1      40.4               49.8        46.1        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          28.0       23.9      22.0               24.4        23.3        12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..        ..      142. 0,            156.0          ..        40.8 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.9      41.0       41.0               41.5        41.0        56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.3 a      2.7       2.7                3.2         3.1         2.6 /a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE 1(X)
TOTAL                                              8        .                 2.6         3.4a        2.6
URBAN                                  *-        6.1       7.6                4.5         8.77k      26.9
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          14.9 lb   20-5       28.5               28.4        29.0        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       40.0      43.0       42.7               46.9        42.5        44.7 /a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       56.0      54.0       53-8               49.5        54.8        52.1 7a
65 YEARS AND OVER                     4.0        3.0       3-5                 3.6        2.7         3.2 7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        0.9       0.9                 1.0        0.6         0.g /a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0        1.2        ..                 1.4        0.9 A       1.67 
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..        ..                10.9          ..      222.2 /a
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        ..                 2.0          ..        8.o75
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2800.0    3300.0          ..            3300.0      2600.0      2900.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         88.0       82.0         ..              54. ;a      82.0        43.o711
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..        ..        ..                 6.2          ..        6.o7-,b
INCOME DISTRIOUTION
___________________
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY-
HIGHEST   S% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..        ..                  ..         ..        28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..        ..                  ..         ..        56.0
LOWEST  2fX OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..         3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER iHYSICIAN            00I60/I760.0         26220.0             12950.0/4  15320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      10       t270.0        2270.0              1070o      2830.0/d
POPULA,ION PER HOSPITAL BED          5:0 oh 48a                                760.0     1160.0       270.0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0       96.0      104.0               96.0       108.0      110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              59.0       59.0      60.   I                           0        49i o//C
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       23.0 /       .a .              O.0       60 180      49. 20/
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..        5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEo ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       74.0      100.0     108.0                61.0       76.0        89.o/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      3.0        9.0      11.0                11.0        11.0       34.071
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             14.0/aj 14.0AL      14.0iL.             15.0       13.0        13.0/a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     23.o      23.0       23.0               23.0         7.0         3.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   ..      12.0         ..               25.0        20.0       55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..         2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER Cx)                        .5. .a.
AC   $S,,TO ELECTRICIT,Y
XX OF ALL DWELLINGS)-                  ..       ,.           ..                 ..         ..        43.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..        30.0La
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVEAS (PER THOU POP)          3.0       36.0       36.0               78.0          ..       41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0        6.0                 6.0                  10.0       27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          190.0      201.0                         338.0        95.0      382.o
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                          3..     ..                    0.4         0.2        4.
--------    -   _______--      -____- - --- --- ----- -          _ -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-19 -
ANNEX I
NMW                                      F.W.-~~~~~~~~Pg 2 of 4 Pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any Year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970-between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1975 end 1975.
a-GNP per capita data are based on World Bank Atlas ethodology (1974-76 baals).
*OCameroon GNP data axe for July/June fiscal years and population data rer those at corresponding fiscal mid-years
oeMalaysia has been selected     as the only non-OPEC of a size similar to Cameroon, which endowed with a diversified tropical production, reaches
the GDP per capita target (us$ 4oo-6oo).
CAMEROOR        1960     A&  West Cameroon only;      Ab   1962; inciuding na.-South Cmromes under Brts          &iniatretion,      fl   Goverstnt hospital;
including rural hospitaLa and medical centers;        /d   13 years f   ar at Cataroon.
1970 A1964-66; lb 13 years for East Cmarson.
iDiT RCENT ESTIMATE:       A& i972;     /b   1970-75;    Is   197i;    _/d  1969-71 average;      /n  13 years far East Catserosn.
GHANA           1970     /a  Excluding unemployed;       /b  Registered, not all practicing ini the country;       A.  1966-68.
IVORY COAST     1970     /a   han to isigration population. gim vth rate is higher than the rate of natural mncrease;          A   1965-70;      Ic  Patio, of
population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         A. Government only, including midwives;         j    164-66
MALAYSIA        1970     /a  West MEalaysia;     /b  Registered applicants for work;        Ic  1964-66;     /d  Piped water inside snip.
R4, August 29, i977
DEPl:IRITEOj OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lead Ares (shotk.2h )                                                                    Papulacis pear oustorecoi      - Population divided by stonir of practiciep
T.tal   Total suface ares omprisiag lsand urs    sad inland waters.                        aia and fsoal    graduate o-rss, 'trained' or "certifiad" sor-s, sod
Agric.- Moat re...cas  .taeiss t  egSricultur1 ares seed tampor-rily or pacts-             autiliary persasasi with training or sapristc..
neatly for orops, peartures, sacht & kitchen gardons or to lie fa1iow.                 "Psolatia ear haspical haed -   .Papiation divided by otsbec of hospital beds
via ie i public and private gsnsrei sad specielised hospital end
OR? pear ..sita (S$) - GNaP per capita estimates at curcast arbkt prices,                  rahbhilitacion sentes-; eaniudes sursiag haa     end escshliahnsncta for
nalculatad by same conversion outhod as World Blash Atlas (1973-75 basis);               cusatadiai sad pceventioa care.
1960; 1970 and 1971 deca.                                                              Per capita suppiy o1f scOiatica (%.of raensirants) - Computed franenerg.,y
aqaialasa, of set fodspple       avIlable in ..aunty per capita per day
Population and vital statistic;                                                              _ibllsi  supplies -oprisa dacascis production, imPorts i...sssPots     end
Ppoelatire (aid-veer aillia) 'As of July first:      if sot available, evreS.              rhangas in stock; net soPpltls .oilude animal faed, scads, quantlitie   usad
of two sad-pass ascimacas; 1 A, 1970 end 1971 data,                                      is food processing esd lassos In distrhbution    --r-. -nucmsearc -oatimij
by PAn base.d on physiologicai mnods fan normal1 antivity and health su-id-
Popuietion, dentsity - par square kas - Mid-past population per square hilomas tar          ering envirosnental temperature, bady weights, age and see distributions of
(100 hatteras) of tata1 era.                                                             populatisa, and allowing SOT for waste at household leve...
Ponulatta  density - par saure as of sonic    loand - Conputed asa shoe  for             per caiassl        fa    es(Aeras oer day) - Prot.ia content of per -apic
agriceltural land enip.                                                                  net supplyuoPffood par da;not splofodisdfied aabove; require-
meats far all osontries astablishd by USDA Inononin Research Secei...
Vital statistics                                                                            provide for                      I iiu  laan  ~of 0r-am of totaIprotein per day, end
Crude birth cret par thousand, overawe - dAnui live births per thousand of                  20 grams of animal and pulse protent, af which 10 grams should be animal
aid-year population;   sc-pear ariti-tic avrages ending is 1960 and 1970,                 protein; chase standards ar  lowr thea those of 75 gram    of total prsotin
and five-yer owacge     adnag in 197  far meet tenan.t estimate,                          and 23 gram    of asial protein se as average for tbs wend, prcposed by FAO
Crude death cats per thousand oerg       - Annual deaths par thousand of aid-year           in the Third World Pond Sur,ey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending is 1960 end 1970 end five-              Per capite protein sure"ly frm animal sad pulse - Protein supply of food
pear average ending io 1975 far mast recast estimate,                                     derived frmn animal  e nd pulses in gram  per da.-
Infant macsaicy rate i/thou) - A-.u.I deaths at infests under one pear of age             Death rats f/thou) ages 1-4 - Aen-I deotbe par thrusa.rd Ic age group 1-4
per thousnd lice births.                                                                  y-sr, to children is this ags group, auSggsted    se    indictorr of
Lfeactanc.y at birth ('era) - Average namber of peace of life raining at              malnutrition.
birth; usuaily five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for de.onip-
ing coontrisa                                                                           Educ-tion
Grass reprcdc"tian rats - A-srage    =brc of live daughters a wanes will hear             Adjuted enolenPai           -Icase cho      - Etnr11lmnt of all age as par-
is har naa     raproductiv- period if she eaperi..n.. presen.t age-specific                atg.fpisyaho-g                pouaion, includes children, aged h-li years
fertility  rates , usually fiva-year ava-agaa ending in 1960, 1970 snd 1975               but adjusted for different iengtbs tf primary educa.tion; for nountcisa with
for develping coutrias                                                                    ucwrs      dsto.erim             a    csd iOOt aisse a,o     pupils are belno
Popultion rowthrate 7.1 -tota  - Conpaund annual growth rates sof mid-year          or aboe, the  offirisi  chool ag..
ppat onfr 1950-60, 16-70 sod 1970.75.                                            Adjusted earsillant ratio - sec...dary echowi - Canpuced as shoe; se ondary
Population grtnc rt(Z-urban - Conputd liba growth rats of tota1                             education requires at lnaut four ye-r     of upprovd priary tnotructioni,
population, different defin ition  of urban areas map affsect coap-rability of            provides goes,~ctua            r t .e.nhr trainingin ma.csu .nae   fur pup1la
daaaon  onris                                                                       of 12 to 1, yesrs of age, correspondents coursee   arc gene.rally ...clsdad.
Uranppuaion (i. f total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Years of scul       rvdd(Irst and second levels) - Tata1 years of
definitiosna of urban areas may affset  oprabiiity of data among countries.               schooling; ar secondary 1-vs, vocational instruction map he partially or
nmnpletely secluded.
Age dstructure fpre...nt) - Children (0-14 yes-a), working-age (15-64 years),             Vocational enrollmesaaL  o sooday       - VoCstionsi i-utitutiose fnslude
an  eired (65 cras e.nd over) as peruontages of mid-pear papulation.                   technical, icdustrial or other programs which uperete tsdapandrctlv ora
Mge dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 asd ovr to three                 depar se.ts of secondary I-citsiica..
aags15 through Ad                                                                   Adult iteracy rate (7.) - Lcit uo    duu (able to read end write) us per-
i.ononin depedr rtio - easiw of papulatio           under 15 and 65 and over to             ...ntagr of tutu; adult popslacbon slee  (9 years an   vr.
ths  ebor (arc   inag   gap of 15-64 pears.
famlyelncins-anetrs(smulstie., tho.) - Iwoulatie number at arce ptore                  Hausing
of birth-control devines under aus pices of national family pleasing program            Persons par ron(rban) - Au.r4ge -ubrr of persons per roan is ocoopted
ssaicePtio                                                                            cnetional dosilinga in urban asse, dsaelli,,ge easlude no-perannt
Family planning   users (7. of married wonn) - percen.tages of married wonn rf            ..trun ttre  andg.unocpied parto.
chIld-bearing age (15-44 years) wh. use birth-control devines to all married.crnd                 delin~sscotardwtr(.                  Gtsup(ed rossnotbona1 d-e11ing
wanes in same age group.                                                                  in urban and rura   -area   without inside er outside piped Oscar fenilitisa
as percenltage of all orrupied dwellings.
oE.loynent                                                                                Anesto l      trirlty (7. of all duellinga) - Conv-ncinu1 dwellings with
Total labor farce (thousand) - Econooically aCtive persons, including armed                 electrIcity in living q-tncrhaus --riec       II u;al1 d-iii.gt in. ohon -ud
fame..soad unemploynd but ...nIading houeewive, students, ctc.; definitions               rural acres.
LIn various   -toncis are sac conparable.                                                Rural duellinca conete cceeti,                 - Canpused as shove for sral.
abor fame in agriculture ai. - Agricultural labor farce (is farming, forestry,             dwellings only.
busting and fishing) as percentage of totel labor force.
Unameiry%d C7 of labor force)c- Lunemployed er seusily defined as person       who        c.Pi
are able end willing to tahe a jab, out of a job on a given dap, remained out           Radio rreceivyers (ens thou_err) - All t-ypes  f receivers for radio broadc..ast
of a jab, end aekeig wash for a specified ninbtan period not ...ceading one               to geacra1 public per thousand of population; essludas onli.ansed r.eceivers
week; may netbecnmparable between countries due to different definitians                  is constriea and is Vare when regftration of radio sets was in effsect.
sof uesployed and source of data, e.g. , employsment office statistics, smple             data for recan.t yeas may not he conparsble since ares    -otrine eboliahed
survYs,I conpul.s.y unamploymect Ins...    e                                               licensing.
Passeng1ter as(ortouoe           - Passenger curs conprtsa motorcars seating
Iota distribution    - Percentage of private incam (bath in cash end kied)                  ieete        night persona; eanludes obubt-nee.  hearses and ailitary
reevdby richest 5., richest 207., poorest 201, end poorest 407. of housa-              vehicles.
holds.                                                                                  ElectrIcity (huh/pr percp      - Annual consmption of industrial,    -aercial,
public end pricats electricity is kilowatt hours per cepira, generally
Distibuton o  lad meacebn -Per.ntocges of 1-cd mend by wealthiest 107.              hosed on Production data, without allowance for losses is grids but allo--
and poorest 107. of land owerse.                                                           leg for imparts and e-port. of electricity.
Newsprint (gy prue           - Per capits annul consumption in hilogram
Heath aNd    utrition                                                                        etimated fran donestic production Plus net imparts of newsprint.
Poultin ra physician - Population divided by matber of practicing
pbyaicieoo qualified fran a medical snhool at    niv-rsty level.



- 20 -                                                          ANNEX T
ECONObQC DEVEIPMNTI DATA                                              Page 3 or 4 Pages
(Amounts inm   ilinso     U.S. dollars)
1967  Actual  ~  ~      1/5   Proeced196?..                   1972 - 1974    -   1976 -    16        94      16
1967  ~   ---M4           L~1,0    iyul.-     1972.   1974     1976       1981      196      174      98
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS-
p-Year Average at 1967- 1969 Prices & Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product              799.4   1109.9     1195.5      1266.1    1363.8    1798.         6.8     3.8    6.8     5.7       101.2    104.0     103.6
Gains from Term     of Trade (+)   -_9. 5     21.4    -  46,      -  38.t2  -__41.2   -__62.9         .       .       .      .          1.2   -  4.0    -  3.6
Gross Domestic Income               789.9   1088.5     1149.5      1237.9    1322.6    1735.9   -    6.6     2.8    7.3     5.        10-0.0   100.0    -100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                  234.0    325.0      344.5      364.3      387.4     516.6        6.8     3.0    6.0     5.9        29.6     30.0      29.8
Exports    "  (import capacity)     213.2    290.6      328.4       325.0     336.1     469.0        6.4     6.3     1.2    6.9        27.0     28.6      27.0
Resource Gap                        -7-       1A-74      TE71      *2           5T I     % 3 -77.   10.6   -46.2    78.5   -1.5       _7g       rn         s7
Consumption Expenditures            682.1    951.2     1013.7     1084.0     1145.2    1445.6        6.9     3.2     6.3    4.8        86.4     88.2      83.3
Investment    "(incl. stocks)       128.7   171.7      169.2       183.2      220.1     337.7        5.9   -  .1   14.0     8.9        16.3     14.7      19.4
Domestic Savings                    107.8    137.4     153.0       143.9      170.7     290.2        5.0     5.5     5.6   11.2        13.6     13.3      16.7
National Savings                     87.9    114.0      102.7       110.0     151.2     249.8         5.3  - 5.4    21.3   10.8        11.1      8.9      14.4
MERCHAN4DISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                      40.8     89.1     104.3       143.2      1 77. 5   444.4       16.9     8.2   30.4    20.2        21.7     23.9      35.4
Intermediate goods (cl.fuels)      87.3   133.6      198.3       254.3      297.6     533.7        8.9    21.8   22.5    12.4        46.4     45.5      42.5
Fuels and related materials         8.3     15.2      38.3        52.3       61.8     109.8       12.9    58.7    27.0   12.2         4.4      8.8       8.7
of which:   Petroleuma            8.3    15.2       38.3        52.3       61.8     109.8       12.9    58.7   27.0    12.2         4.4      8.8       8 7
Consu   tion goods                 51.6     64.9       95.0      112.7      128.9     169.3       12.2    21.0    16.5    5.6        27.4     21.8      13.5
Toal Merch. Imorts (cif)        rg=7     3027       119         317%     71t       T27T          10.0   20.0    23.6    13.6       157     1 5f      TU7%
Exports
Primary- products (ml. fuels)     143.7    199.9     446.7       398.1      461.0     885.8        6.8    50.0     1.6   14.0        90.8     93.5      86.8
Fuels and related materials         -        -          -           -          -        -.                  .
of which:   Petroleum             -        -          -          -          -         -.                  .
Manufactured goods                 14.6     20.9       314         53.9      68.3     134.5         7.4   22.0   48.2    14.5         9.2      6.5      13.2
Total Merch, Exports (fob)        1327!   127        7777W       357!      72217    72u70=         6.9    47.1     5.2   14.0       10070D   1007     -T007
Tourism and Border. Tranc            .                                         .         .e 
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1967-69* 100
Export Price Index                 94.0   114.1      172.1       189.2      212.6     303.0        4.0    22.8   11.1     7.3
Import Price Index                 94.8   127.6      186.0       218.0      239.3     343.7        6.1    20.7   13.4     7.5
Terms of Trade Index               99.1    89.4       92.5        86.8       88.9      88.2       -2.1     1.7  - 2.0    - .2
Elxports Volume Index              94.0   123.8      163.9       147.0      164.0     229.0        5.7    15.1     -      6.9
VALUJE ADIDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates               Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       272.2   352.1      380'.1      417.5      432.8     540.7        5.3     2.9    6.7     4.6        38.5     37.4      34.4
Industry and Mining              170.9    233.2      230.8       258.8      271.8     371.2        6.4   - .1     8.5     6.4        24.2    22.7      23.6
Service                          264.3    401.6      40.4D.A   ..AhL.       488.1    658.3         8.7      .1    9.7     6.2        37.4    39.9      41.9
Total                             707.4   986.9     1016.3      1136.8     1192.7    1570. 2       6.9     1.5    8.3     5.6      1700.0   1-00.0 o  100.0
PUB3LIC FINANCE                                                                                                                          AB Percent of GDP__
(Cffentral Go-vernment) (in CFAF billion)
Current Receipts                  31.9      56.6      68.4        79.6      103.8     201.1       12.2    9.9    23.2    14.1        16.4     16.4     17.0
QrrPtp9dtrs3.                               46.6      60.9        71.6       93.9     165.9        7.7   14.3    24.2    12.1        16.5    14.6      14.0
xiitjisavings                     .2      10.0       7.5        8.0        9.9      35.2      152.7   -15.5   14.9    28.9       -  .1      1.8       3.0
Other Public Sector Savings        4.6       1.0      13.4        10.9       12.5      19.8       35.7  266.1   - 3.5     9.6         2.4     3.2       1.7
Public Sector Investment          13.5      27.5      43.4        44.2       49.9    124.7       15.3    25.6     7 .2  20.1         6.9     10.4      10.6
1US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DERAILS                     Actual        Prelim.    Eat.     Proj.        DETAIL ON                               At 1974-1975]P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)               1967    1972       19 74     19 75    1976'        PUTBLIC SECTOR         1/           Third Plan     % of Total
Education                                14.4    177.1      16.9      17.1     17.4          INESMENT PROGRAM4 -                  (1971 / 72- 19 75 / 76)
Other Social Services                      .7    10.7        9.7      10.0     10.3         Social Sectors                          247.6               26.6
Agriculture                               5.0     5.6        5.9       6.1      6.6         Agriculture                              167.5              18.0
Other Economic Services                  11.6     8.7       11.2      12.3     13.5          IndUstry and Mining                     14.0                1.5
Administration and Defense               59.5    45.3       42.6      41.8     40.3          Power                                    56.8               6.1
Other                                     8.8    12.6       13.7      12.7     12.1         Transport and communications            387.2               41.6
Total Current Expenditures (in                                                              Other                                    57.7                6.2
CFAF billion)                         32.1    46.6       60.9      71.6     93.9          Total Expenditures                      9308            -100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960-     1967-      1972-    1977-        FINANICING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)              1965      1971       1976     1981                                     2
Average ICOR                                         ..       -TT 2    . 4-0       3.1            Public Sector Savings -351.8                            37.8
Import Elasticity                                    .          .968       .789   1.010           Local Borrowing                      55.8                6.0
lerginal Domestic Savings Rate                       .          .023       .239     .289          Foreign Financing                   523.2               56.2
Marginal National Savings Rate                       .          .137       .151     .239          Total Financing                     9-30.8             100.0
IABR FORCE AND                                   Total tabor Force                                  Value Added PerWcorker (9 67      69  Prices_& Exc. Rates)
oLtrPLrT PER WORKER                                      of Total           1967- 71           In U.S.Dollars      Percent of     erage        19 61- 71
1967  i2ai   !i&J       fl19j7    Growth Rate         16         191          967       171        Growth Rate
Agriculture 3-                 22,200     31,700      18.5       19.7          9.3          4,585.6    4,186.1        118.9      107.7         - 2.6
Industry   /   /              29,210      41,360      24.3       25.7          9.1          1,064.7    1,090.4         27.6      28.1             .6
Service -1   -A/               27,328      34,427      22.7       21.4          6.0          5,027.8    5,420.4       130.3      139.5           1.9
Government_                    41,494      53,486      34.7       33.2          6.5          4,752.5    4,848.0       123.2      127.4             .5
Total  1-Y20-,232                         160 ,9 73  TO 206     1-00.0-       -73.    ~      3,857.6   -3, 9711       TO 100.    1 0-0-.0         .2
not applicable         - nil or negligible                5 / Estimated actual disbursements             41  Excluding government
not available         -  less than half the               2/ Net of debt service
smallest unit shown             3/ Modern sector only



- 21 -
bALNE OF PAYMbr    flTfRhL ASSISrANCE AND DEBT                                        Pace 4 of 4 pages
(7asonte in eillione of U.S. dollr.e at current prices)
Aen. Annual
Actusl                    EFtinted                                 ProJected                               Orevth Rota
2fl        1974       1975       1976        19D 77      19713        7        1980       1981       1982       1993       1977-1983
S8357RY 1A8ANCE OF PAYN75TS
Ezorts (t-ol. NFS)                 376.0      576.2      624.7      650.7       798.9        1,030.4    1,077.3    1,150.8    1,244.4   1,399.6    1,557.7       12.0
Epar-t. (i  .l. NFS                422.0      514.8      703.1      792.0       925.5       1,161.5     1,192.0   1,340.6    1,385.1    1,639.0    1,783.7       u1.6
8i6A4hceRaIihFe) a -.i)            -46.0       C 61.4    -784      -142.0      -126.          -131.1        7      -189.8     -140.7     ^   .       2            8.3
Interest (net                       -6.2       -9.8      -11.3      -44.6       -25.0         -42.4      -49.5      -56.3      -67.4      -73.2      -85.9       25.8
Diret Caveacet I0cc'               -3.2      -15.5      -27.2      -30.2       -36.2         -39.9      -45.8      -52.7      -60.6      -69.7      -8602       14.7
Worker.' Renittance                 -30.4     -41.4      -34.2      -30.4       -31.2          -36.8     -40.4      -44.5      -48.9      -53.8      -59.2       10.4
Cur-t Tran.fe (ret)                             6.5       12.8       25.3        20.6           30.6       33.6      37.0       40.7       43.5       46.6       11.3
_______on_________________            0~L2     ~L.       -a8.L.    -alQl       -193.4       ..    0 Gr.9            -4            .      -      
Private Direct lT-etmnet             -7.5      15.2       24.5       34.5        37.9          43.8       71.0       77.5       93.0      100.0      105.0       19.5
Offici.  Capital  s-acts             11.2      13.9       19.7       30.1        27.4          22.4       22.4       22.4       22.4       30.0       30.0         .5
Public hT Lcsoe
Disbur.s.e.te                      69.3      50.3       73.0      138.9       211.1          236.3      234.6     317.1      249.4      385.2      389.8       13.6
-Re saxrentv                       -7.1     -11.8       -14.3     -20.5       -28.3         -44.2      -62.2       -73.8      -79.3     -97.4     -105.6       26.2
NT.M Di3TTot                                             _77-       TM-=62.2  3.  37  flBF  152.0  1925.1  1T7r4    273.3     177071      775rs7     2r2         10.5
Other M461T Loan
Di.bureensete                      34.7       9.4       21.3       30.3         ..            ..         ..         ..
Net Dib  etnt                       7.5       -8.o       -17.2     -13.2..                                .          ..Atl                                    tisd
Capital Trunsc.ac.ti c.e.i.          -19.3    -39.5      -21.2      -3.4        -54.1                                   12z1 i7-                    1974  1963
Chsuge in Net Reeos-e                 -.2       30.7      -52.5      4.8         -4.4       DEbT AND DEiST SER3V3I
Public Dbt Out. & Dieburesod  238.4  274.3    374.6    529.3     2,073.2
GQhANT AD LOA OOMI}TMENTS
orfocsia Grants & oract-like         41.9      47.8        77(3      ..           ..          Caterest o Public Debt      9.6     11.1     15.1     19.3        98.3
Repayesets so Public Debt  15.0     14.0     20.7      21.7       105.6
Public Y67LToats                                                                  ..          Total Public Debt Service  24.6     25.1     35.8      41.o       193.9
82RD                               25.7      34.1        1.0      34.3          *-          Other Debt Sorvice (nst)    ..
IDA                                24.0       -         21.2      25.0          ..          Total Debt Servie (ret)     ..
Othir Meltilateral                  16.3       -         10.8      30.8         ..        burden on Eport Earnt,50 (S)
onrce-- ts                         82.5      44.8       99.7      29.4
Soppliere                             .4        .9        7.1       7.6         ..          Public Debt Service         4.6       4.1      5.4      5.9       12.4
Ficiac   I.. titutiocs               -       64.6       27.8      87.3         *           Tctal Debt service           ..
Bands                                     -                -        -            .*         TD3+Direct Cavt. Inc.        ....
Public Loan  n.e.i.                  _         -          -       20.0
Total Poblic MNUT Loac                  4    8.9  3       167.6    234     4                Average Tero= of Public Debt
Actual Debt Ootetcndi.g cc Dec. 31,76                ICt. as 8 Pricr Year MO&D    4.9      4.7       5.5      5 2        4.9
EXTERNAL DE8r                              Diebwreed O0b            Perceot                     Anort. as S Prior Year Do&D  7.6     5.9       7.5      5.8        5.9
World bank                                    57.5                 10.9
IDA                                           67.8                 12.8                     00RD Debt Out. & Debursed    23.1     28.7      49.7     57.5      265.0
Other Maltilatercl                            39.6                  7.5                          as S Public Debt OD     9.7      10.4     13.3     10.9       12.8
O_oeroin_te                                  190.7                 36.0                       n  cc 3 Public Debt Sevice  5.6       8.5     10.4     -1.4       11.7
Suesollere                                    16.4                  3.1
Fisaccial Inciltution-                       143.9                 27.9                     IDA Debt (bt. & Disbursed    30.1      34.1     49.9     67.8      183.6
B.d.                                          -                      -                          a 0% Public Debt O&D     12.6     12.4      13.3     12.8        B.9
Public Debts c.e.i                             9.5                  1.8                      e as 3 Public Debt Seroice    .7       1.2      .8       1.1        1.0
Tctal Public M4LT Debt                      752 
Other M&LT Debte
Short-ito, Dbt (dieb. only)
.nt applicable                                            e etrff estiente
c.not avaIble                                             - nil or csgligible
cot avilable sparately                                  -- lese than halr the
but inludod is tatal                                       e-olleat unit ehban



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                          Amount
Credit                                                     (less cancellations)
Number     Year   Borrower    Purpose              Bank    TW     IDA /1   Undisbursed
------------US$ Million-----------
Five Credits and seven loans have been
fully disbursed                                      55.7            63.2         -
161-CM    1969  Cameroon     Education                               11.7 /2     0.1
320-CM    1972  Cameroon    Education II                              9.0        5.0
935-CM    1973  Cameroon    Roads II                 24.0                       19.8
983-CM    1974  Cameroon     Livestock               11.6                        6.6
1039-CM    1974  Cameroon     Cocoa                    6.5                        3.5
574-CM    1975  Cameroon     Niete Rubber Project                    16.0       11.5
575-CM    1975  Cameroon     DFC - Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                       3.0        3.0
S4-CM    1976  REGIFERCAM   Railways                 2.3                        1.6
1245T-CM   1976  Cameroon     Education III                   17.0               16.8
657-CM    1976  Cameroon     Second Douala Port                      10.0        5.6
1321-CM    1976  NPAC         Second Douala Port      15.0                       15.0
672-CM    1977  Cameroon     Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Devpt.                            2.0        2.0
673-CM    1977  Cameroon     Technical Assistance                     4.5 /3     4.5
723-CM    1977  Cameroon    Rural Devt. Fund                          7.0 /3     7.0
1391-T-CM  1977  Cameroon     Second SOCAPALM Project          7.0 /3             7.0
1392-CM    1977  Cameroon     Second SOCAPALM Project 18.0 /3                    18.0
TOTAL                               133.1    24.0  126.4       127.0
of which has been repaid             1.7     0.0    0.1
TOTAL now outstanding               131.4    24.0  126.3
Amount sold                    0.2
of which has been repaid             0.2
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA /1   131.2    24.0  126.3
TOTAL undisbursed                    64.3    24.0   38.7       127.0
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million made in 1975.
/3   Not yet effective.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of August 31, 1977) /I
Loan or
Credit
Number     Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Equity
311-CM      1975  BATA        Shoe Factory              0.38
355-CM      1977  SAFACAM     Rubber Plantation         0.81
1.19
Less sold                 0.25
Held by IFC               0.94
Undisbursed               0.41
/1   Does not include "La Maiserie de l'Ouest" approved
on November 23, 1977.
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 161, 161-1      First Education Project:   US$10.5 million Credit
of September 23, 1969; Effectiveness Date:
April 29, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
(Original Closing Date: June 30, 1974); and US$1.2
million Supplementary Credit of July 30, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 30, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1978.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial
years, due to delays in both the construction and technical assistance pro-
grams. In May 1975, a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million was approved
to cover cost increases due to currency realignments. Construction of all
buildings and delivery of virtually all furniture and equipment have been
completed, and project accounts are now being finalized. The project was
well-managed, particularly as project unit staff gained experience. A com-
pletion mission which visited Cameroon in February 1977 found that project
facilities are generally well adapted to local requirements. However, be-
cause enrollments greatly exceed capacity at some project secondary schools,
specialized classrooms and laboratories are not always used as such, thereby
reducing the impact of the project on diversifying secondary education.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 320             Second Education Project:   US$9.0 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is delayed by twenty-four months, but no
extension of the closing date of June 30, 1979, is expected. The project is
generally well managed. Following cost overruns due to currency realignments
and the accelerated price increases which have occurred since 1973, the Gov-
ernment decided to finance the construction of one project school with its
own funds and another project school was transferred to the Third Education
Project (Loan 1245-T-CM).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935 Second Highway Project: US$24.0 Million Credit
of September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978; and US$24.0 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was completed
satisfactorily in December 1976. Construction of the Douala-Pont du Nkam road
(161 km) is slow and its completion is delayed by at least one year. Construc-
tion of the Figuil-Mora road (163 km) is progressing well. The first phase of
the maintenance study is practically completed and the Government has hired
technical assistance for the Ministries of Equipment and Agriculture. The
project has considerably suffered from the 1973-1974 worldwide inflation,
which nearly doubled its total cost. Consequently, the Government agreed
to postpone construction of the Garoua-Figuil road (98 km). A Supplementary
Credit of US$15.0 million was approved in March 1976 to help alleviate the
burden imposed on the Government by the project's cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983                Livestock Proiect: US$11.6 million Loan of May 14,
1974, Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, although
some project components are behind schedule. Physical development and the
condition of livestock in two project ranches continues to be very good;
infrastructural works in the third are proceeding on schedule. Following
the bankruptcy of the first contractor, for the construction of two slaugh-
terhouses SODEPA has signed a new contract with the second lowest evaluated
bidder, TORVALE INTEC COPPAS, Ltd., U.K. Construction work started in August
1977 and is expected to be completed in 19 months. Sixty-six credits to mixed
farmers and graziers have been disbursed, five more than the number antici-
pated at appraisal. The first tsetse fly eradication campaign ended in March
1977 with satisfactory results; of the scheduled 160,000 ha, 51,000 ha were
not treated because the ongoing survey indicated there was no need to spray,
90,300 ha have been freed, and the remainder carried over to the next cam-
paign. Establishment of a permanent 20 km anti-tsetse barier is to start
by the end of 1977.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Ln. No. 1038               Second Railway Project:   US$16.0 million Loan to
REGIFERCAM of September 18, 1974; Effectiveness
Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date: March 31,
1978.
Procurement of main project items has been satisfactory. The
track material was delivered and laid by December 1975, and delivery of
rolling stock was completed in 1976. Technical problems have been encountered
with the foundations of one of the piers for the Japoma bridge. Additional
supporting measures as well as proposals for permanently monitoring the
behavior of the bridge and its piers are being prepared. The works were
completed in September 1977. Due to the fluctuation in exchange rates
during project implementation, additional financing was required to cover
the cost of the equipment already ordered and of the reconstruction of the
Japoma bridge. Consequently, the railway has obtained a supplier's credit
of US$820,000 to supplement Bank financing for the rolling stock, and the
Eoreign exchange cost of the consulting services (US$925,000) originally
included in this Second Railway Project has been transferred to the Third
Railway Project financed under Loan No.S-4. Due to the world slump in the
timber market and substantial increases in staff costs in 1974/75, REGIFERCA4
axperienced difficulty in attaining the financial covenents included in the
.oan Agreement. The Second Railway Project financial targets were retained
Eor the Third Railway Project and the Government and REGIFERCAM have under-
taken to carry out the necessary measures, including tariff increases, to
achieve the target set for 1978/79. A first tariff increase averaging 12.4
?ercent was implemented, effective June 1, 1976, and a second one, averaging
L5 percent for passengers and 20 percent for freight, has been approved and
Lmplemented as of July 1, 1977. Measures to increase productivity and control
)perating costs have also been initiated. REGIFERCAM is thus expected to
ichieve the agreed financial targets.
.n. No. 1039               Cocoa Project:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
The Government, in recognition of the declining trend in cocoa
roduction, has instituted measures designed to improve incentives to cocoa
:armers. The most important of these are the provision of free fungicide for
)lack pod control, the consolidation of all farmers' groups in the department
zomprising the project area, and the proposal to increase the producer price
.or export quality cocoa from CFAF 150/kg to CFAF 220/kg for the 1977/78 sea-
,on. The project itself shows a marked improvement from the last supervision.
Project management has taken steps to strengthen the extension service and to
)etter focus its action. A manager to coordinate and control the activities
)f all sectors will need to be appointed soon to oversee this reorientation
f project work.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Cr. No. 574                Niete Rubber Estate Project: US$16.0 million Credit
of June 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 1,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress in establishing Niete Rubber estate has been steady;
planting is in fact slightly behind schedule because of unusually heavy rains
which have hampered seed production. Some 790 ha should be planted by end-
1977 compared with 1,050 assessed at appraisal; but construction work is ahead
of schedule. Labor hired locally has been sufficient up to now but recruit-
ment from other areas may become necessary soon. The terms of reference for
the regional master plan studies have been drawn up.
Cr. No. 575                Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project; US$3.0
million Credit of July 1, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1976 (Original Effectiveness Date:
December 1, 1976; First Postponement: February 2,
1976; Second Postponement: June 2, 1976); Closing
Date: December 31. 1980.
The Credit was declared effective on July 30, 1976. After consider-
able delay, two expatriate advisors for the Banque Camerounaise de Developpe-
ment (BCD) have assumed their positions in BCD and commitment of the first
subprojects has begun. The delivery of technical assistance to entrepreneurs
by the three agencies financed by UNDP under the Project is progressing despite
problems of interagency coordination. The Government has requested that the
Bank Group and CCCE (the other co-financier) continue financing technical assis-
tance once UNDP financing terminates.
Ln. No. 1245-T             Third Education Project:   US$17.0 million Third
Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
December 31, 1976 (Original Effectiveness Date:
October 4, 1976); Closing Date: December 31. 1981.
Satisfactory progress is being made on the architectural design work,
and agreement has been reached on the preliminary drawings for the project
schools. Following the Government's decision subsequent to project appraisal
to change the location of the two upper secondary agricultural schools, a new
site in Dschang has been selected. Construction is expected to proceed on
schedule.
Ln. No. S-4                Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard
Engineering Project: US$2.3 million Loan of June 25,
1976; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1976; Closing
Date: October 31, 1978.
Selection of consultants for the first phase study (feasibility
study) has been completed. The final engineering study is expected to start
in end-1977.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1321               Second Douala Port Project:   US$15.0 million Loan of
Cr. No. 657                September 24. 1976; Effectiveness Date:    June 15,
1977; (Original Effectiveness Date: January 24,
1977); Closing Date: June 30, 1981 and US$10.0
million Credit of same date; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977 (Original Effectiveness Date:
January 24, 1977); Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction works started in December 1976. Some changes in
project design will be considered by the co-donors at a meeting to be held
in December 1977. Such changes are not currently envisioned to result in
project cost increases beyond the finances available.
Cr. No. 672                Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:
US$2.0 million Credit of February 28, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The 1977 season confirms the seriousness of the technical difficul-
ties that must be solved before full-scale development of the plain can take
place.  While progress is being made in testing acceptable levels of mechani-
zation, the resolution of agronomic problems, recently compounded by climatic
fluctuations, has lagged. The agronomic program has been redesigned for 1978.
Cr. No. 673                Technical Assistance Project:   US$4.5 million
Credit of June 15, 1977; Projected Effectiveness
Date: November 14, 1977 (Original Effectiveness
Date: September 13, 1977); Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The effective date of the Credit was extended from September 13
to November 14, 1977 to allow for the recruitment of a senior economist by
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Credit was declared effective on that
date. Progress in project coordination and in recruiting long-term advisory
consultants is coming about slowly but is now expected to take place more
rapidly in parallel with the forthcoming presentation of a comprehensive
action program by government. Several project-related studies are under
active consideration for financing under the Project.
Cr. No. 723                Rural Development Fund Project:    US$7.0 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Projected Effectiveness
Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Measures required for Credit effectiveness and for project imple-
mentation are being taken.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1392               Second Socapalm Project:   US$18.0 million Loan and
Ln. No. 1391-T             Third Window Loan:   US$7.0 million of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23. 1977;
Closing Date: June. 1982.
The loans were declared effective on November 23, 1977 - the due
date.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(1)   Time taken to prepare project:   9 months.
(2)   Proposed investments largely identified during Bank Supervision of
first stage. Final preparatory work in 1976 and final report sent
to Bank in 1976. The project was prepared by CAMDEV with the assistance
of a consultant.
(3)   Departure Appraisal Mission:   March 1977.
(4)   Negotiations completed:   October 25, 1977.
(5)   Planned date of effectiveness:   May 2, 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(1)   Estate maintenance and construction of additional processing facilities
after project investment period and a systematic estate replanting
policy would be carried out by CAMDEV (para.33);
(2)   Six specialists with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank would be appointed (para.35);
(3)   The progress in the preparation of the Master Plan will be
reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank (para. 37);
(4)   The outgrower development program will be prepared by CAMDEV
by January 1 each year and agreed upon with FONADER. The Bank
would be given an opportunity to comment on this program (para.
39).
(5)   Producer prices would be subject to an annual exchange of views with
the Bank (para. 43);
(b)   CAMDEV's liquid asset would be maintained at a level that would allow
the corporation to retain satisfactory liquidity. Annual development
proposals and budgets would be reviewed in consultation with the Bank
(para.36);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(7)   Special conditions of effectiveness:
- Cross effectiveness with CCCE's and CDC's co-financing
agreements;
- Finalization of CAMDEV/Government Financing Agreement
(para.38); and
- Satisfactory appointment for two specialized staff
positions (para.35);
(8)   Condition of disbursement for outgrower program (para.38).
- Finalization of Credit Administration Agreement between
CAMDEV and FONADER and Financing Agreement between the
Government and FONADER.



