Report No. 1676-CM                                                                   FILE  COPY
Cameroon
Appraisal of a Second CAMDEV Project
December 9, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               =   CFAF 245
CFAF 1             =   US$0.0041
CFAF 1,000         =   US$4.1
CFAF 1,000,000     =   US$4081.63
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 hectare (ha)                =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.204 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)           =  2,204.6 pounds
1 liter (1)                   =  1.057 U.S. quart
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE          -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CDC           -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
CAMDEV        -  Cameroon Development Corporation
FAC           -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED           -  Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FONADER       -  Fonds National de Developpement Rural
HEVECAM       -  Societe Hevea - Cameroun
IRAT          -  Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et
de Cultures Vivrieres
IRCA          -  Institut de Recherches sur le Caoutchouc en Afrique
IRHO          -  Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleaginaux
ODM           -  Overseas Development Ministry (United Kingdom)
ONAREST       -  Office National de la Recherche Scientifique et
Technique
PAMOL         -  Societe Pamol Cameroun
SATET         -  Societe Africaine de Travaux et d'Etudes
Topographiques
SAFACAM       -  Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole - Cameroun
SUDA          -  Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique
'SOCAPALM     -  Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......                 ............................   i - v
I.    INTRODUCTION  .............................................                            1
II.    BACKGROUND  ......... . ..................................... 
A. General . .... .                       .....          ....                
B.    The Agricultural  Sector  ... so   .               .......................      2
C.    Institutions  ...................................................... .           2
D.   The First CAMDEV Project  ..................                 ..........           4
111.   THE PROJECT  ........             .........................................              4
A.    The Project Areas  ....................              ... .  .         .          4
B.    Summary Project Description                     .........................       6
C.   Detailed Features  ...              ................................              7
D.    Organization and Management  ........................                          10
IV.    PROJECT  COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  .................                          13
A.    Project Costs  .           ......................................              13
B.    Financial Arrangements  ................                  ............         15
C.    Procurement  and Disbursement  ..........                    .............     17
D.    Financial Management,  Accounts  and Audit  ............                       18
E.    Outgrower Program Costs and Cost Recovery                        ...........   18
V.    YIELDS AND OUTPUT,  MARKETS AND PRICES  ....................                          19
A.    Rubber  ..........................    .                  ...........           19
B.    Oil Palm  ............................................                         20
VI.    FINANCIAL RESULTS  ....................... .............. . ..... ...                 21
A.    Project Participants ...........................                  ......       21
B.    CAMDEV                .............................................            22
C.   Government  and FONADER  .. .............................                       23
VII.    ECONOMIC  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ......................                           23
VIII.    AGREEMENTS  AND RECOMMENDATION  .....                  .......................         26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
ANNEX  1:   Project Entities
A.   The Cameroon Development Corporation
B.   The Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER)
Table 1: CAMDEV Balance Sheet
Table 2: Resources and Outlays of FONADER
ANNEX 2:    Technical Features
A.   CAMDEV's Present and Future Areas of Operation
B.   Development Areas
C.   Techniques
D.   Rubber Processing
E.   Outline Terms of Reference for Specialist Staff
Table 1: Planting Schedule
Table 2: Rubber Yields
Table 3: Oil Palm Yields and Extraction Rates
Table 4: Project Crop Production
ANNEX 3:    Development Preparations
A.   Introduction and Financial and Administrative Arrangements
B.   Expansion Study
C.   Preparation of Master Plan for west coastal region
ANNEX 4:   Outgrowers Program
A.   Organization and Management
B.   Financial Arrangements
C.   Outgrower Incomes
Table 1:  Oil Palm Outgrowers, Recommended Producer Price
Table 2:  Rubber Outgrowers, Recommended Producer Price
Table 3:  Oil Palm Outgrower Cash Flow
Table 4:  Rubber Outgrower Cash Flow
Table 5:  Cash Flow to FONADER
Table 6:  Cash Flow to Government
ANNEX 5:    Project Costs
Table 1:  Project Costs Summary
Part A - Rubber Estates Base Costs
Part B - Base Costs of Other Components and
Total Project Cost
Table 2:  Kompina Estate-Field Establishment and
General and Administrative Overheads
Table 3:  Kompina Estate - Fixed Assets



-3-
ANNEX 5:    Project Costs
Table  4:  Malende Estate - Field Establishment and General
and Administrative Overheads
Table  5:  Malende Estate - Fixed Assets
Table  6:  Mbonge Estate - Field Establishment & General and
Administrative Overheads
Table  7:  Mbonge Estate - Fixed Assets
Table  8:  Tombel Estate - Field Establishment and General
and Administrative Overheads
Table  9:  Tombel Estate - Fixed Assets
Table 10: West Coast Oil Palm Estate - Project Costs
Table 11: Outgrowers-Central Management Costs
Table 12: Rubber Outgrowers-Extension and Central
Management Costs
Table 13: Oil Palm Outgrowers - Extension and Central
Management Costs
Table 14: Outgrowers Field Establishment and Labor Costs
Table 15: Technical Assistance, Expansion Study and
Master Plan
ANNEX 6:    Schedule of Estimated Disbursement
ANNEX 7:    CAMDEV Financial Outlook and Cash Flows
Table 1: Project Estate Developments: Ongoing Costs
PY 6 to PY 15
Table 2: Project Cash Flow
Table 3: CAMDEV Estimated Gross Profits from Crops 1977/78 -
1991/92 (Excluding CAMDEV II)
Table 4: CAMDEV Profit and Loss Account for CAMDEV and Project
1977/78 to 1991/92
Table 5: CAMDEV Consolidated Cash Flow 1977/78 to 1991/92
ANNEX 8:    Markets and Prices
A.   Rubber
B.   Palm Oil and Kernels



- 4-
ANNEX 9:    Economic Rates of Return
Table 1:  Projected Price of Rubber
Table 2:  Projected Price of Palm Oil
Table 3:  Projected Price of Palm Kernels
Table 4:  Economic Rate of Return - Rubber Estates
Table 5:  Economic Rate of Return - Oil Palm Estate
Table 6:  Economic Rate of Return - Outgrower Rubber
Table 7:  Economic Rate of Return - Outgrower Oil Palm
Table 8:  Economic Rate of Return - Total Project
MAPS              IBRD 12891 - Cameroon
IBRD 12892 - CAMDEV/Mt. Cameroon Area
CHART             IBRD 17421 - CAMDEV's Organizational Structure



CAMEROON
SECOND CAIIDEV PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
Background
i.        The Government of Cameroon has asked the Bank to help finance a
project that would be part of a program of development in the west coastal
region of Cameroon, based on estate/smallholder tree crops. The project
was prepared mainly by the Cameroon Development Corporation (CAMDEV), a
state-owned agricultural development agency. This report is based on the
findings of an appraisal mission which visited Cameroon in March 1977.
Project Concept
ii.       CAMDEV was created in 1946 to rehabilitate and develop large tracts
in West Cameroon. A long-term development program for CAMDEV was begun in the
1960s, based on rubber and oil palm as major crops. Government wishes CM1DEV
to further expand and diversify its activities and the proposed project would
set the stage for CAMDEV's progressive growth in line with its absorptive
capacity. The project would also introduce an outgrower program in the CAMDEV
area.
iii.      The Bank Group assisted the first stage of CAMDEV's development with
a US$7.0 million loan and a US$11.0 million IDA credit in 1967. By June
1976, at completion, 10,500 ha had been planted and 4,700 ha of old estates
cleared for a net increase of 5,800 ha of oil palm and rubber. The first
project is judged to have been successful in meeting its objectives and
the rate of return was estimated at completion to be 16% - the same as the
appraisal estimate.
Project Areas and Summary Project Description
iv.       The project plantings would be in the vicinity of CAMDEV's existing
30,000 ha of estate plantings, on the lower slopes of Mount Cameroon. A
development planning component would focus on the remaining parts of the
west coastal region that are suitable for perennial tree crops.
v.        The project would be implemented over a 4-1/2 year investment period
and would include:
(a) clearing and planting 7,900 ha of estate rubber, maintenance during
the project period, and estate infrastructure including construction
of two rubber factories;
(b) planting about 1,000 ha each of outgrower rubber and oil
palm, including credit, extension, and management services;



- ii -
(c) clearing and planting 600 ha of estate oil palm, maintenance
during the project period, and some estate infrastructure;
(d) management and administration of the above estate plantings,
including provision of three specialists with project specific
functions and three additional specialists with company-wide
responsibilities; and
(e) development studies and related infrastructure, consisting of
two components:
(i)   an expansion study for CAMDEV's next development phase -
land surveys and project preparation for a follow-up five-
year investment program for CAMDEV. This would include a
bridge and 40 km of dirt road for access to the development
area, and 80 ha for seed gardens and coconut variety trials;
and
(ii) a master plan for the west coastal region leading inter
alia to guidelines for CAMDEV's longer term development.
As usual with estate projects, further maintenance and necessary processing
facilities would be provided for under CAMDEV's future investment program.
Project Implementation
vi.       The project would be implemented by CAMDEV with the exception of
the master plan, which would be directed by the Ministry of Economy and
Planning. The outgrower program would be managed by CAMDEV under a contract
with FONADER, the national agency responsible for agricultural credit and
smallholder development. CAMDEV's institutional structure is considered
satisfactory. However, within the corporation itself, some staff streng-
thening is required to improve CAMDEV's general efficiency and to provide for
the increased managerial and technical demands of the proposed project. This
would be achieved through the recruitment of six high-level specialists -
three with project specific functions and three with company-wide responsi-
bilities in conjunction with a continued emphasis on internal staff training
and upgrading.
vii.      Administrative arrangements for outgrower development would be
similar to those in the Second SOCAPALM Project. CAMDEV would establish an
outgrower management division which would provide support services to the
outgrowers and coordinate both financial and agricultural aspects of the
program. Outgrower plantings would average about 1-2 ha. The land would be
cleared by the outgrowers and each outgrower would have a personal usufruct
of his plantings when they are completed. FONADER would provide CAMDEV with
the funds required for the establishment of the plantings. CAMDEV would
deliver inputs, maintain credit accounts, and provide crop collection, pro-
cessing and marketing services. Outgrowers would receive long-term financing
in cash and in kind to cover crop establishment costs.



- iii -
Project Costs and Financing
viii.     Project costs are estimated at CFAF 9.6 billion (US$39.3 million),
including contingencies, over the 4-1/2 year investment period. The foreign
exchange component would be US$21.2 million or 54%. Cost estimates include
taxes of US$2.1 million, but exclude duties on all items imported expressly
for the project as Government will exempt these from import duties. Thus,
project costs net of taxes would be about US$37.2 million.
ix.       The project would be financed by CAMDEV self-generated funds, Gov-
ernment, and loans from the Bank, the French Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
tion Economique (CCCE) and the British Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC). The three loans totalling US$30 million would be made to Government.
Government would pass on US$25.8 million directly to CAMDEV for development
of the estates, the provision of specialists and for the expansion study. Of
the remaining US$4.2 million, US$1.9 million would be for the master plan, and
US$2.3 million would be passed on by Government to FONADER and CAMDEV for the
outgrower programs. The loans would help finance all project components and,
with the exception of the master plan, participation by the colenders would be
on a pari passu basis in the overall proportion: 2:1:1 representing loan
amounts of US$15 million for the Bank and US$7.5 million each for CDC and
CCCE. The master plan would be financed by the Bank and CCCE (39% each) and
Government (22%). The Bank loan would be for a term of 20 years including a
five-year grace period and would bear interest at the rate applicable at the
time of approval. CCCE and CDC loan terms are expected to be similar to the
Bank's. The Bank loan represents 40% of the total project cost net of taxes
and 71% of the project's foreign exchange component.
x.        Local contributions to project costs (including US$2.1 million
taxes) would amount to US$9.3 million; US$7.6 million from CAMDEV and US$1.7
million from Government. CAMDEV would bear all debt servicing on the US$25.8
million passed on to it by Government for the development of the estates, the
provision of specialists and the expansion study. Government would bear debt
servicing for the US$4.2 million of loans made for outgrower development and
for the master plan. During the disbursement period, debt servicing would
amount to: CAMDEV, US$4.3 million; Government, US$0.7 million. CAMDEV's total
contribution during this period would amount to US$11.9 million, and would be
met through self-generated funds available from its existing operations.
Government's contribution to project costs would be made available as follows:
(a) US$0.7 million to the Ministry of Economy and Planning for the master
plan; (b) a grant of US$0.7 million to FONADER which would be passed on
through CAMDEV's outgrower management unit to outgrowers as credit for field
inputs and cash grants for subsistence (para xi) and; (c) a grant of US$0.3
million to CAMDEV for CAMDEV's outgrower supervision costs.
xi.       Financial arrangements for outgrowers are similar to the program in
the Second SOCAPALM Project: during the crop investment period, outgrowers
would be provided with credit for field inputs and cash grants to cover part



- iv -
of the imputed cost of their labor inputs (cash grants supplied by Government
and based on 80% of the per diem unskilled estate laborer wage multiplied by
estimated man day requirements), and supervision would be provided without
charge. Credit, with 9% interest, would be provided through FONADER during
the crop investment periods - 8 years for rubber and 5 years for oil palm -
and would be recovered over the succeeding 10 years and 7 years respectively.
Procurement and Disbursement
xii.      Procurement.  Except for the items specified below, procurement
would be through international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank
guidelines. Goods and services subject to ICB - mainly machinery, vehicles
and equipment, fertilizer and some imports for construction - are estimated
to cost about US$11.6 million. Locally manufactured goods would be allowed
a preference of 15% or the level of applicable import duty, whichever is
lower, when comparing domestic with foreign bids. Contracts not exceeding
US$100,000 would be let under competitive bidding procedures advertised
locally and satisfactory to the Bank. Most land clearing, estate road build-
ing, plantation work and minor estate constructions would be done on force
account (US$13.6 million) using equipment purchased under the project. The
remaining project costs (US$14.1 million) would be mostly for staff and labor
costs and operating expenses. Specialists and consultants would be selected
following Bank guidelines.
xiii.     Disbursement.  Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made at 39%
of total expenditure for: (a) vehicles, equipment, civil works, field invest-
ments, salaries and operating costs for the rubber and oil palm estates
(US$10.4 million); (b) salaries and operating costs for provision of techni-
cal assistance specialists (US$0.6 million); (c) civil works, equipment,
materials, salaries and operating costs for the expansion study (US$0.7
million); (d) vehicles, equipment, civil works, salaries and operating costs
for the outgrower management unit (US$0.6 million); (e) field investments
for the outgrowers program (US$0.4 million); and (f) vehicles, equipment,
salaries and operating costs for the master plan (US$0.9 million). US$1.4
million would be unallocated. Disbursements for estate field investments
and operating costs would be made against certificates of expenditures with
documentation retained for inspection by Bank supervision missions. All
other disbursements would be fully documented.
Markets
xiv.      The project's rubber output would be exported, probably mainly as
block rubber which is in demand by manufacturers because its technical qualities
can be specified accurately. Projections of world demand for natural rubber
are reasonably good and real prices are expected to remain stable. For oil
palm products, CAMDEV is expected to sell an average of 85% of its palm oil
on the domestic market and to export the remainder and all of its palm
kernels. Long term price projections for oil palm and kernels are good
and similar to real prices in the early 1970's. For both rubber and oil
palm products, CAMDEV has established markets in Europe, and in West Africa
Nigeria is projected to become a major importer of palm oil.



v 
Benefits
xv.       The incremental project output would improve Cameroon's balance
of payments by providing increases in foreign exchange earnings from exports
of rubber and palm kernels and increased palm oil production which would be
used primarily for meeting a growing domestic demand. The project's economic
rate of return is estimated at 17% with rates of return on individual compo-
nents ranging from 16-23%. The project would also provide additional staff
for strengthening CAMDEV's technical management in key areas, development
studies and investments to prepare for the future growth of CAMDEV and the
surrounding area; and introductory experience with organized smallholder
credit schemes for rubber and oil palm. Employment and increased incomes
would be provided for about 5,000 estate workers and 1,300 farming families.
xvi.      CAMDEV's financial rate of return from the project inclusive of
10% physical contingencies is estimated at 11%. By 1991, annual net revenues
generated from the project would be US$11 million and would contribute to a
cumulative cash balance for CAMDEV of US$78 million. However, while in the
long run the project would provide a major boost to CANDEV's financial posi-
tion, in the four years following the disbursement period (1983-1986) CAMDEV's
cash balances are estimated to be at marginal levels in relation to its work-
ing capital requirements. This is due to the additional field investments
and processing facilities that would be required to bring the project plant-
ings into production. In view of CAMDEV's strong long term financial posi-
tion, short term bank borrowing to meet temporary cash requirements during
this period would be within CAMDEV's debt servicing capacity. Furthermore,
the additional investments for project plantings required after the project
period are possible candidates for financing by international agencies as
part of CAMDEV's next development program which Government has scheduled to
begin in 1982.
xvii.     The project's main risks concern possible problems in obtaining the
target requirements of estate laborers, the achievement of estimated rubber
yields, and possible initial problems in attracting participants to the out-
grower program. Minor shortfalls of estate labor or lower than anticipated
yields would have as their main effect increases in costs (due to greater use
of overtime and mechanized operations) and decreases in the benefit stream
respectively. A 20% rise in costs or fall in benefits lowers the overall
economic rate of return to 14% which is still acceptable. Economic rates of
return for the outgrower programs were tested against the pessimistic assump-
tions of a two year slow down in the rate of smallholder participation or
a 50% overall reduction in the number of participants; in both tests out-
grower rates of return were found to remain about 14%. CAMDEV's 11%
financial rate of return, which already includes 10% physical contingen-
cies, falls to 9% with a 10% fall in benefits or a 10% rise in costs.
Recommendation
xviii.    With the major assurances and conditions outlined in Chapter VIII,
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15 million.






CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Cameroon has requested Bank assistance for a
project that includes mainly rubber and some oil palm in the coastal section
of the Southwest Province. The project would aim at increasing the produc-
tion and efficiency of the Cameroon Development Corporation (CAMDEV), and
introducing an outgrower program in its area of influence. The measures
proposed in the project would set the stage for CAMDEV's progressive growth
and are within its capabilities.
1.02      The First CAMDEV Project, which was successfully completed in 1976,
was assisted by a Bank loan of US$7.0 million and a US$11.0 million IDA credit
in 1967 for the planting and replanting of estate oil palm and rubber (para
2.09). Other Bank Group assistance for agricultural development in Cameroon
has involved: (i) the first SOCAPALM oil palm project -- Loans 593-CM, US$7.9
million in 1969, and 886-CM, US$1.7 million in 1973; and, (ii) the Semry rice
project -- Credit 302-CM, US$3.7 million in 1972; both of these projects have
been fully disbursed. The Bank Group is also assisting: (i) a Livestock
project -- Loan 983-CM, US$11.6 million (1974); (ii) a Cocoa Project -- Loan
1039-CM, US$6.5 million (1975); and (iii) the Niete Rubber Project -- Credit
574-CM, US$16.0 million (1975); with the exception of the Cocoa Project, which
has encountered management and producer price incentive problems, all of these
projects are progressing satisfactorily. The following loan/credits were
signed in 1977: (i) the Plaine des M'bos Rural Development Project - Credit
672-CM, US$2.0 million; (ii) a Technical Assistance Project - Credit 673-CM,
US$4.5 million; (iii) the Second SOCAPALM Project - Bank/Third Window Loans
1392-CM, and 1391 T-CM, US$25 million; and (iv) a Rural Development Fund
Project, Credit 723-CM, US$7.0 million.
1.03      The proposed project was prepared mainly by CAMDEV with the help
of a consultant. A tripartite appraisal mission, representing the Bank,
the Caisse Centrale (CCCE) of France, and the Commonwealth Development Cor-
poration (CDC) of Great Britain, visited Cameroon in March, 1977. The
Bank mission was composed of Messrs. G. Losson, K. Oblitas, T. Winston,
and Ms. L. Effron.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Cameroon hag a population of about 7.6 million (1976) and covers
an area of 475,000 km . Average per capita income is US$300.  During the



- 2 -
Fourth Plan period (1977-81), it is anticipated that growth of GDP will be
5-6% per annum in real terms, slightly lower than achieved during the 1960s.
However, if the Government can maintain a high volume of public investment
and further expand and diversify the country's production base, higher rates
of growth could be obtained in the early 1980s.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.02      Agriculture plays a major role in Cameroon's economy, provid-
ing a livelihood for about 75% of the population and accounting for about
35% of GDP and over 70% of the value of exports. The traditional subsector
accounts for over 90% of agricultural output, plantation agriculture the
remainder. The traditional sector produces food crops for subsistence and
the local market, and cocoa, coffee, cotton, and groundnuts for export;
and cattle raising is undertaken by pastoralists in northern Cameroon.
Cameroon is largely self-sufficient in foodstuffs, and production has ex-
panded at about 5% per annum during the last 5 years. Agricultural incomes
are highest in the cocoa and coffee producing areas of the south (estimated
at about US$150 per capita), whereas in the northern plains and the western
highlands they are estimated to be about US$70.
Development of Rubber and Oil Palm
2.03      The main tree crops are oil palm and rubber, with estate production
in 1975 of about 47,000 t of palm oil and 19,000 t of rubber. In addition
to CAMDEV (13,400 ha rubber; 16,600 ha oil palm), the other major tree crop
corporations are the state-owned SOCAPALM (15,500 ha oil palm); and the
private SAFACAM (6,000 ha, mainly rubber) and PAMOL (9,000 ha, mainly oil
palm). A third state-owned company, HEVECAM, was recently established for
rubber production.
2.04      With Bank/IDA assistance, a large estates program, involving
rubber, oil palm, and eventually coconut, has been launched in the sparsely
populated coastal areas on either side of Douala--HEVECAM's Niete rubber
estate and SOCAPALM's Kienke oil palm estate. Preparation of a master plan
for development of the southern coastal area is being financed under the
HEVECAM Project, and in the Second SOCAPALM Project smallholder oil palm
development is being initiated. To coordinate development activities and
provide certain central services for the estate corporations, a joint Coastal
Estates Service Center for both private and public companies -- including
CAMDEV -- is being set up under the SOCAPALM project.
C. Institutions
Cameroon Development Corporation (CAMDEV)
2.05      CAMDEV is a statutory corporation with capital shares owned 87%
by Government and 13% by the Produce Marketing Board. Under Cameroon law,



such companies have a supervisory ministry, which in CAMDEV's case is the
Ministry of Economy and Planning. More direct supervision is provided by
a board of directors representing both national agencies and local busi-
ness. The corporation's day to day management is undertaken by a qualified
Cameroonian General Manager, whose performance has been satisfactory. This
institutional framework has worked well and would continue under the proj-
ect.
2.06      CAMDEV was created in 1946 to rehabilitate and develop large
tracts of land in West Cameroon. In the 1950's, at the height of a short-
lived "banana boom", CAMDEV employed 25,000 workers. Following a severe
cut-back of banana operations, due to Panama disease and unfavorable market
prices, a long-term development program was begun in the 1960's, based on
rubber and oil palm as major crops, and was assisted over 1967-76 by Bank/IDA
and European Development Fund (FED) finance (para 2.09). At present, CAMDEV
controls approximately 80,000 ha, under leasehold from Government, of which
30,000 ha is planted -- 98% to either oil palm or rubber -- and employs about
12,000 workers. Most of CAMDEV's existing plantings are now in production,
and as a result the corporation is entering a period of relative prosperity,
ending two decades of financial stringency and enabling it to make a signifi-
cant contribution to the financing of the project (para 4.02).
2.07      The National Fund for Rural Development (FONADER), created in
1973, was given the dual role of: (a) providing credit to farmers and farmer
organizations; and (b) appraising, financing and supervising a wide variety
of rural development programs, from farm input supply to village water pro-
jects. It operates from its Yaounde headquarters, relying on other agencies
for field services. The shortcomings of assuming very widespread responsibi-
lities from a narrow base are recognized by Government, which is preparing,
with assistance from FED, proposals for streamlining FONADER's activities.
In the meantime, Government wishes FONADER to participate in Bank projects to
gain experience and strengthen its operational departments. In the Rural
Development Fund Project, a specialized rural credit unit is being established
within FONADER. In the Second SOCAPALM Project, SOCAPALM's smallholder man-
agement unit provides farmer credit through FONADER. Smallholder management
in the CAMDEV project would be similar to the SOCAPALM project and would also
build up expertise in credit supervision for tree crops which could later, if
desirable, be centralized within FONADER. During project execution, FONADER's
own staff would also gain experience through their liaison with the project's
outgrower management division (Annex 1).
2.08      Other Institutions.  Several other organizations are involved with
CAMDEV. The U.K.'s Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), which was
CAMDEV's managing agent for 15 years prior to 1974 and would be one of the
colenders for the proposed project, provides technical assistance to CAMDEV
through regular visits by staff specialists, and also provides marketing
intelligence on a regular schedule. A UNDP/FAO soil survey team is helping
CAMDEV with its soil surveys as part of a practical training for Cameroonian
soil scientists. Technical advice is provided by two French institutes, IRHO



- 4 -
(for oil palms) and IRCA (for rubber), and by the new National Research
Organization, ONAREST. These arrangements work well and would continue under
the project.
D. The First CAMDEV Project
2.09      In 1967 a US$7 million Bank loan and a US$11 million IDA credit
were made to CAMDEV. The credit was fully disbursed as planned by December
1971; completion of the Bank loan's disbursement was delayed until early 1976
instead of end 1974 as anticipated at appraisal. The project consisted
of the planting or replanting of 7,900 ha of oil palm, 2,500 ha of rubber,
1,000 ha of tea, and 70 ha of pepper; the bringing into production of about
600 ha of immature oil palm and 4,900 ha of immature rubber; and the provi-
sion of related infrastructure, processing facilities and equipment. During
implementation there was a shift from oil palm to rubber -- oil palm dropping
to 6,350 ha actual, rubber increasing to 4,200 ha actual; and tea was dropped
from the project after only 80 ha was planted as subsequent information
indicated that it would not be viable. With costs and benefits recast to
reflect the project changes, actual costs were about 23% over appraisal
estimates. The modified project's economic rate of return is estimated
at 16% which is the same as the rate of return estimated at appraisal. The
completion report and project performance audit concluded that CAMDEV I had
been a successful project (Report No. 1752 distributed to the Board on
October 12, 1977 - summary details at Annex 1).
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Project Areas
General Location and Characteristics
3.01      The project plantings would be in the vicinity of CAMDEV's existing
30,000 ha of estate plantings, which are around the lower slopes of Mount
Cameroon and, on the east side, are adjacent to SOCAPALM's concessions (see
maps). Plantings would be at altitudes of less than 300m and slopes would
not exceed 15 . Rainfall in the project area varies greatly: to the south
and west of Mount Cameroon, conditions are extremely wet (up to 8 meters/
year), and suitable only for oil palm which grows well in the combination
of heavy rains and light, well drained volcanic soils; to the north and
east, rainfall is insufficient for oil palm but adequate for rubber (1.6 -
1.8 meters/year). Wind resistant planting material would be chosen to allow
for high winds encountered at the beginning and end of the rainy season.
Minor drainage works would be required in some areas. CAMDEV is well expe-
rienced with the above conditions. The areas to be planted are virtually
unoccupied (para 3.05) and are mainly covered by light to medium density
forest. The land required for the proposed plantings has already been
granted by Government for CAMDEV's use. Of the available and surveyed areas,



- 5 -
most are suitable for rubber rather than oil palm and, accordingly, rubber
would be the principal crop.
3.02      The project plantings would involve one new rubber area, Kompina
(5,000 ha), located to the east of CAMDEV's present operations, and the areas
around several existing estates. These extensions are: Malende (1,000 ha
rubber) in the main estate area on the southeastern slopes of Mount Cameroon;
Tombel (900 ha rubber), at the northeast limit for present estate plant-
ings; Mbonge (1,000 ha rubber), on the northwest slopes, the most isolated
of the existing estates; and Idenau/Debundscha (600 ha oil palm) along the
west coast.
3.03      The new 5,000 ha Kompina estate would be a self contained unit,
and the 16,500 ha concession within which it is situated is expected to
contain additional suitable land for a further expansion in a future devel-
opment phase. The four extensions would each increase the economic viabil-
ity of the existing estates - the present estate plantings are: Mbonge
1,000 ha; Tombel 1,100 ha; Malende/Meanja 1,400 ha; and west coast oil palm
3,000 ha - and would justify building, during the project period, factories
at Mbonge and Tombel. At present, these two estates do not have factories
and latex is transported 40 and 70 km respectively to Mukonge for processing.
Communications and Population
3.04      Public road communications in the CAMDEV area are generally adequate
for CAMDEV's present needs and include a paved road to the main port at
Douala. However, although not essential for the project, a dirt construction
public road along the west coast between Idenau and Victoria, which is pass-
able but in poor condition, needs upgrading. CAMDEV builds and maintains its
own estate roads in conjunction with its estate clearing and maintenance
operations and would continue to do so under the project. This would include
a bridge and a minimal construction access road across the Meme river at
Mbonge to connect the new extension with the existing estate and also to
provide access to the survey area for CAMDEV's next expansion (para 3.15).
3.05      Most of the population in the project area live in towns such as
Buea (the administrative center), Victoria - Bota (CAMDEV's center of oper-
ations), and in CAMDEV's estate villages. Plantation workers are recruited
from the more populated regions to the northwest, particularly the western
highlands. The rural population, composed mostly of recent immigrants, grow
cereals and cash crops such as coffee, cocoa, oil palm, tropical fruits, and
cocoyam, mainly along the public roads. Since a 250m corridor on each side
of these roads would be excluded from estate development it is estimated that
only about 20 families would need to have their lands or homes disrupted by
the estate developments. These families have settled along abandoned logging
trails in some of the proposed estate development areas. As far as possible,
relocation would be avoided by appropriate localized adjustments of the estate
boundaries. Any necessary relocations would be done under established Govern-
ment procedures with compensation as appropriate (details at Annex 2). Good



- 6 -
land is available nearby for resettlement, and local villagers would also
have the opportunity to become outgrowers or estate laborers.
Smallholder Planting Areas
3.06      The initial smallholder rubber plantings would mostly be in the
Malende and Kompina areas.  At Malende, there is suitable land in proximity
to the scheduled estate plantings along the Muyuka/Kumba road; at Kompina,
the initial outgrowers would be along the public road crossing the conces-
sion. Smallholder oil palm plantings would mostly be in proximity to the
Mondoni/Mungo estate, CAMDEV's main oil palm operation, and near to the
Mondoni mill. Additional smallholders could be recruited along the west
coast between Bota and Debundscha, where a few successful private growers
already sell their fruit to CAMDEV.
B.  Summary Project Description
3.07      The project would aim at increasing the production and efficiency
of CGADEV, introducing a smallholder development program, and undertaking a
regional study and preparations for future development of the corporation
and surrounding area. The project would be implemented over a 4-1/2 year
investment period and would include:
(a)  clearing and planting 7,900 ha of estate rubber,
maintenance during the project period, and estate
infrastructure including construction of two rubber
factories;
(b)  planting about 1,000 ha each of outgrower rubber
and oil palm including credit, extension, and manage-
ment services;
(c)  clearing and planting 600 ha of estate oil palm,
maintenance during the project period, and some
estate infrastructure;
(d)  management and administration of the above estate
plantings, including provision of 3 specialists with
project specific functions and 3 additional specialists
with company wide responsibilities; and
(e)  development studies and related infrastructure, con-
sisting of two components:
(i) an expansion study for CAMDEV's next development
phase - land surveys and project preparation for
a follow-up five-year investment program for
CAMDEV. This would include a bridge and 40 km



- 7 -
of dirt road for access to the development area,
and 80 ha for seed gardens and coconut variety
trials; and
(ii) a master plan for the west coastal region leading
inter alia to guidelines for CAMDEV's longer term
development.
As usual with estate projects, further maintenance and necessary processing
facilities would be provided for under CAMDEV's future investment program.
The project would be implemented by CAMDEV with the exception of the master
plan (item e ii), which would be directed by the Ministry of Economy and
Planning. The outgrower program would be managed by CAMDEV under a contract
with FONADER.
C. Detailed Features
Estate Components
3.08      Planting Programs.  The estate planting schedule would be as
follows, in hectares per year (Annex 2, Table 1):
PY-1/        PY2          PY3          PY4         PY5     Total
Rubber      400          1,350       1,850         2,150       2,150    7,900
Oil Palm                   150         150           150         150      600
Total       400          1,500       2,000         2,300      2,300    8,500
1/   CAMDEV fiscal years beginning July 1 -- half year only in PY 1.
CAMDEV has established methods of clearing and planting in its area of opera-
tions based on its experience and depending on the intended crop and existing
vegetation. Most of the clearing and planting would follow these standard
procedures, with adaptations as necessary. In general, CAMDEV favors manual
methods of clearing, using chain saws. Tractors are used selectively, and
the stumps of larger trees are poisoned. These operations are mostly done
under force account although small local contractors (typically businessmen
who employ gangs of laborers and who may also own chain saws and trucks)
are encouraged and hired whenever possible to supplement CAMDEV's labor
resources. Further usage of contractors for CAMDEV's field operations has
not been possible in the past and this situation is not expected to change
significantly during the next few years. While a limited local contractor
capacity exists in Cameroon in certain sectors such as highways and housing
construction, this is not so for the tree crop sector. Thus, CAMDEV, while



remaining continually interested in the possibility of employing contractors
to augment its labor force, recognizes that the bulk of its field investment
program - land clearing (plus associated estate road building), planting and
initial maintainance - will continue to require its own work force. This
has the advantage of a trained and continuous labor force which for many
operations - especially planting, maintenance and harvesting - is essential.
Nevertheless, CAMDEV will continue to actively encourage contractor services
for all operations where high skills and continuity are less essential (e.g.
land and road clearing and construction of estate villages) and where such
work can be performed at a lower cost than under force account. In this way
the gradual development of a local contracting industry to assist in certain
tree crop operations would be encouraged, although it is recognized that for
the time being force account will continue to predominate for operations in
the tree crop sector. In view of the accelerated development rate that would
take place under the project, a greater concentration on mechanical clearing
would be undertaken during the project period, in particular for the Kompina
estate. The required heavy equipment would be purchased under the project
(Annex 2). In addition to the new project plantings, CAMDEV would continue
its replanting program for its existing estates. Allowances for replantings
have been made in calculating CAMDEV's ongoing estate costs and in assess-
ing CAMDEV's staff requirements. As a systematic replanting policy is the
long term key to the ongoing viability of an estate corporation, an assurance
was obtained during negotiations that CAMDEV's replanting program would be
conducted in a systematic manner and in consultation with the Bank.
3.09      Planting Material.  The rubber clones to be planted under the
project have been proven on CAMDEV's existing estates and in similar ecologi-
cal conditions elsewhere. Multiplication of budwood would be done by CAMDEV
from its existing collection of clonal material. For oil palm, selection
trials have produced promising new material with yields under trial condi-
tions considerably higher than those on CAMDEV's existing estate plantings.
The new lines would be tested under estate conditions during the project.
3.10      Housing, Social Amenities and Infrastructure.  A range of utili-
ties and accommodations would be provided, including housing for new staff,
and estate workers' villages with basic utilities and social facilities
such as schools, markets, churches, and community halls. CAMDEV's present
close coordination with the local administrative authorities on such mat-
ters as the location of schools and public facilities and the use of the
hospital at Victoria would be continued. Food supplies would be made ade-
quately available, as at present, through commercial channels. Some access
roads and connecting links would be provided, including about 340 km of plan-
tation roads which would be built and maintained by force account, initially
to minimum standards, and upgraded later.
Processing
3.11      Two new factories - at Mbonge and Tombel; block rubber, 17 tons/
day each - would be built under the project. Minor expansions and technical
improvements to CAMDEV's existing factories would be financed by CAMDEV
through self generated funds. A general improvement in crop processing
efficiency is required throughout CAMDEV, and this would be achieved under



- 9 -
the supervision of the Crop Processing Engineer to be hired under the project
(para 3.19 and Annex 2).
Labor Recruitment and Wage Levels
3.12      CAMDEV's present labor force of about 12,000 would require an addi-
tional 2,600 workers by PY5 and would then decrease slightly after planting
is completed, increasing again later as crop exploitation gets underway, to
a peak of 5,000 workers. During the planting period, incremental labor re-
quirements would be as follows: PY1, 300; PY2, 1,100; PY3 1,800; PY4 2,300
and PY5 2,600. Labor is recruited by CAMDEV through licensed recruitment
agents who operate mainly in the low income and densely populated highlands
to the northwest. Wage levels would conform to Government stipulations for
estate wages: during the planting period Government's base level wages
would predominate; at full development, many workers would be undertaking
skilled activities such as tapping and would earn substantially higher wages.
CAMDEV has in the past employed many more laborers (para 2.06) than the 14,600
workers anticipated to be needed by PY5 and has a reputation as a fair and
generous employer. Nevertheless, it is recognized that attracting labor will
become increasingly more difficult as employment opportunities expan. on other
coastal estates (para 2.04) and in urban centers such as Douala. Furthermore,
the proposed Bank development project in the western highlands which has been
recently appraised would reduce the attractiveness of migrating to find § bs.
However, CAMDEV is aware of these problems and anticipates that together S -h
the housing and social facilities to be provided to laborers without charge
under the project (para 3.10), its normal procedure of providing "chop farms"
(small plots of land for growing food crops), its present reputation as an
employer, and its proven recruitment system, wage levels should provide
adequate incentives to obtain the necessary labor.
3.13      Outgrower Development.  The outgrower programs would be similar in
their technical and financial arrangements to the Second SOCAPALM Project,
except that for rubber, with its more extended immature period, longer credit
and loan repayment periods would be allowed (para 4.12). The target would be
1,000 ha for each program with target development rates for each crop of 200
ha in PY2, 250 ha in PY3 and in PY4, and 300 ha in PY5.  However, depending
upon actual participation levels there may be a need to switch to a relative
predominance of one crop and targets could be adjusted during project execu-
tion. The land would be cleared by the participating farmers, either
individually or in cooperative groups (Annex 4).
3.14      All participants would be local farmers who would be carefully con-
sidered for suitability and who would agree to follow the technical advice
provided by CAMDEV (Annex 4, paras 1 and 2). Planting material and mainte-
nance would be as described in Annex 2. Field inputs would be supplied by
CAMDEV on credit from FONADER. In addition, Government has decided to sup-
ply cash grants to outgrowers through FONADER during the crop development
periods. These grants are based on estimated yearly labor requirements and
80% of the daily wage of unskilled estate laborers, as in the SOCAPALM proj-
ect. CAMDEV would supervise all operations. The rubber smallholders would
be given special training in tapping procedures, in conjunction with CAMDEV's
ongoing training program for estate tappers. Since, in conjunction with the



- 10 -
program in the Second SOCAPALM Project, this would be an inaugural outgrower
development, Government wishes that, as with the SOCAPALM Project, initial
investments for outgrower supervision during the crop gestation period should
not be charged to the outgrowers.
Expansion Study and Master Plan
3.15      CAMDEV's next expansion would be about 10,000 - 12,000 ha on the
western foot of Mount Cameroon between Idenau and Mbonge which has been
identified as suitable for coconut (Map and Annex 3). Preparations for
the expansion would include: a detailed soil survey of the area; a proj-
ect preparation study; 28 ha of coconut trial plots; 50 ha of coconut seed
garden for breeding new hybrid varieties; and, access infrastructure to the
proposed area involving a bailey bridge at Mbonge and a 40 km dirt construc-
tion road. A small field laboratory for the coconut research and some re-
search on rubber tapping techniques would also be included. The bridge and
part of the access road would also be necessary for the proposed Mbonge
estate extension (para 3.02) and have been costed in the economic analysis
to the Mbonge estate.
3.16      The master plan would be designed to provide for long term agricul-
tural development in the lowland regions of the west coastal region which
would also include guidelines for CAl4DEV's future growth. It would be simi-
lar in its overall objectives to the planning exercise which is being initi-
ated for the Kribi area under the Bank assisted Niete rubber project (Credit
574-CM). Any lessons of experience resulting from the Kribi development
plan would be incorporated in the west coastal region master plan. It would
be conducted in two phases of about 1 1/2 years each. The first phase would
provide an overall review of the area, and the second phase would concen-
trate on aspects which the first phase had identified as being of particular
development interest. Several agencies would be involved in the planning
effort, which would be co-ordinated by the Ministry of Economy and Planning.
An outline scope of work for the master plan is at Annex 3.
3.17      Britain's Overseas Development ttinistry (ODM) has agreed at Govern-
ment's request to provide about 4-5 years of technical specialist manpower to
assist with soil surveying and project preparation work. Such services
would be mainly concentrated on the expansion study area and are estimated to
cost about US$200,000. The specialists would be provided on a bilateral grant
aid basis (Annex 3). During negotiations, outline plans and administrative
arrangements for the expansion study and the master plan were agreed, and an
assurance was obtained that the progress and future operations of both pro-
grams would be reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank.
D. Organization and Management
3.18      With the exception of the master plan, which would be supervised
by the Ministry of Economy and Planning, the project would be undertaken by



- 11 -
CAMDEV. For the outgrower programs, CAMDEV would enter into an agreement with
FONADER (para 3.21). A number of organizations would continue to provide
CAMDEV with technical support (para 2.08).  CAIDEV's institutional structure
(para 2.05) is considered satisfactory. However, within the corporation it-
self, staff strengthening is required to improve CAMDEV's general efficiency
and to provide for the increased managerial and technical demands of the
proposed project. This would be achieved through the recruitment of three
high-level specialists to help manage key areas within the corporation (in
addition, three specialists would be required for project specific activities
- para 3.19); and also through continued emphasis on internal staff training
and upgrading. CAMIDEV's management also recognizes that its staff remunera-
tion policy is an essential concomitant to these measures. In the past,
middle and senior management wage levels have tended to be substantially below
thiose for equivalent positions in other Government Corporations. The result
of this has been lost recruitment possibilities and difficulties in retaining
staff. Various measures have, however, now been taken which have tackled this
problem: remunerations for CAMDEV's top management positions have been up-
graded and CAMDEV's General Management has been provided with the authority
to negotiate remuneration levels for existing and prospective staff. As a
result of these changes, CAMDEV's staff remuneration structure is now con-
sidered satisfactory although it will need continual attention to ensure that
staff remunerations are adjusted in line with equivalent positions elsewhere
in Cameroon.
Appointments to Project Key Posts
3.19      CAMDEV's General Manager, a Cameroonian with a strong financial
background, has had a satisfactory record since he took over in 1974, but
needs additional support in key technical areas. This would be provided under
the project through a technical assistance component involving the appointment
of three specialists to assist the General Manager: a Development Officer,
primarily responsible for new plantings and the planning of technical opera-
tions; a Tapping Adviser to help improve a particularly weak and critical
aspect of rubber production; and, a Crop Processing Engineer whose main
function would be to help upgrade the efficiency of CAMDEV's crop processing
facilities. The project would additionally generate a demand for three other
specialists: a Manager for the new estate at Kompina; a Manager for the
outgrower program; and a Specialist Mechanic to supervise the maintenance of
the project's agricultural machinery (see Annex 2 for outline terms of refer-
ence).    International recruitment is expected to be necessary for the
specialist positions, since available persons with these specialities are in
short supply in Cameroon.  This would be done by CAMDEV, which has experience
in recruiting internationally. During negotiations an assurance was obtained
that these six positions would be staffed at all times with persons having
experience and qualifications and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The appointment of the two specialists that CA4DEV would particularly
need during the initial months of project implementation - the Development
Officer and the Kompina Estate Manager - would be a condition of loan effec-
tiveness. For the other four positions, an assurance has been obtained that
appointments would be made prior to June 30, 1978, unless otherwise agreed



- 12 -
with the Bank. It was also agreed that CAMDEV's top management personnel
would at all times have the qualifications and experience necessary to satis-
factorily carry out their functions.
Staff Development
3.20      As with other estate companies in Cameroon, CAIDEV relies primarily
on field training to prepare its younger cadres for more responsible posi-
tions. CAMDEV has been particularly aware of the need for a strong emphasis
on the development of its staff resources. Thus, in addition to a conscious
effort at on-the-job training throughout CAMDEV, a number of courses and ex-
change visits for junior to senior level management staff have been arranged
in recent years (Annex 1). In view of CAMDEV's satisfactory record at staff
development, which is expected to continue, no specific training component
would be incorporated in the project.  However, all specialist staff recruited
under the project (para 3.19) would carry out on-the-job training as one of
their primary activities.
Management of the Outgrower Program
3.21      CAI4DEV would be the managing agency, on behalf of FONADER, for the
outgrower program. This would be arranged through a credit administration
agreement between FONADER and CANDEV supplemented by a financing agreernent
between Government and FONADER to cover the financial arrangements for out-
growers as described in Chapter IV and Annex 4. Outgrowers would take out
individual contracts with CA1DEV. All such agreements and contracts would
be similar to those for the Second SOCAPALM Project.  Drafts of these docu-
ments were reviewed and agreed in substance during negotiations.  As condi-
tions of disbursement against the outgrower program, the credit administration
agreement and the financing agreement would have to be entered into by the
parties concerned. CAMDEV would establish an outgrower management division,
comprised of three sections: a central management located at CAMDEV head-
quarters, a rubber extension service located at either Kompina or Malende,
and an oil palm extension service located at the Mondoni/ Mungo estate.  The
outgrower division would provide technical assistance to the outgrowers and
coordinate both financial and agricultural aspects of the program (Annex 4).
Outgrower Selection, Size of Holdings and Credit Administration
3.22      Although a list of candidates for the outgrower program has not
yet been prepared, adequate interest appears to exist among the local vil-
lagers. In keeping with experience elsewhere in West Africa, it is assumed
that initial plantings would average about 1-2 ha, although some outgrowers
may increase their plantings in later years. An assurance was obtained dur-
ing negotiations that each outgrower would have a personal usufruct of his
plantings when they are completed (Annex 4).
3.23      Prior to January 1 of each year, CAMDEV would prepare a report for
FONADER on its outgrower development program for the upcoming campaign. This
report would be reviewed by FONADER and lead to a mutually agreed program; an
assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Bank would be given an
opportunity to comment on these reports. On the basis of this program,
FONADER would provide CAMDEV with the funds and/or goods (e.g. fertilizer)



- 13 -
required for the establishment of outgrower plantings.  CAHFV would deliver
inputs, maintain credit accounts, and provide crop collectioiD, processing and
marketing services. Outgrowers would receive long-term financing in cash and
in kind to cover investment costs (Chapter IV).
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A.  Project Costs
4.01      Project costs are based on end 19?; prices and are estimated at
CFAF 9.6 billion (US$39.3 million), including contingencies, over the 4-1/2
year investment period. The foreign exchange component would be CFAF 5.2
billion (US$21.2 million) or 54%. Import taxes on all items imported ex-
pressly for the project are excluded as Government has stated that it will
exempt these from import duties. Project costs include an estimated CFAF 520
million (US$2.1 million) of identifiable taxes imposed at the stage at which
goods are being acquired by the project. Project costs net of such taxes are
US$37.2 million. Contingencies have been computed as follows:
(a) physical contingencies are at 10% of base cost esti-
mates; and,
(b) allowances for price increases are taken at an overall
rate of 8% per annum which is based on the expected
rate of general inflation in Cameroon. This figure is
also in accordance with Bank estimates of international
inflation - which range between 7.0 and 8.0% per annum
during the period 1977 to 1985 - and with the Bank's
general guidelines on price contingencies which range
from 7-8% for equipment and 8-10% for civil works
during the same period.
Total contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis amount to 24% of total
project costs or 31% of base-line cost estimates. The following table shows
a summary project cost (Annex 5):



- 14 -
Project Cost Summary
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  % of Total
-----CFAF Million--     --US$ Million-----  Project Cost
1. Rubber Estates
Field Investments            1302      969   2271    5.3        4.0      9.3
Constructions                 446      669   1115      1.8      2.7      4.6
Factories                     111      259    370    0.4        1.1      1.5
Vehicles and Equipment        135      568     703    0.6       2.3     2.9
Management and Overheads   488         340    828    2.0        1.4      3.4
Subtotal               2486    2801   5287       10.1   11.5    21.6         54.9
2. oil Palm Estate
Field Investments              68       63    132       0.3    0.2       0.5
Constructions                  34       51      85      0.1    0.2       0.3
Vehicles and Equipment          2        8      10      0.1    0.1       0.1
Management and Overheads    33          10      42      0.1    0.1       0.2
Subtotal                137      132    269       0.6    0.5       1.1        2.8
3. Outgrower Program
Field Investments              37      172    209       0.1    0.7       0.8
Supervision                   180      115    295       0.7    0.5       1.2
Cash Grants                   102       -      102      0.4      -       0.4
Subtotal                319      287    606       1.3    1.2       2.5        6.3
4. Technical Assistance            107      197    304       0.4    0.8       1.2        3.1
5. Expansion Study                 188      168    356       0.8    0.7       1.5        3.7
6. Master Plan                     150      350    500       0.6    1.4       2.0        5.2
Total Base Cost        3387    3935   7322    13.8   16.1    29.9            76.0
Contingencies
Physical                      338      394    732       1.4    1.6       3.0
Price                         712      866   1578       2.9    3.5      6.4
Total Contingencies  1050    1260   2310          4.3    5.1       9.4       24.0
Total Project Cost           4437    5195   9632    18.1   21.2    39.3           100.0
of which Taxes                520      -       520      2.1    -        2.1
Total Net of Taxes           3917    5195   9112    16.0   21.2    37.2



- 15 -
B. Financial Arrangements
4.02      The project would be financed by CAMDEV self-generated funds,
Government, and loans from the Bank, CCCE and CDC. The proposed financing
plan is shown below:
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Government
Through
IBRD   CCCE    CDC          CAPIDEV     D;rectly    TOTAL
CATEGORY I
Oil Palm and
Rubber Estate            10.4   4.8       5.6         6.0           -         26.8
CATEGORY II
Smallholders
supervision              0.6   0.3        0.3          -           0.2         1.4
CATEGORY III
Smallholders
Loans                     0.4   0.2       0.2          -           0.2         1.0
Grants                     -     -         -           -           0.5         0.5
CATEGORY IV
Technical Assistance        0.6   0.3       0.3         0.3           -          1.5
CATEGORY V
Studies                     0.7   0.3       0.4         0.3           -          1.7
CATEGORY VI
Master Plan                 0.9   0.9        -           -           0.6         2.4
Unallocated                 1.4   0.7       0.7         1.0          0.2         4.0
15.0   7.5       7.5         7.6          1.7        39.3
% of Total Project Cost  38    19          19                    24
% of Total Project Cost
Net of Taxes             40    20        20                    20
Finance Charges  1/                                               5.0
Local Contributions                                              14.3
1/   Interest and commitment fees incurred on CAMDEV II loans during dis-
bursement period. CAMDEV to bear debt servicing on loans for estates,
technical assistance and expansion study.



- 16 -
4.03      The three loans totalling US$30 million would be made to Govern-
ment. Government would pass on US$25.8 million directly to CANDEV for devel-
opment of the estates, the technical assistance and the expansion study. Of
the remaining US$4.2 million, US$1.9 million would be used by the Ministry
of Economy and Planning for the master plan, and US$2.3 million would be
passed on by Government to FONADER and CAMDEV for the outgrower programs.
4.04      The loans would help finance all project components except for the
cash grants to outgrowers (US$0.5 million) to be financed entirely by Govern-
ment (para 4.13). Participation by the colenders would be on a pari passu
basis in the overall proportion of 2:1:1 representing loan amounts of US$15
million for the Bank and US$7.5 million each for CCCE and CDC. However, the
master plan would be financed by the Bank and CCCE (39% each) with Government
making up the difference. As CDC would not be financing the master plan, it
would finance slightly higher proportions than CCCE of other project compon-
ents in order to retain its overall share of 25% of external financing.
4.05      The Bank loan would be for a term of 20 years including a five-year
grace period and would bear interest at the rate applicable at the time of
approval. The CDC and CCCE loans are expected to be on similar terms. The
cash flow has been made on the provisional assumption that all loans will be
for 20 years with 5 years of grace and with interest at 8%. The US$15 million
Bank loan represents 40% of the total project cost net of direct taxes and
duties (US$37.2 million) and 71% of the foreign exchange component (US$21.2
million).
4.06      Local contributions to project costs, including US$2.1 million
taxes, would amount to US$9.3 million (US$7.2 million net of taxes); US$7.6
million from CAMDEV and US$1.7 million from Government. In addition, Govern-
ment and CAMDEV would, during the project period, pay finance charges on the
loans of US$0.7 million and US$4.3 million respectively. CAMDEV's total
contribution during the project period would amount to US$11.9 million, and
would be met through self-generated funds available from its existing opera-
tions (para 6.04). Government's contribution to project costs would be made
available as follows:
(a) US$0.7 million to the Ministry of Economy and Planning for the
master plan;
(b) a grant of US$0.7 million to FONADER which would be passed on
through CAMDEV's outgrower management unit to outgrowers as
credit for field inputs and cash grants for subsistence; and
(c) a grant of US$0.3 million to CAMDEV for CAMDEV's outgrower
supervision costs.
In addition, the loans for outgrower field inputs and supervision would
be passed on by Government as grants to FONADER and CAMDEV respectively.
During negotiations an assurance was obtained that Government would provide,



- 17 -
or cause to be provided, finance for the above requirements and that it would
guarantee any funds in excess of the amounts specified in this report required
for the completion of the proposed project developments and for the continua-
tion of CAMDEV's replanting program (para 3.08). In addition, financing
arrangements between cofinancers and transfer arrangements for funds to be
passed on from Government to CAMDEV were discussed and agreed. As conditions
of effectiveness, the financing agreement between Government and CAMDEV and
the financing agreements between Government and CCCE and CDC would have to be
signed and any initial disbursement conditions met. Finalization of satis-
factory agreements relating to the outgrower program is a condition of
disbursement against that component (para 3.21).
C. Procurement and Disbursement
4.07      Procurement.  Except for the items specified below, procurement
would be through international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank
guidelines. Goods and services subject to ICB - mainly machinery, vehicles
and equipment, fertilizer and some imports for construction - are estimated
to cost about US$11.6 million. Locally manufactured goods would be allowed
a preference of 15% or the level of applicable import duty, whichever is
lower, when comparing domestic with foreign bids. Contracts not exceeding
US$100,000 would be let under competitive bidding procedures advertised
locally and satisfactory to the Bank. Most land clearing, estate road build-
ing, plantation work and minor estate constructions (US$13.6 million) would
be done on force account (para 3.08) using equipment purchased under the
project. The remaining project costs (US$14.1 million) would be mostly for
staff and labor costs and operating expenses.  Specialists and consultants
would be selected following Bank guidelines.
4.08      Disbursement.  Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made at
39% of total expenditure for:
(a) vehicles, equipment, civil works, field investments,
salaries and operating costs for the rubber and oil
palm estates (US$10.4 million);
(b) salaries and operating costs for the technical assistance
(US$0.6 million);
(c) civil works, equipment, materials, salaries and operating
costs for the expansion study (US$0.7 million);
(d) vehicles, equipment, civil works, salaries and operating
costs for the outgrower management unit (US$0.6 million);
(e) field investments for the outgrowers program (US$0.4 mil-
lion); and
(f) vehicles, equipment, salaries and operating costs for the
master plan (US$0.9 million).



- 18 -
US$1.4 million would be unallocated. Disbursements for estate field invest-
ments and operating costs would be made against certificates of expenditures
verified annually by CAMDEV's auditors (para 4.10) and with documentation
retained for inspection by Bank supervision missions. All other disburse-
ments would be fully documented. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
at Annex 6.
D. Financial Management, Accounts and Audit
4.09      CAMDEV's financial management staff are satisfactory and have the
capacity to undertake the additional responsibility imposed by the project.
Nevertheless, there are two areas where improvements are possible. The first
concerns the application of CAMDEV's system of cost-effectiveness monitoring
of its technical operations. The financial management staff already have an
extensive data collation system (Annex 1, para 14) which could be used for
the internal monitoring of its technical operations. However, due mainly to
weaknesses in the capacity of CAMDEV's technical staff to take note of and
apply these indices towards improving technical efficiency, the available data
are not fully used. During the project, CAMDEV's financial management staff
would lay increasing emphasis on the use of such indices in the evaluation
of estate and factory operations. The benefits to be achieved from a more
rigorous assessment of internal efficiency are well recognized by CAMDEV's
management, and continuous improvement of CAMDEV's cost-effectiveness moni-
toring would be expected. The second recommendation follows a suggestion
made in the completion report for the First CAMDEV Project. It was recom-
mended that, during implementation of any future project, cost-at-completion
reviews should be undertaken on an annual basis to facilitate regular assess-
ments of project performance. CAMDEV's management fully agrees with these
observations and intends to carry them out during project implementation.
4.10      Outgrower credit accounts have been designed under the Second
SOCAPALM Project and the accounts adopted by CAMDEV would be similar to
SOCAPALM's procedures. The auditing of all of CAMDEV's accounts would be
by satisfactory independent auditors as at present; and the reports of such
audits would include separate opinions on the smallholder program and of
project expenditures under force account and would be submitted to the Bank
annually within four months after the close of CAMDEV's financial year. An
assurance to this effect has been obtained.
E. Outgrower Program Costs and Cost Recovery
4.11      Financial arrangements for the outgrower programs would be similar
to those in the Second SOCAPALM Project: during the crop investment period,
outgrowers would be provided with credit for inputs and cash grants to cover
labor costs, and supervision would be provided to farmers without charge
(Annex 4).



- 19 -
4.12      Credit would be provided to outgrowers during the crop investment
period on condition that crop husbandry practices were in accordance with
the CAMDEV outgrower supervision unit's technical requirements. For oil
palm outgrowers, credit would be provided during the first 5 years and would
then be repaid over a succeeding 7 year period. For rubber outgrowers, due to
the longer investment period, credit would be provided during the first 8
years and then recovered over a 10 year period. Total credit provisions per
hectare would amount to: oil palm, CFAF 98,000 (US$400); rubber, CFAF 210,000
(US$860). Principal would be repaid in annual amounts proportional to the
yield estimate (Annex 4) for that year. Interest would be at 9% per annum,
capitalized over the investment period and also charged on the unpaid balance
during the credit recovery period.
4.13      For smallholders earning more than 75% of their income from agricul-
tural activities, Government would provide cash grants during the crop invest-
ment period to cover the imputed cost of outgrowers labor. The cash grants
would be based on a per diem allowance calculated at 80% of the basic estate
laborer wage multiplied by the estimated total manday requirements per hectare
during each year. The cash grants are designed to compensate for reduced
earnings from alternative activities as a result of the mandays spent working
on the outgrower plots. Over the investment period they would amount to: oil
palm CFAF 51,500 (US$210) per ha; rubber, CFAF 99,000 (US$400) per ha.
4.14      As in the Second SOCAPALM Project, Government would finance out-
grower supervision costs during the crop investment period on a grant basis.
Accordingly, supervision would be provided to outgrowers without charge dur-
ing crop development. Management expenses, along with the costs of collection
and processing, would subsequently be recovered at cost each year through the
annual output tariff. Illustrative calculations for establishing producer
prices, based on the principle of full recovery by CAMDEV of all services
provided to outgrowers, are presented at Annex 4 and would provide attractive
producer incomes (para 6.01). Government would set producer prices upon
recommendation of CAMDEV and at levels which would ensure recovery of CAMDEV's
costs and adequate outgrower revenues. These prices would be the subject of
an annual exchange of views between Government and the Bank. Assurances on
these matters were obtained during negotiations.
V. YIELDS AND OUTPUT, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Rubber
Yields and Production
5.01      Estate yields are estimated to increase gradually from 500 kg/ha
in the first year of tapping (year 6) to between 2,000- 2,300 kg/ha at full
maturity (year 14). Outgrower yields would be lower and are expected to peak
at 1,750 kg/ha. At maturity the project would produce about 19,000 tons of
rubber annually (Annex 2).



- 20 -
Markets and Prices
5.02      Project output would be exported, probably mainly as block rubber
(Tombel and Mbonge factories would be designed for this category) which is
in demand by manufacturers because its technical qualities can be specified
accurately.
5.03      The world outlook for rubber appears good.  World consumption of
all elastomers is expected to grow at a slower pace during the rest of the
1970s and the mid-1980s than in the previous 10 years - at 5.2% per annum
between 1973 and 1985, compared to the 7.0% per annum registered over the
previous decade. However, an above-average growth in demand for natural
rubber is expected during this period, because of the growing importance of
end-uses in which natural rubber has an advantage, and because of its ex-
pected favorable competitive position vis-a-vis synthetic rubber (Annex 8).
For the period beyond the early 1980s, current investment decisions will
determine how growth in supply of natural rubber relates to expected growth
of demand, but the long term market outlook based on all known planting
programs appears favorable. Natural rubber prices (constant 1977 terms) are
expected to range between 40 - 44 USc/lb (RSS1, spot New York) during the late
1970s and to remain at a trend level of about 43 USc/lb during the 1980s
(Annex 8).
B. Oil Palm
Yields and Production
5.04      Yield estimates are based on previous experience with oil palm in
the areas where the plantings would take place and relevant field experience
elsewhere, although the new lines selected for the 600 ha of estate plantings
have produced much higher yields under trial conditions. At peak production,
nine years after planting, fresh fruit bunch (ffb) yields on the estate are
forecasted at 16 tons/ha and for outgrowers at 13 tons/ha. The oil extrac-
tion rate and kernel content at maturity are forecasted at 21% and 4.5% of
ffb respectively for both estates and smallholders. At peak output in 1990
the project would produce some 4,700 tons of oil and 1,000 tons of kernel,
representing about 3% of Cameroon's estimated output for that year (Annex 2).
Markets and Prices
5.05      International prices (all c.i.f. Europe, 1977 constant terms) for
palm oil and kernels respectively are estimated to average US$552 and US$360
per metric ton in 1977 as compared to US$437 and US$247 in 1976. Prices are
expected to remain high but below the 1977 levels in 1978 and falling to
US$410 and US$261 in 1980 and averaging US$422 and US$304 per metric ton
from the mid 1980's.
5.06      The domestic palm oil market was reviewed in detail in connection
with the Second SOCAPALM Project appraised in 1976 and the production from



- 21 -
the CAMDEV project would not affect these conclusions. It was estimated
that Cameroon would be consuming domestically the bulk of its palm oil out-
put, with varying annual surpluses averaging 15% of yearly production. The
same estimate has been used as a long term average for this project. No
difficulties are anticipated in finding a market for production surplus to
domestic requirements. CAMDEV has established markets in Europe and demand
in adjacent West African countries is expanding (Nigeria is expected to re-
quire imports in excess of 140,000 tons by 1985). Domestic prices for palm
oil are assumed in the financial analysis to follow projected world prices.
Historically, domestic prices may have at any given time diverged from the
fob world price, but have closely followed the trend. Thus, in 1976 and 1977
the domestic price (net of tax) to producers remained at CFAF 100/kg while
world fob prices were initially below and subsequently above this level. As
a result of an upsurge in the international price in the first half of 1977,
the domestic price was raised in July 1977 to CFAF 128/kg, but is likely to
come down again as world prices stabilize.
5.07      At present, nearly all of Cameroon's palm kernel output is exported,
for which there is a ready market, although minor quantities are converted to
oil and used domestically in the soap manufacturing industry. In the future,
domestic processing facilities for kernel oil will probably be expanded
(CAMDEV itself is discussing the future possibility of a joint venture with
PAMOL) but domestic demand for kernel oil is likely to remain small and
most of the kernel oil can also be expected to be exported. The financial
and economic calculations assume 100% export of palm kernels.
VI. FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Project Participants
6.01      Outgrowers.  During crop exploitation, net earnings (after all
costs and debt servicing) per manday worked would be about US$8 for rubber
and US$10 for oil palm, and earnings per hectare would be about US$830 for
rubber and US$540 for oil palm (1977 terms). By comparison, unskilled
laborers working on the adjacent CAMDEV estates would be earning about
US$1.3 per manday (US$370 per year) although they would also receive free
housing, medical and other facilities. Outgrower earnings would be addi-
tional to their earnings from traditional farming which are expected to be
minimally affected by the low labor requirements for rubber and oil palm.
During the crop investment period, outgrowers would receive cash grants from
Government to compensate for their labor involvement on the crop (para 4.13).
Outgrower returns are financially attractive and should provide good incen-
tives to local farmers for participation in the program (Annex 4).
6.02      Estate laborers would be mostly recruited from poorer parts of
West Cameroon (predominantly the western highlands), where per capita incomes
are estimated to be about one half to two thirds that of an unskilled estate



- 22 -
worker. In addition to their incomes, estate workers would receive medical
benefits and would be provided with housing, social facilities and land for
growing food crops.
B. CAMDEV
6.03      The project would strengthen CAMDEV's medium and longer term fi-
nancial position by providing substantial annual surpluses at crop maturity.
Annual funds received from the project, after debt servicing of project
loans, become positive in PY il and attain over CFAF 2.6 billion (US$10.6
million) by PY 15 (Annex 7). The project's financial rate of return to
CAMDEV, inclusive of 10% physical contingencies, is estimated at 10.6%,
and at about 9.0% with a 10% fall in benefits or a 10% rise in costs. 1/
6.04      CANIDEV's contribution during the project period of CFAF 3 billion
(US$11.9 million of which US$7.6 million is to project costs and US$4.3 mil-
lion debt servicing) would be available from CAMDEV's present cash balance
and annual surpluses from its existing operations. CAMDEV's cash balance
at June 1977 was CFAF 1.4 billion (US$5.8 million). The consolidated cash
balance is estimated to increase during 1977/78 to CFAF 2.2 billion (US$9
million) and would then fall slightly during the disbursement period to CFAF
1.8 billion (US$7.2 million) by end 1981/82. Due to the long crop develop-
ment periods for rubber and oil palm, CAMDEV's cash balance would drop sharply
after the disbursement period to a low of CFAF 0.9 billion (US$3.8 million)
in 1983/84 and would then increase from 1985/86, as project revenues pick
up, to CFAF 1.1 billion (US$4.6 million) by 1987/88 and would exceed CFAF
2.9 billion (US$11.8 million) by 1991/92.
6.05      From 1983 to 1986, CAI4DEV's cash balances would be at low levels
in relation to its working capital requirements. Thus, on the basis of a
working capital requirement at 25% of annual production costs (field, crop
transport and processing costs for all crops and management overhead costs),
working capital requirements for the three years 1983/84 to 1985/86 would
be at CFAF million 1,290, 1,340 and 1,430 respectively which compare with
estimated end year cash balances of CFAF million 950, 1,060 and 1,350 for
the same years. On this basis, access to short term external funds of CFAF
million 340 (US$1.4 million) would be required in 1983 which would drop to
slightly lower levels in the two succeeding years. However, this estimate
can only be indicative as even minor shortfalls on the crop trading account -
due for instance to lower prices than anticipated - would result in substan-
tially lower cash balances and would require further financial assistance.
1/   Calculated on estates, expansion study and 50% of technical assistance.
The master plan and outgrower program would be financed separately by
Government and project loans. CAMDEV's services to outgrowers during
crop production would be recoverable at cost. About half of the tech-
nical assistance would be allocated to CAMDEV's ongoing activities.



- 23 -
6.06      In view of the possibility that CAMDEV might experience a period
of financial stringency over the several years following the end of the
disbursement period, the Bank would make regular assessments during project
implementation of CAMDEV's financial prospects, and would if necessary dis-
cuss appropriate remedial measures with Government and CAMDEV. In addition
to short term borrowing by CAMDEV on the commercial market, possible measures
include Government loans to CAMDEV, an increase in Government's equity in
CAMDEV and financing by international agencies. Thus, considering external
financing, during the period 1982/83 to 1986/87, ongoing investment costs
required to continue the project-initiated development (Annex 7, Table 1)
amount to CFAF 4.4 billion (US$18 million) and include CFAF 1 billion (US$4.5
million) of factory investments at Kompina and Malende. Part or all of such
investments could be considered for external financing during CAMDEV's next
expansion which Government has scheduled to begin in 1982/83 and for which
CAMDEV would be preparing through the expansion study (para 3.15).
6.07      In order to safeguard the continuation of CAMDEV's satisfactory
financial position, the following assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions: (1) Government would ensure that CAMDEV's liquid assets would always
be maintained at a level equivalent to three months of cash expenditures, or
such other level as would be established in agreement with the Bank; (2)
CAMDEV's ratio of long term debt: equity capital plus accumulated surplus
would not exceed 1:1; and (3) CAMDEV and Government would annually discuss
and agree with the Bank on CAMDEV's proposed development activities and
budget for the forthcoming fiscal year.
C. Government and FONADER
6.08      Government's contribution to the project of CFAF 420 million (US$1.7
million) would be recovered through project-induced increases in sales and
output taxes which at present levels would yield, in 1977 terms, about CFAF
130 million (US$0.5 million) annually by 1995; and through increased corpora-
tion taxes which, by 1991/92, are estimated to yield an additional CFAF 400
million per annum (US$1.6 million).
6.09      FONADER, which would receive grants from Government for its small-
holder participation, would be reimbursed for smallholder credit together
with interest which would augment FONADER's funds for further smallholder
development. Thus, of the CFAF 300 million (US$1.3 million) provided over
the crop investment period by Government to FONADER for supplying farm in-
puts, the total allocation would be recovered by 1990 and would accumulate
to CFAF 540 million (US$2.2 million) by 1993 and CFAF 730 million (US$3 mil-
lion) by 1998.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The incremental output achieved under the project would improve
Cameroon's balance of payments by providing increases in foreign exchange



- 24 -
earnings from exports of rubber and palm kernels and increased palm oil pro-
duction which would be used primarily for meeting a growing domestic demand.
Thus, at peak output the net per annum influence on Cameroon's balance of
payments would be about CFAF 3.7 billion or US$15 million. In addition:
employment and increased incomes would be provided for about 5,000 estate
workers, and about 1,300 farming families would have their incomes increased
through participation in the outgrower program; the master plan and expansion
study would provide the information necessary for CAMDEV's continued expansion
and diversification and for other agricultural developments in the surrounding
area; CAMDEV's institutional structure would be strengthened through improve-
ments in its technical management; and, the outgrower program would provide
CAMDEV and FONADER with experience for future developments of smallholder tree
crops.
7.02      The calculation of the project's rates of return (Annex 9) uses a
project life of 30 years, output values based on Bank price projections, and
costs and benefits net of identifiable taxes in constant end 1977 terms.
Costs and benefits are expressed at efficiency prices; that is, prices are
adjusted for foreign exchange distortions and labor is valued to reflect
its opportunity cost. A single conversion factor (0.77 - representing the
equivalent of a shadow exchange rate of CFAF 318:US$1, 30% above the market
exchange rate of CFAF 245:US$1) was used to adjust for foreign exchange dis-
tortions. Details are at Annex 9. Costs exclude the master plan and the
expansion study (with the exception of the bridge and access road at Mbonge -
para 3.04) as no allowance has been made for these in the benefit stream.
Only half of the Technical Assistance is included in economic costs as these
specialists would have general responsibilities outside the project develop-
ment, and would spend only an estimated 50% of their time on activities
connected with the project plantings. The rate of return calculation has
not included a directly imputed value for the land areas to be used. This
is because the area is sparsely populated and the lands to be developed are
unoccupied and have minimal present or projected economic usage without the
project (the minor exception being some past logging activity in the more
heavily forested areas).
7.03      Rates of return are calculated for the rubber estates, the oil palm
estate, the rubber outgrowers and the oil palm outgrowers, and for all these
components together. The main results are summarized as follows with further
details in Annex 9:



- 25 -
Economic Rate of Return   Percent of Total
Base Estimate - %          Project Cost
Rubber Estates                            16.3                    75
Oil Palm Estate                           22.5                     4
Outgrower Rubber                          18.3                     5
Outgrower Oil Palm                        23.4                     3
All Components                            16.8                    88
Sensitivity (All Components)
Costs increase 20%                                   14.3
Benefits decrease 20%                                13.7
Costs up 10%; Benefits down 20%                     12.3
If market prices are used - that is, benefits and costs expressed net of
taxes, labor costed at market wages (outgrower labor at the basic estate
laborer wage), and an exchange rate of CFAF 245:US$1 - the resultant rate
of return for all components is 14.8%.
7.04      Project component ratios have been determined by the availability
of suitable resources: only 600 ha of the surveyed land was found to be
suitable for expansion of estate oil palm (para 3.01) and 1000 ha for each
outgrower program is considered a maximum realistic target given the inau-
gural nature of the programs and the availability of potential participants.
Risks
7.05       Project costs and the proposed planting program are based on pre-
vious CAMDEV experience, and the project developments are within CAMDEV's
management capacity. The project would require an increase in estate labor
employment, and problems of recruitment and labor retention cannot be fully
anticipated. Rowever, although it has been a critical development constraint
on other plantations in West Africa, labor availability should not be a major
problem for CAMDEV which has experience in recruiting and a good reputation as
an employer (para 3.12). Minor problems of laborer availability would have,
as their main effect, an increase in project costs due to greater usage
of overtime and mechanized operations.
7.06      Another area of uncertainty concerns the estimated yields of rubber
which are based on a planting technique tested elsewhere in Africa, and those
of outgrowers for which there is little experience in West Africa. However,
the projected yields are considered feasible in CAMDEV's soil and climatic
conditions, especially given CAMDEV's recently improved management record,
and the technical and managerial strengthening that would occur under the
project.



- 26 -
7.07      For outgrowers, initial difficulties may be encountered in attract-
ing participants. Nevertheless, financial remunerations at maturity on both
crops are high (para 6.01 and Annex 4) and prospects to outgrowers of this
outcome, together with the cash grants during the development period and the
eventuality of a defined ownership of their plantings, should provide suffi-
cient inducement if backed up by effective encouragement from CAMDEV's man-
agement. The project outgrower service would provide high calibre technical
support which should keep poor crop management to a minimum and provide
the best possibility of a successful first step towards a larger future
involvement by smallholders in the tree crop sector. The results of the
risk tests (Annex 9) indicate that even if the outgrower development targets
are not fully achieved, the outgrower program would still be economically
viable.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION
8.01      The following major points were agreed to at negotiations:
(a) the progress and future operations of the master plan and
the expansion study would be reviewed annually in consulta-
tion with the Bank (para 3.17);
(b) the six specialist positions described in para 3.19 would
be filled at all times with persons having experience and
qualifications and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank;
(c) for the outgrower program, a draft financing agreement be-
tween Government and FONADER, a draft credit administration
agreement between FONADER and CAMDEV and a draft model of
the contracts to be entered into between outgrowers and
CAMDEV were agreed in substance (para 3.21);
(d) Government would provide, or cause to be provided,
financing in the amounts and on the terms outlined in
para 4.06 and that it would guarantee any funds in
excess of the amounts specified in this report required
for the completion of the proposed project developments
and for the continuation of CAMDEV's replanting program
(para 4.06);
(e) auditing of CAMDEV's accounts would continue to be by
satisfactory independent auditors; and the reports of
such auditors would include separate opinions on the
outgrower program and of project expenditures under
force account, and would be submitted to the Bank
annually within four months after the close of CAMDEV's
financial year (para 4.10);



- 27 -
(f)  Government would set producer prices for outgrowers upon
recommendation of CAMDEV and at levels which would pro-
vide for the recovery of processing, collection and manage-
ment costs incurred by CAMDEV, and for adequate revenues to
outgrowers, and would exchange views annually with the Bank
on these prices (para 4.14);
(g)  CAMDEV's liquid assets would be maintained at a level equi-
valent to three months of cash expenditures, or such other
level as would be established in agreement with the Bank
(para 6.07);
(h)  CAMDEV's debt would not exceed the sum of its equity
capital and reserves (para 6.07);
(i)  CAMDEV and Government would annually discuss and agree with
the Bank on CAMDEV's proposed development activities and
budgets for the forthcoming fiscal year (para 6.07).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  satisfactory appointments had been made for the two posi-
tions of Development Officer and Kompina Estate Manager
(para 3.19); and
(b)  the financing agreement between Government and CAMDEV
and the agreements between Government and CCCE and CDC
have been signed and any initial conditions of disburse-
ments have been met (para 4.06).
8.03      A condition of disbursement against the smallholder component
would be that a satisfactory financing agreement between the borrower and
FONADER aad a satisfactory c'-edit administration agreement between FONADER
and CAMDEV had been entered into (para 3.21).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
PROJECT ENTITIES
A. The Cameroon Development Corporation
Background
1.        The Cameroon Development Corporation (CAMDEV) was established
in 1946, as a statutory body, to manage and develop about 80,000 ha of
concession on the southern and southwestern slopes of Mt. Cameroon. In
addition to its principal responsibilities it provided houses, schools and
medical care for its employees and their families, ran a research center,
and owned and operated the two ports located in its area of concession.
2.        CAMDEV's original estates were old.  In 1951, the planted areas
covered about 8,300 ha of bananas, 6,500 ha of oil palm, 6,000 ha of rubber,
600 ha of cocoa, and 5 ha of pepper; tea production stopped in 1948 and re-
sumed in 1958. For the most part, the estates had been planted with low
yielding varieties which needed to be replaced. The pace was slow, however,
because, until 1959, estate renewal and expansion was financed largely out of
earnings. In 1960, the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) agreed
to invest t 3 million (US$5.1 million) in CAMDEV on the condition that CDC
become managing agent and that CAMDEV be reorganized into a joint stock
company.  However, CAMDEV was only able to draw the first tranche of E I
million (US$1.7 million), and the proposed reorganization did not take place.
As the development program initiated in 1960 had to be completed with self-
generated funds, there followed a period of financial difficulties which
lasted until the initiation of the Bank/IDA financed (Loan/Credit 490-100-
CM - US$18 million) project in 1967. CDC remained as managing agent of
CAMDEV until 1974 when a qualified Cameroonian was promoted to the position
of General Manager.
3.        CAMDEV was reorganized in September, 1973 (Decree No. 73/597).  Its
purpose is to acquire, develop and operate extensive plantations of tropical
crops. In 1976, at the end of a nine year development program assisted by
loans and credits from IDA/IBRD and FED, the total area under crops amounted
to 31,200 ha. The IDA funds are invested in the Corporation in Ordinary
Shares of CFAF 1,000 each. Present shareholders are the Government (87%) and
the Produce Marketing Board (13%), which operates in the Cocoa sector and has
two seats on CAMDEV's Board. The shares assigned to the marketing board were
provided by a separate Government grant in 1966. CAMDEV is governed by a
Board of 11 Directors under a Chairman and Vice-Chairman. The present members
represent a range of local business and farming interests and the federal
technical ministries. The General Manager is charged with day-to-day manage-
ment.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Following the 1973 reorganization, CAMDEV entered into a "visiting
agent" arrangement with CDC which works well and is expected to continue.
Under this arrangement, CDC periodically sends out specialists - generally
an agriculturalist and an engineer - who each visit CAMDEV twice yearly for
about a month on each occasion, and provide technical advice. CDC also
supplies market reports on a weekly basis. These services are paid for by
CAMDEV.
5.        During a short-lived "banana boom" in the 1950's, CAMDEV maintained
over 10,000 ha of bananas, which were subsequently radically reduced to about
600 ha by 1976 for reasons of both disease and lack of market access. They
were not part of the first Bank/IDA project, which emphasized oil palm and
rubber. The remaining crops -- cocoa, tea and pepper -- have never played
a prominent role at CAMDEV. The company has been one of the major employers
of Cameroon. Its labor force, which had been around 16,000 in 1947, climbed
rapidly with the increase in banana plantings, reaching over 25,000 in the
early 1950's, but decreased just as rapidly with the demise of bananas so
that it was only about 11,700 at the end of 1966, just before the Bank/IDA
project got underway. It began to climb again with the onset of the project
and reached about 14,900 in 1969; afterwards it gradually declined to the
present figure of about 12,000, as a result partly of economy measures in-
stituted following Bank recommendations.
6.        The transfer to Government of the port, research and hospital
activities in 1973, 1974 and 1975, respectively, accounted for about 500
of the roughly 4,400 employee reduction which took place in the period 1969-
1975. This streamlined CAMDEV's responsibilities towards a more commercial
orientation, although a decline in the standard of some of the social ser-
vices (particularly medical facilities) was noted following the transfer.
It is expected that, after the initial disruptions due to the change of
administration, the standard of social services will improve again.
Staff Training
7.        Although CAMDEV's main emphasis in staff development is, as usual
with estate plantations, achieved mainly through on-the-job training, it has
been unusually enterprising in arranging formal training courses or exchange
visits for its middle level and senior staff. In recent years these have
included the following: visits to Malaysian plantations of 3-6 months dura-
tion for CAMDEV's estate managers where each was given a general observation
tour and then worked as an adjoint, including direct responsibilities, to
an estate manager (nearly all of CAMDEV's estate managers have made such a
visit); short exchange visits for senior staff between CAMDEV and Nigerian
plantations; attendance of about 10 CAMDEV staff at a general agriculture
and farm management course in Swaziland; three month accounting and clerical
courses for junior and middle level staff taught by CAMDEV's own senior
staff (about 150 clerical staff have taken this course); and, the attendance
of five of CAMDEV's senior staff at the Banks EDI courses.  The most recent
participant, who completed the course in August 1977, has been promoted as
CAMDEV's Chief Engineer. CAMDEV intends to continue its emphasis on staff



ANNEX I
Page 3
development which, despite problems encountered in attracting and retaining
staff (para 3.18), hav7e been substantially responsible for CAMDEV's generally
successful moves towards Cameroonization of primary and secondary level man-
agement staff.
The First CAMDEV Project
8.        The CAMDEV I Project was appraised in November, 1965, and a US$7.0
million Bank loan together with a US$11.0 million IDA credit were made in
March, 1967. The project consisted of planting or replanting 7,900 ha of
oil palm, 2,500 ha of rubber, 1,000 ha of tea and 70 ha of pepper; the bring-
ing into production of 620 ha of immature oil palm and 4,900 ha of immature
rubber; and the provision of the necessary infrastructure, processing facili-
ties and other related equipment. The main objectives of the Project were to
increase the production and efficiency of CAMDEV and to rehabilitate CAMDEV's
ailing financial structure (para 2).
9.        Disbursements from Credit 100-CM and from Loan 490-CM were origi-
nally expected to be completed by the end of December, 1971, and 1974, re-
spectively. The credit was fully disbursed as planned by December, 1971.
However, the loan closing date had to be postponed to June, 1976, in order
to allow time for proper trials of tea before initiating the first plant-
ing of 400 ha at Essosong. Although these trials were agronomically satis-
factory, economic analysis showed that this component would not be viable
because Essosong tea, unlike the ongoing production, would have had to be
sold on international markets where it would not have been competitive. Tea
was thus dropped from the project, but subsequent delays in the planting of
other crops caused the delay in project completion. The Loan was fully
disbursed in February, 1976.
10.       Physical Implementation.  In the period 1967-74, 11,500 ha were
to have been planted and 4,200 ha of old estates cleared for a net increase
of 7,300 ha. Actually, to the end of June, 1976, a total of 10,500 ha had
been planted and 4,700 ha cleared for a net increase of 5,800 ha. The short-
fall in planted hectares corresponds roughly to the 1,000 ha of tea dropped
from the project, whereas the higher number of hectares cleared stems from
the longer implementation period.
11.       Cost at Completion.  In the period 1967-76, CAMDEV prepared cost-
at-completion reviews three times. The first was in 1972 when its bank over-
draft had reached almost CFAF 650 million (US$2.5 million), and the result
was that long-overdue economy measures were instituted with the approval
of Government. The second was in 1974, when a combination of those economy
measures and more favorable market conditions had turned CAMDEV's bank over-
draft position into a positive cash balance of some CFAF 700 million (US$2.8
million). The third was during the Completion Review Mission of July, 1976.
12.       The latest project cost estimate is about 16% over the appraisal
estimate. For purposes of cost comparison, however, appraisal costs have
been recast in terms of the actual program, since over 1,500 ha have been



ANNEX 1
Page 4
switched from oil palm to rubber and about 1,000 ha of tea have been
dropped from the program. On this basis, the project cost is about 23%
over appraisal, which is considered reasonable considering the length of
the implementation period and the high levels of inflation not foreseen at
appraisal.
13.       Financing.  As of June 30, 1976, the project financing plan had
covered 88% of the project costs at completion. The remaining costs to be
incurred amounted to CFAF 786 million (US$3.6 million), and were to plant
220 ha of rubber during 1976/77, to bring existing plantings to maturity up
to 1982/83, and to provide the necessary processing capacity. These costs
would be financed through CAMDEV self-generated funds and are incorporated
in the consolidated cash flow in Annex 7. CAMDEV's audited balance sheet as
at June 30, 1977, is at Annex 1, Table 1.
14.       Recommendations.  The completion report recommended that future
Bank/IDA lending to CAMDEV should include as large a smallholder component
as practicable. The project performance audit report (PPAR), while accepting
this recommendation, pointed out that the rate of smallholder development
could not be expected to be rapid during the early implementation stages of a
smallholder program. The appraisal mission for the Second CAMDEV Project
fully concurs with both points and has to this end anticipated a relatively
modest smallholder development during the project period. Thus, only 2,000 ha
or 20% of project plantings are for smallholders - a development which is
considered to be feasible but as large as practicable given the estimated
number of potential participants in the project area, and the inaugural nature
of the program. A second recommendation was that future appraisals of indus-
trial estates should review the criteria for assessing efficiency and set
appropriate improvement targets. CAMDEV already has a sufficiently well
established monitoring system for assessing cost-effectiveness. Nevertheless,
a greater capacity at the field level to take note of and apply these indices
is needed. The main lack here concerns the capabilities of CAMDEV's technical
staff - all levels from factory managers to estate managers and other supervi-
sory grades - to adjust their operations so as to improve efficiency in line
with the cost-effectiveness indicators that are available to them. CAMDEV's
senior management staff are increasingly aware of the benefits to be gained
from such efforts, and the strengthening of CAMDEV's technical management
proposed under the project has, as one objective, improvements along these
lines. As the quality of technical management improves, so also should the
financial monitoring system adapt and improve itself towards the evolving
requirements of CAMDEV's field staff. Such an adaption is within the capa-
bilities of CAMDEV's financial management staff and would be encouraged by
the Bank. Thirdly, the completion report and PPAR recommended that, in any
future Bank project, cost-at-completion reviews should be part of the Bank
reporting requirements and be performed at least once a year. This point is
fully accepted by CAMDEV and would be undertaken for this project. Fourthly,
it was recommended that a plan be adopted for the continuous, systematic
replacement of existing plantings. CAMDEV is well aware of the need for a



ANNEX 1
Page 5
rationalized replanting program - the long term key to its continued viabil-
ity - and in recent years has improved its overall policy towards a more
systematic approach. Nevertheless, some improvements can be made, and would
be effected under the guidance of the Development Officer to be recruited
under the project.
15.       Conclusions.  During the project implementation period, the process
of plantation renovation and estate modernization was accelerated. The stan-
dard of planting upkeep and harvesting improved, and yields increased appre-
ciably. The appraisal objectives of greater production and efficiency have
largely been met, and the rate of return has been re-estimated at 16% which
is the same as the appraisal estimate.
16.       As a general conclusion, the completion report stated:  "This is
a successful project; without it, CAMDEV would in all probability have
foundered, whereas with Bank assistance its oil palm and rubber operations
have become competitive in the world markets." The PPAR commented further
in stating that the project had been in addition "enormously successful"
in improving the company's financial structure and operation - "a principal
objective of the Bank's aid to CAMDEV". These comments are elaborated
further in the Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1752, October 12, 1977).
B. The Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER)
17.       FONADER was established in 1973 and has been assigned the dual
responsibility of organizing and implementing on a national scale both rural
development projects and agricultural credit operations. This involves: (i)
providing financial assistance to farmers, individually or in groups; (ii)
carrying out or helping to carry out rural development projects; and, (iii)
guaranteeing loans made by other credit institutions to individuals or groups
in the agriculture and livestock sectors.
18.       FONADER is a separate legal and financial entity, under the super-
vision of the Minister of Agriculture, but with administrative autonomy.
It does not have its own capital base. Main sources of financing are an
annual Government subsidy, which comes from the surpluses of cocoa and cof-
fee stabilization funds, and disbursements from Bank loans (983-CM Livestock
and 1039-CM Cocoa) passed on as Government grants. Since it has a limited
staff, it has relied on other Government field services for supervision and
execution of projects, as well as for credit assessment of projects. Most
of FONADER's present weaknesses stem from its extensive responsibilities,
which are not supported by the necessary human resources or organization.
19.       To provide FONADER with additional experience and human resources,
Government has requested the involvement of FONADER in credit operations of
Bank projects. In the Rural Development Project, signed in August 1977,
a separate self-contained unit will be established within FONADER which will
process the agricultural credit operations of the project. FONADER is also
involved in the Bank-financed SOCAPALM project in which credit funds for



ANNEX I
Page 6
outgrowers are provided by Government and passed on through FONADER. Although
SOCAPALM acts as FONADER's field agent for credit administration, FONADER
staff will gain experience through their association with SOCAPALM's outgrower
management unit. Also, Cameroonian expertise in handling outgrower tree crop
management and credit administration will be built up within SOCAPALM and
could, if desirable, be made generally available at a future date through
the creation of a centralized national tree crop credit unit within FONADER.
FONADER's involvement in the outgrower programs of the CAMDEV project would
be organized similarly to that in the SOCAPALM project and would have the
same objective of increasing Cameroonian experience at managing smallholder
tree crop credit operations. Details are at Annex 4.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
CAMDEV Audited Balance Sheet
(June 30, 1977)
(CFAF Million)
ASSETS                 1976      1977                    EQUITIES           1976      1977
1.  Fixed Assets (net of depreciation)                             1.  Equity Capital               4125      4125
Plantations                           4995      5788       2.  Long Term Loans
Other Assets                          2260      2514
Capital Works in Progress              306       330               CDC                       340      322
IBRD                    1561     1500
Subtotal                              7561      8632               FED                     1966      2006
2.  Current Assets                                                          Subtotal                3867      3828
Inventories                           1594      1966       3.  Retained Earnings
Accounts Receivable                    613       711
Cash                                  1694      1410               Reserves                 1193     1510
Unallocated Profit    1592       2310
Subtotal                              3901      4087
Subtotal                2785     3820
Less: Short term liabilities
Accounts payable            636      884
Estimated Tax Liability    49         62                     
685      946                                                          (DX
Net Current Assets                     3216     3141
Total Net Assets                     10777    11773                 Total Equities         10777    11773



CAMEROON                      AN.Ux 1
SECOND CAjOEV PROJECT                Table i
Actual       Budgeted          Budgeted 2/
1974/5        1975/6            1976/7
--CFAF Million--------
RESOURCES                    4,021         4,502             6,037
Subsidy from stabilizatlon funds         3,017         3,106              3,945
Government operating subsidy               200            200               200
'World Bank:  Loan 1039-C! (Cocoa)          -             122               115
Loan 983-C1 (Livestock)       -             -                 102
Carry-over funds and stocks                550            550               560
Sales of pesticides                        ISO            200               400
Reimbursement of loans                                    230               450
EDF Grant                                  -              -                 150
Miscellaneous income                        104            94               115
OUTLAYS                      4,021         4,502             6,037
(1)  STJBSIDIZE-D C7PE?.ATIONS           2,205         2,467             3,645
of which:
cocca program                      (920)         (930)            (1,578)
arabica coffee program             (272)         (273)              (398)
robusta coffee program             (315)         (330)              (430)
fertilizer subsidies               (450)         (450)              (450)
rural water supply program         (150)         (100)              (100)
livestock program                   -             -                 (215)
(2)  LOAN DISBURS-EENTS                  1,022         1,134             1,618
of which:
seasonal credit                    (n.a)         (444)              (534)
farm inputs                        (n.a)         ( 80)              (184)
mechanization and farm impr.       (n.a)         (400)              (560)
livestock                          (n.a)   -     (100)              (200)
miscellaneous                      (n.a)         (100)              (140)
(3) MISCELLANEOUS AND OPERATIONS 3/        258          .247               120
(4) FONADER EQUIPMEMT AND OPERATING
BUDGET                                536           634               654
FY begins July 1st.
t. Approved accounts not yet available.
3. Includes World Bank cocoa project until 1976/7, when cocoa programs are
merged in subsidized operations budget. From 1976/7, livestock program
also brought into budget.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
TECHNICAL FEATURES
A. CAMDEV's Present and Future Areas of Operations
1.        CAMDEV's evolution and present scope of operations, as described in
Annex 1, indicate that it is the most important economic force in the still
underdeveloped west coastal region of Cameroon. This tropical region consists
of the lowland areas to the west of the Wouri River (which joins the Atlantic
at Douala), bounded on the north by the western ridge of the highlands (See
Map IBRD 12891). Within this area, land below 300 m, suitable for perennial
tree crops, covers an estimated 1.5 million ha. These lowlands are forested
and sparsely populated, whereas the adjacent highlands are intensively farmed
and overpopulated.
2.        The development of this region has been limited to the lower slopes
of Mount Cameroon, near the main roads of the coastal area. Mount Cameroon
rises abruptly to a height of 4,000 meters, and former laval flows form the
basis of most of the soils on CAMDEV's present estates. Annual rainfall is
as high as 10,000 mm/year in some places, and averages 3,000-3,500 mm/year.
The west coast, with volcanic soils that, due to the high rainfall, retain
adequate moisture reserves the year round, offers a suitable environment for
oil palm. In the rain-shadow of the mountain, precipitation is about 1,800-
1,900 mm/year, adequate for rubber but less satisfactory for oil palm.
3.        CAMDEV's present operations are located around Mount Cameroon:
the main estates are along the southern and eastern slopes and extend along
the west coast as far as Idenau; Tombel Estate forms the limit for tree crops
in the northeast; and along the far northwestern slopes, Mbonge Estate, on
the right bank of the Meme River, is an outpost on the opposite side of the
mountain to the main estate areas. There is no road connection between Mbonge
and Idenau, and no bridge across the Meme River.
4.        CAMDEV's Head Office is at Bota, near Victoria, and the warehouses
are centered a short distance away at Tiko. Palm oil processing mills are
at Idenau and Mondoni; rubber processing facilities are at Tiko, Missellele,
Meanja, and Mukonge. The port facilities at Victoria and Tiko, once essential
to CAMDEV's operations, are now used mostly for small exports of palm oil (via
lighterage) and miscellaneous cargos. Douala has taken over as Cameroon's
major port, handling CAMDEV rubber exports and imported supplies. Until
recently, CAMDEV operated the main public services in the Victoria area,
including the port facilities, schools and hospital. The transfer of these
services to other agencies relieved CAMDEV of a substantial burden on its
management resources. On the other hand, the past arrangement indicates how



ANNEX 2
Page 2
closely the development of the west coastal region has been associated with
CAMDEV.
5.        The proposed second project would include development studies which
would determine CAMDEV's future areas of operation. CAMDEV's next expansion
is expected to take place across the Meme River, in the undeveloped areas
between Mbonge and Idenau.  The area is believed to be suitable for coconut
plantations, but thorough land and soil surveys and preparatory trials would
have to be carried out.  For this purpose, an access road would be built from
Mbonge, including a bridge over the Meme River.  The bridge and part of the
access road would also be necessary for the expansion of Mbonge Estate (the
proposed extension being on the opposite side of the Meme River to the present
plantings). If the foreseen development takes place successfully, a road link
between the new estates and the coastal road (which now ends at Idenau) should
also be considered. The expansion study is described in Annex 3. The prep-
aration of a master plan for the west coastal region would have as one objec-
tive the drawing up of guidelines for CAMDEV's longer term development, beyond
the preparation of its next expansion. The scope of work for the master plan
is outlined in Annex 3.
B. Development Areas
Kompina Estate
6.        Location.  The concession would be within an area of about 17,000 ha
lying between the Mungo River on the West and the Douala-Nkongsamba Road on
the east between the villages of Souza and Kompina. The land is flat, with
a slight gradient extending from the main plateau areas, at 80 m altitude,
to the banks of the Mungo, at 10-20 m. The estate plantings would be in the
western half of this area, as the eastern half is divided into many parcels
by deeply cut rivers running in the north-south direction. There is also
a marshy zone in the southern part that would be excluded from the estate.
Finally, there are some populated areas around the two main existing vil-
lages, Matouke and Penda Mboko, that would be excluded from the estates,
as would be a 250 m corridor alongside the road between these two villages
and Kompina (para 8). 4,000 ha of this concession would be developed dur-
ing the project period. An adjacent parcel of over-aged oil palm, formerly
owned by a private company, was purchased by CAMDEV in early 1977 and would
provide an additional 1,000 ha for rubber.
7.        Climate.  The annual sunshine averages about 1,600 hours, which is
acceptable though not ideal for rubber. The temperature fluctuates in the
range 21-330 C. Humidity is high, and is never below 70%. The area has
well-defined wet and dry seasons, though there is some rain throughout the
year. Mount Cameroon forms a screen which reduces the incoming monsoonal
rainfall to an average 1,800-1,900 mm/year in the plantation area. During
the wet season, from July to September, rainfall averages about 300 mm/month.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Although the average dry season rainfall would be suitable for rubber, avail-
able data suggest there would occasionally be dry seasons when the rainfall
would be below the desirable minimum. The soils in the area, predominantly
sandy with clay beginning at 1-2 m, are deep and provide a year-round reserve
of groundwater.  Although soil survey pits dug toward the end of the dry sea-
son provided reassuring evidence of water being available within the root
range, the water retention capacity of the soils is only moderate. The soils
are acid, with a pH below 5; this is suitable for rubber, but nutrient re-
serves are low, and fertilizer applications would be necessary at least dur-
ing the early years. The vegetation is light to dense forest; exploitation
of the most valuable trees, by the company SEFIC, is nearing completion.
8.        Population.  The estate would be in Mungo division, whicjl has a
population of over 225,000, with four towns of over 10,000; the rura1 popu-
lation accounts for about 60% of the total. The estate plantings would be
in the southwest section of Mungo division, which until recently was prac-
tically deserted. In recent years, immigration has been taking place in a
steady stream, mainly from the western highlands to the north of the CAMDEV
area. The total population in the area of the estate is estimated at about
3,000-4,000 or, in terms of farms, probably 1,000 or less. The main cash
crops are cocoa and coffee, the main food crops bananas, yams, and ground-
nuts. Most of the population has settled in zones or alongside roads that
would be excluded from the estate. However, some of the recent settlement
has been in logged-over areas in the southern part of the concession, where
abandoned forestry exploitation trails offer easy access to the land. Some
of these trails are in areas that would be cleared for planting, and thus
displacement of a few existing settlers (about 20) may be necessary. This
would be undertaken by Government following established procedures: farmers
growing only food crops would be moved without compensation; farmers culti-
vating perennial crops are compensated for the value of these crops. There
is plenty of space in the reserved zones within the concession for any such
displaced persons to resettle, with the opportunity to join the outgrower
program, or to continue as food crop farmers who would have an expanding
market for their produce. An investigation of the proposed concession area
would be undertaken by Government, taking into account the need to encourage
further settlement under controlled conditions. The Kompina concession area
was ceded by Government for CAMDEV's use by public decree in June, 1977. This
decree excludes a 500 meter corridor extending along the public road running
through the concession between Koto II and Penda Mboko which encompasses most
of the lands and houses of the existing settlers. CAMDEV would, in addition,
adjust its estate boundaries so as to exclude, as far as possible, any other
occupied land.
9.        Communications and Utilities.  The estate headquarters would be
at Penda Mboko, near the Mungo River. A landing strip near the headquar-
ters would be cleared, at low cost, under the project, but most transport
would be via road. The future factory, also in this vicinity, would have
a convenient source of water and would eventually be linked to the electric
grid at Muyuka. The concession area is located between two north-south axis



ANNEX 2
Page 4
roads, both asphalted and in good condition. The estate headquarters/factory
complex would be linked to these roads, 10 km to the west road and 24 km to
the east road. The link to the west road, which offers quick and easy com-
munications with Victoria and Tiko and thus with the head office, central
workshops, and general warehouse, would require a ferry service across the
Mungo River, to be operated by CAMDEV. The east road offers the best access
to Douala, to which rubber would be transported for export.
10.       Administration.  The Kompina concession area would be situated in
two districts, Dibombari and Mbanga, both under the Nkongsamba Divisional
Office of Mungo Division. A convenient solution would be a rationalization
of divisional boundaries, though this would not be essential for success of
the project.
Tombel Rubber Estate
11.       This concession covers 3,200 ha to the northeast of Mount Cameroon.
Rubber planting has been proceeding since 1965, following successive abandon-
ment of banana and cocoa cultivation, and there are 1,100 ha currently under
rubber. Some 1,800 ha were considered for future rubber plantings, mostly
under medium to heavy forest from which most of the exploitable timber has
been removed. 900 ha have been examined by a FAQ soil survey team and found
suitable for planting.
12.       The soils are volcanic with up to 50% clay, and the rainfall is
suitable. It has been agreed, however, that where possible plantings would
be restricted to an upper limit of 300m altitude and slopes not greater than
12 . At greater slopes terracing would be required. The topography would
allow only a limited amount of mechanical clearing, but as there is no short-
age of labor in this area, manual clearing should be possible.
13.       Under the project a factory would be constructed in PYs 4 and 5 to
process the latex currently transported 40 km to Mukonge. The site of the
factory would largely be determined by the water supply which has to be
piped from some distance.
Malende/Meanja Rubber Estate
14.       The area is to the east of Mount Cameroon where there are now
1,400 ha under rubber. The proposed new planting of 1,000 ha would be on
either side of the Muyuka/Kumba road. To the east, the area from the road
to Banga-Bekele and the Mungo River covers about 2,000 ha, the topography
and soils of which are similar to the eastern part of the main Kompina con-
cession. About 700 ha are in large enough blocks for estate development.
The area west of the road has not yet been surveyed. However, on a block
of 3,000 ha of land it is expected that at least 800 ha of suitable land can
be found in large blocks, of not less than 100 ha, suitable for estate devel-
opment.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Mbonge Rubber Estate
15.       The present estate of 1,000 ha is on the right bank of the Meme
River, to the northwest of Mount Cameroon. A land suitability map has been
prepared for the Samerkambe-Mekoko area to the south of the Meme River,
on the left bank. The soil is deep alluvium and is subject to flooding.
About 450 ha were at one time in bananas and have been drained. The drains
require deepening and the river levee bund requires repair. The remainder
of the land is under light forest and, after draining, 1,000 ha of plantable
land could be made available. There are two rubber trial plots on this
land and growth is satisfactory. PB 5/51 and GT1 would appear to be suit-
able clones.
16.       A bridge over the Meme River and a road would be built to provide
access between the extension plantings and the existing estate, and also
for CAMDEV's future development preparations (para 3). The road would be a
minimal construction dirt surface similar in quality to CAMDEV's estate roads.
Clearing would be undertaken using equipment and labor from the Mbonge estate.
The bridge would be a bailey construction, purchased in prefabricated sections
and constructed under force account. It would have specifications capable of
supporting a low loader and a D6. Preliminary technical studies on the siting
and specifications for the bridge are currently underway with assistance from
CDC's visiting engineer. A factory would be built under the project in PYs 4
and 5 to process latex currently transported 70 km to Mukonge.
West Coast Oil Palm Estate
17.       CAMDEV has 3,000 ha of oil palm plantings along the northwest
coastal road, between Victoria and the palm oil processing mill at Idenau.
Two areas under light forest were examined, and in each about 500 ha of
suitable to moderately suitable land for oil palms could be found in rela-
tively small zones defined by steep slopes or ravines. In the northern
section, elephants and Fusarium disease are crop hazards. The soils are deep,
of volcanic ash interspersed with rock lava but, because of heavy rainfall,
it never dries out. Topography of the plantable land is generally undulating
with small mounds. In the southern section, Batoke-Bakingili, the soils are
better but the topography is more undulating.
Smallholder PlantinR Areas
18.       The initial smallholder rubber plantings would mostly be in the
Malende and Kompina areas. At Malende, there is suitable land in proximity
to the scheduled estate plantings along the Muyuka/Kumba road; at Kompina,
the initial outgrowers would be along the public road traversing the con-
cession. Smallholder oil palm plantings would mostly be in proximity to
the Mondoni/Mungo estate, CAMDEV's main oil palm operation, and near to the
Mondoni mill. Additional smallholders could be recruited along the west
coast between Bota and Debundscha, where a few successful private growers
already sell their fruit to CAMDEV.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
C. Techniques
Rubber
19.       CAMDEV has an official manual which sets out the procedures to be
followed for the establishment of rubber in its concession areas. The gen-
eral procedure described below is the approach that would be adopted for
the new concession in the forested Kompina area. This would be the largest
operation under the project, covering 4,000 ha. Adaptions to this method
would be made, as appropriate, on other estates.
20.       Clearing and Planting Operations.  In order to make the most effec-
tive use of resources, the proposed method of clearing is the following:
-    Delimitation of areas and clearing of undergrowth by
manual labor;
-    Mechanical felling, with windrowing by heavy tractors
with a tree pusher attachment;
-    Burning and lining;
-    Opening of lines with manual labor and the use of chain
saws.
Whilst CAMDEV has in the past favored manual methods of felling and clearing
in preference to the use of heavy equipment, a greater concentration than pre-
viously on mechanical operations is advocated during the project period in
order to achieve the proposed development rates. This has several advantages,
most importantly, it reduces the chance of slippage in the development rate
due to labor shortages and minimizes the risk of losses due to root diseases
such as Fomes (particularly at Kompina - para. 27). Accordingly, clearing
costs for the main Kompina concession have been based on the assumption that
50% of the area would be cleared mechanically. Some mechanical clearing would
also be done on the other estate areas to be planted, but to a lesser extent.
Purchases of the necessary heavy equipment and operating costs are allowed for
in project cost estimates (Annex 5). In order to manage the maintenance of
CAMDEV's expanded number of large tractors and to train CAMDEV's mechanics,
a qualified mechanic, based at Kompina, would be hired under the project.
Nevertheless, CAMDEV would adopt a flexible approach towards land clearing,
as it has done in the past. Thus, while most operations, including all the
mechanical clearing, would be done under force account, CAMDEV would continue
to hire the services of small contractors for manual tree felling and clear-
ing. These are typically local businessmen who employ small gangs of laborers
and who may in addition own chain saws and trucks. CAMDEV has well developed
administrative and supervisory arrangements for the use of contractors, and is
experienced in managing a mix of force account and contractor labor.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
21.       For planting, although project costing has been based on the
planting of material in polybags, CAMDEV would have the option, providing
initial experience is satisfactory, of planting with seeds at stake subse-
quently grafted in the field. Planting periods would be April and September.
The felling of trees and the opening of lines of the areas to be planted with
seeds must be done during the year preceding the planting. For areas to be
planted with grafted plants, the clearing must be the same year as the plant-
ing. To make full use of the mechanical equipment, felling would be carried
out all year round.
22.       Planting would be in blocks of 100 ha.  The planting density would
be 555 plants/ha, on a 6 x 3m grid. There would be 165 lines per block and
324 plants in the lines, divided into four sections of 81 plants per collec-
tion track which would be 250 m apart. Since the area is generally flat,
the planting of a cover crop, pueraria, is expected to control erosion of
the soil. The sowing would be done as soon as possible after burning, that
is in March-April with the first rains.
23.       The planting lines would be oriented in the east-west direction,
taking into consideration the general direction of the strongest winds (storms
occur at the end and beginning of the rainy season). Certain clones which
have proved less resistant to wind were eliminated from consideration for this
reason. The clones to be used have a long history in estate plantations,
and are those now planted on all the rubber plantations in Cameroon, such
as GT 1, PR 107, and PR 5/51. Among the promising clones to be planted in
comparative trials would be PB 217, PB 235, PB 225, PR 261, RRIM 701, and
RRIM 703. The planting of two plants grafted in bags per site is CAMDEV's
usual method. This technique is well established and has given good results
on CA1,DEV's existing estates. However, under the Kompina conditions, with a
light and poorer soil, it is not certain that the growth will be as good
as on volcanic soils. There would also be an advantage to using two different
planting periods in order to spread out the preparatory and planting work.
For these reasons, it would be possible to plant bagged plants in April, and
direct seeds in September. Both methods provide plants with undisturbed root
systems. The direct planting of seeds has the principal danger of damage by
rodents. A good burn and an antirodent campaign during the early months would
reduce this risk. The adoption of two methods would also be a safety factor
to counterbalance the advantages and disadvantages of each method.
24.       The plant material necessary for the two planting methods would be
prepared as follows. For the graft method, nurseries would be prepared at
the rate of 1 ha of nursery per 50 ha to be planted. Perforated polybags,
with lay-flat dimensions 40 cm deep and 25 cm wide, would be filled with good
forest top soil, and two germinated seeds planted in each bag to obtain one
good plant to be grafted. The young plants are grafted in March-April, and
field planted at the rate of two per planting point in April-May. CAMDEV's
usual fertilizer and irrigation spraying programs would be adapted to the
Kompina conditions.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
25.       For the direct seed method, the aim is to obtain initially four
seedlings per planting point, the best two being grafted and finally the
better of the two retained. About 12 ungerminated seeds would be sown per
point, with two successive rounds of elimination to obtain the best root
stocks. An equally good result may be obtained by sowing six germinated
seeds per point. The grafting of plants is done from April to July, with
the cutting back done in the rainy season.
26.       As soon as plants are established, monthly elimination of side-
shoots is undertaken to ensure a clean tapping panel, at least to a height
of 2 m. This height of clean panel, which is about as high as an average
man can reach, is obtained usually at 12 to 15 months after planting. Man-
ual weeding of the line is practiced during the first two years, after which
herbicides are used.
27.       The main disease threats to rubber in Africa are root diseases such
as Fomes; at Kompina, with a relatively dry climate and a light soil with an
average water content, the damage caused by these diseases could be high if
rigorous precautions are not carried out. First, to minimize the infection
potential, removal of stumps should be done at the time of mechanical felling
(some of the larger stumps can be left to rot or can be poisoned). Next,
there should be a high density of planting: 555 planting points per ha with
two plants per point, reduced by progressive thinning to not more than 450
tappable trees at opening. Third, the planting method should avoid damage to
the root system. Fourth, there should be systematic detection. The detection
method, developed by IRCA, consists of maintaining a ring of mulch around the
base of the trees, thus creating a microclimate favorable to the development
of the fungus mycelium which can be visually detected on the base of the
trunk. Infected trees are uprooted.
Oil Palm
28.       The techniques used for establishing oil palm estate plantations
would not be new but rather the known and successful ones that are followed
in most countries growing oil palm. Except for clearing methods, the general
procedures hold as well for the outgrower program.
29.       Land Clearing.  CAMDEV's clearing procedures for oil palm estates
differ according to whether the land is forest and underbrush, abandoned after
bananas or food crops, or planted with old rubber or palm trees. The time
table below is followed as closely as weather conditions permit, in the case
of clearing after forest or secondary bush:
September - October            - The latest date for road demarcation to
start. Traces opened along block or
field boundaries.
October                         - In underbrushed areas and where the stand
of forest trees permits, the fields are
lined out so as to indicate the position
of the windrows.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
October - November - December - Trees are felled.
Early January                  - Trees are burned, stacked and re-burned
(road construction proceeding). In
the West Coast plantation area, burning
is usually impossible due to the wet
conditions; the felled trees are cut up
to provide access paths.
30.       Preparation of Planting Material.  DXP seed for the proposed project
would be produced under IRUO's supervision from the seed garden at CAMDEV's
Mondoni estate. Dry heat treatment would be used and a first selection made
on the basis of speed of germination. The germinated seed would be delivered
to nursery sites at Mondoni and Idenau. The germinated seeds are placed one
each in small plastic bags, packed in close rows, and kept continously moist.
After about two months, when the small roots begin to need more room, the
plantlets are transferred to larger plastic bags, the weaker plants being
discarded during this transfer. Protection against blast would involve the
use of shade during the critical period, the proved traditional method, and/or
chemical treatments now coming on the market which require careful testing
before being adopted. After six months in the nursery, the young plants are
strong enough to be transferred to the field. Only perfect specimens would be
planted.
31.       Planting and Weeding.  Plants are about nine months old when they
are planted. They are brought in the polybag with their roots intact, and
put in holes previously dug on a 9m x 9m triangular spacing. Plantings should
commence after the first heavy rains, and should usually be completed by the
end of April. For the west coast estate, however, the schedule begins earlier
and is usually completed before mid-March (because there is practically no dry
season on the west coast). As protection against rodents, CAMDEV favors a
collar painted with zinc oxide, though rodents are not a problem in the West
Coast because of the wet conditions. Pueraria, a leguminous cover crop, is
sown in the interlines to protect the soil from erosion, to bring in organic
matter, and to fix nitrogen through root nodules. Once planting is completed,
circle weeding is required. This enables the plant to receive full benefit
from the fertilizer applications, and avoids root competition from the cover
crop and adventurous weed species. Development of the cover crop can be
assisted by selective weeding. At first, the circle weeding is done by hand;
from the second year after planting, chemical spraying is also used to reduce
the labor requirement. Losses due to transplanting shock and any unsatisfac-
tory palms are replaced during the first two years after planting but not
thereafter.
32.       Manuring.  Fertilizers are required throughout the life of the
crop starting at the pre-nursery stage. There is a need for high nitrogen
and phosphorus applications in the immature period with potash being of
greatest importance once the palms are in bearing. The specific requirements
for various elements are determined by regular foliar analysis, and appli-
cations are generally made twice a year. On non-volcanic soils, as in the
Mondoni/Mungo area, magnesium is applied on a set schedule.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
D. Rubber Processing
33.       At present, four rubber mills serve CAMDEV's rubber estates, located
at Tiko, Missellele, Mukonge, and Meanja. Increases in capacity are necessary
to handle the expected production increases during the period of the project.
Two new factories would be built under the proposed project at Mbonge and
Tombel, and improvements to existing mills would be financed by CAMDEV.
34.       The Tiko factory, CAMDEV's main processing center, needs to have
its daily capacity increased to handle the growing volume of rubber from
the estates it serves: Tiko, Likomba, Sonne, Mabeta, and currently part
of Missellele. The Tiko factory produces both smoked sheet (RSS) and block
rubber, and also brown crepes of low grades. Its capacity would be increased
from 34.6 ton/day to 39.5 ton/day. The Missellele mill, small and antiquated,
is equipped to produce RSS only. As Tiko mill is already over-burdened, the
Missellele mill's capacity would be increased, enabling it to absorb the
increasing production of this area and to ease the burden on the Tiko mill.
The RSS production capacity of Missellele mill would be increased from 5.6
ton/day to 8 ton/day.
35.       The Mukonge mill is currently handling the latex production of
Mukonge estate plus both Mbonge and Tombel estates. As these two estates are
going to be enlarged under the proposed project (1,000 ha and 900 ha of new
rubber plantings, respectively), processing facilities would be provided
on an advanced schedule to relieve the pressure on the Mukonge mill. The two
northern estates would each have a new mill, exclusively for block rubber
production, each with a capacity of 17 ton/day. For the Mukonge rubber mill,
equipped for production of both block rubber and RSS, there would be a rela-
tively small capacity increase to enable it to handle its own estate's in-
creasing production: from 15.7 ton/day to 19.5 ton/day.
36.       The Meania mill, equipped for RSS production, is nearly sufficient
for the present Meanja estate. However, the estate has been undergoing a
replanting program which will produce higher yields in the future, and the
1,000 ha of high yielding new plantings under the project at the nearby
Mallende estate would be handled at Meanja. This would necessitate a large
increase in capacity beginning in 1986/87.
37.       CAMDEV's plans call for a notable shift toward the output of
block rubber, away from the traditional smoked ribbed sheet (RSS). Block
rubber, also called crumb rubber, is made through various types of machine
processes involving rubber coagula, either naturally or chemically coagu-
lated. These crumb products are able to dry much faster than the 2-3 mm
thick ribbed sheets, and at higher temperatures, thus reducing the drying
process from some three days to about two hours. The crumb rubber is then
compressed into easily manipulated 75-lb bales, as compared with the 250-lb
traditional RSS bales. The block-rubber bales are palletized for shipping.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
38.       The Crop Processing Engineer, to be hired under the project, would
have as his main task the supervision of construction, expansion and opera-
tions of CAMDEV's crop processing facilities. Inefficient crop processing
(which concerns not only the operations of the factories themselves - factory
output levels below theoretical specifications and loss of quality - but also
the administrative arrangements between estate managers and factory managers
as concerns linkages between crop production, collection and processing) has
been a critical weakness in CAMDEV's past operations. While some improve-
ments have been achieved recently, due partly to the advice of CDC's visiting
engineer (Annex 1) and of Bank supervision missions, substantial improvements
in efficiency remain to be achieved.
E.   Outline TORs for Specialist Staff
39.       The following outline terms of reference for the six specialists
that would be recruited for the project were agreed during negotiations with
CAMDEV's management. More detailed job specifications and terms of reference
will be drawn up by the General Manager. Appointments to these positions
would normally be for a period of four years.
I.   Development Officer
40.       The Development Officer would report to the General Manager and
would assume executive responsibility for planning and co-ordinating CAMDEV's
development program including:
(a) all new project plantings;
(b) CAMDEV's ongoing replanting program;
(c) co-ordination of preparations for CAMDEV's
next development phase;
(d) co-ordination of the outgrower programs
with the estate developments.
The Development Officer would have overall responsibility for estate devel-
opment and management policy and would maintain close contact with the Chief
Production Manager in providing advice on management issues. He would have a
degree in agriculture or experience and qualifications equivalent to this. He
would be highly experienced in rubber and oil palm development with which he
should have had senior executive responsibilities and should have demonstrated
a marked aptitude for large-scale administration, co-ordination and forward
planning.
II.  Tapping Adviser
41.       The Tapping Adviser would report to the General Manager and would
liaise closely with the Development Officer, the Chief Production Manager,
the Rubber Field Inspector and with relevant research institutes. He would



ANNEX 2
Page 12
be responsible for improving CAMDEV's tapping standards through the dis-
semination of technological knowledge, training, and the improvement of
supervision. He should be highly experienced in the technology and its
applications of rubber tapping.
III. Crop Processing Engineer
42.       The Crop Processing Engineer would report to the General Manager
and would act as an adviser to the Chief Engineer. He would be responsible
for the improvement of CAMDEV's crop processing operations including expan-
sion of existing factories and construction of new factories. He would
also undertake on-the-job training of CAMDEV's factory managers and engineers.
He would have a degree in engineering or equivalent training and would have
had extensive experience in the activities described above.
IV. Kompina Estate Manager
43.       To be responsible for development and management of the Kompina
rubber estate, the Manager should have had considerable experience as an
estate manager and have demonstrated high technical and administrative apti-
tudes.
V. Specialist Mechanic
44.       The Specialist Mechanic would have responsibility for supervision
of heavy plant operation and maintenance. He would be based at Kompina estate
but would provide services to CAMDEV generally and would report to the Chief
Engineer. An essential aspect of his work would be dissemination of technical
expertise through on-the-job training. He would be a qualified mechanic with
considerable experience at maintaining a large pool of heavy agricultural
machinery.
VI. Outgrower Manager
45.       The Outgrower Manager would be responsible for the establishment of
an outgrower extension, supervision and credit management unit and for its sub-
sequent operations. He would report to the General Manager and would liaise
with the Development Officer on the positioning of outgrower holdings, with
technical specialists for crop management, and with FONADER for co-ordination
of funding arrangements. His activities would include liaison with local
leaders and on-the-job training of staff in his unit. He should also enable
visiting FONADER staff to thoroughly familiarize themselves with the work of
his unit. He would have had experience with managing rubber and oil palm
plantations. Qualifications in finance or accountancy and previous experience
with smallholder plantings would be useful.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT                                ANNEX 2
Table 1
Planting Schedule (Hectares)
PYl          PY2         PY3           PY4          PY5    Total Project
Rubber Estates:
Kompina                                300          750         1250         1350         1350         5000
Tombel                                 100          200          200n         200          200          900
Malende                                  -          200          200          300          300         1000
Mbonge                                   -          200          200          300          300         1000
Total Rubber Estates                   400         1350         1850         2150         2150         7900
West Coast Oil Palm Estate                   -         150          150           150          150          600
Outgrowers:
Rubber                                   -          200          250          250          300         1000
Oil Palm                                 -          200          250          250          300         1000
GRAND TOTAL                                400         1900         2500         2800         2900        10500



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
Rubber Yields (Kg Dry Rubber/Ha)              ANNEX 2
Table 2
CROP YEAR                                     ESTATES           OUTGROWERS
Kompina       Tombel
and          and
Malende      Mbonge
Year 0   (Planting)                         -             -
Year 1                                      -             -
Year 2                                       -            -            -
Year 3                                      -             -            -
Year 4                                      _
Year 5                                      -
Year 6                                    500           500          400
Year 7                                   1000          1000          800
Year 8                                   1500          1400         1200
Year 9                                   1700          1600         1360
Year 10                                  1900          1700         1520
Year 11                                  2000          1800         1600
Year 12                                  2100          1800         1650
Year 13                                  2200          1900        100
Year 14                                  2300          2000         1750
Year 15                                  2300          2000         1750
Year 16                                  2300          2000         1750
Year 17                                  2300          2000         1750
Year 18                                  2300          2000         1750
Year 19                                  2300          2000         1750
Year 20                                  2200          1900         1700
Year 21                                  2200          1900         1700
Year 22                                  2100          1800         1650
Year 23                                  2100          1800         1650
Year 24                                  2000          1700         1500
Year 25                                  2000          1700         1500
Year 26                                  1800          1600         1350
Year 27                                  1800          1600         1350
Year 28                                  1700          1500         1275
Year 29                                  1700          1500         1275
Year 30                                  1700          1500         1275



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
ANNEX 2
Yields and Extraction Rates, oil Palm and Kernels               Table 3
West Coast Estate                                                        Outgrowers
CROP YEAR               Tons       EXTRACTION RATES         PRODUCTION (KR/Ha)      Potential                   Tons        EXTRACTION RATES
Fresh Fruit Palm Oil Palm Kernels   Palm Oil  Palm Kernels  Yields                      Fresh Fruit Palm Oil Palm Kernels
Bunch/Ha       %            % _(FFB)  1/                                                Bunch/Ha        Z
(FFB)                                                                                   2FF    / 
Year 0  (Planting)
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3                                                                                                 8
Year 4                             5.5         15          4             825           220            11                  2.25          14          4
Year 5                             8.5         16          4            1360           340            13                  5             15          4.1
Year 6                            10.5         18          4            1890           420            14                  7.25          17          4.2
Year 7                            12.0         19          4            2280           480            16                 10             18.5        4.35
Year 8                            14.0         21          4.5          2940           630            16                 12             21           4.5
Year 9-15                         16.0         21           4.5         3360           720            16                 13             21           4.5
Year 16-20                        14.0         21          4.5          2940           630              1/               12             21           4.5
Year 21-25                         11.0        21           4.5         2310           495              1/               11.5           21           4.5
Year 26-30                                                                                                               11             21          4.5
1/  Yield estimates based on preliminary results (first four years) at Mondoni estate using the new seeds.  In view of the uncertainty concerning
full maturity yields and possible differences in yields in the West Coast soil and climatic conditions, these yields are not used in the production
extrapolations for the project.
2/   It has been assumed that yields achieved by smallholders will be about 10% lower than those of industrial estates, due to a less rigorous standard
of maintenance and harvesting.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT                                                                       ANNEX 2
Estimated Project Crop Production                                                                 Table 4
(Tons)
PROJECT
YEAR              _                   ESTATE  RUBBER                      OUTGROWER    TOTAL             ESTATE OILPALM 1/                OUTGROWER OILPAlM                    TOTAL OILPALM
Kompina    Malende   Tombel       Mbonge      Total      RUBBER      RUBBER      FFB      PALM OIL    PALM          E       PALM OIL      PALM           E     PA2L OTT       PALM
(5000 Ha   (1000 Ha  (900 HA    (1000 Ha  Estate    (1000 Ha)  (8900 Ha)                   (600 Ha   KERNELS                (1000 Ha    KERNELS                (1600 Ha)  KERNELS
Deveimp-   Develop-   Develop-  Devel-    Rubber                                          Develop-                           Develop-
ment)      ment)       miient)    opment)  (7100 Ha)                                      ment)                              ment)
1                   -             _          -          _          _           _        _             _         _           _         _           _          _             _           _         _
2                                                                 -                                                         _ -  -                           _             _           _         _
3                                                                                                               _           _         _           _          _             _           _         _
4                                                            -           -                                                  _         _           _          _             _           _         _
5                                                                                                     -         _           _         _           _          _             _           _          _
6                   -             -          -          -          -           -        -           825       124          33      450           63         18          1275         187        51
7                 150             -         50          -        200           -     200           2100       328          84     1563          229         64          3663         557       148
8                 675           100        200        100       1075          80    1155           3675       611         147     3263          514        135          6938        1125       282
9                1825           300        440        300       2865         260    3125           5475       953         219     5737          960        241         11212        1913       460
10                3560           650        740        630       5580         540    6120           6750      1270         280     8212         1500        355         14962        2770       635
11                5745          1090       1070       1050       8955         892    9847           7875      1570         337    10275         2009        452         18150        3579       789
12                7525          1470       1320       1380      11695        1184   12879           8700      1791         382    11850         2413        528         20550        4204       910
13                8825          1740       1480       1600      13645        1402   15047           9300      1953        418    12700         2666         571         22000        4619       989
14                9595          1900       1570       1710      1&775        1518   16293           9600      2016         432    13000        2730         585         22600        4746      1017
15               10230          2030       1640       1790      15690        1608   17298           9600      2016         432    13000         2730        585         22600        4746      1017
16               10700          2130       1700       1860      16390        1667   18057           9600      20I6         432    13000         2730        585         22600        4746      1017
17               11095          2210       1740       1910      16955        1707   18662           9600      2016         43?    13000         2730        585         22600        4746      1017
18               11365          2270       1780       1970      17385        1735   19120           9300      1953         418    12800         2668        576         22100        4641       994
19               11500          2300       1800       2000      17600        1750   19350           9000      1890         404    12550         2636        565         21550        4523f      969
20               11500          2300       1800       2000      17600        1750   19350           8700      1827         390    12300         2583        554         21000        4410       944
21               11470          2300       1790       2000      17560        1750   19310           8400      1764         376    12000         2520        540         20400        4284        916
22               11395          2280       1770       1980      17425        1740   19165           8400      1764         376    12000         2520        540         20400        4284       916
23               11240          2260       1740       1960      17200        1715   18915           7950      1670         356    11900         2499        535         19850        4169        891
24               11030          2210       1700       1910      16850        1680   18530           7500      1576         336    11775         2473        530         19275        4049       866
25               10740          2160       1650       1860      16410        1652   18062           7050      1482         316    11650         2447        524         18700         3929       840
26               10530          2110       1610       1810      16060        1610   17670           6600 11  1388          296    11500         2415        518         18100         3803       814
27               10210          2060       1560       1760      15590        1570   17160           4950      1041         222    11500         2415        518         16450         3456       740
28               10125          1990       1520       1710      15345        1515   16860           3300       694         148    11400         2394        513         14700         3088       661
29                9510          1920       1470       1640      14540        1432   15972           1650       347          74    11275         2368        507         12925         2715       581
30                9165          1840       1430       1610      14045        1380   15425              -         -           -    11150         2342        502         11150         2342       502
31                8770          1760       1390       1560      1 W60        1316   14796              -         -           -      8800        1848        396          8800         1848       396
1/   Uprooting connences in PY 26.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PREPARATIONS
A. Introduction and Financial and Administrative Arrangements
1.        The expansion study and master plan included in the project would
form a complementary package intended to prepare for the medium and long term
development of CAMDEV and of the west coastal region within which CAMDEV is
situated. The master plan, which would be financed by loans from the Bank and
CCCE, and by Government contributions, would be under the responsibility of
the Ministry of Economy and Planning and would concern the longer term agri-
cultural development of the region. Of more direct and immediate concern to
CAMDEV would be the expansion study which would provide the information and
initial facilities required for a follow-up CAMDEV expansion. The expansion
study would be under CAMDEV's supervision and would be financed by loans from
the Bank, CDC and CCCE, and by CAMDEV contributions. Government would pl vide
debt servicing payments on loans for the master plan, and CAMDEV on loan. for
the expansion study.
2.        At Government's request Britain's Overseas Development Ministry
(ODM) has agreed to provide specialist services to assist with soil surveying
and project preparation work. A total of about 4 to 5 man years of specialist
services are expected to be provided and would be concentrated mainly on the
expansion study area. ODM would provide these services on a bilateral grant
aid basis with full coverage by ODM of salaries and air fares (estimated cost
about US$200,000). Other costs - housing, accommodation, laboratory facil-
ities, equipment, transport and local labor (estimated cost about US$300,000)
would be met through local funds and by loans from the cofinancers.
B. The Expansion Study
3.        The next stage of CAMDEV's expansion is conceived in broad terms
as a 10,000 - 12,000 ha coconut project on the western foot of Mount Cameroon
between Idenau and Mbonge (Map). The area, which is virtually uninhabited
and without access by road, consists of undulating forest land with sandy
loam soils and is interspersed by narrow streams. Preliminary inspection
indicates agricultural potential, particularly for coconut. Preparations for
such a development would require a number of parallel activities: a land use
and soils survey, some access infrastructure to the survey area, coconut seed
gardens and trial plots, and detailed project preparation. These are outlined
below and in Annex 5 Table 15:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(a) Access to Survey Area. This would be provided by a
bridge over the Meme river at Mbonge and 40 km of dirt
road into the survey area. In addition to its usage
for the survey, the access infrastructure would be used
for the Mbonge rubber estate extension which would also
be on the other side of the river. The bridge would be a
bailey type purchased in sections and constructed by
CAMDEV. The road would be a single-track-width dirt con-
struction and would be made under force account with
equipment from the adjacent Mbonge estate.
(b) Coconut Seed Gardens and Trial Plots. 50 ha of coconut
seed gardens would be established at Mondoni estate
and would be supervised by IRHO. 28 ha of trial plots
covering 35 hybrid varieties of coconut would be estab-
lished in the proposed planting area.
(c) Soil Survey and Project Preparations. The soil survey
would require two soil surveyors complete with vehicles
(4 wheel drive), camping equipment and soil survey equip-
ment, over a one to two year period. Laboratory facili-
ties would be made available at the existing Ekona re-
search laboratory near Victoria. The work would commence
with an aerial photography survey followed by a detailed
land survey on a I x 1 km mesh. Project preparations
would require an agricultural economist (12 months) and a
financial analyst (6 months). Four wheel drive transport
would also be required, but housing and office accommoda-
tion and facilities would be provided by CAMDEV at the
Bota headquarters. ODM's staff contributions are expected
to correspond approximately to the specialist requirements
outlined above.
(d) Rubber Tapping Research. In addition, some research on
rubber tapping techniques, a critical weakness on CAMDEV's
estates (para 3.19), would also be undertaken.
Outline plans and administrative arrangements were agreed to at nego-
tiations.
C. Preparation of Master Plan for West Coastal Region
4.        The objectives of the master plan for the west coastal region
are similar to that for the Kribi area in the south east coastal zone to
the east of Douala which is being financed in conjunction with the Niete
rubber estate development project under Credit 574-CM. The objectives
include:
-    selection of areas for estate and smallholder
plantings;



ANNEX 3
Page 3
technical-economic study of plantations and the out-
line of a planting program for the next 20 years; and
identification and proposed solutions to the problems
of environment, land development, and infrastructure
in the region.
The rough boundary of the region is outlined on Map 12891. A more detailed
map has been reviewed with authorities within the Ministry of Economy and
Planning and agreement has been reached on the general areas that would
be covered. Marshy areas, such as those to the west of Ekondo, would be
excluded, as would be the Rumpi Hills. The region extends from the Wouri
River northward to the Nigerian border.
5.        The study would be confined to land areas that are below 300 m,
the limit for perennial tree crops. This limit defines an area of about
1,250,000 ha, and excludes:
(1) 230,000 ha at the perimeter of CAMDEV-controlled
lands, already studied;
(2) 80,000 ha of existing CAMDEV concession; and
(3) the areas cultivated by other crops, to be recorded.
Thus, topographical and pedological studies would be carried out on an area
of 750,000 - 850,000 ha, which is about 2-1/2 times the area under considera-
tion in the Kribi region.
6.        Draft terms of reference for the master plan have been drawn up by
SEDA under the supervision of the Ministry of Economy and Planning. These
are similar in scope to those prepared for the Kribi area plan, which has
recently been initiated. Outline plans, administrative arrangements and a
proposed timetable were discussed and agreed to at negotiations. Any lessons
of experience from the Kribi area plan would be incorporated in the planning
for the west coastal region. As with the Kribi area plan, a number of organi-
zations would be involved in implementation (such organizations may, for
instance, include SEDA, SATET, SAFACAM, ENSA and ODM) and the program would
be conducted in a phased manner to allow for evolution of the study's inves-
tigations in accordance with its ongoing findings.
7.        The total cost of the master plan for the west coastal region would
be about CFAF 650 million (US$2.6 million), and it would take about three
years to complete.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
OUTGROWERS PROGRAM
A. Organization and Management
Choice of Participants
1.        Potential participants would be selected from interested farmers who
have usufruct rights on suitable land. Normally, the land should not be beyond
a 25 km radius from the relevant processing complex, and should be within 500 m
of a passable road, although because of product differences, distance from the
factory is more important for oil palm fruit bunches than for polybag collec-
tion. The reputation of the farmer in his community would be taken into con-
sideration. Selected farmers would be required to enter into a contract which
would oblige them to follow CAMDEV's advice on technical matters relating to
oil palm or rubber establishment, including the method and timing of planting,
crop maintenance and harvesting. Some flexibility would be allowed, however,
on the choice between using a cover crop or employing a system of intercrop-
ping during the period of crop development.
2.        Membership in an outgrower group would be required for partici-
pation in the program. Each group would have a minimum of five members.
Voluntary groupings would be arranged by CAMDEV agents among the available
candidates. The group would have no formal structure, though an evolution
toward cooperatives may be anticipated. Its main initial functions would
be to provide a means for cooperative effort, for instance in land clear-
ance, and to deal with individuals' problems through joint action. Through
the group, pressure would be brought to bear on an outgrower who neglects
his plantings. In the case of a credit default, CAMDEV would turn the
grower's dossier over to FONADER, which would invoke the guarantee. In cases
of gross negligence or death of a member, the group would take over management
of the affected plantings, with an appropriate division of the proceeds, until
an heir is put into possession of the holding. Serious problems (for instance,
questions of tenure) would be dealt with by the group and village Chief under
the traditional decision-making process or, if necessary, by local administra-
tive authorities. This system has proved to be a key to the success of
outgrower programs in other West African countries, and appears to be equally
suited to Cameroon. In essence, the group would be a safeguard against risks
that are beyond the control of CAMDEV or FONADER.
Management
3.        Although FONADER has nationwide responsibility for smallholder
credit, staff limitations have led it to operate through specialized agencies



ANNEX 4
Page 2
which in turn deal directly with smallholders (Annex 1). In the proposed
outgrower program, FONADER would contract with CAMDEV for the direct manage-
ment of all operations, while retaining responsibility for credit funding.
4.        CAMDEV would organize a separate division for outgrower management,
whose head would be directlv responsible to CAMDEV's General Manager. The
division would be responsible, inter alia, for (i) farmer selection and
organization into groups; (ii) preparation of annual work programs for small-
holder development; (iii) maintenance of all records and accounts relating to
smallholder credit; and (iv) delivery to smallholders of all material on
credit and cash grants needed for smallholder plantation establishment. The
division would consist of a central management unit located at CAMDEV's
headquarters and two extension services, one for each crop, based in the field
near the smallholder plantings. The head of the outgrower unit would be an
experienced plantation manager and would be assisted by 3 administrative/
clerical grade staff. Each extension service would have a sector chief, an
administrative assistant and a corps of field staff. The numbers of field
staff would build up as each program develops. By PY5 it is envisaged
that there would be 5 field staff for oil palm and 10 for rubber, representing
outgrower: field staff ratios of about 130:1 and 70:1 respectively. The
higher concentration of field staff for rubber is because it is a more diffi-
cult crop to grow and because local farmers are less familiar with rubber than
they are with oil palm (some oil palm is already grown by local farmers for
domestic consumption and a few private growers sell their fruit to CAMDEV).
In the initial years the numbers of outgrowers per extension worker would be
smaller than these ratios. Housing, vehicles (motorcycles for field staff)
and equipment would also be provided (Annex 5, Tables 11 to 13).
5.        Well in advance of the fiscal year, CAMDEV would present its annual
work program and related budget including the tariff (para 10) to FONADER for
approval. The Bank would be given an opportunity to comment on this. After
approval, CAMDEV would be provided by FONADER with funds for smallholder
development.
6.        Collection of polybags or fresh fruit bunches would be organized
and carried out by CAMDEV. Outgrowers would be required to follow the crop
instructions and schedules issued by CAMDEV.
B. Financial Arrangements
Credit
7.        Outgrowers would be given credit to cover the cost of all purchased
inputs, except small tools, required during the years needed to bring the crop
into production, and a cash grant, calculated on the basis of 80% of the daily
wage of unskilled estate labor times estimated manday requirements. Only those



ANNEX 4
Page 3
farmers deriving more than 75% of their income from agricultural activities
would receive grants. The credit would be provided by FONADER through CAMDEV.
Outgrower Costs
8.        Government (FONADER) costs would include a grant to cover costs
of CAMDEV's outgrower management during crop development, credit for inputs,
cash grants, and debt servicing of project loans made to the outgrower pro-
gram. Costs are at Tables 3 to 5 and in Annex 5, Tables 11 to 14, and are
selectively summarized below:
I. Costs/ha Over Crop Investment Period (excluding management)
Rubber                 Oil Palm
(7 years)                 (5 years)
CFAF'OOO    US$         CFAF'OOO    US$
Field Inputs                      210        857            98        401
Cash Grants                        99        404            51        210
II.  Costs During Project Period
(excluding contingencies)
Rubber                 Oil Palm
(1,000 ha)              (1,000 ha)
CFAFm   US$'000         CFAFm   US$'000
Field Inputs                     154       630             55       222
Cash Grants                       60       245             42       169
Management                       160       653            135       552
TOTAL                       375    1,529            231       944
Recovery of Credit and of Management Costs
9.        FONADER would recover credit for field inputs as follows.  Credit,
given in each year of the development period, would bear interest at 9% per
year capitalized. For oil palm, this would be over a five-year grace period
(four years for development to maturity plus another year to allow yields to
reach a level adequate to support debt service). Repayment would then be in
seven annual installments to be recovered at the time produce is collected
from outgrowers. For rubber, with its longer crop investment period, the



ANNEX 4
Page 4
grace period would extend to the eighth year after planting so as to allow
yields to reach a level adequate to support debt service.  Repayment would
then be in 10 annual installments to be recovered in the same manner as
for oil palm outgrowers.  In both cases repayment of principal would be in
accordance with a schedule in which the proportion to be paid in any one year
is the same as the proportion of the year's production to total production
during the repayment period. Interest would be charged on the unpaid balance
at the beginning of the year. Tables 3 and 4 show illustrative cash flows
for oil palm and rubber outgrowers, respectively, which demonstrate these
arrangements.
10.       During the production period producer prices to outgrowers would
be set on the basis of full cost recovery to CAMDEV for costs of management,
crop collection and crop processing. Tables I and 2 are illustrative of the
calculation of producer prices for oil palm and rubber, respectively, which
would ensure cost recovery. The producer price for oil palm fresh fruit
bunches has been shown to be the equivalent in real terms of the recommended
producer price to outgrowers under the SOCAPALM project. In addition, any
margin remaining at the end of the year from the sale of the smallholders'
production, after deduction of loan repayments and CAMDEV's costs, would
become part of a fund to be returned to outgrowers.
11.       CAMDEV would keep separate accounts for all operations relating to
the outgrower program which would be the basis for reaching agreement with
FONADER on the budget for the succeeding year and on the tariff. After
outgrowers' plantations enter into production, these accounts would also
reflect the balance of outgrower credit accounts and the surplus on outgrower
sales available for bonus payments.
Financial Impact of Cost Recovery Arrangements:
Government, FONADER and Farmers
12.       As shown in Table 5, FONADER, which would be the channel of funds
for smallholder credit, would accumulate funds which would be devoted to
further smallholder development. Government expenditures for the outgrower
program would consist of funds passed through FONADER to smallholders as cash
grants and/or credit, grants to CAMDEV for outgrower management during crop
development, and debt servicing of project loans for the outgrower component.
Through the collection of export and sales taxes on produce deriving from
outgrower crops, Government would partially recover these expenditures. The
subsidy for the development of smallholder rubber is greater than for small-
holder oil palm because the development costs per hectare of rubber are higher
while export taxes on output per hectare are lower. The economic rates of
return, however, are about 18% and 23X for smallholder rubber and oil palm,
respectively.
C. Outgrower Incomes
13.       Incomes generated from participating in the outgrower programs
would be additional to the incomes from the families' traditional farming



ANNEX 4
Page 5
practices which, due to the low labor inputs required for rubber and oil palm,
can be expected to be only slightly affected. During the crop investment
period, the cash grants provided by Government would compensate for the labor
allocated to the outgrower plantings. Subsequently, as shown below, net
incomes from the plantings would increase to highly remunerative levels.
Net Returns to Outgrowers from Program
(constant 1977 terms)
First      Loan        After
year     repayment    loan
Crop             of        period    repayment
development      production  (average)  (average)
Rubber
Man days required                          58              82          89          109
Returns per man day   CFAF                280             730        2280         1890
US$                 1               3           9            8
Returns per hectare   CFAF                              59900     202700       205900
US$                               244         827          840
Oil Palm
Man days required                          45              37          49           50
Returns per man day   CFAF                280             800        2530         2840
US$                 1               3          10           12
Returns per hectare   CFAF                              29600     124000       141800
US$                               121         506          579



CtMCOON
SCOND C81413 PROJECT
OIL PAlN OlrrGROflS                                          ANNEX 4
Table 1
ILLL'STilAT  i r                             PM FFb
Per Ton
OIL
85466
Financial Value   I                                         243
Less:  Transnort/Rendling   2f                           85223
Net Revenue                                                  21
oil Content mB                                            17897
Revenue in FmB Equivalent
55293
Financial Value   /                                        5022
Less: Grading ond b   itx   4/                              107
Transport to Boto  5/                             50164
Net Revenue                                                 4.5
Kernel Content m   7                                       2257
Revenue in FFB Equivalent
20154
Prech Fruit Bunch Total Revenue
Lees CCadev Costs
Milling  6/                                         1815
Collection Costs                                    2420
Central MianagR_nt and Exteion 7t                   2053
Finance Chares 37   /                               6i67
Subtotal Cadev Costs
Available for distribution                                13287
Reconended Producer Price Per Tan m   2/                  13200
Margin (to be returned to nutgro,wsr)                    87
1i   From Annex  9, Table 2.
Cost of tranaport/handlintCA
dometic sales  (85%)                              4
export sales
(transport costS to Beta)                      121
costs of comnercilizatien
at llndoni sill                                 56
107. physical contingency                         22
TOTAL                                   243
Sou-:  CDC Developmnt Progra.me. Part IV, PsIicle 2, Appendices 7 and 14.
31  Vaine froe  Anne  9, Toble 3.
4/   Fcom CDC Developseot Progras, Psrt II, Ann-x 1-16, plus 10% physial  ontingencies.
5/   Transport cast to Beta from Mondoi:
97 CFAF/tan
pnlus 10% physical contingency          le
Total tranapert cost:             107
6t   Milling cost at londonf:             CFAElton FFB
107 physical rontingeney        165
Intel Milling Cost:        1613
7/   Average annual cost in Y6 and  -nvecd - 23610 CFAP/ha (Including 107 physi'al 'ontingenc.es); at en everage yield frio  Y6-T9 of 11.5 T FFB/ho *  '05' CFAF/ton FFB.
8/   Opportunity cast of capital assumed to be 127  p.a , for 3 months - 3%, charged on cecomeended price tn prducer and on milling, collection and mnagement coets.
9/   Identical in real term  to producer price of FIB under SOCAPALM project.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
ANNEX 4
RUBBER OUTGROWERS                         Table 2
Recommended Producer Price for Rubber
(CFAF, End 1977 constant terms)
Per Ton Dry Rubber
Financial Value  1/                                           210467
Less Camdev Costs:
Processing 2/                                            24200
Collection Costs 2/                                       4356
Central Management and Extension   3/                    19358
Finance Charges 4/                                        5937
Sub Total Camdev Costs                                   53851
Value Farm Gate                                               156616
Recommended Producer Price Per Ton Dry Rubber                 150000
Margin (to be returned to producer)                             6616
1/    From Annex 9   Table 1.  Value ex-factory.
2/    Includes lOt'physical contingencies; differs from processing and collection of estate rubber because of
difference in category of rubber produced(polybag on outgrowers, latex on estate).
3/    Average annual cost in year 6 and onward is 28786 CYAF/ha, including 10% physical contingencies.  At an
average yield from Year 6 to Year 29 of 1.487 t dry rubber/ha, the cost is 19,358 CFAF/ton rubber.
4/    opportunity cost of capital at 12%, for 3 months, finance charge is 3% Pf sum of processing, collection
u pervision and m,a,nagement and recbmmended producer price.



CAMEROON
SECOND_ CA5EV PROJ~ECT
Oili Pain DotRrWers                                                                  ANNEX 4
Table 3
Fare  Inputa and Cash Flaw (I Hactare)
(End 1977 Constant Terna, CFAF)
CROP YE&S             Year 0 YearjI   Year 2  Year    Year 4   Year 5   Year 6    Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Yer1 year Inlt~                        Year  12   Year       Year       Yea        year
(Pl-nting                                 (Fle-t                                                                                             13-15      16-20     21-25      26-28
Year)                                  Hacyeat-
iag Yr.)
REVEUES
Fraduetian (M1T/FFS)                                                                                               2.25        5.7       2:25        10.0      12.0       13.0       13.0      13.0         13.0      13.0       12.0      11.5         il.0
Value at Fr-duetlo_ (at 13,200 trIAP/MT PER) 1/29700                                                                         66000      95700      132000    156400   171600   171600    171600           171600  158400    151600    145200         145200
eC.h Create   2/                                                          32690      7150       5720   5720
Int.l Revenues                                                            32890      7150       5720   5720       29700      66000      95700     032000    159000    171600    171600    171600          121600  156400    151600    145200         145200
EXPENDITURES
Casd-v Sanplied Tenets 3/
Puerar ia                                                                  2354
Baga                                                                      37622      2630
Wire                                                                       1766
Fertilizer                                                                 1147      4576       8626  10612       12562      12524      12524       12524      12524     12524      12524      12524        12124    12524      12524      '2574      12524
Chemicals                                                                   569
Catting Teals                                                                                                      6768         471       550         550        550        550       550        550          550      550        SI5C.      590         550
Sub Tetal C-ndey Inputs                                                   43476       7206      6626  10612       19350       12995     13074       13074      13074     13074      13074      13074        13074    13074      13074      13074      12074
10% Physical C-ntingennies                                             4248        721        867    1061      1925        1300       1307        1507      1307       1307       1307      1307         1307      1307       1247      1307        1507
Total Coat at Caad,dg  _npet5                                             47826       7929      9489  11673       21285       14295     14581       14361      14361     14381      14381      14361        14361    14361      14381      14301      14381
Credit on Caindev Inputs                                                  47826      7929       9469  11673       21285
Net Cuer of tand-  Inputs                                                      -         -          -       -          -      04295     14381       14381      14381      14381     14381      14361        14381    14381      14181      14381       14381
Snail Teals  4/                                                             550        127       510      110       134         129        129        129        129        129        129       129          129       129       129        129         129
Net Farmer Ennenditure                                                      550        127        110     110       134       14424     14510       14510      14510      14510     14510      14510        14510    14510      14510      14510      14511
Net lncuas  Befere Loan isnavnent                                         32430       7023      5610    5610      29566       51376     81190      117490    143690    137090    157090    157090         157090    157090  1438051      137290    130690
Less Repaymset _(NMialse   ternm) "                                           -         -          -       -          -           -    26201       29983      31950      32815      29710     27604        25499          -         -         -           -
Lean repsysent (Cuestast 1977 tern) It                                         -         -         -        -         -                 16520       1750)3     17376      15923     13767      11842       10131           -        -          -           -
Yet Iceee After Lose~ Pepaynset                                           39490       7923      5610   5610       29566       51576      64670      99987    126654    141167    143323    145146         146955    157090  145090    137790         130690
Macdays required                                                            115         25         20      20         37          44        45          49         50         50        50         s0          50         So        50        50          50
Net I-omn  perMada                                                          282        261       261      281       281        1177       143?        204s.     1549       2623       2666       2905        2939       3442     2878 2.      4        2614
I/ Recu-eseded price to predecer,..se A.een 4 Table 1.
T/ Cash Grant for Inpoted Iaber cost during first fear crap years base.d us 260 CFAFIday, as for SOCAPALN eutgrewers. adjusted te 266 CFAF/day in End 1977 tern.
II' Sepplied at rest of CANOEV' purebase or preductiun pIes 7%. c-as.ieso  far CANDES' badlieg.
4/Purchased by farmers.
5/The lean repsymnst is calculated belowi SomsenSua   termi.  In reflect the debt serolioig in real 1977 tern , the lean repayment bus bees deflated by a price deflator  using 1977 as ahss  Year end
BI8% par anno  com-ouded.  Toe reOsulat Ies. repsytsent in coestant terms is used te derive the snallbelder's retare.
ToteS at Segin-ing
50        VI         Y2        Y3        .J4.           of Y.rE6
Valee of Credit 00 Ced-o Scents                47876       7929      9469      11675     21285
Cfenalated -1-n at beainnIng of
Yeer 6 at 9% 0.8                            80209      12199      13395     15117      25289             146209
Osnaynetit of co-Iated cab-  is in the san  -rvy-tlee as one years output is to total outpu,t over I-he tens-eat ceded    lote-stt easmeoctsc  97 of pri-rA-e  -ootstadilp at bicc    f netted.
Propurtine      Repoyneot on  Salence  remain-    Int.atet               Total                          Toate  Payment
Year         te be repaid        Priec Opal    ing at Baginning  Payment             Payment           Detflater      in Constant
(%)   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ fYea~r_                 ___            (3)  + (5)                         1977  Tense
T 6             8.92              13042             146208.         13159            26201              158.6            16520
y 7            12.31              17998             133167          119865           29983              171.3            17503
Y 8            14.77              21595             215169           10365           31960              185.0            17276
C 9            i6.01              23393              93574            8422           51815              199.8            15923
C 10           16.00              23314              70181            6316           29710              215.8            13767
C 11           16.00              23393              46787            4211           27604              233.1            11842
Y 12           1:6.00             23394              23394            2105           25499              251.7            10131
100.00             146209



025B06 0~60
Far  In... t,And C4.6 Floe (1 Mac~tar)                                                                                 AM
(End 1977 ..nn. n  tarn-  COA)                                                                                      Tebls 4
(MitIn..e Sai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Year        Year       TY.-        Yca
7re  Year    -ee)   Yea  I   Thenr 2    year 3    Yha  4  Y... j  eatin   Yr 1ea  7   yea-             aY.,  9 Yea  10  Y8.4.1.  TheYr 12  Yea  13  Tha  14  Yea  15  lear 16  Year 17  Y-e  I8  Vee  19Tar2                             ha   1          Ai         24-25       26 2        28-29
Prodtenlo   (Inn, dry robber)-                                      -    -          -           -              -       .4         .6        1.2       1.36      1,52      1.60       (.15      1.70       1.75      1.75       1. "       1.5  1.75  1. 75 1.75                1.7  L                1.65        1.50       1.35       1.275
(an  10000 CAP/T rubber) it                                                                                    60000    110000   160000  204000   228000   240000   247500    2550               610       720         650      220         650      220         300       250              650        230          050       115
C.eh Grane-    j                                    41184   17160       10296      10868        10010   9438             -         -         -         -         .          -                    -         -          -         --                    --------
XoX*l.ZA    u41184    17160                                             10100      10868        10010    9438       60000    120000   180000  204000    228000    240000   0475D0    255000   262500   262500   262500    262500    261500   262500    255000    255000                         247500      225000      202300     191250
Oeee  Perar                                          2543
BSag                                               129792                                                                                                                                                                      01       20        201        20         o          71
Celas(fr -maI.enace                                     2625        235         470         421      5899       01        d 2001         2001           20         ot        20         01        20 2001  2001  2001  2001  2001  2001     2001                                            2001        2001        2001       2001
perrilleor                                    ~~~~~     ~~~~~       ~~~~~~7333  7333  6103  4402  -                     -                    -              -          -              -          -         -          -.                                                                                            
Tre    iqoIsentj                                                                                                     7945                  922       922       922       922        822       922        922       80          8305                805        805       805         805            605         883         683         805
Tappr   iqteet~                                                                                                      12                    167       167       167        167       167       167        107       237        232         3727 237            237 237                 237 237                  23      7               237
Tapping iqoipset (polylageS                                                                                          71414      7414     12902    12002      12902    12802       12802     12802      129072    15292      13297     197        15290'    15291      15293,     15257           15287       15297      15297       1529
ChlteIoll  (for atalno-                                                                                                            -          -        -         -          -         -          -         -      1324       1324      1324       1324       1329      1524        1224           1324        1324       1334        1324
Sobtetal Camden Inpote                             142735    10157       7568       6574         4873      588      1848        5415    15992   15552        15992    15892       15992     15892    15992       10064      19664     19664      10064,   19664       19684       19664          L964       15664~   19680          19694
tOt Ph"yelrl Coetinganlee                         41424    111          757I       05           487      59        1008        42       1559      . 159     1558      1599      1599       1599      195        198       1966       196        26'        18         96        18 1968  16 1:196                                  198
Tote  Coel of Camde  Inpote                        1599 117               325        723         5380    647        20332      10337     151       12591M    17591     17511      27591     17591      17511     2160       21636     21650      21630      31630     21650       21630          21830      21630       01650       21630
C-edn on CamenOo-                                  157009   1173'        62          731         50        64       203 32        -           -                                        -         -         -          -          -                                  
cat Coet of Cemden Thyole                                -        -         -           -            -       -           -    101357     175912   1753921    171591    171591     17591     175921   17591       210 21630313 21630              21630      21630                28301160 21630      21630 ,21630O2I.3
SaaI TonI1 4                                          803       297       176         191          IA8     176        122        132       132       132       02          32       132        132       132        152       152        132        632      I132        132        131            1I315                  232         132
*IaLIn~~~~~.flP8nGJ24C! ~~~~~803                   297        270        190          176     676         132     10489     17723    17723    1 7723       17729     12723     17723      1 7723    21762      21 762     21762     21762    21760        21752      251762         91762      21762       21742       21762
Net  lacey   afore  toa       -eu                   40381    168623    10120        10670         5834    9262      59680    100511   162277  186277   210277   222277    229777   237277   2401777   240738   240738    240738    240738   240738    233238    233239                         2U73S       203238      180738     169486
Loan Repayment fliamleel narca)  -  -  -         -            -       -          -         -          -   75407       76356     75118      72605     65974     66787556 MIS  427644  563026     5435964    90636 -9 50656 
tenRpyetCto-net 1877 tens)                  -         -         -                        -       -          -         -               40711      30316     34809    31148       27001    24563       21337      18449      15867      13491         ------
hat Inc=     After  teen RaeanSmee                  40381   168603    101320        106730        9634   9262       59868    109511   162277  149516    172961    167466    199629   709476   210214   219403    222289    224851    227047   24n738   233258    253236                        225538      283238      I18258      160086
M.,dy  Req,Ire                                      144       60         36          38           55      39          62        79         85       85        85    5         85         85   65         5        109       309        109        109       105        199       109             509         1o9        169         109
Net  Income  Per  Sander                 06~~~~~~20  291    263         201          261     281         730      1396       1909     1712       2025      2205       2337      2464       2391      2013       2039      2565       2083      2209       2140       2140           2671        1365       1658        1555
1/deoeedd  nr,,ta  -ondote    Sea Ann.e             Table
IiCcltct n               II"noedlao  cod  durIng Iftret et  co  yer   I...  0  260  MrAYday, ed oand to 296 Cr93/day In and 1977 tem.-
3/ Sonnlta  atte    f                             _680   or en   rd-rlon. nIne 71  oiteco   o  £4160  hendllng
Li Porbee;bll       nnn
85ynen      - omoded    The    .- recoton .loa   rnym-n  Incneetneo  t             d no Onrlo-  tI   ea   Iolder            _
4j          Ui          Y2         Y3         Yjj          05         56          57             of Y...9
'tel..  f OneOY  e  Ce44-  Innt.           150009        11179      0335        7231         5340       647        20552      10317
oltdV.Io.a  BegInnIng of
Year 9at n%  3a 41007                                  22263     15210       12127         0247       914        26331      12303            438412
lapaYmen of Ctale-n  oeloe Ie In  h.a  -c nroto   e   n  ya'  oto   te to -tno  oototve  the repay-en  ye-ed.  1nna-t ra-eel  are                                            f orPrIncIpl oot--dt.0  br Inglto  of period.
(1      (2)                 (33                  (467                                 4                  7                     (9)
.o.b Iaad         ftintlpel        Ocelnetna         et    95           13) .t (5)          ______               oael1977 Ter
19             8.2                 353950            438412           39457               75407                 " 15.                 40761
10             9.2                 40334             402462           30222               7650619.                                    38316
1I              0.7                42524             362 128          32592                75110                 211.0                 348095
12             10.2                43641             519602            28744               72105                 233.1                 3114%
13             10.3                45316             27 5761           24010               69974                 251.7                 27001I
14             10.3                46033             230605            20754              66707                  271.9                 24563
15             10.3                44033             10457             1661               I2444                  293.6                 21337
16             10.5                46033             130539            12409               5(50I31,.                                   16440,
17             10.5                46033              92506             8326               543509                342.6                 15047
10             10.5                _46473             46473             4103              30655                  370.0                 03491
100.0               436412



I AN_I_O
OLnCRtbYI.  arr i A.3CASsI! Lfv ?D F/9 LI£R  2                  NNYX 4
(90(AF  r   LASH tenstanL ID  rwr)DE
E1/.44  9{) 80781 8]/S2 dZZ i3 _  85/8b ttb/H7 8 Lld/89 89/90 9LL/91 w1/12 92793 93/94 94m   t     7      9      5            9     5     /71    1/91                   2-b 96/q     61 7-   LI 9B/9    L/qq olt
.(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s8/ I -rEl  l/                    Bo  re   t
Rubbe  200  450       700      17000
0I 90l0,                                       200        450        700     17200
Ti077300400                                                ?W       1400      NO,1
Ooveo,o,,,,o7 A7l,7aoz7o  7/             39639      55215      60355      7481t      207571    10572      1S60       14207    7070 0       152 3               2'   1    3h739   33544 37093 76702    23505                   2,3488     1771L      1292       8183       4107
Cr-dit 00pa717720
W,7 T2,t77 09407-                        39639      55215      60355      74816,    2s794       10972     75000      74287    .0702      7o1046      200160    26731     3678q    335.4       377003     26702     235075      709488    71777      72s25       8183      0007
oil1 Palo
Cav--otacrt Ad v....    1/               16143      231496      6902     35266       06031     1413Z      10530      06306,
Lredit 5epi3ymet3304                                                                                                  7637    710        1491         70300   14940       13010f    7020       6076       73
Slob T-Ol 070 Palm                     16143       27196    23092       35260       10        141 L132   13843     14016    1190         14070     76307,   1!974       13206     9624       6000       3070
70t79 Itfloo'o                              55782       0a411     87347    110082       37085      3i)104    29703      28303   2266i 1136d2             3 7274   41705      00945   437161       341379    29071      237177      iCF. 71.    120125              0813       04107
,,Sbb.r
77090197777000 Ooo210 LnP ,tt   7)0167099 31402    41007    43710       53423        0313       577,      7737      09Z4       777       0 66qo      3107
7ash ((rOt ts O9Ogr-'ero                  A237      13720    17640       21303       12441      10197       8133      5363       2077
S77b Tocal l70bb,-                       390394    05705    71300         74816      2,7754    75902      I0h007     142b7     7777        7) 469      3107
2090-o7- - t Cr1dit s7 7777ro7ers
for 0900 7,,poOO                        gs05       l351       705837    2i"77       77926       91086     1823       6086
Cash C,0-t to Outgr-wert                  6578        965i    IL715       14220       5005       3146       1716
S,b 3ata1 Oil F.lt                       16143       731,61   20090       12066      l.`31     14132    I05.79       6386
2T7'91 0Out1lows                             070552     78411     0.734     110082       37685    IOV77)77              20h7.3    107027      0707         1 l77
Net 7il779  B70 -.--                                                   -                     -                                          -7752            17053   210737             733044        3717777 20671)7       23707       7.        71i7        223       77103     717)7
09t lIfiow (it7 77l10                                                  -                      -         -      3370       7603G    11961      10034      1634    14, i 7       37'!, -    f2,    .   8k7      777309
T297  117t 'nf19-                                -                     -          -                     -      77"        7477)    7190_    2; 77e        3,7 157  ,17".           .   . 37.       ,j777    2747       237,r0     2,7.7       777,      e277 1070 I17s
! /   0'o Far tSO, 4vaOces atd 7770 Utb 07<9 ,2-'9-l1-
7'   Cr0.7,r 7er 07777977777772 007070,7  79 7,77(7777  7rr7rs   't7 177low 1799  777779977   7'7  707779 Ore 077rr707''7.' 97,777d



CAME OON
SECOND C4MDEV PROJECT
ODrTGROWER PROGRAM:  Cash  Flow  to Governent - Years 1977/78 to 199J91                                     ANIIEX 4
('n5  CFAF, end 1977 conetont te-rs.                                                   Table 6 (Part i)
77/78   78/79      79/S0      80/81     81/82     82/83     83/84   84/85    85/86        86/87     87/88     88/89      89/90      90/91
Predootion Robber (MT dry rubber)   /                                                                                            80       260       540       892      1184        1400      1515
Prod-tono o FB (MT) 2/                                                                                      450       1563    3263       5737      8212    10275    11850         12700    13000
Prodoction Palm Oil (MT) 2/                                                                                  63        229      514       960      1500      2009      2413        2666      2730
Production Kernels (Mr) 2,                                                                                   18         64      135       241       355       452        528        571       085
INFLOWS
FitoR.bb.T
Export Ton (4181 cFAr/MT)                                                                                                       334      1087      2258    -3729       4950       0853       6347
Renaysent of Develorston  Credit 3!                                                                                                                          8102      17803      28731    36739
led-otlone f-r So -riinad Ce-nr-1 Moo-ge-
O en cioss f   4                                                                                                           1055       3428      7119    11959    15609        18456    20012
Totel Inflows - Robber                                                                                                             1389     4515       9377    23840    38412        51040    63098
From Oi9 Palm
Solees ed Expert T.es.  Palm Oil (9201 CFAI'iMT) S/                                                         580       2107    4729       8833    13802      18485    22202        24530    25119
Emport Tox Kernels (5565 CFAF/MT)                                                                           100        356      751      1341      1976      2515       2938       3178      3256
Repoymeet of DevelepFent Credit _/                                                                                             3384      7635     11961     16836    163C4        14974     13206
Deductio.s for Supervision end Centrol Manage-
m'ot rosts 7/                                                                                           924       3209    6699       11778    16859    21095    24328         26073      26689
Total Ieflow-  - Oil Poit                                                                                     1604       5672   15483    29582    44598    58931    65772            68755    68270
OITFLOWS
For Robber
Develseopet Period
SRpervisitr  ond Cestrel Managememt Costs 8f             35226   40519    35765        36379    28145  28786         28786   28786
Cash Advasces  9/                                                  8237     13728      16645    21393  12441         10197    8123       5363      2831
Credit for Inpos  Ig/                                             31402    41487       43710    53423   8313          5775    7737       8924      7871      8694      3107
Prodotiion Period
Supervision and Control Maeegement Costs                                                                                                28786    28786    28786    28786          28786    28786
Total Outflown Rnbber                                       35226   8Ol51   979Sf         96734   102961  49540         44758   44646    43001    39894    37480    31893            28786    28786
Por Oil PFlm
Doveloepent Period
5puervisoni sod Cen-ral  Canogement Costs iI/            34713   37914    27655        25665    22815  23610
Cssh Advemces 12/                                                  6578      9653      11155    14229   5005          3146    1716
Credit for Inputs  13/                                             9565    13543       15837     21037  11926        11086     8823      6386
ProdootiosFPeriod
Sopervision end Cente1 Management  Costs                                                                             23610   23610    23610    23610    23610    23610            23610    23610
Intel Satflsee Oil Posm                                     34713   54057    50851         52657    58891  40541        37842   34149    29996       23610    23610    23610         23610    23610
Net Inflows Rubber                                         (352264  (801583   (90980)   (96734) (1029611(49540)   (44758) (43217) (38486)   (30517)  (13640)    6519                 22294    34312
Net Inflows Oil Polm                                       (34713) (54057)  (50851)   (526571   (58081)(38937)   (32170) (18666)   (414)    2098e    35321    42162                  66445    44460
Net Inflows Rubber and Oil Palm                            (69939)(1342151  (141831)  (149391) (161042)(88477)    (76921) (61923) (38900)    (9529)   21681    48681                 88699    78972



SEC5RD CAM18EV PROJECT
A0FiBX 4
001200040 00001OGRAM: Rate of Rettrn to Go-eroptt - Trasa 1991192 to 2007t/O                            Table 6 (Pore 10,
('000 CTAF, rod 1977 conat-nt terms')
91/92     92/93    93/94   995    92/t             %/91      97/99  99/99       99/4    d773/41    SIM       0 )       O/94       -4/05      405/00    2005J0    07/00
Pros5sett
Pood-tito   Rabb-er  9  dry r-bber)  _/    1605.5   1667.5   1707.5   1735             1750       1750      1750   1740         1715    1694      1652.5    1610       1570      1515    1432.5        13Ot    1316.7
t'r odoorsor C0 (9FF7d 1 1.'                  13000    13000    13000   12600         12550      12300    12000  L2000         11900   11775   11650        11500    1100       11400   11275        11050   90750
Cr-doctsl- Polo Cil 'MT0  2/                   27 70 2770           2730    2688       2636       2583       2520   2520        2499     2473    2447        2415       2415      2394    2368         2342   1848
,- d-t- .    -crnelt ''    7                      525      585       585      576       565        554        540    540         535      530      524         518       S10       S13      507         502    396
1Fik WS
From Rbber
Export Tao '4101  FAF! T                       6720      6972       7139    7254       7317       7317       7317    7275       7170    7024    6909         6731       6564      6334    5989         5171    0503
heso mert  fs Dro'lopns   Credit 31           33544    30093    26702   23505    20488           37718    12925   8183          4107       -         -         -         -         -        -            -      -
Ord,rt'otxS f rlsuprralsio'sad ontorol
"arsdet oc t Ths"s 4'                      21205    21983    22510   22873    23070           03070     23070  22938        22009   22147   21765        21225    20697    19972   18885           18193  17353
Trotl V-t1tso -   ."-hr                          61474    19048    56351   53632    50870           48105    43312  38396         33886   29171   29171        29171    29171    29171   29171           29171  29171
Eras 011 Lolo
Solos tod Export TPoes Palm ILI 00201
TOAIfSTI 5/                                25119    25119    25119   24732    24254           23766    231B7  23187        22993   22754   21515         22220    22220    22027   21788           21549  Ih03
FIpart Too trro-la  (0565 CFAFPt/r,            3256      3256       3256     3205      3144       3083       3005   3005        2977     2949    2916        2883       2883      2855    2821         2794   22D4
Sep_.ono  at rD-o LopKKent C-rdir  2/          9624      6086       3039
lod1otl-os tIpOo S,p--oio- aod Centrol
oaoaxndex nt Costs 7/                      26689    26689    26689   26276        25765       25252    24636  24636        24431   24174   23917         23610    23610    23604    22146          232-1  00 66
I S  nt]otlo    - 241 Pales               64688    6115C       00003   54215      54215      54215      54215  54215       54215   54215   54215         54215     54215    54215   5-215          5215  54215
E-UTFOWa;
Tar Soibbor
SI nohort Porta l
S,oparo' nn sod Cost-al M.anagsRtnt
5Oats 0!
radh A! -ce-  Of
Cr-dit oar Irpts  tL;
Lrod-to-  Prtod
Orprraltisi   ard  xCote-dl t-tnrx5rrettot -rt  7 20700  81036    20006   2099S    08786         20726    20706  26786         26706   28766   20704        20706     26706    20706   28786          28786  26706
Oars1 tO" Oat tc  Rabber                         287786     0    8786    2 87 8b 20700   28086      28786    28786  28786          28786     2878b   28786     28786    28786       28786   28786        28786  28766
Lr5   Palo
DelosKerse Period
-d15 s         -ot snd Coosrrl Naoaeent
Ct  111
Cah Ad,an         12'
It for Inpatd  L3;
Spralaron and 5extra1 Monagreret
otts                                       23610    73610    23610   23610    23610           23610    23610  23610        23610   23610   23610         23610    23610    2610   2260             23610  23610
Total xol lsas 0l1 (alt                          23610    23610    23610   23610    23610           23610    23610  23610         23610   23610   23610         23610     23610    23610    23610         23610  23610
let IrfLEtr  Robber                               32688    30262    273565   2446    22089          19319    14526   9610          5100      385       (92)       (92'      (92)       '927     (92)        (920     72'
Net Inf:'so Uil PaIn                             41017      0751D    34493   30605       29553      28491    27218  27218         26791   26267   25738        25738    25738    25730   25736            25738  25735
lQet lollaxo Rubbor -,3 Oil Palm                 7376h    62002    62058   55451          1642      47010      1744  36020        31891   26652   25646         25646     25646       66   75646          21040  20646
S-o Anoor 2  Tables  2   -0  1. showing vields aod pl-oio g progren, rrapartlaely
a, See Aloe- 2  Tablrs  3  rod  1.  ha0io0   yields and oloorlog pr-gra-, r-ape-ri-oly.                                                      FPlo--ls R0Te of R rt-  Oatgros.er Progr- n 2.4t
j1  ox Abnt'  '  Tab/a   4  Fartore 5.
4/   e            -nne , h   'ble   2   ootnotr 3.
Weigbtdd a-erag.  eax oP expo-rt rd local  sales  as it  oner 0   Table 2.
0! See Anter 4a   Tlix 3   Foxtots 5.
7i See A-oo   4   Table 1   Footnote 7
01 ore Aroer5   TabIo 12  rod Alora  4, ''bl  2,  oo---e 3.
0' See Axns 4   Toblr 4.
10,     Annex 4,  Table 4.
11  Se  Anex 5,  Tabl  13 snd A-ex 4, Tble 2, 7oot
-         ro Anx 4   Tablo 3.
1I'_5    AreAx 4   ^aThle 3



"yFlPCKt)N
ANNEX 5
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT                                               Table IA
PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY
PART A - RUBBER ESTATES BASE COSTS
(CFAF '000,end 1977 prices)
FORE IGN
pYI           PY2        PY3           Py4          py5        TOTAL          TAXES    'XCNA1q(;E
A.  KOMPINA RLBBER ESTATE
1.  Field Establishment                                   72666       193314      338862        399840       432040       1436722       301710      689630
2.  Housing                                               97735       132440      104005         97570         24750       456500        68470      273900
3.  Community Facilities, Offices and Workshops           44752        99404       88954         22550         11550      267210         40080      160330
4.  Vehicles and Heavy Equipment                          20719       167998      115170          23634        15428       342949            -      291500
5.  Miscellaneous Materials and Equipment                  8826        29646       40316         10694         10365        99847         4236       65900
6.  General and Administrative Overhead                   33668       113248      141125        153878       160270       602189         95341      163100
Total Kompina Costs before contingencies                 278366       736050      828432        708166        654403      3205417       509837    1644360
B.  MAALENDE RUTBBER ESTATE
1.  Field Establishment                                       ,        44990       52756         79893        88374       266013         55863      1?7686
2.  Housing                                               32010        18810       12375         12375             -        75570        11336       45342
3.  Community Facilities, Offices and Workshops           37510         2200       40810              -            -       80520         12078      48312
4.  Vehicles and Heavy Equipment                          41800        15950         165            165         11485       59585            -       50630
5.  Miscellaneous Materials and Equipment                     -         5431         343           576           641         6991          586        2780
6.  General and Administrative Overhead                        -       17355       20410         23641         23612        85018        12416       19831
Total Malende Costs before contingencies                 111320       104736      126859        116650        114112      573677         92279      294581
C.  MBONGE RUBBER ESTATE
1.  Field Establishment                                       -        47674       55440         83919        92400       279433         58681      134128
2.  Housing                                               18810        32010       12375         12375             -       75570         11336       45342
3.  Community Facilities, Offices and Workshops           37510             -      37510              -            -       75020         11253       45012
4.  Vehicles and Heavy Equipment                              -        66330       20185            165          165       86845             -       73818
5.  Miscellaneous  Materials and Equipment                    -         7631        5431            576          641        14279         1182        5761
6.  General and Administrative Overhead                       -         9835       20410         23641         23612        77498        11244       18055
7.  Factory                                                   -             -           -        48400       143440       191840         17270      134290
lotal Mbonge Costs before contingencies                   56320       163480      151351        169076       260258       800485       110966      456406
D.  rOMBEL RUBBER ESTATE
1.  Field Establishment                                   26796        57475       63679         68299        72721       288970        60684       138706
2.  Housing                                               11165        11165           -         23513        10313        56156          8423       33694
3.  Community Facilities, Offices and Workshops            6600         3850           -         18260             -       28710         4307        17226
4.  Vehicles and Heavy Equipment                          66330             -        330              -       20350        87010             -       73959
5.  General and Administrative Overhead                    5835         9145       11914         13395        22775        63064          8980       13937
6.  Factory                                                    -            -      37400        140690             -      178090         16030      124660
7.  Miscellaneous Materials and Equipment                   453          783         783          3036           915         5970          239        3940
Total Tombel Costs before contingencies                  117179        82418      114106        267193       127074       707970         98663      406112
TOTAL RUBBER ESTATES                                     563185      1086684    1220748        1261085      1155847      5287549        811657    2801469



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
ANNEX 5
PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY                                       Table IB
PART B - BASE COSTS OF OTHER PROJECT COMPONENTS AND TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/
(CFAF  000)                                                 FOREICN
PYI          PY2          PY3          PY4           FY5        TOTAL          TAXES   EXCHANCE
E. WEST COAST OIL PALM ESTATE
1. Field Establishment                                      -       24701         30707        35674        40327      131409           27596      63076
2. Housing                                             23183         8250          8250         8250             -      47933            7190      28760
3. Community Facilities, Offices and Workshops    27830              5830         3850             -             -      37510            5627      22506
4. Vehicles and Heavy Equipment                            -         9295             -          330             -        9625               -      8181
5. General and Administrative Overhead                     -        10067          9993        10266        12069       42395            6191       9734
Total West Coast Costs before contingencies            51013        58143         52800        54520        52396      268872           46604    132
F.  01TOR6WFRS .R-1lR
1. Credit for Inputs                                       -        28546        37714         39737        48568      154565           14273    128288
2. Extension and Central Management                    32024        36835         32514        33072        25586      160031           25785      62700
3, Cash Grants                                             -         8237        13728         16645        21393       60003               -           -
Total Outgrower Rubber before contingencies            32024        73618         83956        89454        95547      374599           39558    190988
G.  OUTGROWERS OIL PALM
1. Credit for Inputs                                       -         8697        12311         14396        19124       54528            4358      43447
2. Extension and Central Management                    31557        34467        25141         23332        20741      135238           21807      57230
3. Cash Grants                                             -         6578         9683         11155        14229       41615               -          -
Total Outgrower oil palm before contingencies          31557        49742         47105        48883        54094      231381           26165      95667
TOTAL OUTGROWER COSTS                                  63581       123360       131061        138337       149641      605980           657'3    286655
11. Technical Assistance                                   39600         66000        66000        66000         66000      303600           <3 700    197300
I. Expansion Study                                         39240       112620         82250        63120        59290       356520             .00    168220
J. Master Plan                                                  -      200000        100000       100000       100000       500000         100       350000
TOTAL BASE COST                                       756619      1646807      1652859      1683062       1583174    7322521          1148284   3,
Physical Contingencies (107)                            75662       164681       165286        168306       158317      732252          114828    39359'.
Expected Price Increases (20%) 2/                       22472       144919       301812       481356        626937    1577496           252622    865898
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                                     98134       309600       467098        649662       785254    2309748           367451   1259488
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     854753      1956407      2119957       2332724      2368428    9632269          1515734   5195389
1/ See Table 1A for rubber estates.
2/  8% per annum.  Compound rates as follows: 1977/78 (PY1): 2.7%; 78/79 (PY2): 8.0%; 79/80 (PY3): 16.6%; 80/81 (PY4): 26.0%; 81/82 (PY5): 36.07..
3/  Tax figures shown here reoresent estimated direct and indirect tax elements of each nroject cost component.  These figures are used when
sadjusting nroiect costs for the economic rate of return calculation.  The tax estimate quoted in oars. 4.01 excludes income taxes and
renresents other identifiable taxes imposed at the stage at which goods are being acquired by the oroject



SECObO CAOMDE  FROJECT
fo1lect Cost Komits. Es.tte - Field Est.blish-eet and G e..-l and AdaiiaLotMtte Ovrbh-edr                                      Tble 2
(CFAF '000 end 1977 pri-es)
TAX                           FOREIGN EXCHIANGE
NIT COST               PY 1               P'Y 2              iY 31               FY 4                El S            TOTAL                  7'    TAg           0 At_t F0-G88
I.  Ffild Eateblid eet                                                                        300                750               1250                1350                1350            5000
Aroo Yleonted (die)
rl-t.d  (H.)                                 8 ~~~~~~~6150         29245              63112             105180              113603             113603          420751
80.rserlee                                                       1330900               3022740            991753            163625              176715              176715          654500
Lo-d Pseperstion                                                  27170                  0151              20378             33963               36679               36675          1350
Ploetiog      Te-r 0                                              38830                     -             11649              29123               48538               52420          141730
h'slotoeoooo   Yeor 1                                             23210                                                       6963               17408               29012           53383
N.letee,eeo   Test 2                                              22990                                        -                 -                6597               17242           24139
NSietOSSO-c   Year 3                                              2230                                                           -                    -               6369            6369
Bl'iten..ce   Year 4                                                                                                                                                                                         21             301710                48               689630
72666             193314            338862              399840              432040         1436722
TOTA1   FIELO E3TML15MMT COSTS
It    aeols.            tootv    me8.d                               (tleCt Cost
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _          -     '~~~~~~00001138)
1. SAlARES 1/
Estate 1 iuoegee                                             9240        (112)    4620      (1)       9240    (1)       9240       (1)      9240      (1)       9240            41580                  25              10395                40                 16632
Specialist MevheolO                                          7392                     -     (1)       7392    (1)       73922      (1)       73902    (0        732             2s56a                  25               7392                40                 11827
Sunfor Ih agerte1  Staff                                     5301        (13      3300      (5)      16300    (5)      16500       (5)     16500      (5)      17500            69300                  05              10395 
lojoi M. W{egrS   Staf                                       1716       (1)       1716      (3))     9330    (13)    07100         (10)    170         13      10061615                                                 93 
0oo 5chn.1~a ra7de Staff                           594                     _     (3)        594    (3)       1082       (4)       2376      (5)      2970             7722                  15                1158
Skilled Lobt, Cotry  oY e I                                   392       (6)       2352      (17)      6664    (20)      7840       (26)    10192      (32)    12544             39592                  10               3959
Skilled Laboe, Cote-orY I                                     173        (4)       692      (17)      2941    (19)      3287       (23)      3979      (24)     4152            13051                  10                1305                _                     _
Setoi SkIlled lAsbor                                          152        (3)       456      (10)      1520    (12)      1824       (20)     3040      (25)      3600            t0640                  50               5084
FeskIlled Lab-                                                138        (3)       414      (9)       1242    (1D)      1380       (15)      2070      (15)     2070              7176                 10                 718
SUB-TOTAL                                  13550              54643             66345                71889              75768            282195                  16              45821                10                28459
2. OFOEEF 80UUSI S AND SOCIAL C6!AESES  21
Seenir Mnsb8gea       L   S Hta RGES                         3340        (1.5)    5010       (7)     23380    (7)      233b0       (7)      23380      (7)     23380             98530
Joelor 8-ses8ent sed Stparvff   oty Staff                     182        (1)       182      (6)       1591    (13)      2366       (14)      2548      (15)     2730              8918
L .'or                                                         26 1      (242)    6316      (600)   15895    (1075)  28057         (1371)  35783       (1542)  40246           126297
Lb-SBTTAI.                                 11508              40367             53803                61711               66356           233745                  15              35060                40                93500
3. TRANSPORT 3/
111hP Cor                                                    1520        (1/2)     660      (1)       1 1320    (1)     1132                          (1)       1320             5940
4 Wheel Orfve C-r                                            1183        (1/2)     592      (13       1183    (1)       1183       (1)       1183      (1)      1163              5324
010k Up  3CC                                                   0         (1)       880      (7)       6160    (7)       6160       (7)       6160      (7)      6160            25520
Motor  Vycle                                                  160        (1)        160     (5)        80D    (10)      1600       (10)      1600      (10)     1600              5760
SUB-TOTAL                                   2292               9463              10263               10263               10263            42544                  20               8510                50                21270
4. MISIOR2ANOU8 EXPUfOE9
Operatioe of lot Perry                                       2545                                                                            2545               2545              5090                1I                  760                35                 1780
IndLLANZOSEXPNSf255i                                                                                                                                                               2750                 10               -275
IRO05oee                                                      550                  5505                         550      350                             50      550              2750                                             10 -750 
RKeotoirrecnt or Labor                                         19.2      (203)    3898       (331)    63553   (432)    8294         (263)    5550      (122)    295              26315                  15               3980                40                10610
8enior MeoefgoRft Air TraTol Europe                          1670                  1870               1870              1870                 1870                1870             9350                  10                935                so                 7480
-5B-TOTAL             18                    6318               8775             10714                10015                7883            43705                  14               5950                45                 19870
TOrAL GENERAL IUIU  TIRIATIVE  OPERREAD COSTS                                           33668             113248            141125               153878              160270           602189                  14              95341                27                163850
1/   851.rie of Naaagrlel Staff aed laborer vagee for .eet,al cod geoel foections.
if  'A.   tonoeO of housing and soial lfrastmoctore; electriIty, water *nd aeitatie  ...cial nd medical aer.e1-ef.
5/  Foel, oil. raplecent porte   en eac d fn. raoe- .



0                       CC          0
H HZC)COHHCCC)0H  C H HC)C)0CCHH'CHC) HCCH 0  -       H
H 0HHS0CCCHO  H H O,O<CDHO  0                        H  & HHHHHCCHHHHHHC)'H
0 0 H S-*HC-.C-*0 0000                0             8
HWS0HHHHC  C    HHC,H-H0   5                      C  0 CCOCCOHHOOHOO       I
H 000000500          H   CICIIHOCH  CCCCCCC0 H H oSHO     ,HH-C,C1
o CC 000)002   0   PCl. OHCHCCOC1HH H 0 000.1               OHoOCIHO   OHHCCH -
H   0H0)CC,0H      1'IHC-HHH DCC)                         H 00  0000HH0O0.-0 CC
-' 0. 000 lOHoOC  H 0 )C    OH   0              0 0)100          0    OCOOCCO
- H 11)1000  5 0 0 -   00  <OHOOHO         H -   oCo       O  HHC-CHH0)1IHHC1
H    0005 0,-OCCO  C H      OCCO--CCC-                         0 0HH11-HOCC  Cool)
o    -OCCCCCOfl H   H       H'1-lCC-HH             40)0.   CC S IHOOCC)C,,--0     I
HOCOSOC  0<      5     OHt,--OCC              oHO      H H    C-CC 0         I
0110CC)            0-00H H -0                    Jo 0H- HOC
H CCC     4CC HHCI                        I         HO H     <)OCC
CO  CC         0       0-.C011C)CC                                 -
CCC' C)111    CC <C     00)0)07?                      I  .1cCz0
OjCCCCCOCCHH                                                    H
I     CC*0H0      S H           CC HO
QOCOCO                       j    --  CC'
5CC-OCt      H         CCCCCCC       CO                      H
OH  CC                 CCC0CCO                      CCC
ICC                                    H
-    )HHH"HHH                                  CH
HHHCOHHH 00          COO HHHHOHOOCHCA H       0,0CC-H     "'0HHCOHHHCCC 0l-HHH  CC          'I
OCOOCAHOH--0,--       OHHHHO4COOOCOHH         COHO         COHHCCCHH HHHCO0CCOHH             0
OHOO0OHHOOH           OHOOHOHHHOOOO           HOOCH        HHHHHOOOo OHOHOC)
0'-'-'            '-C-HC-CH-C            -C C,
H         -     -       H   H  H                                       CC
oH  H      H '-  HOHHC'0H          H COHOCCO    H       HHHH   0-HC K-
OOoo         0   CCHHH   HO 0    H COHO        -       0HHOH
HOHO   HO  H    H CCCHH0C                  HHH             j
OC CII  I OHOCOC I    H Cl  0000) 100)0        HOHO         ' I 000000000
0H'H'H       HH-HHHH  HOHO
-        -   H-O-C---'--------'----C'--  I
OHHHOHHHH,0  H    H OHHH            H HCCC0CCHC-CO
'0 0000)CIHH0CO         H HOCHHHHO0 HO  0    H 0000    '0 OCHOOHOC  H-oH 0' OCHC2HO    H 0    H COHHHHCOOH  HO  H    0 00HZ  C0) HCOHHHHH  H OH OC  Jo
O H 00000 I C HOC       H oo000000  00,0    H 0000           0 00000oo  0000
H H              H      0         HH    H        H0H                0                H
O 0  H       H HHH    HHHOIHHHHHH H    H HHO                 H      HHHHHH           CS
H H OH       H 000    '00   HHCOHHHOH H    H 000             -      HHHHH H CO
H ,- HO      OHHHO      H H   0000  OHOHo    0 000           H      COHOCH  0                     CD
H H 001CC I OHOOC       H 0, I0H0dI00000        H 0001       H  I 1000000,01)1
oH  H    H HHH                H H    HI  CS
0 H            OH  0    H              HO H    0 OHO         H          H H HHHH
- H'          HO  CO    H              HO 0    H OCH                    0 H H OH CO 5
H H  1111111 HOIo       0  IIIC IlIlIHOlO       0 000 C           III 110101 OOHH
H                   CCC  -C-C  0                       HHH
H H                                              H H         -
H 0             H H    H               oH  51    H H                       HC       It
H H            HO  0    H              Ho H    H H           H             HHCO0I
H H            HO  0    H              HO  0    H H                        H000
H H  '1111110010        0  IC 1111111 OHIO    0 Oh           0  111111110000
-0         - HHH      H    0CC OH    H H    H 0HCO         H   000   000   H
0HHH000   000    H 0UIHH0HOHHHHHH             H 01-OH      HOHCOHCOHO-HHHH0HH  DC
I 0HHHHOO0H H0H         H COO HO',HHHHHOOI 0    H HOHH       0 C-CCOO0HHH0HHH HOCH
H 0000CH00000H        0 OHHOOH 000000         0 0000       H    oCOHHO000HOH
H 0000000,0000        0 0000000000000         0 0000       0 ooCCOO0000HHOHH  
-H     -                       -                                  -0
H  ICIIIIIII 00    H                                                                                   HO-
H H                     H                                                            0
H H                     0                        H                                   0
O    0                  0                        -C          5                       0
H    H                  0                        Co
HOOHHHCOOO 00    0                            0           H                       jo-I
2                     CO                      H            -
 I



CAMEROON
SECOND CAIDEV PROJECT
Project Cost    Malende Estate - Field E.tablieh-ent and Gener-         l and Adil..tr-tiv  Over-eads
(CFAF '000. end 1977 price-)
Unit Coot           PY 2             PY 3             PY 4              PY 5           Tot.1             %    AM-ant                    A-rg rnt
CFAF/Ha
1      Fleld EItabllshmnot
AreLa   lanted (h.l                                          200              200              300              300             1000
Nurseries                                841S0             16830            16830            25245            25245            84150
Land Propororion                        113630            22726            22726            34089             34089           113630
Planting Year 0                          27170              5434             5434             8151             8151            27170
Maintea       Year 1                      38830                              7766             7766            11649            27181
Maitn-ce Yea  2                           23210                                               4642             4642             9284
LNintenan. e Year 3                       22990                                                                4598             4598
TOTAL FIELD ESTABLISHMENT COSTS                           44990            52756            79893            88374           266013              21    55863            48    127686
II.       Ceneral and Adlni.artti-ve
Overheads                              Unit Cost
'000 CFAF
1. Solos-lee 1/
Senior Manogeroil Staff                3300      (1)  3300        (1)  3300         (1)  3300        (1)  3300            13200              15     1980
Junior Man-gerial Staff                1716       (1)  1716        (2)  3432        (2)  3432        (2)  3432            12012              15     1802
Skilled Labor, Cate-ory II              392      (4)  1568         (5)  1960       (5)  1960         (3)  1176             6664              10      666
Skilled Lbor, Category 1                173      (2)   346         (4)   692        (4)   692        (5)   865             2595              10       260
Sel-skilled La.br                       152      (1)   152         (3)   456        (4)   608        (6)   912             2128              10       213
Subtotal                                               7082             9840             9992             9685            36599              13     4921
2. Upkeep Houelng and Social
Services 21
Senior Manage-ent Staff                3340      (1)  3340        (1)  3340        (1)  3340         (1)  3340            13360
Joi-or Man.genent Staff                 182      (1)   182        (2)   364        (2)   364        (2)   364              1274
Labor                                    26 .1 (132)  3445      (184)  4802      (274)  7151      (317)  8274             23672
Subtotal                                               6967             8506            10855            11978            38306             15      5746             40    1537?
3.  Transport 31
Pick-up V-n                             880      (1)   880        (1)   880        (1)   880         (1)   880             3520
Motorcycle                              160      (1)   160        (2)   320        (2)   320        (2)   320              1120
Subtotal                                               1040             1200             1200             1200             4640             20       928       0     S       23377,
4. Mi-cella neo.s 2apense
Lecru-lt-et of Loabr                      19.2 (118)  2266       (45)   864       (83)  1594       (39)   749              5473              1S      B21             4C      21B9
TOTAL GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE                      17355            20410            23641            23612            85018             15    12416              23     19831
OVERHEAD COSTS
I/ Salori-o of Managerial Staff and wages of laborers for control and gener-l functions.
21  MaLnten-n-e of Honing and social iifrastr-ctur-; electricIty, water and sanitation; social ad medical neroios.
31  Fuel,  il, r-placenent prts, maintenance  and insurance



CAIMEROON
SECOND CANLEEV PROJECT
Prolect Cost: M -alede Estate - Fined Assets                                                        ANNEX 5
Table 
(CFAF '000 end 1977 prices)
Unit Coat                                                                                                         Ta            Frnaln -ug
(CFAF)             PY I          PY 2             PY 3         PY 4               PY 5          otal         '    o A.o.t             A mon
1.    Vehicles and Heavy Egoipseent
8 To  Track                                  4620                 -    (1)  4620                 -             -                            4620
8 Ton Tipping Tr-ck                          5500                      (1)  5500                               -                            5500
Motorcycles                                   165                 -    (1)   165        (1)   165       1,   L65.      (1)   165             660
Tractor (65 HP)                              2640                 -    (1)  2640                 -              -                -          2640
Tank trailer (3n3)                            770                      (1)   770                                                             770
Wheeled trailer (3-4 T)                       935                 -    (1)   935                                                 -           935
Pick-op Van                                  1320                 -    (1)  1320                                       (1)  1320            2640
Wiech                                       41800        (1) 41800               -                                               -         41800
Sobtotal                                                 41800          15950              165            165             1465         59565                _          85     5nt,
II.    nousing
Senior Managerial Staff                      13200        (1) 13200               -               -             -                 -         13200
Junior Managerial Staff                       6435        (1)  6435    (1)  6435                  -              -                          12870
Laborers                                       412.5   (30) 12375   (30) 12375    (30) 12375   (30) 12375                        -          49500
Subtotal                                                 32010          18810           12375          12375                 -         75570         15   11336        60    45342
111. Insacocity Pacl1ities* Offices and
Workshops
Village Water Station                       13750         (1) 13750               -      (1) 13750               -                          27500
Village Power Station                        7480         (1)  7480               -      (1)  7480              -                 -         14960
School                                       2200         (1)  2200               -      (1)  2200              -                 -          4400
Shop                                         1980         (1)  1980              -       (1)  1980              -                -           3960
Toilet/Wash Bltcks                           3850         (2)  7700                     (2)  7700               -                 -         15400
Co-snity Hall                                1650         (1)  1650                     (1)  1650               -                -           3300
Offics/stnre/tlfinnary                       2750         (1)  2750               -      (1)  2750              -                 -          5500
Workers Club                                 2200                  -    (1)  2200                 -             -                            2200
Central Godosp                               3300                  -              -      (1)  3300              -                            3300
Subtotal                                                   37510           2200          40B00               -                -         00520        15    1207B        e0    48312
IV.   Mieellaneoos Matenials and Etnptneot
Chainsawa                                     110                  -    (3)   330       (3)   330      (5)   550        (5)   550            1760        4         70               IIC
Knapsack Sprayera                               13                 -    (1)    13        (1)    13    (2)    26          (7)    91            143         4         6       46        ¾.
Ace.s  Road (5 Kn)                           1017.5                -    (5)  5088                 -             -                -           5088       10       510         0      153
Subtotal                                                       -           5431             343           576               641          6991         B       586       40      2780
TOTAL FIXrED ASSERS                                       111320         42391           53693          13116              2126        222646        11    24000        66   147064



ANNEX 5
CAMEROIPI                                                           Table 6
SECOND CAMODV PROJECT
Pro-ict Cost ;benRa  Estate - Field Eitablishe-t and General .nd Adeinistr.tive Overheads
(CFAP '000, end 1977 prices)
(Unit oera                                                                                            SAX      FORIIQI EXCEANGE
CFAis)          v       v        P     Y       ~    *4                Py5TOTAL                  %              Aseuatt    %    Alunt
1. Field Establisbment
Area Planted (ha)                                                   200              200             300              300            1000
Nurseries                                        54150            16830           16830            25Z45            25245           84150
Land Preparation                                127050            25410           25410            38115           38115           127050
Planting      Year 0                             27170             5434             5434            8i51             8151           27170
Maintenance  Year 1                              38830                              7766            7766            11649           27181
Maintenance  Year 2                              23210                                              4642             4642            9284
Maintenance  Year 3                              22990                                                               4598            4598
TOTAL FIELD ESTAbLISIMS2NT COSTS                                  47674            55440           83919            92400          279433        21      58681    48    134128
II. General and Administrative Overheads              O00it Cost
'000 CFAY)
1. Salaries 1/
Senior Managerial Staff                     3300                -     (1)   3300       (1)   3300       (1)   3300             9900       15        1485
Junior Managerial Staff                     1716       (1)  1716      (2)   3432       (2)   3432      (2)   3432            12012        15        1802
Skilled Labor, Category II                   392       (4)  1568      (5)   1960       (5)   1960      (3)   1176              6664       10         666
Skilled L.b.r, Catsgory I                    173       (2)   346      (4)    692       (4)    692      (5)    865              2595       10         260      -
Semi-skilled Labor                           152       (1)   152      (3)    456       (4)    608      (6)    912              2128       10         213
Sub Total                                                           3182             9840            9992             9685           33299       13        4426      -
2.  lpkeep.Ho..i.e and Social Chanes 2/
Senior Management Staff                     3340                -     (1)   3340       (1)   3340      (1)   3340             10020
Junior Management Staff                      182       (1)   182      (2)    364       (2)    364      (2)    364              1274
Labor                                         26.1    (132)3445       (184) 4802       (274) 7151      (317) 8274            23672
Sub Total                                                           3627             8506           10855            11978           34966        15        5245    40      13986
35 Transport 3/
Fick up Van                                  880                -     (1)    880       (1)    880       (1)    880             2640
hotorcycle                                   160       (I)   160      (2)    320       (2)    320      (2)    320              1120
Sub Total                                                            160             1200            1200             1200            3760        20         752    50       1880
4.  Miacellaneooe S..  enses
Reconitment of Labor                             19.2    (118)2266       (45)   864       (83)  1594       (39)   749             5473       15         821    40        2189
TOTAL GENFAL 1AND ADMINISTRATrVE                                9835           20410            23641           23612            77498       15       11244    23       18055
OVERHEAD COSTS
1/   Salaries of oanagerial staff and vwges of laborers for central and general function-
2/   Maintenance of houaing and social infrastructure; electricity, water and sanitation; social and medical services.
3/   Fval, oil, raplaneeett parts, neistenanne and insurance



|$~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~0 '' 00 0 0 4  r 
o                                                                                           '    '             0°n~~ 00  0' 000     S 40 40
0                          4                                   4                                                                      0 0 2S'  
<~ ~ ~~                      ~      ~ |0                                                    *,!;! E                               4       !4 0
4                              4 _                o                                                                                     0'    n                  
C.                                                00                   0     0
JC Ng.o  0'0'                                                                   0' °,.'                             ,-'0' 0'-.  °    
|    O    N S.0 0"S R                000        0,,° 0,                 0 .,,CC S0 0,  °                                           0    0           0   AV Sr       
_         0      0      0          00       0    0         000        C       .C              40 o- _0400)>          m<>
IC  _  m ~~~~~~~ _ Q V ~~~C4                                      C                          Ai                                 0
4  0     0     0    0  0     .    0                                       0 0     0  0    0             _       0    0  4         V    C   AD~V  



CASIENOON
SECOND CAMDEM  PROJECT                                                  ANNbX 5
Pr-iect Cost Tesbel Estate - Field Eatabli.hkeat sad Gentral sad Adminietrative Oerhends                      Tbl  8
(CYAF   008, end 1977  irIXeX)
TAX       7111145 IOT}IxANT.T
UNIT COST
5APhi-             nj I             Py 2             PY 3              PY 4            PY 5           TOTAL    X  A-cort  ,   A2_u2
I.   ield Estblishe nt
A.es  .ls.ted  (ht)                                                         100                200             200              200             200              900
Nurseries                                                 84150            8415             16830            16830            16830           16830            75735
Lnd Preparation                                          156640           15664             31328            31328            31328           31328           140976
Planting      Year 0                                      27170            2717              5434             5434             5434            5434            24453
Maintenanc   Year1                                        38830                              3885             7768             7766            7766            27181
Maintenance  Yesr 2                                       2321 0                                              2321             4642            4642            116035
Maintea nce  Year 3                                       22990                                                                2299            4598             6897
Manitenance  Year 4                                       21230                                                                                2123             2123
TOTAL FIELD ESTABLIShI8ENT COlTS                                             26796              57475           63679            60291           72721           288970    21  60684    46  130706
II  Yaera 1 end Adbioistrative Overheads
Unit Costs
000 5PAF
1. Salonin- 1/
Senior Manageria1 Staff                                 3300               -                 -                -                -       (1) 3308             3300    i5    495
Jonior M n-geri.l Staff                                 1716       (1) 1716          (1) 1716         (2) 3432         (2) 3432        (2) 3432            13728    13   2059
Skilled Labor, Caiegory 10                               392       (1)  392          (2)  784         (2)  784         (2)  784        (3) 1176             3920    10    392
Skilled Labkr, Category I                                173       (2)  346          (3)  519         (5)  865         (8) 1384        (12)2076             5190    10    519
Unskilled Labor                                          138       (1)  138          (1)  138         (3)  414         (7)  966        (7)  966              2622    10    762 
Sob Total                                                                     2592              3157             5495             6566           10950            28760    13   372)        -        -
2.  vkeep goosina  nd Social Infrastructure  2/
Savior Management Staff                                 3340               -                 -                -                -       (1) 3340              3340
7onior Management Staff                                  182       (1)  182          (1)  182         (2)  364         (2)  364        (2)  364             1456
Labor                                                     26.1    (67)1749         (156) 4072       (194) 5063       (220) 5742      (249) 6499            23125
Sob Total                                                                     1931              4254             5427             6106           10203            27921     15   4180      40   11168
3. Tr-neort 3/
Pickup VYn                                               880               -                 -               -                 -       (1)  880               080
Metorrycle                                               160       (1)  160          (1)  160         (2)  325         (2)  320        (2)  320             1290
Sob Total                                                                      160                160              320              320           1200             2160    20    432    50    1080
4. Miacellaeeous incense
Oecrnisiei t of Labor                                     19.2   (60) 1152          (02) 1574        (35)  672        (21)  403       (22)  422             4223    15    633    40    1689
TOTAL GftERAL AND AKIMNITRAT001 OVLRH8AD COSTS                                5835               9145           11914            13395           22775            63064    14   8980    22   1 3937
1/     Salaries of Deoageial  t.ff and -ages of laborera far centr-l and gaere-l f.nction.
2!   rlontence of hoosing end social i1frestroctons, s1ectnicity, ast-r nd .a.irati.n; social and medic.I aeroices
3/   Fool, oil, replace-nt parts, meitenanc.   and ind oranne



Ns                         g                             N                             N
N~~~~~04~0                                                           u0                            g                          0
a~~~~~~~~~ 8 n                                                                                       N R   C lN8°^ 8RSN e -8°o         
S                                                                4lN SSnO^ R r  No S v        N X                N       0    Cl 
ars T~~~C                                             4              r              N  CN
I o  CN      C    C0 N I.      o            N Co            o      o    C N C o             N            NNN             0    Cs9sou   
44 44 00 0  0e                   '4       N        N N4                      44            O             
N       N          _ N             N                  N       N                                        NN C_
n  ^    z            ^ ^ ^n44           2          N40  N          Nt   * 
N         N        N             _ _N    _              _C
b.                                                                                                              o    -~~~~
tInN  *,r                                         N                                                                      ID
CNN
S v 4    44 4*o                4 R             N    C            N           44 04            0          0          N     4   0   *
4 e  N @ .e  > ^         n                             > ^^ ^C         N               N~ C
M1 ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                          O '  '                         4          N    
e4N                        ..4 W4                           0                   NN                                        4      A  v  J<W  
*      +e&g< rg NC Cr0   ON                   CNN   N                       0900.
CC          N    N     c0         e       N       0                  00C    N N                   00              c 3° ° e3 P     c  
CN4 N           O    N     N             Ni        4                  4  NNNC                                       0 zA1H =Q >u mHQ0 O   63 V
ei                     ,-S                        H                             B~~~~~~



C4tEOON
SECOND CAIDEV PROFJCT                                                  SMlE  5
2acl7cC COST WEST dOAST 01I PALS4 £5TATE                                         Table 10
Field k4 liblmet. t,       ra. l and A*aSCt stife  Ovrbshdd  SAd FintdjAssets
OMCFOOO, ad 1977 crld
ESDt   PYI        P r2          F73             PY4             M55             TOTA                    FOhELSN EXCRa
TOTAL         A%Q.nt       7,
1.  71054 Oetablls4ruont                                                                                                                                  ...   ~it         __Aon
Nurser lea                               376200I                                          150             150            1I0              600
Land Preparation       96030                           ~~~~~~~~~~                                    ~~~~~56    5643  5643  12571
Plant in                                 9030                            14405          14405           14405           14405           57620
MaintnaceYer040&~                                                                           3 6          4653            4653           18612
Mintenance Year 2                         33110                                         6006             b6              6006           18D18
Mainteaance Year 3                        31020                                                          4967            6967            4934
TOTAL FIELD ESTABLISUMM  ODST                                                            ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~4653  4-653
TOTAL FiEL  ESTAELSS8?2N2 COST                                           24701          30707           35674           40327          131409    21    27596        48   63076
11. General and AdAalnletrarioe Overbe da   U97T CDST
'000 COTF
1. SalarIes l
unior Msn.aea,eet Staff                     11
Skilled Labor,C 05tagoy  I                    1392                   (1)   342    (2)   3432        (2)   3432      (2)   3432            13728    15      2059
Skilled Labor, C.te, Iy C                    173                     (I)           (1)    173       (1)    173      (1)    173             692    10         695       _
S.bnS-aktIi  i boc                           152             _       (7)    304    (2)    304       (2)    304      (2)    304             1216    la       1227
Sob Total                                                                                 4301            4693            5085           18380    14       2524
2. TobsaSoUusingL and SOcial
Sofrastrootore 2/
Juir  aagement staff                    182-                   (2)    364    (2)    764        (2)    364      (2)    364             1456
taboo                                         24.192                (116) 1028    (161) 4202        (166) 4332      (223) 5320           17382
Sob Totta                                                                  3392           4566            469t            6164            18838    15      2826      40    7535
7. Irunoooro  3/
Motorcycle                                   160             -      (2)    320    (2)    320        (2)    320      (2)    320            1280    20        256      s0      640
4. M4sce11onong Onoenso
REornitoeot of Labor                          19.2                  (207) 2054    (42)   806        (29)   557      (25)   480            3897    IS        585      40    1535
TOTAL GENEEAL5.5160 AND ASLOLSiTA2CVS 0 8s.b  $au                        10067  k        9993           10266            12069           42395    IS      6191       23    9734
111. P08*4 aasets                                                                         PEE
1. Vehrlean   eav          s9 Eqimn                                                1
0 To. 7rocb                                462D
Motorrynisa                     ~~~~~~~~~~~165    -      (1)   4.20               ---42
rrtor(5 0P)                                2640                     (2)    330               -     (2)    330                              660
astote(30 1                                          -      P-660
T.nk t ite, (3a3.                           770                                                                                           264 770  -6770
Wheeled trailer (3-4 T)                     9                       (1)    935                                                             7 _  933
Subtoal-                                                           9is5               -             330                            9625    -        _       85       8101
Junior Mafg-rial Staff                     6435    (2)  12870                _              -               _               _            12870
Loborrer                                    412 5 (25)  15517    (20)   8250   (20)   8250         (20)  8250               -            35063
Subtotal                                          23183            8250           8250            8250                -           47933    15    7190       60      28760
3. (OaaoUnirr fU-,iljtie. Offireg sad
Vi156OsL  709ter Station                  U25C    (1)  13750                 e                                                           U750
Vi118ge Pouer st.tio-                      7480    (1)   7480                                                                            1 - _  76bO
Srhool                                     2200              -      13   220d             -_                                              2200
Shop                                       VoO               -                                                              _ 
T-lotlWasb Elonka                          1980              -     iI)                     -                                -             29200
Co ity 5*flo                               3850    (1)   3850                     (1)   3850                                               9 77DO
COffi,./tyr./l.i -11                       1650              -     (1    1650              -                                              1650
Offire/Stote/Sofirmary                     27.50    (1)   2750                                                                            1 _  2t50k
Sobtorel                                          27830            5830          3850                -               -            37510    15    5627       60      22506
_TAL _ FISEb A_55TS                                      51013          23375          12100            8580                -            9568    13   12817       63      59447
V    Salaries of maagsef al staff and a g.a Of isborar-  foe  -antral and Maeel 1sae8
.77   Aiotenanre of housing sod aerial inirsftrutute.  eleottitity, vOter and 5*Oitatloo  sonfl and adtnl anroinsa
3)   Puel, oil.  rPlre'ent parts,  ate.,nn    od inanrann.



SEWoUD CAESV ?IOCT
AOEX 5
0utarovers  Central Nansnmt Costs                                                    Table 11
(CGAM  '000. and 1977 prices)
IT I          l 2            3        PY 4          F25        Total               TAX                FOREIGN EXC_NGE
7         Total          7          Total
SALARIES
Outgroler Manger                                                     4620         9240         9240          9240       9240         41580         25          10400         40          16630
Adatnistrative Assistant                                              858         1716        1716          1716        1716          7722         15           1160          -               -
Clerk                                                                 196          392         392            392        392          1762         15            260
Typist                                                                196          392          392           392        392          1762         15            260
Driver                                                                 87         173           173          173         173           777         15            120
Sob Total Salaries                                                  5957        11913        11913         11913       11913         53609         23          12200         31          16630
HOUSING
Outgrovsr Manager                                                    6600         6600            -             -           -         13200
Administrative Assistant                                            3217         3217             -             -           -         6434
Clerk                                                                206          206                                       -          412
Typist                                                               206          206             -             -          -           412
Driver                                                               206          206             -             -          -           412
Sub Total SousIng                                                  10435        10435                                                20870         15           3130         60          12520
VEHICLES - I 4-Wheel Drive                                                2277            -            _          2277           -          4554          -              -         85           3870
OFFICE EQUIPENT  1                                                        2200            -            -             -           -          2200         20           440         70            1540
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
Vehiole Maintenance  nd Operations                                   591         1183         1183          1183        1183          5323         20           1060         50           2660
General Mietensnre and Operations  if                               10          -Va          _60            3600        3600         16209 51f                  2430         40           6480
Sob Total Operating- Expense                                        2391         4783         4783          4783        4783         21523         16           3490         42           9140
TOTAL CENTRAL MANGEMNmT COSTS                                            23260        27131        16696         18973      16696         102756         19          19260        43          43700
1/   Safe, typevriter end  i.so.llaneou  equipment.
2/   General rusts associated with staffing, housing  nd office upkeep.



CAMEROON
SOOND CAMlgV PROJgCT
ANNEX 5
RUBBER QxULGQWnsu51ERYIS IOU COSTS                                                                     Table 12
(CFAF '000. and 1977 prices)
Unit Cost    p.    I         XY L        PT 3         PI 4           n 5         TOTAL       TAX              FOREIGN EXCHANGE
7±    Amount      7±       Aln!tn
A.  EXTENSION COSTS
1. Salaries
Sector Chief                                                                                    3300         1650        3300          3300         3300         3300         14850
Accounts Clerk                                                                                   594          297         594           594          594          594          2673
Field Staff                                                                                      594   (1)   594  (4)  2376       (8) 4752   (10) 5940   (10) 5940            19602
Driver                                                                                           173           87         173           173          173          173           779
Sub Total Salaries                                                                                              2628        6443          8819        10007        10007          37904     15      5686        -
2. lousing
Sector Chief                                                                                   13200         6600       6600              -            -            -         13200
Accounts Clerk                                                                                  2200         1100        1100             -            -            -          2200
Field Staff                                                                                     2200         4400        4400          8800         4400            -         22000
Driver                                                                                           413          206         207             -            -            -           413
Sub Total Iousine                                                                                              12306       12307          8800         4400             -         37813      15     5672       60      22688
3. Vehicles
4 Wheel Drive                                                                                   2277         2277                                   2277                       4554
Motorcycle                                                                                       165   (2)   330  (2)   330        (6)  990   (4)   660   (6)   990             3300
Sub Total VelSc1es                                                                                              2607         330           990         2937          990                      -                85       667C
4. Office Equipment                                                                                   1100         1100                                                               1100      20       220      70        770
5. General Operating and Maintenance Costs
Vehicles
4 Wheel Drive                                                                                   1183          592        1183          1183         1183         1183           5324',
Motorcycle                                                                                       160          160         640          1280         1600         1600           5280
Staff: .1
Sector Chief                                                                                    1430          715        1430          1430         1430         1430           6435
Accounts Clerk                                                                                   182           91         182           182          182          182            819
Field Staff                                                                                      182          182         728          1456         1820         1820           6006
Driver                                                                                            26           13          26            26           26           26            117
Sub Total Operating and Maintenance Costs                                                                       1753        4189          5557         6241          6241         23981      17     4077       44      10552
Total Extension  Costs                                                                                         20394       23269         24166        23585         17238        108652      14    15655        37     40686
B.  OUTORONER CENTRAL MANAGEMENT COSTS  .2/                                                                            11630       13566          8348         9487         8348         51379       19     9630       43      27850
TOTAL RUBBER   OUTGROWERS EXTENSION AND CENTRAL MANAGEMENT COSTS                                                  32024       36835          32514        33072        25586        160031      16    25285        39     62700
T1   Covers maintenance of housing and offices.
2/   50% of o.tgrowers' central managmoent costs, Annex 5, Table 11.



CASEROON
SECSND CA4DEV PROJECT
OIL PALII OiTGcmjERS - 8PEEVISID0N CDSTS                                  ANNEX 5
(CFAF '00W, sad 1977 Prices)                                         Table 13
TAX              FOREIGN EXCHANGE
lUnit Cost      PYI          FY 2           PYI 1       Z, PY        l1         TOTAL           7          Total    _7             Total
A.  EXTENSION COSTS
I. Salaries
Sector Chief                                        3300        1650         3300            3300            00       3300         14850
Accocats Clerk                                       594         297          594              594          594        594          2673
Field Staff                                          594         891         1782            2970          2970       2970         11583
Driver                                               173          87          173              173          173       173            779
Sab Total Salseria                                              2925         5849            7037          1037      7037          29885         15          4480          -
2. Housina
Sector Chief                                       13200        6600         6600                -            -          -         13200
Acco.nts Clerk                                      2200        1100         1100                -            -          -          2200
Field Staff                                         2200        3300         3300            4400             -          _         11000
Driver                                               413         206          206             _           _           _              412
Sub Total HaouiDg                                              11206        11206            4400             -          -         26812         15          4020         60         16090
3. Vehicles
4 mahel Drive                                       2277        2277            -                -        2277          -          4554
Motorcycles                                          165         495          _               825          _          825           2145
Sob Total Vehicles                                              2772            -             825         2277        825           6699          -                       S5          5690
4. Office ESaie tn  2/                                                1100             -               -            -          -          1100         20           220         70           77T
5. General Operatiac end aintessnee ERaenfes
-Vehielse
4 Whel Drive                                        1183        5s           1183            1183         1183       1183          5324         20          1065         5t           2662
Motorcycle                                           160         240          480             800          800        800          3120         20           624          50          1560
Staff, 2/
Sette  Chief                                        1430         715         1430            1430         1430       1430          6435
Accauta Chief                                        182          91          182             182          182        182            819
Field Staff                                          182         273          546             910          910        918          3549
Driver                                                26          13           26              26           26         26           117
Sub Total Operatifg and Mlaitena-ce Costs                       1924         3847            4531         4531       4531         19364         17          3327          44          05S0
TOTAL EXTENSION COSTS                                             19927        20902           16793        13845      12393          83860         14         12047         37         31140
B.   OUTGROWEX CENTRAL 11NAGEMEMt   COSTS  it                              11630        13565            8348         9487       8348         51378          19         9760                     22090
TrOTAL OIL PALM OUTGROWERS EXTENSTON AND CENTRAL
MANAGEMENT COSTS                                                  31557        34467           25141        23332      20741        135238          16         21807         39         72230
1/   50% of Otgrowers' Central Mlaage.tenl Costa, An..e  5, Table 11.
2/   Safe,  iacellaaeous office eqoipeant
3/   Covera housIng cod office e.pensca.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT                                    ANNEX 5
OUTCROWERS' FIELD ESCOSTS                                                  Table 14
(CFAF '000. end 1977 prices)
T11       FOREIGN EXCHNGE
py I         PY 2          PY 3        PY 4       FY 5      TOTAL      %     Amount    %   Amount
A. OIL PALM
Area Planted                                       -           200           250         250        300        1000
1. Labor Cost 1/                                   -         6578           9653       11155     14229       41665       -         -
2. Materials and Supplies  2/
Seeds (Pueraria)                               -           471            588         588       706        2353      10       235       -:
Bags                                           -          7525          9932       10063      11944       39464      10      3946      85  33544
Wire                                            -          354            442         442       530        1768      10       177      65   1149
Fertilizer                                     -           229           1202        3156      5768       10355       -         -      80   8284
Chemicals                                      -           118           147          147       176         588                 -      80    470
Sub Total Materials and Supplies                   -         8697          12311       14396      19124      54528        8     4358      80  43447
T-ts1 t4l Palm ffi,t-rwer Field EstebliShrent                15275         21964       25551      33353       96143       5     4358      45  43447
B. RUBBER                            CostsL
Area Planted                                       -           200           250         250        300        1000
1. Labor Cost 1/                                  -          8237         13728       16645      21393       60003       -         -       -       -
2. Materials and Supplies 2/
Seeds (Pueraris)                               -           588           735         735        883        2941      10       294       -      -
Bags                                           -         27958         34948       34948      41937      139791      10    13979       85  18822
Chenicals                                                                565         754        860        2179       -         -      80   1743
Fertilizer                                                              1466        3300       4888        9654       -         -      80   7723
Sub Total Materials and Supplies                   -        28546          37714       39737     48568      154565        9    14273      83 128288
Total Rubber Outgrower Field Establishment
Cl-sts                                          -         36783         51442       56382      69961      214568       7    14273       60 128288
TOTAL OILPALM AND RUBBER FIELD ESTABLISHMENT
COSTS                                           -         52058         73406       81933    103314       310711       6    18631       55 171735
1/   Paid to farmer as cash grant for 80% of imputed cost of labor input.  See Annex 4, Tables 3 and 4  for breakdown of cest per hectare by year
for oil palm and rubber outgrowers, respectively.
2/   Supplied to farmer on credit; excludes small tools, purchased by farmer, and physical contingencies.  Annex 4, Tables 3 and 4 show breakdown of
costs per hectare by year for oil palm and rubber outgrowers, respectively.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
Project O^ats - Technical Assistance. Expansion Study and Master Plan                    ANNEX 5
Table 15
(CFAF '000. end 1977 prices)
ArrvS          FOREIGN EXCHANGE
PY1        PY 2      PY 3    PY 4       PY S      TOTAL    71        Amount         7.        Amount
A. TECHNICAL ASTSSTANCE 1/
Development Officer                     13200    22000    22000    22000         22000   101200
Crop Processing Engineer                13200    22000    22000    22000         22000   101200
Tapping Adviser                         13200    22000    22000    22000         22000   101200
Total Technical Assistance                  39600    66000    66000    66000        66000   303600    20           60700       65         197300
B. EXPANSION STUDY
Soil Survey and Project
Preparation Study                        -    23900    23900    23900         23900    95600    25           23900       60          57360
Access Roads (40kms) 2/                      -    19130    19130           -          -    38260    10           3830       40          15300
Bridge 2!                               33500    33500          -         -           -    67000    15          10050       60          40200
Coconut Seed Garden                          -    14350    14350    19130        24870    72700    15           10900       25          18180
Coconut Trial Plots                          -         -    19130    14350        47B0    38260    15            5740       25           9560
Coconut Laboratory: Construction             -    12000         -         -          -    12000    15            1800       60           7200
:Equipment               -     4000         -         -          -      4000      5           200       80           3200
Research on Tapping                      5740      5740      5740      5740       5740    28700    25            7180       60          17220
T,_ta1 Expansion Study Costs
39240   112620    82250    63120        59290   356520    18           63600       47         168220
C. MACTFR PTAN                                       -  200000   100000   100000    100000   500000    20             100000       70         350000
1/   Cost includes salaries, leave, air transport, housing, office and tranaport overheads.
2/ At Mbonge over the Meme river. Provides access to survey area and also to proposed 1,000 ha area Mtbnnge estate expansion.
In the economic analysis the bridge and access road are costed to the Mbonge estate.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement
DISBURSEMENTS  2/                CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
Fiscal
Year  1/  Semester        Bank       CCCE/CDC        Total        Bank       CCCE/CDC        Total
1978            2          0.7          0.7            1.4         0.7           0.7          1.4
1979            1          1.4           1.4           2.8         2.1           2.1          4.2
2          1.5          1.5           3.0          3.6          3.6           7.2
1980            1          1.6           1.6           3.2         5.2           5.2         10.4
2          1.7          1.7           3.4          6.9          6.9          13.8
1981            1          1.7           1.7           3.4         8.6           8.6         17.2
2          1.8          1.8           3.6         10.4         10.4          20.8
1982            1          1.8          1.8            3.6        12.2          12.2         24.4
2          1.9          1.9           3,8         14.1         14.1          28.2
1983            1          0.9          0.9            1.8        15.0          15.0         30.0
l/   Fiscal Year 1978 equals July 1, 1977 to June 30, 1978 etc.
2/ Based on 76% of Project costs as in Annex 5 Table lB; annual project costs split evenly
between two semesters with disbursements against project costs lagged three months.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
Proiect Estate Develoom nta: Ongoina Cost 19S2/83 to 1991/92_-
(end 1977 Constnt Term., CFA1 Mi  ions)
PF6           PY7           PYB           PY9           FY10           YI1         PYf2           FY13          PY14          PY15
Krompins Rubber Estate
Field Costs                                           133.6         123.4         152.3         206.3         266.1         334.5         322.7          340.8         336.1         336.1
Can ,tructiona l/  2/                    77.0         410.2           -             84.7         321.8         137.5          -             -              -             _
Constructions           2/                              3.4          13.2          33.1          24.8          40.5          53.4          29.1           51.1          37.4          37.3
Vehicles and Equ ipment-           3
Management and General Overheads -                     97.9         104.5         123.4         140.2         153.0         168.9         168.9          175.0         175.2         177.8
Crop Processing and Transport                          -              2.9          13.1          35.5          69.3         111.8         146.4          171.7         186.7         199.0
Total Kompina                              311.9         654.2         321.9         491.5         850.6         806.1         667.1          738.6         735.4         750.2
Malende Rubber Estate
Field Costs                                            27.5          21.5          31.1          37.5          52.5          66.6          65.5           68.3          67.2          67.2
Constructions                                          -             -             14.4          52.9         110.0          24.9           -             -             -             -
Vehicles and Equipment                                   .3           7.6           3.2            .4           6.5           1.7           13.8          12.7           1.7           5.0
Management and General Overheads                       20.5          19.3          21.0          25.7          29.1          31.6           31.3          33.6          33.3          33.4
Crop Processing and Transport                          -             -              1.9           5.8          12.7          21.2           22.6          33.8          37.0          39.5
Total Malende                               48.3          48.4          71.6         122.3         210.8         146.0          139.2         148.4         139.2         145.1
Mbonge Rubber Estate
Field Coats                                            27.5          21.5          31.1          37.5          52.5          66.6           65.5          68.3          67.2          67.2
Constructions                                          -             -             14.4          14.4          -             24.8           -             -             -             -
Vehicles and Equipment                                   .3           7.6           9.3            .4          14.2             .4          13.8          13.9             .4           5.0
Management and General Overheads                       20.5          19.3          21.0          25.7          29.1          31.6           31.3          33.6          33.3          33.4
Crop Processing and Transport                          -             -              1.9           5.8          12.3          20.4           26.9          31.1          33.3          34.8
Total Mbonge                                48.3          48.4          77.7          83.8         108.1          143.8         137.5         146.9         134.2          140.4
Tombel Rubber Estate
Field Costs                                            23.0          24.1          32.5          40.8          50.3          60.3           59.3          61.2          60.5          60.5
Constructions                                          -             -             -             -             -             -              -             -             -              -
Vehicles and Equipment                                  7.5           2.1            .2           6.0           7.6           13.9           7.9           6.7           4.8           14.6
Management and General Overheads                       19.6          19.8          21.8          29.5          27.4           28.3          28.4          30.1          30.1           30.1
Crop Processing and Transport                          -              1.0           3.9           8.6          14.4          20.8           25.7          28.8          30.5          31.9
Total Tombel                                50.1          47.0          58.4          84.9          99.7          123.3         121.3         126.8         125.9          137.1
TOTAL RUBBER ESTATES  (without contingencies)             458.6         796.0         529.6         782.5       1.269.2       1.219.2        1,065.1       1,160.7       1,134.7        1,172.8
West Coast Oil Palm Estate
Field Costs                                            22.5          23.6          26.4          30.0          32.1           34.7          36.6          38.0          38.7           38.7
Constructions                                          -             -             -             -             -              -             -                           -              -
Vehicles and Equipment                                  5.8           8.1             .3          5.5             .3           5.5           8.5          _              6.4
Management and General Overheads                        9.7           9.9          10.2          10.6          10.6           11.2          11.3          11.5          11.5           11.4
Crop Processing and Transport                           2.6           6.5          11.5          17.1          21,3           25.0          27.7          29.7          30.6           30.6
Total West Coast                            40.6          48.1          48.4          63.2           64.3          76.4          84.1          79.2           87.2          80.7
(without contingencies)
TOTAL                                                     499           846           578           846          1334           1296          1149          1240           1222          1254
Physical Contingencies (10%)                           50            85            58            85           133           130            115           124            122           125
TOTAL Our.OlNc. COSTS To CAMDEV                           549           931           636           931           1467          1426          1264          1364           1344          1379
1/  Includes housing. commnunity farilities, offices and workshops.  For Koopins, inrludes factory construted in 87/83. 83/84 and upgraded in 86/87.  For Malends, inrludes feptory
ronstrurted in 85/86 and 86/87.
21 Includes vehitles, heavy equipment, and miscellaneous material and equipment.
I/  lncludes vehicle mainte"nce an4 operating cost.



SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
CAMDEVS CASH FLOW FROM PROdECT 6/
(CFAF Million)
PYI        PY2        PY3        FY4        PY5        PY6        PY7        PY8        PY9        FY10        PY11,      PY12       PY13       FY14       PY15
PRODUCTION (MT)
Rubber                                                              -                                -          200        1075       2865       5580       8955      11695      13645      14775       15690
Palm Oil                                      -          -          -         -           -          124        328        611        953        1270       1570       1791       1953       2016        2016
Palm Kernels                                  -          -          _                     _           33         84         147        219        280        337        382        418        432         432
REVENUES
Rubber                                        -          -          _                                -            60       321         854       1663       2669       3485       4066       4403        4676
Palm Oil                                                 -          -         -           -            15        39          73        114        152        188        215        234         242        242
Palm Kernels                                  -          -          _         _           _             2          6         11         17         22         26         29         32          33         33
TOTAL REVENUES                                -          -          -         -           -            17        105        405        985       1837       2883       3729       4332        4678       4951
COSTS
Base Costs (December 1977 terms)              693       1323       1422      1445        1333        499        846         578        846       1334       1296       1149       1240        1222       1254
Base Costs plus 10% Physical
Contingencies                              762       1455       1564      1590        1466        549        931        636        931        1467       1426       1264       1364       1344        1379
Adjustment Factor for Inflation  -           1.027      1.08       1.17      1.26        1.36        1.47       1.47       1.47       1.47       1.47       1.47       1.47        1.47       1.47       1.47
TOTAL COSTS                                   783       1571       1830      2003         1994        807       1369        935       1369       2156       2096       1858        2005       1976       2027
FUNDS RECEIVED (PAID OUT) BY CAMDEV BEFORE  (783)    (1571)    (1830)   (2003)              (1994)      (790)    (1264)       (530)      (384)      (319)        787       1871       2327       2702       2924
LOANS                     4/
EBOJECT LIANS TO CAMDEV -
Disbursaments                                 300       1203       1352      1503         1531        383
Debt Servlcint:  Committment Charges           22         38          28       17            6         -
*  Interest                    12         72         174      288         410         478        468        435        402        368        334         301        267        233        200
;  Repayment of Principal   -,                      -         -            -          209        418        418        AM         aU         418         418        418        41.8       418
Sub total Debt Servicing (Nominal         34        110        202       305         416        687        886        853         a          786        752        719       6f           651        61h
1/ ter_)
Sub total Debt Servicins(R*ts1 terms) 34            110        202       305         416        687        820        729        651         578        512        452        400        552           a
FUNDS RECEIVED (PAID OUT) BY CAMDEV AFTER
LOANS AND DEBT SERVICING 3/, 5/                  (517)     (478)       (680)    (805)        (879)    (1094)    (2084)    (1259)    (1035)          (897)        275       1419       1927       2350       2615
It Exclusive of Outgrower Programs vhich are funded during the crop development                          3/ Expressed in current terms (December) up to 1982/83 (PY6).  Thereafter in 1982/83
period by Government and external sources.  CAMDEV's services to outgrovers during                       constant terms.
crop exploitation are recovered by CAMDEV at cost. Production and crop revenues
are therefore from the estates only.  Costs are for the estates (Annex 5 Table 1                      4/ US$25.6 million.  Disbursements lagged 3 months on disbursable expenditures.
and Annex 7 Table 1) end - during the project period - for Technical Assistance                          All loans assumed at 8% over 20 years with 5 years of grace and with repayments
and Development Preparations.  The Master Plan - also financed by Government and                         of principal in constant amounts.
external sources - is excluded. PYs I through 5 from Annex 5, Table 1; FYs 6 through
15 from this Annex, Table 1.~
15 fram this Annex, Table 1.                                                5~~~~~~~~1/Debt servicing first expressed in nominal (i.e. actual debt servicing costs
2/ Unit revenues based on methodology of Annex 9, Tables I to 3 (financial revenues)                         incurred) terms.  Subsequently they are expresd in real tarms by adjusting
using EPD (May, 1977) forecasts of reference nrices.  Resultsnt unit revenues in                         irom 1983/84 (FY7) onwarde to constant 1982/83 terms using sa  inflation index
1982/83 constant terms are                                                                               of 8% per annum conpounded
1982183    1983/84    1984185    1985of 8  per  nnumcomponded
1982/83    1983/84    1984/S5    1985/86. and on                        6, All project calculations are based on the assumption that project activities
Rubber                 302         301         299          298                                 would commence in early calendar 1978.
Palm Oil               118         119         120          120
Palm Kernels            68          71          74           77



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
CAMEROOX DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION - ESTlMATED GROSS PROFITS FROM CROPS
1977/78 to 1991/92 (Excludinx CAMDEV 11 Proiect)  1/
1977/78   1978/79  1979/80 1980/81   1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85   1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92
RUBBER
Production (MT)                             11240      11890    12480   12720      12830    13110    13485    13569        14000    14605    15368       16124    16629    17595    18171
Unit RCvenue (CFAF  000 per Ml)                  215       217      242      267        284       302      301       299       298       298       298       298       298       298       298
Unit  Cost of Production (CFAF  000 per MT)    100          110       115     125        135      145       145       145       145       145       145        145      145       145       145
Unit Gross Margin (CFAF '000 per MT)              115       107       127     142        149       157      156       154       153       153       153       153       153       153       153
Gross Profit on Rubber Production
(CPAF Million)                               1293       1272     1585    1806        1912     2058      2104     2090       2142     2235       2352      2467      2544     2692      2780
OIL PALMS
Production Palm Oil (MT)                    28700      30190    31130   31670       32320    32940    33010    33451       33678    34259    34088       34041    33891    34172    30933
Production Kernels (MT)                      6470       6800     7000    7130       7280      7420      7432     7520       7539      7644     7609       7569      7602      7665     6929
Unit Revenues and Cost of Production
(CiAP '900 per MT)
Revenue:, Falm Oil 2/                             118       103        94     102        110       118      119       120        120      120       120        120      120       120       120
Ketnels                                  69         61       53       55        55        68        71       74         77        77       77         77        77        77       77
Cost of Production                                50         54        59      63         68       74        74        74        74        74        74         74       74        74        74
Revenues (CFAP Million)
Palm Oil 21                                  3631       3110     2926 -  3231        3556     3887      3928     4014       4042      4111-   4092        40R6    QRR         410(      3714
Palm Kernels                                  446        415       371     392        400      505       528       556   -        -    -58       586.       583      585       590       5
Total Revenues (CFAF Million)                 4077      3525      3297    3623       3956     4392      4456      4570      4623      4700      4678       4469     4652      4691      4248
Cost of Production (CFAF million)                1435      1630      1836    1995       2198      2438     2443      2475      2492      2535      2522       2519     2508      2529      2291
Gross Profit on Oil Palm Production
(CPAP Million)                               2642       1895      1461    1628       1758     1954      2013     2095       2131      2165      2156       2150     2144      2162      1957
TEA - Gross Profit from Tole and Ndu Estates
(CFAF Million) 2/                           95        105      115      125       140       155       155      155        155       155       155       155       155       155      155
BSANAS - Gross Profit (CFAF Million) 3/            75        80        85       95       100       110       110      110        110      110       110        110       110       110     l1
Total GrossiProfita Before Physical
Contingencies (CFAi  Million)                   4105       3352      3246    3654       3910      4277      4382     4450       4538     4665      47-73      4882      4953      5119     5002
10% Physical Contingencies on Production
Costs of Rubber and Oil Palm:
Rubber                                  112        131      143      159        173      191       195       197       203       212       223        234      241       255       263
ail PFlm                                144        163      184      199        220      244       244       247       249       253       252        252      251       253       229
Total Contingencies                     256        294      327      358        393      435       439       444       452       4S5       475        486      492       508       492
TOTAL GROSS PROFITS FROM CROPS (Excluding
CAMDIEV 1I)                                      3849      3058      2919    3296       3517      3842      3943     4006       4086      4200      4298      4396      4461      4611      4501
1/ Tn current fDecetberl terms uD to end including 1982183.  Thereafter In 1982/83 constant terms.  Betveen 197717Q and 1982183 produetion costs are inflated at S1L wr innm.
Output prices are based on EPD commodity forecasts (May, 1977) with adjustments to financial value ex factory calculated as illustrated in Annex 9, Tables 1, 2 and 35   VS
reference orices are inflated by the Bank indices of internstional inflation as of May 1977 (on a per annum basis there are:  1977, 7.5%7  1978, 8.0%  1979, 7.57  1980 end mn
7.0%), end costs of c i f. to ex factory are inflated by the estimated average inflation factor for local a'd foreign costs of 8% Per annum.  Costs are annual recurrent'
Production costs
2/ For palm oil, prices of domestically sold output are assumed to enual export orices as shown in the table.  The only exception to this assumnti0n is for 1977/78 When the current
domestic price to oroducers of CFAF 128/kg is taken   For 1977/78 85% of CAMDEV's output is assumed sold dotnestically at CFAF 128/kg, the reminder excorted St CPA? 118/kg
(See Annex 8 for justification).
3/ Based on proiections of gross profit sunplied by CAMDEV.



CAO#IW00
OKf00D 16302E  99011
T1iATPD   tPT AND LOSS AmC-GM1  POF             -AN AII ,%OaCT f1977178 - 1991/921  I/
1977178    1978/79         /60 ZLp    0/1    1991/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985106                     1987t86 1997(88    19/65    599190    1990/91    1951/92
A.  CA   71T80UT iaJECT
Gross Profit.  rov IrosP 2/                                          3849       3038        2919        3296       3517        3842        5943       4006        4086        42200       4298        4396        4461        411        4501
6d: Ntaallnnoo.  fncoae                                               100         6S          50          55         60          65          65          65         65          65          65          65          65          65          65
Sub-total                                                      3949         113        2969       3351        3577        3907        4008       4071        41S1        4265        4363        4461        4526       4676        4566
D.d4st      .gNnome,e  t Iperose* It                                  720          00       0u5          935       1010        1050        1050        *QSoe      1050        1050        1050        15          1050        1050        1050
S.b-Total                                                      3229        2323        2104       2416        2567        2857        2958       3021        3101        3215        3313        3411        3476        3626       3516
&U:    I Loo0n Interest on Fir.t CdW7 Proj..t Loon 4                  1 162      157         1SO         140         135        125         109          91          77         62          52          43           S5         28          23
it Dwpr#c1wtion (Fixed Asset.)                               440         500        540         600         62S         650        650         650         650         650         650        650         650         630         650
I7l Amorti..tion (zatst4s)        5'                          340         325         335        330         350         365        400         400        4A0          400         400        400         400         400         400
S.b-Trtal (itr    I ta 111)                                   942         982        1025       1070        1110        1140        1159       1141        1127        1112        1102        1093        1083       1078        1073
Not Profir Witbgyt Proisot Bahr. Tatirn                              2287       1341        1079        1346       1457        1717        1799       law        1974        2103        2211        2318        2591        254i        2443
U. $ComD CAhDEV PR97C0
Crop 8vanua. fr- ftojoit                                               -                -           -           -                17         105         405        98!3       1037        28S3        3729   4312             4670        4951
j;    I PhisF   Costa                                               -          -           -           -          -            7          44         174        352         5_1         805         857         9IS         927         927
1U  entory ProLeging and T-9port                              _           _           _          .           _            4         17          53         110         211         324         41S         40         517         546
III EStat. Mn*wwat                                                                                            -            3          31        118         225         30          595         421        442         461         466
Sub-Total (Utm  I to 111 (In Ilodlog 107 ohysical                    -                                                    14          92        345         695        1101        1524        1693       5867        1905        1939
Gros Profit fror. CroP.                                                           -           -3                                             13          60         290        736        1359        2036        J6U5        2773        3012
dU:  Tchnitnl Aasittaoe. (507. of Cost)  6/                           22          38         43          45          50                                                                                                        -
Proo-Jt Loan - lnterat 4A                                      12          72         174        28B         45O         478         433         572        319         270         227         189         156         126        100
* Cowituant Charge.                               22         3S          28          17           6                           -                 -           -                      -           -           -
Gao.. Profit 1ssO Expenses, Interest  nd Coulnit-eot Ch-rg..
on Loan.                                                         (561      (148)       (245)       (350)      (46)        (475)       (420)       (312)       (29)        466        1132        1847        2309        2647       2912
Loss;  l Dpreration (17ixsd Asets)                                     -           -          -           10          10         10          28          68         127         198        286         401         401         393         393
Aavotts1tioo (Eat.tos)      -                                  _           _           _          _                                    9         45          S7         151         2t4         2*          246         246        24"
Net Profit ftn   P-1ro.ot Before o.axtIon                             (56)       (148)      (245)       (360)       (476)       (4013      (457)       (423)       (243)       117         632        1200        1662        2008        2273
C. OAt2  INCLU5D2ING SECOND CADLEV PROJECT
*t PTrofit B fore Tx                                                 2231        1193        834         996         981       1232        1342        1457        1731       2220        2643        3158        4053        4556        4716
Ta.  at 357. on Profit                                                7 0        41S         292         346         344        430         470         510         606         778        996        1230        1418        1594        1650
Tr  Cre4dits                                                          390        209         146         173         172        215         235         255         303        389         498         615         709         797         655
55t Tastion                                                           390        209         14"         173         172        215         235         255         303        359         498         615         709         797         825
Not Frofit After Tax                                                 1841        984         688         813         809       1016        1107        1202        1428       1831        2345        2903        3344        3759        3890
jf    Current terwe fro-  1977/79 to 1982f83 inolu    tv Ther-sft- in toertast 1982183 tart.  Iflatiiood.flation indicss of 07 par *nuor  adj.uotd  # wpvroeti.ta  to cospound rates
Fro. Table 5.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
3t ,    isbn. and 50erating coste of h..dqosrtarsj lnsr ....; Board fats; audit; legal *nd nrofsaionsl fete; adi,s! and welfar; tr-ining; bank oharge.; rentela; atc
D/Ieflated from 93/84 to 1982/83 noosttnt tarms   e. note 11.                                                                                                                                                                                        r
5/    At .tatotory rAt*s
6/    501. of toh.tool estotstnce tr be allo.ated to CAlfEYe *x.ting iron e-loltet1on and  accordingly, tax d.d-tibla.
LI    357 eoreoretion tax on net t.able profits with tax -redtt. of S07. of thin asount lse.  ars 6M0)



CANERN
SECOND CGEV8  PROJIICT                                                                    ANN   7
CANt    OONSOLIDATED CASH  1tOW (1977/78 - 1991/92) I/
(CFAF Millions)
1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983184 1984185 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Cash Balance at 30/6/77                    1409
Net Profits of CANIP7 2/                   3067      2166      1954      2276      2432     2732      2849      2930      3024      3153      3261     3368      3441      3598      3493
ProJect Cash Plow (+ve)  /                         -         -         -        -          -         -             -         -         -       275     1419      1927      2350      2615
Total Sources of Fonds                     4476      2166      1954      2276     2432      2732      2849      2930      3024      3153     3536      4787      5368      5948      6108
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Taxes  4/                                   390       209       146       173       172      215       235       255       303       389      498       615       709       797       825
laveatnets and ReplacnseOts Needed
for Ongoing Activities  5/            1240     1290      1245      1020      1300      1160     1075      1050      1160      1100       900       900       750      810
Debt Services 6/                            120       170       205       235       260      275       263       253       244       233       224      180       109        S1        5)
Project Cash Flow (-ve) 2/                  517       478       680      805       879      1094      2084      1259      1035      897          -         -        -         -
Total Application of Funds                 2263      2147      2276      2233     2611      2744      3657      2817      2742      2619     1622      1695      1568      1658      1865
NET ANNUAL SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                     2209        19     (322)       43      (179)    (12)       (808)     113       282       534      1914      3092     3800      4290      4213
CUIULATIVE CASH BALANCE AT YEAR END              2209     2228      1906      1949      1770      1758      950      1063      1345      1879      3793      6885    10685    14975    19188
1/   Is current terma up to and including 1982/83.  Therefter in constant 1982/83 tert,.  Inflation factor at 87 petr ason coiMpo.ded.  The rash flow refers to estates - existing
astates including replanting, upgrading and naisretance of infrastructure (including factories); end also the new project estates iocludiog technical  esintauce; and
developse.t preparatios.  The naster plan and o-tgrower progra  would be fiDnaced separately by Go-eronent and by project bas    CAMDEV's aervicea to outgrovern during crop
production would be recoverable at cast.
2/   Fro- Table 4 Part A.  Before taxation but inclusive of depreciation  nd anortisatio.
3/   Fro  Table 2.
4/   From Table 4 Part C.
5/   Baed on detailed schedules and costing of CAMEV8's ongoing reqairements.
6/   Repayaents of principal on existing (C4MDE7 1) loans.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Rubber
1.        Since rubber has a variety of end-uses, mostly in the manufacture
of tires and other automotive parts, it has by nature a derived demand. As a
result, the demand for all elastomers--both natural and synthetic rubbers--
is insensitive to price changes but very sensitive to changes in aggregate
activity. The projected slowdown in real income growth in industrialized
countries, which account for about 70% of world demand, is therefore expected
to result in a slower growth in total world consumption of rubber in the late
seventies (4.7% per annum) than that occurring in the late sixties and early
seventies (6.8% per annum).
2.        The demand for natural rubber is determined partly by the increase
in demand for certain end-uses, especially those in which it has a relative
advantage over synthetic rubbers, such as heavy truck and farm equipment
tires and car radial tires. Between 1980 and 1985, the demand for these
products is expected to grow slightly faster than for other end-products.
More importantly, however, the demand for natural rubber is influenced by the
cost/price of its closest synthetic substitute. It is expected that from
1980 to 1985 the synthetic rubber industry will be operating at its normal
capacity level (75%). Assuming a constant price of crude oil, the basic
feedstock for synthetic rubber, of US$11.5 per barrel in 1975 terms, syn-
thetic rubbers are expected to be in relatively tight supply, and hence, a
decrease in the prices of synthetic rubbers is not likely. Prospects for
the demand of natural rubber between 1980 and 1985 are therefore relatively
favorable.
3.        Demand for all elastomers is projected to grow at 5.8% per year be-
tween 1980 and 1985. During this same period the supply of natural rubber is
expected to grow at 3.9% per year. Given that the present competitive price
relationship between natural and synthetic rubbers 1/ is maintained between
1980 and 1985, the demand for natural rubber should remain strong, and natural
rubber producers are expected to face a favorable market situation.
4.        In the long run, prices are projected to remain firm.  The price
for natural rubber in 1977 constant US dollars are projected during the late
1970's to maintain the present level of about US 40-44 cents per lb (RSS1,
1/   The price of synthetic rubber (styrene-butadiene or SBR) is presently
in the range of US 36-40 i/lb, and natural rubber US 40-44 #/lb.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
CIF New York) and to remain around this level during the 1980's. The fore-
casts assume that crude oil prices remain at present levels in constant
dollar terms, and that no expansion in production capacity of basic petro-
chemicals takes place during the 1980's so that the cost/price of synthetic
rubber does not fall.
B. Palm Oil and Kernels
5.        Palm oil production in Cameroon has been predominantly for the
domestic market. During the 1960's an average of 8,000 tons per year was
exported, representing about 18% of estimated production. From 1970 to 1975
about 11% of production was exported. Gross consumption is expected to con-
t:inue to increase at 4.5% per year, as it has for the past decade. Total
pioduction is projected by Government to grow at about 6% per year, includ-
ing ongoing and Government-proposed future developments of oil palm estates.
Production is projected to reach 105,000 tons in 1980 and 138,000 tons in
1985, compared to consumption forecasts of 85,000 tons in 1980 and 106,000
tons in 1985. Export margins would then be 20,000 tons and 31,000 tons, re-
spectively, representing 19% and 23% of production. Allowing for incomplete
realization of Government expansion plans, an average future export margin
of about 15% for palm oil is considered a realistic estimate. No difficul-
ties are anticipated in finding a market for any production surplus to
domestic requirements: Cameroon has established trade outlets in Europe;
demand in adjacent West African countries is growing rapidly, and Nigeria
alone is expected to require imports in excess of 140,000 tons by 1985.
6.        At present, most palm kernels are exported to Europe for which
there is a good market, although minor quantities are converted to oil and
used domestically in the soap manufacturing industry. Domestic processing
facilities for kernel oil will probably be expanded in the future, but domes-
tic demand for kernel oil is likely to remain small. The financial and eco-
nomic calculations assume 100% export of palm kernels.
7.        The domestic price to producers of palm oil is established by
Government in consultation with the principal producers and has tended in
the past to follow the trend of world prices. Over the past two years the
price remained at CFAF 110/kg (net of producer tax, CFAF 100/kg) in response
to fob world prices of about this magnitude. The price had been CFAF 70/kg
in 1973 and then jumped to CFAF 120 in 1974 in response to a sharp increase
in world price. In July 1977 the price was raised again to CFAF 140/kg
(CFAF 128/kg net of producer tax) as a result of the very high prices on the
world market in the first half of the year (para 8). Projections of domestic
price in the financial cash flows of Annex 7 assume that domestic price will
continue to remain in line with export prices. However, this may be a con-
servative assumption as there has been a general tendency for Government to
set the domestic price at levels slightly exceeding the revenues to be earned
from exporting.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        Estimated world demand for fats and oils in the 1980s reflect
conservative projections of real growth in per capita income. World produc-
tion of fats and oils is projected to grow at about the same rate as during
the sixties. Production growth is expected to exceed consumption growth in
the early 1980's and real prices for fats and oils will decline below the
average levels of the sixties and seventies. Prices of palm oil and palm
kernels were high during the first half of 1977 due mainly to the reduced
plantings of soya in 1975 which stimulated the prices of other oil sub-
stitutes. For 1977, prices of palm oil and kernels are estimated to average
US$552 and US$360 per metric ton, respectively, compared to US$437 and US$247
in 1976 (in 1977 constant terms). In 1978, prices are expected to remain
high, but below those of 1977. Toward 1985, production is expected to slow
down in response to the depressed prices of the early seventies, while con-
sumption will continue to grow. The long-term price trend is expected to be
upward, although the prices in 1985 are projected to be lower than those
observed in 1977. By 1985, prices (1977 constant terms) for palm oil and
kernels are expected to average about US$420 and US$300 per metric ton,
respectively. 1/
1/   For a fuller treatment of the world market for oil palm products, see
"Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities" Report No. 814/77,
June 1977. For Further details of the Cameroonian market see Annex 8
of the Second SOCAPALM Project appraisal report (Report No. 1364-CM,
March 1977).



ANNEX 9
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Economic Rate of Return
1.        Rates of return have been calculated using December 1977 constant
prices and with the following assumptions:
(a) Life of Prolect: 30 years. Oil palm can be expected
to remain commercially viable for 30 years after plant-
ing and rubber for up to 40 years.
(b) Production: As in Annex 2.
(c) Output Prices: All the rubber, all the kernels and 15% of
the palm oil are assumed to be exported. Economic values
are calculated in Tables 1, 2 and 3, and are based on Bank
forecasts for world prices as at May 1977. Further dis-
cussion of markets and prices is at Annex 8.
(d) Costs: Costs include field costs, general overheads,
fixed assets, harvesting and processing, and transport
to Bota or Douala. The costs of the master plan and
part of the costs of the technical assistance and ex-
pansion study are not included, since the benefits
from these components will emerge only during the future
development of the area, or because they provide general
benefits to the corporation which are not acccounted for
in the project benefit stream. Exceptions to this are:
1) the costs of the access road and the bridge for the
Mbonge estate and expansion study survey area which
have been costed to the Mbonge estate; and 2) 50% of
the costs of technical assistance included in the total
project rate of return (the estimated proportion of
technical assistance which would be allocated to project
related activities). Costs exclude physical contingen-
cies and taxes.
(e) Labor:
I.   OutRrowers.  Foregone net value added resulting
from working on tree crop plantings rather than
on traditional farming practices is estimated to
be equivalent to the basic per diem estate laborer
wage. This is based on field estimates of average



ANNEX 9
Page 2
net incomes from local farming activities which
were found to be equivalent to unskilled estate
laborer wages. In view of the lack of accurate
sample data, this is recognized as an approxima-
tion. However, the estimate is supplemmented by
the inference that can be drawn from the observa-
tion that a small number of the local villagers
work on CAMDEV's estates, suggesting that incomes
from traditional activities are, at the margin,
comparable with market wages.
II. Estate Laborers. Most estate laborers come from
the heavily populated western highlands where
average real incomes are estimated to be consider-
ably lower (as little as one-half to two-thirds)
than the earnings of estate workers. Net earn-
ings accruing to other members of the family of
a worker are not expected to be substantially
affected (the direction is not precisely known)
by his employment with CAMDEV. If the rest of the
family remains at home, the members of the family
would continue their traditional farming activi-
ties. If they migrate to CAMDEV with the estate
worker, they would be able to grow crops on land
which is provided for this purpose by CAMDEV. The
foregone output of the estate laborer himself is
estimated at 75% of the unskilled estate laborer
wage and is based on his estimated former produc-
tivity in his previous location.
(f) Efficiency Pricing. Costs and benefits are expressed
in "efficiency" terms: that is, prices are adjusted
for foreign exchange distortions and labor is valued
to reflect its opportunity cost (item e). Non-traded
domestic goods have been converted to efficiency values
by use of a standard conversion factor that reflects



ANNEX 9
Page 3
a shadow price of foreign exchange equivalent to 130%
of the market rate (US$1 = CFAF 318). 1/
2.        Economic cash flows are shown in Tables 4 to 8.  Results are
presented in the table below:
Rubber      Oil Palm       Rubber      Oil Palm        All
Estates 2/   Estate      Outgrowers  Outgrowers   Components
Base Estimate                    16.3         22.5          18.3         23.4          16.8
Sensitivity Analysis
Costs increase 10%               15.0         20.8          17.0         21.6          15.5
Costs increase 20%               13.8         19.2           N.A.        N.A.          14.3
Benefits decrease 10%            14.8         20.6          16.8         21.4          15.4
Benefits decrease 20%            13.2         18.5          15.1         19.2          13.7
Costs+1O% & Benefits-10%         13.5         18.9          15.4         19.6          14.0
Costs+10% & Benefits-20%         11.9         16.7          13.7         17.3          12.3
Market Prices 3/                 14.5         19.3          16.2         20.8          14.8
Project life of 25 years           -            -             -            -           14.8
1/   Project costs were converted to efficiency prices by the formula:
EP = MP x FE + MP x DCnl x SCF + MP DC1 SCF x w
100        100               100
EP = MP[FE + SCF (DCnl + DC1 x w)]
100         100    100
where EP   - efficiency price
MP   - cost at market prices
FE   - foreign exchange proportion of costs
DCnl - non-labor domestic component
DC1  - domestic component, labor
SCF  = standard conversion factor for Cameroon
(0.77; obtained in consultation with the
country economist)
w    = estimated foregone output of labor.
2/   Individual rubber estates have estimated rates of return of:
Kompina              16.6
Tombel               16.3
Malende              17.4
Mbonge               14.5
3/   Costs at market prices net of taxes, exchange rate at CFAF 245:US$, labor
at market wages (outgrower labor costed at unskilled estate labor wage).



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Risks
3.        The sensitivity tests shown in the table can be used to infer
the results of potential risks that the project may encounter. A general
decrease in commodity prices or an increase in costs can be directly related
to the figures in the table. A reduction in yields would be nearly equivalent
to a similar reduction in the benefit stream except that there would also be
a reduction in some variable costs which is not reflected by a sensitivity
test on a change in the benefit stream alone. Shortages of estate labor (ex-
cept in cases of extreme shortage) would have as their main effect an increase
in costs due to the use of overtime or additional use of mechanized operations
for land clearing.
4.        As discussed in para 7.07, for the outgrower program there may be
initial difficulties in attracting participants. Risk analysis was done on
the outgrower components to show the effects of i) a slower rate of participa-
tion (i.e. the same number of participants joining the project, but in later
years) and ii) a smaller total number of participants. The results are sum-
marized below:
One year       Two year      Reduced number of
Base estimate      slowdown 1/   slowdown 1/       outgrowers 2/
Rubber Outgrowers           18.3            17.5           16.6               14.2
Oil Palm Outgrowers         23.4            21.8           20.4               17.5
A slowdown in the rate of participation does not substantially affect the
rates of return. A reduction by 50% in the number of participants lowers the
rates of return by 4-6 percentage points, but even these lower rates are at
acceptable levels.
1/   Slowdown of participation rate results in a slippage of benefits and
of variable costs (field inputs and outgrower labor). Outgrower super-
vision costs are assumed to remain fixed although this is a slight
simplification as the number of field staff and some management operat-
ing costs could be reduced.
2/   Assumes only a 50% participation.  Variable costs and total benefits
reduced by 50%. Outgrower supervision costs assumed fixed (but see
note 1/).



ANNEX 9
CAMEROON                            Table 1
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
PROJECTED PRICE OF RUBBER
(December 1977 Constant Terms)
1/
1983 and on
Reference Price
2/
Mid 1977 terms for 1985 USO/lb                          42.6
End 1977 terns for 1985 US(/lb  3/                      44.2
End 1977 terms for 1985 CFAF/MT  41                238779
Less quality factor of 211/2%                           5969
CFAF/MT                                            232810
Less:
Commission and Brokerage -/                          3492
Freight/Insurance                                   10595
Transport: Factory to Douala                         2086
Handling and Port Charges                            1989
Economic Costs                                            18162
Value CFAF/MT ex factory               61               214648
Efficiency Value (CFAF/MT ex factory)                   215588
Export Duties and Taxes         7/                   4181
Financial Value (CFAF/MT ex factory)                    210467
1/   The first year of production of the rubber in this project is 1983/84, during
which output is only 1% of production during the peak years. In addition the
price of rubber in 1983 and 1984 is forecast to be within 3% of the 1985 price.
The price forecast for 1985 is therefore used as the reference price for all
years of project production.
2/   Source EPD Commodity Forecasts, May 1977, RSSI, Spot New York.
3/   Inflated to end 1977 by use of Index of International Inflation, EPD Commodity
Forecasts, May 1977.
4/l US$1.00 = CFAF 245
5/   1-1/2% of cif value (after quality reduction).  Based on mission observations of
average CAMDEV quality and price differentials from RSSI.
6/   Obtained by adjusting domestic costs (internal transport, handling and port
charges) by the standard conversion factor, 0.77. Used in economic rate of
return calculation.
7/   Used in financial rate of return calculation.



SECOND CAHDEV PROJECT
PROJECTED PRICE OF PALM OIL
(Deceomer 1977 Constant Terne)
A. EXPORT VALUE                                   1982  nd on 2/          B.  DIFORT SUBSTI1IflION VALUE  6/  1982 and on 2/  C. WEIGMED AVERACE VALUES
Referenc  Price                                                            Reference Price  1/                                        Economic QPAFIH
US$/MT  oid  77 tern.  1/                   421.7                           CPAF IT                      107193-
US/HMT  and 77 tern. 3/                    437.5                                                                                Efficiency  -a.. of import suhbtit.te.
CFAF/Hr 4/                              107191                        Transport coete  Z/                 13789                        (85% of production)                       59583
Lo.o:
Commission Brokerage  5/                     1608                     OB Abidjan                         93402                 Efficien.v value of export
Freight/In-urance                           120Di                                                     8/                                 (15% of productio)                       42)4
Handling, Lightering and Port                                         freight end Ineurance to Donaba   3300
Chorgee (Bot.)                            3400                                                                                WeiRhted efficiency vaolel/                      97434
j1lo-ding and Terminal Handling
Econoni. Costs                                   1702                         (Douala)                           1528
Export Value                                                               V.l.  CQAF/HT
(CFAF/IM, FOB Bota)                        90139                        (Donal.)                          98230
Efficiency  aloue i/                             90924
Export Dotierond Taxes                      4673                      Efficiency value 11/
CFAF/MT (Doogla)              98583
Finoecial V.I.e 11/
(CFAF/NT, FOB Boto)                        85466
1/   Soorco EPD Con.odity F-recata May 1977, 11aaeldn  eif Europ.
2/   The fir-e year of prodoction of the pale oil in the project Le 1982/83, when it is only 8% of production doring peak year..  I.  ddition the price of p.l= oil
in 1982 and 1983 is for.coot to be within 2% of the 1985 foreo.ated price.  The price fereca. t for 1985 is therefore oeed a. the reference price for oil yeore
of proIcct ou.tvut
3/   Infl ed to end 77 by  -e of Index of IIteretlonal Inflation, EPD Condity FPoreroet, May 1977.
4/   1SSI00 - CFAF 245
5/   1-1/2% of cif vale..
6/   Aecoi.g iRported fro.  Abidjan.
7/   Sour-e-IBRD IVC Fourth Oil Pale Project, Annee X, Table 2, M-rrh 1977.  With adjuetneot  to cnd 1977 ronCteot terem.
8/   misaion  estimate.
9/  UIed in Econo[ic Rate of Return C.lcoltiox.
1/   Obtaixed by odj.uti.g donestic costs by eteedard Conversion Factor of 0.77.
11/   Used in Finncial tote of Return Calc.lstio.   - ae..oenc that domestic prine is equated to f.o.b. export price - ee Anne-   8



ANNEX 9
Table 3
CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
PROJECTED PRICE OF PALM KERNELS
(December 1977 Constant Terms)
3/
1982 and on -
Reference Price
US$/MT mid 1977 terms  1/                                304.1
US$/MT end 1977 terms  2/                                315.5
4/
CFAF/MT -                                              77298
Less:
Commission and Brokerage  5/                            1159
Freight/Insurance                                      12187
Handling, LighteL age and Port Charges                  3094
Economic Costs                                              16440
FOB Value CFAF/MT Bota                                      60858
Efficiency Value CFAF/MT FOB Bota  6/                       61572
Export Duties and Taxes                                 5565
Financial- Value CFAF/MT FOB Bota.  71                      55293
1/   Source EPD Commodity Forecasts M$ay 1977; Nigerian, c.i.f. Europe.
~/   Inflated to end 1977 by use of lndex of International Inflation, EPD Commodity
Forecasts, May 1977.
3/   The first year of production of palm kernels in this project is 1982/83, when it
is 8% of peak year production. The 1982 forecast of the price of palm kernel is
within 9% of the 1985 forecast. The 1985 price forecast is therefore used as the
reference price for all years of project production.
4/  US$1.00 = CFAF 245.
51   1-1/2% of cif  value.
~/   Obtained by adjusting domestic costs by the standard conversion factor of 0.77.
Used in Economic Rate of Return Calculation.
7/   Used in Financial Rate of Return Calculation.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT                      ANNEX 9
Economic Rate of Return, Rubber Estates              Table 4
(Million CFAF)
Foreign                  Economic    Economic
Reference   Exchange        Labor   (Efficiency)    Value            Net
Project Year          Cost 1/   r               ____          Cost 1/   of Rubber   Benefits
1               510.3         63             2          464.7            -        (464.7)
2               972.5         63             9          872.6             -       (872.6)
3              1052.5          63           13          936.3             -       (936.3)
4              1067.5          63           17          941.5             -       (941.5)
5               978.5          63           21          855.4             -       (855.4)
6               388.2          63           26          335.6             -       (335.6)
7               675.5          63           12          602.3         43.1        (559.2)
8               448.3          57           23          384.0         231.7       (152.3)
9               662.4          57           21          569.9         617.7         47.8
10               1074.4         57           17          932.6        1202.9        270.3
11               1074.4         57           22          922.3        1930.6       1008.3
12                901.6         57           27           765.4       2521.3       1755.9
13                982.5         57           27           834.0       2941.7       2107.7
14                960.5         57           27           815.4       3185.3       2369.9
15                992.8         57           27           842.7       3382.5       2539.8
16               1005.2         57            27          853.3       3533.5       2680.2
17               1054.9         57            27          895.5       3655.2       2759.7
18               1100.5         57            27          934.2       3747.9       2813.7
19               1099.7         57            28          931.4       3794.3       2862.9
20               1166.9         57            28          988.3       3794.3       2806.0
21               1159.5         57            28          982.0       3785.7       2803.7
22               1157.5         57            28          980.3       3756.5       2776.2
23               1190.4         57            28         1008.2       3708.0       2699.8
24               1155.6          57           28          978.7       3632.6        2653.9
25               1129.8          57           28          956.9       3537.8        2580.9
26               114S.9          57           28          970.5       3462.3        2491.8
27               1138.0          57           28          963.8       3361.0        2397.2
28               1134.0          57           28          960.4       3308.2        2347.8
29               1121.1          57           28          949.5        3134.6       2185.1
30               1112.9          57           28          942.5        3027.9       2085.4
1/   Excludes identifiable taxes and physical contingencies.



CAMEROON                      ANNEX 9
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT                Table 5
Economic Rate of Return - Oil Palm Estate
(Millions CFAF)
Economic
Foreign          Economic    value of              Total
Project     Reference  Exchange   Labor (Efficiency)  Palm       Value of  Economic   Net
Year        Costs 11      %       _        Costs 1/    Kernels  Palm Oil  Value    Benefit
1         42.2          60       25      36.3          -          -         -      (36.3)
2         48.1          60       25      41.4          -         -          _      (41.4)
3         43.6          60       25      37.5          -          -         -      (37.5)
4         45.1          60       25      38.7          -          -         -      (38.7)
5         43.3          60       25      37.2          -          -         -      (37.2)
6         33.5          56       30      28.2         2.0      12.1       14.1    (14.1)
7         39.7          56       30      33.4         5.2      31.9       37.1       3.7
8         40.0          56       30      33.6         9.0      59.5       68.5     34.9
9         52.3          56       30       43.9       13.5      92.9      106.4     62.5
10         53.2          56       30      44.7        17.2      123.7     140.9      96.2
11         63.2          56       28      53.4        20.7      153.0     173.7    120.3
12         69.5          56       28      58.7        23.5     174.5    1P8.0    139.3
13         65.5          56       30      55.0        25.7     190.3      216.0    161.0
14         72.1          56       30      60.6        26.6     196.4      223.0    162.4
15         66.7          56       30      56.1        26.6      196.4     223.0    166.9
16         73.0          56       28       61.6       26.6     196.4      223.0    161.4
17         73.4          56       28      62.0        26.6     196.4      223.0    -5I°
18         65.4          56       30       55.0       25.7      190.3     216.0    16  0
19         68.3          56       30      57.4        24.9     184.2      209.1    151.-J
20         62.6          56       30       52.6       24.0      178.0     202.0    149.4
21         65.5          56       30       55.0       23.2      171.8     195.0    140.0
22         76.9          56       24       65.5       23.2     171.8      195.0    129.5
23         58.6          56       30       49.3       22.0     162.7      184.7    135.4
24         56.5          56       30       47.5       20.6      153.6     174.2    126.7
25         54.5          56       30       45.8       19.4      144.4     163.8    118.0
26         52.5          56       30       44.1       18.2     135.3      153.5    109.4
27         43.7          56       27       37.0       13.7      101.4     115.1      78.1
28         41.5          56       19       35.8        9.1       67.6      76.7      40.9
29         25.0          56       14       21.8        4.6       33.8      38.4      16.6
1/   Excludes physical contingencies and identiflable taxpg.



CAMEROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT                  ANNEX 9
Table 6
Economic Rate of Return: Outgrowers' Rubber
(millions CFAF)
Economic Efficiency Costs
lotal      Economic
Project    Reference   of which   Fixed   Variable   Economic       Value of        Net
Year        Costs 1/   Labor 2/  Costs 3/  Costs       Costs 1/    Rubber       Benefits
1          28.6        -         26.5      -         26.5           -          (26.5)
2          71.5       13.0       26.6     37.7       64.3           -          (64.3)
3          84.5       21.6      23.5      51.3       74.8           -          (74.8)
4          91.5       26.3       23.9     56.8       80.7           -          (80.7)
5         100.1       33.7       18.8     68.8       87.6           -           (87.6)
6          48.7       19.5       18.8     22.8       41.6           -           (41.6)
7          43.2       16.1      18.8      18.2       37.0           -          (37.0)
8          51.1       20.2       18.8     24.7       43.5          17.3         (26.2)
9          55.3       24.8       18.8     27.6       46.4          56.o           9.6
10          71.1       30.3       18.8     40.7       59.5         116.4         56.9
11          92.5       37.2      18.8      58.6       77.4         192.2        114.8
12          98.4       37.5      18.8      63.2       82.0         255.3        173;3
13         105.5       38.3       18.8     69.2       88.0         302.2        214.2
14         108.1       38.3       18.8     71.3       90.1         327.3        237.2
15         110.1       38.3      18.8      72.7       91.5         346.7        255.2
16         111.4       38.3       18.8     r4.o       92.8         359.4        266.6
17         115.1       40.5      18.8      76.9       95.7         368.0        272.3
18         119.3       43.2      18.8      80.4       99.2         374.0        274.8
19         123.1       45.8       18.8     83.3      102.1         377.2        275.1
20         127.4       49.1       18.8     87.7      106.5         377.2        270.7
21         127.4       49.1       18.8     87.7      106.5         377.2        270.7
22         127.1       49.1       18.8     86.6      105.4         375.1        269.7
23         126.5       49.1       18.8     86.1      104.9         369.7        264.8
24         125.8       49.1       18.8     85.6      104.4         362.2        257.8
25         125.2       49.1       18.8     85.0      103.8         356.1        252.3
26         124.3       49.1       18.8     84.3      103.1         347.1        244.o
27         123.4       49.1      18.8      83.5      102.3         338.5        236.2
28         122.2       49.1      18.8      82.5      101.3         326.6        225.3
29         120.4       49.1      18.8      81.0       99.8         308.6        208.8
30         119.3       49.1      18.8      80.1       98.9         297.5        198.6
1/ Excludes physical contingencies and all identifiable taxes.
2/ Represents economic cost of outgrowers' labor; estate wage, net of tax, of unskilled
worker, used as estimate of value of outgrowers' foregone output from alternative
activity.
3/ Costs of central management and extension service.



CAMEROON
SECOND eAMDEV PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Outgrowers' Oil Palm                       ANNEX 9
Table 7
(Millions CFAP)
Economic (Efficiency) Costs                                     Benefits
Total        Economic         Economic      Total Economic
Project        Reference       of which    Fixed         Variable     Economic      Value of         Value of         Value of           Net
Year           Costs I/      Labor  2/   Costs 3/       Costs       Costs         Palm Kernels    Palm Oil           Outout            Benefits
l              26.5           -          24.0           -          24.0             -                -                -                (24.0)
2              47.5          10.4        24.9          16.6        41.5             -                -                -                (41.5)
3               47,9         15.3        18.1          23.2        41.3             -                -                -                 (41.3)
4               50.6         17.6        16.8          26.6        43.4             -                -                -                 (43.4)
5               57.7         22.5        15.0          34.2        49.2             -                -                -                 (49.2)
6              41.1          11.2        15.5          20.0        35.5            1.1             6.1                7.2              (28.3)
7               49.1         13.1        15.5          27.0        42.5             3.9           22.3               26.2               (16.3)
8               59.9         16.1        15.5          36.1        51.6            8.3            50.1               58.4                 6.8
9               74.2         19.5        15.5          48.2        63.7           14.9            93.5              108.4               44.7
10               83.9         21.1        15.5          56.6        72.1           21.9           146.1              168.0                95.9
11               93.1         21.8        15.5          64.5        80.0           27.8           195.7              223.5              143.5
12               99.9         22.5        15.5          70.3         85.8          32.5           235.1              267.6               181.8
13              103.5         22.6        15.5          73.4        88.9           35.1           259.7              294.8               205.9
14              104.6         22.6        15.5          74.4        89.9           36.0           266.0              302.0               212.1
15              104.6         22.6        15.5          74.4         89.9          36.0           266.0              302.0              212.1
16              104.6          22.6       15.5          74.4         89.9           36.0          266.0               302.0             212.1
17              104.6          22.6       15.5          74.4         89.9           36.0          266.0               302.0              212.1
18              103.8          22.6       15.5          73.7         89.2          35.5           261.9               297.4              208.20
19              102.8          22.6       15.5          72.9         88.4           34.8          256.8               291.6              203.2
20              101.8          22.6       15.5          72.0         87.5           34.1          251.7               285.8              198.3
21              100.6          22.6       15.5          71.0         86.5           33.3           245.6              278.9              192.4
22              100.6          22.6       15.5          71.0         86.5           33.3           245.6              278.9              192.4
23              100.2          22.6       15.5          70.6         86.1           33.0           243.4              276.4              190.3
24               99,7          22.6       15.5          70.2         85 7           32.7           240.9              273.6              187.9
25               99.3          22.6       15.5          69.8         85.3           32.3           238.4              270.7              185.4
26               98.6          22.6       15.5          69.2         84.7           31 9           235 3              267.2              182.5
27               98.6          22 6       15.5          69.2         84 7           31.9           235.3              267 2              182.5
28               98.3          22.6        15.5         69.0         84 5           31.6           233.3              264.9              180.4
29               97.7          22.6       15.5          68.5         84.0           31.3           230.7              262.0              178.0
30               97.3          22.6        15.5         68.0         83.5           31.0           228.2              259.2              175.7
I/   Excludes physical contingencies and identifiable taxes
2/   Represents economic cost of outgrovers' labor: estate wage, net of tax, of unskilled worker, used as estimate of value of
outgrowers' foregone output from alternative activities.
3/    Costs of central management and extension service.



CAMEROON                                                               ANNEX 9
Table 6
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Total Project
(Million CFAF)
EFFICIENCY COSTS  1/                                                                       BENEFITS
Estate                     Economic                    Total
Total       Foreign        Labor      Economic        Value of    Economic    Economic
Project        Estate   Outgrower    Technical 2/ Project    Exchange              Cost        Value of       Palm          Value of    Value of    Net
Year          Costs      Costa         Assistance   Costs              %            7        Rubber          Kernels       Palm Oil    Outputs         Benefits
1           501.0         50.5           15.2         566.7         63            3            -               -              -            -             (566.7)
2           914.0        105.8            25.3       1045.1         61            8            -               _      -                    -            (1045.1)
3           973.8        116.1            25.3       1115.2         61           12             -      -              -                    -            (1115.2)
4           980.3        124.1            25.3       1129.7         60           15             -              _      -                    -            (1129.7)
5           892.5        136.8            25.3       1054.6         59           18             -              -              -            -            (1054.6)
6           363.8         77.2              -         441.0         62           22             -              3.1           18.2          21.3          (419.7)
7           635.6         79.5              -         715.1         61           12            43.1            9.1           54,2         106.4          (608.7)
8           417.6         95.1              -         512.7          53          19           249.0           17.3          109.6         375.9          (136.8)
9           613.8        110.1              -          723.9         54           18          673.7           28.4          186.4         888.5            164.6
10            977.4       131.5              -        1108.9          54           16         1319.3           39.1          269.8        1628.2           519.3
11           975.6        157.4              -        1133.0          54           19         2122.8           48.5          348.7        2520.0          1387.0
12            824.1       167.8              -          991.9         53           22         2776.6           56.0          409.6        3242.2           2250.3
13            889.0       176.9              -         1065.9         53           23         3243.9           60.8          450.0        3754.7           2688.8
14            876.0       180.0              -         1056.0         53           22          3512.6          62.6          462.4        4037.6           2981.6
15            898.8        181.5             -         1080.3         53 .         22          3729.2          62 6          462.4        4254.2           3173.9
16            914.8        182.7             -         1097.5         53           22         3892 9           62.6          462.4        4417,9           3320.4
17            957.5        185.6             -         1143 1         53           23          4023 2          62.6          462.4        4548.2           3405.1
18            989.2        188.4             -         1177.6         53           23          4121.9          61.2          452.2        4635.3           3457 7
19            988.7        190.5             -         1179.2         53           24         4171.5           59.7          441 0        4672.2           3493 0
20           1040.9        193.9             -         1234.8         53           24          4171.5          58.1          429 7        4659.3           3424.5
21           1037.0        192.9              -        1229.9         53           24          4162.9          56.5          417.4        4636.8           3406 9
22           1045.8        191.8              -        1237.6         53           24          4131 6          56 5          417.4        4605.5           3367 9
23           1057.5        191.0              -        1248.5         53           24          4077.7          55 0          406.1        4538.8           3290.3
24           1026.3        190.1              -        1216.4         53           24          3994.8          53.3          394.5        4442.6           3226 2
25           1002.7        189.1              -        1191.8         53           24          3893.9          51.7           382.8       4328.4           3136.6
26           1014.5        187.8              -        1202.3         53           24          3809.4          50.1           370. 6      4230.1           3027.8
27           1000.8        187.0              -        1187 8         53           24          3699.5          65.6           336.7       4081.8           2894.0
28           .986.2        185.7              -        1181.9         53           23          3634.8          40.7           300.9        3976.4          2794 5
29            971.3        183.8              -        1155.1         53           23          3443.2           35.9          264.5        3743.6          2588.5
30             942.5       182.5              -        1125.0          53          23          3325.4           31.0          228.2        3584.6          2459.6
1/    Excludes physical contingencies and identifiable taxes.
2/     50% Of technical assistance.



N       ERC      
M     A       L ICHA                        /
, 6W,4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  C   UDA N ,9tD 
UPPERE    )       ~      ~       Chd      ~     UA
VOLTA  RrNE j'o
O 7          N I G E R I A
\oizl
f  CENTRAL AFRICAN
CAME ROON~'-
coal   ~~~~~~~d  x ~~~12'                                                                                                           2
.0,        .         CONGO)    Z A I R E                          \H
GABON I       -
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND CAMEROON DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION PROJECT35
_Developrnent Area Boundary
27.2 Inhabitants per square kilometer
10~~~~~~~~~-2
201-50 G   Inhabitants per
501-100    square kilometer
More thain l5Oj
..   Existing Rubber and Oil Palm Estates
Paved Ronds
-Gravel Roads
----Earth Roads
-I-----I-Railroads
7'---Rivers                                           7
-900-lsohyets in Millimeters
- -D-ivinion Boundaries
International Boundaries                                                                         A '
a  an   40    HO    80   100   120   1A0   1600
KI *-,ti aLOMaETERS v  E                                                N           $  
NJI G E R I A    ;                         ei |
,C N  -x                                         N  T R A  L
-QUAT~RIAL GUINEA IUiNEA                                                   CONGO -  < -   2-8 \ t-nsa         \
h                                              EbQU,<At1GUINEA  k tr   G A BX N    p  C O N G O                   X    c
:   :   r1,  _ I 5 1' 4 14' 1613 9






UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                                     NIGER
SECOND CAMEROON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT                                                                         CHAD
Rubber and Palm  Distribution on CAMDEV  Estates                                                               N'.jr,nn
AExistmng rubber planting areas                                                           R
/7/  xising almplaing areas  approximate                            NIGERIArr.-
Proposed  rubrer planti;rg areasj  delineation
Proposed palmplanting areas                                                     /
~Proposed road and bridge                                                  C.           A
,CENTRAL
-       Picpal od                                                                      OO       F~A
Secondary roads                                                                         EMPIRE
- -racks                                                                            *Y-ounde 
Railway                                                                                 "- ;
Rivers                                    ~y                                          '~
o  5    10    1~~~~~5 20    25te,Ri    GAEON   gREPUBLIC OP
KILOAAETERS                                                                      &  CONGO
o         5          10         5
MILES
aN         oro-:                       X f                                    .v 3                  o
l,   * f~~~~~~~~~og






CAM EROON
SECOND CAMDEV PROJECT
CAMDEV'S ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
BOARD
rGENERAL    l, ,,;  DEVELOPMENT|
MANAGER                       OFFICER
ADMINISTRATION      TAPPING ADVISER          HIEF               OUTGROWERS                               CROP
FINANCIAL          & PERSONNEL               FIELD              RODUCTION          DEPARTMENT            ECNGOCSSR
CONTROLLER         CONTROLLER             INSPECTORS           MANAGER             MANAGER                ENGINEERENGINEER
~~~IZZ~~~~
GROUP               DEPUTY                                  ESTATE                                     MONDONI
> l    ACCT.  l  L  A. P. C.                                MANAGERS                                   FACTORY
SALES                                                                                                    CR.
MANAGER                                                                                                  TIKG
MANAGEMENT                                                                                               MOTOR
ACCT.                                                                                                    W/SHOP
INTERNAL                                                                                                SENIOR
AUDITOR                                                                                                 IVEER
SUPPLIES                                                                                                ACCT. CIVIL
MANAGER                                                                                                 ENGINEER
= Line responsibilities                                                                         CENTRAL
ENGINEERING
tz  z  - -  = Advisory                                                                       | TIKO
World Bank-17421



