CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1508 CM
Loan Agreement
(Second CAMDEV Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 1, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1508 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1978, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter sometimes called the Borrower or Cameroon)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A, B, D and E of the Project will be carried out
by the Cameroon Development Corporation, and Part C of the Project
will be carried out jointly by the Cameroon Development Corpora-
tion and the Fonds National de D6veloppement Rural (hereinafter
called FONADER), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Cameroon Development Corporation and FONADER, respectively, the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to said Parts of the Project as
hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de
Coop6ration Economique, an agency of the Republic of France
(hereinafter called Caisse Centrale), a loan (hereinafter called
the Caisse Centrale Loan) in an amount of thirty six million seven
hundred fifty thousand French francs (FF36,750,000) to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the Caisse Centrale Loan Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and Caisse Centrale;
(D) the Borrower further intends to contract from the
Commonwealth Development Corporation, a statutory corporation
established in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, a loan (hereinafter called the Commonwealth Development
Corporation Loan) in an amount equivalent to seven million five
hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000) to assist in financing Parts
A through E of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter called the Commonwealth Development
Corporation Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Commonwealth Development Corporation;
(E) pursuant to a loan agreement dated March 28, 1967, and
a development credit agreement of even date therewith, the Bank


﻿-2-
and the International Development Association have made available
to the Cameroon Development Corporation and the Borrower, respec-
tively, a loan (No. 490 CM) and a development credit (No. 100 CM)
for the purpose of assisting the Cameroon Development Corporation
in carrying out a prior development project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Cameroon
Development Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if the" were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable   k Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter ct, led the General Conditions); it
being understood that the Project Agreement (as defined herein-
after) is deemed to be an "agreement supplemental" to the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 2.01 (3) of the General
Conditions.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Cameroon Development Corporation of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) the "Cameroon Development Corporation" refers to a de-
velopment corporation of the Borrower established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 66/LF/19, dated December 11,
1966, Law No. 68/LF/9, dated June 10, 1968, Decree No. 68/DF/275,
dated July 15, 1968, and Decree No. 73/597, dated September 26,


﻿-3-
1973, and the Memorandum and Articles of Association annexed
thereto, as such Laws, Decrees and Memorandum and Articles of
Association may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Cameroon Development Corporation Financing Agreement"
means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Cameroon Development Corporation pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Cameroon Devel-
opment Corporation Financing Agreement;
(d) "FONADER" means the Fonds National de Dfveloppement
Rural of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Ordinance No. 73/24, dated May 29, 1973 (as amended by
the Borrower's Law No. 77/05, dated July 13, 1977), and Decree
No. 73/496, dated August 28, 1973, as such Ordinance and Decree
may be amended from time to time;
(e) "FONADER Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and FONADER pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the FONADER
Financing Agreement; and
(f) "Credit Administration Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Cameroon Development Corporation
and FONADER pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement and
Section 2.02 (a) (i) of the Project Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Credit Administration Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million
dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect


﻿-4-
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the contracts for the purchase of goods and civil
works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part F of the
Project through its Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, financial and planning practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause the Cameroon Development Corporation to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions o: the Project Agreement, the Cameroon


﻿Development Corporation Financing Agreement and the Credit Admin-
istration Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including any necessary
joint actioun to be taken with the Cameroon Development Corporation
and the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Cameroon Devel-
opment Corporation to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make the funds required for Parts A,
B, C (i), D and E of the Project available to the Cameroon Devel-
opment Corporation under a financing agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Cameroon Development Corporation, on
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall make the funds required for Part C
(ii) of the Project available to FONADER under a financing agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and FONADER, on terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. Such
terms and conditions shall, inter alia, include that such funds
shall be used for providing inputs to 3mallholders under Part C
(ii) of the Project through the Cameroon Development Corporation
as agent of FONADER, in accordance with the provisions of the
Credit Administration Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Cameroon Development Corporation and FONADER Financing Agreements
in such manner as to prote4-, the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Cameroon Development Corporation
Financing Agreement or the FONADER Financing Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FONADER to enter
into a credit edministration agreement with the Cameroon Devel-
opment Corporation on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank for the purpose of the joint execution of Part C of the
Project by FONADER and the Cameroon Development Corporation and,
in particular, the provision of financial assistance to small-
holders under Part C (ii) of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause FONADER to duly perform all
its obligations under the Citedit Administration Agreement, to


﻿-6-
exercise its rights thereunder in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
not to assign, amend, suspend, terminate, abrogate or waive the
Credit Administration Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall cause FONADER: (i) at the request of
the Bank, to exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of Part C (ii) of the Project, the performance of
FONADER's obligations under the FONADER Financing Agreement and
under the Credit Administration Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) promptly to inform
the Bank of any condition which interferes, or threatens to
interfere, with the progress of Part C (ii) of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
FONADER of its obligations under the FONADER Financing Agreement
and under the Credit Administration Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to ensure that any smallholder participating in the smallholder
development programs to be established under Part C of the Project
shall have the right to use the plantings established by such
smallholder under said programs for the entire period of the
economic.life of such plantings.
Section 3.04. In order to secure assistance in carrying out
Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall review the progress of
Part F of the Project at least once every year in consultation
with the Bank and, on the basis of such reviews, annually furnish
to the Bank, for its concurrence, detailed proposals regarding the
further action to be taken by the Borrower for carrying out said
Part of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part F of
the Project against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.


﻿-7-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated to Part F of the Project to be used exclu-
sively for said Part of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, reports, contract
documents and work ar. procurement schedules for Part F of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate (A) to record and monitor
the progress of Part F of the Project (including the cost there-
of), (B) to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated thereto and to disclose the
use thereof in said Part of the Project, and (C) to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, i   respect
of said Part of the Project, of the departments or agene   of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out said Part of tta .oject;
and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals   i1 such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerni.g Part F
of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated thereto and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It -   the policy of tne Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarane.i of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, spec.%   se-urity from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no o        external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will o-; might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in


﻿creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, services and other resources, necessary:
(a) to enable the Cameroon Development Corporation: (i)
to bring the plantings established under Parts A and B of the
Project into production; and (ii) to perform its obligations under
Sections 3.01 (b) (ii) and 4.04 (a) of the Project Agreement;
and
(b) to ensure: (i) that the plantings to be established
under Part C of the Project shall be brought into, and maintained
in, production; and (ii) that adequate processing -facilities are
available for the produce of the plantings to be established under
Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall set the producer prices
for latex and oil palm fruit bunches upon recommendation of
the Cameroon Development Corporation and at levels adequate to


﻿-9-
ensure (A) a reasonable revenue to smallholders under Part C of
the Project from their plantings, and (B) the recovery by the
Cameroon Development Corporation of the cost of collection of
latex and oil palm fruit bunches from smallholders and processing
thereof and of its other expenses related to the smallholder
development programs under Part C of the Project, and such prices
shall be the subject of annual exchanges of views between the
Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause FONADER to use the proceeds of the Loan
disbursed on account of inputs provided on credit to smallholders
under Part C (ii) of the Project, as and when such credits are
repaid by beneficiaries, for providing further such credits under
the financial assistance programs established under said Part of
the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Baak
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Cameroon Developioent Corporation shall have failed
to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of the Cameroon
Development Corporation under the Project Agreement.
(b) A default shall occur in the performance of any cove-
nant, agreement or obligation on the part of the Cameroon Devel-
opment Corporation or FONADER, as the case may be, under the
Credit Administration Agreement or the FONADER Financing Agree-
ment.
(c) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable: (i) that the Cameroon Development Corporation
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment; or (ii) that FONADER will be able to perform its obligations
under the Credit Administration Agreement.
(d) A representation made by the Cameroon Development
Corporation in or pursuant to the Project Agreement, or any
statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be
relied upon by the Bank in making the Loan, shall have been
incorrect in any material respect.


﻿- 10 -
(e) The Cameroon Development Corporation shall have become
unable to pay its debts as they mature or any action or proceeding
shall have been taken by the Cameroon Development Corporation or
by others whereby any of the assets of the Cameroon Development
Corporation shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Cameroon Development Corporation or for the suspension
of its operations.
(g) Any provision of the Borrower's Laws or Decrees referred
to in Section 1.02 (b) of this Agreement, or of the Memorandum
and Articles of Association of the Cameroon Development Corpora-
tion referred to in said Section, shall have been amended, sus-
pended, terminated or repealed so as to affect materially and
adversely the Cameroon Development Corporation's ability to carry
out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement.
(h) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FONADER or for the suspension of its operations without
prior arrangements satisfactory to the Bank having been made by
the Borrower for the transfer to another department or agency of
the Borrower of the functions of FONADER with respect to the
smallholder development programs to be established under Part C
of the Project.
(i) Any provision of the Borrower's Ordinance No. 73/24,
dated May 29, 1973 (as amended by the Borrower's Law No. 77/05,
dated J ly 13, 1977), or Decree No. 73/496, dated August 28, 1973,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of FONADER to
assist in carrying out Part C of the Project in accordance with
the Credit Administration Agreement.
(j) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or the Cameroon De-
velopment Corporation to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower or
the Cameroon Development Corporation for the
financing of the Project, including the Caisse
Centrale Loan and the Commonwealth Development


﻿- 11 -
Corporation Loan, shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower or the Cameroon Development
Corporation to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower or the Cameroon Development
Corporation, as the case shall require, from
other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and of the Cameroon
Development Corporation under the Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower and the Cameroon Development Corporation or
FONADER, as the case may be; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (e), (f), (g), (h) or
(j) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 12 -
(a) the Cameroon Development Corporation Financing Agreement
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Cameroon
Development Corporation;
(b) the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation Loan Agreement have been duly signed and
all conditions, if any, precedent to initial disbursements under
the Caisse Centrale Loan Agreement and the Commonwealth Develop-
ment Corporation Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(c) the specialists referred to in paragraphs (a) (i)
and (b) (i) of Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement have been
appointed by the Cameroon Development Corporation in accordance
with the provisions of said Section.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Cameroon Development Corporation, and is
legally binding upon the Cameroon Development Corporation in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Cameroon Development Corporation Financing
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
the Cameroon Development Corporation, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and the Cameroon Development Corporation in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date June 1, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section. 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaoundr
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINEP                              8268 KN
Yaoundf
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Benott Bindzi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, equip-              10,400,000        39%
ment, civil works,
field development
(including land
clearing, planting
materials, ferti-
lizer and other
supplies, planting
and maintenance)
and operating costs,
including specialists'
services and other
staff salaries, under
Parts A and B of the
Project
(2) Vehicles, equipment,             600,000        39%
civil works and
operating costs,
including specialists'
services and other
staff salaries, of the
Cameroon Development
Corporation under
Part C of the Project
(3) Planting materials,              400,000        39%
fertilizer and
other inputs for
Part C (ii) of the
Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Technical assistance             600,000        39%
services for Part D
of the Project
(5) Civil works, equip-              700,000        39%
ment, materials and
operating costs,
including specialists'
services and other
staff salaries, under
Part E of the Project
(6) Vehicles, equip-                 900,000        39%
ment, operating
costs and consul-
tants' services
under Part F of
the Project
(7) Unallocated                    1,400,000
TOTAL    15,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdfawals shall be made:


﻿- 16 -
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
(b) in respect of expenditures under Categories (2) and (3),
until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished
to the Bank, showing: (i) that the FONADER Financing Agreement has
been duly signed on behalf of the Borrower and FONADER; (ii) that
the Credit Administration Agreement has been duly signed on behalf
of the Cameroon Development Corporation and FONADER; (iii) that
the execution of the FONADER Financing Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and FONADER and of the Credit Administration Agree-
ment on behalf of FONADER and the Cameroon Development Corporation
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action; and (iv) that the FONADER Financing Agree-
ment is legally binding upon the Borrower and FONADER and the
Credit Administration Agreement is legally binding upon FONADER
and the Cameroon Development Corporation, in accordance with their
respective terms.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
6.   If the conditions precedent referred to in subparagraph
3 (b) of this Schedule are not fulfilled on or before May 31,
1979, or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree,
the Bank may, by agreement with the Borrower, terminate the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals in respect of expendi-
tures under Categories (2) and (3) of paragraph 1 of this
Schedule. Upon reaching such agreement the amount of the Loan
corresponding to such Categories shall be cancelled and the
commitment charge (referred to in Section 2.05 hereof) applicable
to such cancelled portion of the Loan shall cease to accrue.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Rubber Estates
(i) Clearing of about 7,900 ha of land, planting of
such land with rubber and initial maintenance of
such plantings until mid-1982, at the following
locations:
- Kompina Estate, to be established in the Mungo
Division at about 55 kilometers North of Douala:
about 5,000 ha;
- Malende/Meanja Estate: about 1,000 ha;
- Mbonge Estate: about 1,000 ha; and
- Tombel Estate: about 900 ha.
(ii) Provision of infrastructure required for said
Estates, including offices, stores, housing,
schools, social facilities and utilities, about
35 km of access roads, a ferry at Kompina Estate,
and two latex processing factories, each with a
capacity of about 17 tons per day, at Mbonge and
Tombel Estates, respectively.
(iii) Provision of vehicles, equipment and materials
required for said Estates.
Part B:   West Coast Oil Palm Estates
(i) Clearing of about 600 ha of land, planting of such
land with oil palm and initial maintenance of
such plantings until mid-1982, in an area adjoining
the Cameroon Development Corporation's existing
oil palm estates between Debundscha and Idenau.
(ii) Provision of additional infrastructure required for
the oil palm estates to be expanded under Part
B (i) of the Project, including an office and


﻿- 19 -
storage facility, housing, a school, social facili-
ties and utilities.
(iii) Provision of vehicles, equipment and materials
required for said oil palm estate plantings.
Part C:   Outgrower Development
(i) Establishment of smallholder programs covering the
planting of about 1,000 ha of rubber (mainly in
the areas of the Kompina and Malende Estates) and
about 1,000 ha of oil palms (mainly in the area of
the Mondoni/Mungo Estate) on land cleared by
smallholders, including extension services to such
smallholders.
(ii) Financial assistance to smallholders under Part C
(i) of the Project, partly in cash for labor and
partly through provision, on credit, of the inputs
required for the establishment of their rubber
and oil palm plantings.
Part D:   Technical Support for the Cameroon Development Corpora-
tion Management
Strengthening and support of the Cameroon Development
Corporation's technical management.
Part E:   Preparation of the Future Expansion Program of the
Cameroon Development Corporation
- Definition of the third expansion program of the
Cameroon Development Corporation through the topo-
graphical and pedological surveys necessary to show
the potentialities of the soils with respect to both
the present crops of the Cameroon Development Corpo-
ration (inter alia palm oil and rubber) and new crops
which might be developed under the ecological con-
ditions of the area (inter alia coconuts).
- Preparation of feasibility studies required for
projects to be included in the above program.
- Within the framework of the above objectives, rubber
tapping research, establishment of about 50 ha of


﻿- 20 -
coconut seed gardens, about 28 ha of coconut trial
plots and a field laboratory for coconut research,
and provision of access infrastructure to the devel-
opment area of about 10,000 to 12,000 ha North-West of
Mount Cameroon, including construction of a bridge
across the Meme River and of an access road of about
40 km.
Part F:   West Coastal Region Master Plan
Preparation of a master plan for the agricultural
development of the Western coastal zone North of the
Wouri River for the purpose of, inter alia, selecting
areas for future estate and smallholder tree crop
plantings, establishing a long-range agricultural
development program and examining related environmental,
developmental and infrastructural problems in said
zone.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15,
beginning August 15, 1983,
through February 15, 1998                    500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.20%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.35%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                        4.35%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        6.30%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        7.10%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.90%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   To the extent feasible, vehicles, equipment and materials
shall be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk
procurement.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
less may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower, the Cameroon
Development Corporation or FONADER, as the case may be, of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Cameroon may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,


﻿- 24 -
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation.and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Cameroon if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower or the Cameroon
Development Corporation, as the case may be,
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Cameroon equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid, price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Cameroon.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among therselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the ccmparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 25 -
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works consisting of land clearing, construction of
roads, minor estate facilities and field development works may
be carried out by force account by the Cameroon Development
Corporation.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, shall be furnished to the Bank for its comments,
and such modifications shall be made in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated and before a
final decision on the award is made, the Bank shall be informed of
the name of the bidder to which the award of the contract is
intended to be made, and a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request, shall be furnished to
the Bank, in sufficient time for its review. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower, the
Cameroon Development Corporation or FONADER, as the case may be,
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 26 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request, shall be fur-
nished to the Bank promptly after the execution of such contract
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower, the Cameroon Development Corporation
or FONADER, as the case may be, and state the reasons for such
determination.


