Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7630-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(
Additional Financing for the 
Ceará Integrated Water Resources Management Project – 
Projeto de Gest
ão
Integrada dos Recursos Hídricos do Ceará - PROGERIRH II
)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF 
CEARÁ 
 
Dated September 22, 2009
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 22, 2009, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (
“Bank”) and the STATE OF CEARÁ 
(“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).   
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and three million Dollars 
($103,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section is its Governor or its 
Secretary of Water Resources. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection of the 
Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the Guarantor’s 
Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan 
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the 
setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall carry out Parts 1(a), 1(b), 1(c), and 2(c) of the Project through SRH and 
shall cause Part 1 of the Project to be carried out by COGERH and Parts 1(a), 2(a) and 
2(b) the Project to be carried out by SOHIDRA; all in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that the Technical 
Cooperation Agreements have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower, COGERH or 
SOHIDRA to perform any of their obligations under this Agreement and/or under the 
Technical Cooperation Agreements. 
Page  4
3
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 90 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
adopted by the Borrower through a decree. 
 
(b) 
the Technical Cooperation Agreements have been signed between the Borrower, 
through SRH and respectively COGERH and SOHIDRA; all in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Technical Cooperation Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower, COGERH and SOHIDRA and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower, COGERH and SOHIDRA in accordance with their terms. 
 
(b) 
the Loan has been duly registered with the 
Guarantor’s Central Bank.  
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on June 17, 
2010.
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02
 of this Agreement
,
t
he Borrower’s Representative is 
its Governor. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Governo do Estado do Ceará 
Palácio de Iracema 
Av. Professor José Martins Rodrigues, 150 
Edson Queiroz 
Fortaleza, CE, 60.811-520 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: 
(55-85) 3101 6200 or (55-85) 3101 1692 
 
With copies to: 
Page  5
4
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
Brasília, DF, 70040-906 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
 (55-61) 
2020-5006
 
And to: 
 
Secretaria dos Recursos Hídricos do Estado do Ceará 
Centro Administrativo Governador Virgílio Távora, Edifício SEDUC, 2º Andar 
Cambeba  
Fortaleza, CE, 60.830-120 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
(55-85) 3101 4049 
 
Secretaria do Planejamento e Gestão do Estado do Ceará 
Centro Administrativo Governador Virgílio Távora, Edifício SEPLAG, 3º Andar 
Cambeba 
Fortaleza, CE, 60.830-120 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
(55-85) 3101 4514 
(55-85) 3101 4517 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado do Ceará 
Av. Alberto Nepomuceno, 2  
Centro 
Fortaleza, CE, 60055-500 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
(55-85) 3101 9110 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Page  6
5
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Fortaleza, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
STATE OF CE
ARÁ 
 
By/s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Cid Ferreira Gomes 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase the sustainable water supply for multiple 
uses and improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s integrated water resource management system; 
(b) stimulate multiple use, and efficient and participatory management of the Borrower’s water 
resources; and (c) promote improved management of soil and vegetation in tributary watersheds 
to minimize erosion and enhance natural water storage mechanisms through the adequate 
management of critical micro-basins and ground water resources. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part 1: Water Resources Management
Support and deepen the Borrower’s water resource sector reform agenda to improve 
management efficiency, consolidate water supply management, enhance public participatory 
mechanisms and strengthen institutional capacity through: 
(a) 
Institutional Strengthening: development and strengthening of human resources for the 
Borrower’s water resources management entities and the public communication system to 
facilitate the social change for a new water culture. 
(b) 
Water Rights, Licensing and Control System, Bulk Water Tariff Program: (i) updating 
and expansion of the technical and information basis for allocating and managing water rights; 
(ii) enforcing water rights and bulk water charges; and (iii) re-evaluating the bulk water tariff and 
tariff collection system of COGERH. 
 
(c) 
Water Basins Committees and Water Users Associations: (i) supporting the creation of 
additional water basin committees and water user associations; (ii) dissemination of lessons 
learned and best practices through PRODHAM as detailed in the Operational Manual; and (iii) 
development of environmental education programs for bulk water conservation
.
(d) 
Operation and Maintenance of Hydraulic Infrastructure: (i) preparation of studies for 
rehabilitation and enhancement of water infrastructure; and (ii) implementation of automated 
Operation and Maintenance for priority infrastructure; including the Integration Canal
.
(e) 
Water Quality Management and Groundwater Management: (i) implementation of water 
quality monitoring system; and (ii) expansion and strengthening of the groundwater management 
system. 
 
Part 2: Hydraulic Infrastructure
Implement the following Subprojects and activities for additional water storage in the 
Borrower’s territory: 
(a) 
Strategic Reservoir Network: financing the construction of reservoirs in the Borrower’s 
territory, including Umari and Gameleira.  
Page  8
7
(b) 
Water Transfer Axis: (i) completion of the third section of the Integration Canal which 
were initiated under the Original Project; and (ii) construction of the water supply systems that 
will be used to distribute the water from the strategic reservoirs, including 
Umari/Madalena
 and 
Gameleira/Itapipoca. 
(c) 
Studies and Engineering Designs
:
support the
 Borrower’s infrastructure investment 
planning
.
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain SRH with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, including an advisory 
council (the Advisory Council) and a dam safety review panel (the Dam Safety Review 
Panel); all with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank as set forth in the Operational 
Manual. 
2. 
The Borrower shall continue, through SRH: (a) preparing and furnishing to the Bank 
annual operating plans and budgets, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project 
activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding year and the respective 
sources of funding therefore, by October 30 of each year; and (b) furnishing to the Bank 
the approved annual operating plans and respective budgets referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each year in question.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through SRH, carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual, the Environmental Management Framework, the Environmental Management 
Plans, and the Resettlement Framework, all as updated in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank and the approved annual operating plans and respective budgets, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
B.
 
COGERH Technical Cooperation Agreement  
 
1.
 
To carry out Part 1 of the Project by COGERH, the Borrower shall sign and thereafter 
maintain and comply with, through SRH, a technical cooperation agreement (the 
COGERH Technical Cooperation Agreement) under terms and conditions approved by 
the Bank as further specified in the Operational Manual. The Borrower shall cause 
COGERH within its responsibilities to comply with said COGERH Technical 
Cooperation Agreement until the end of the execution of its respective parts of the 
Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SRH, shall exercise its rights under the COGERH Technical 
Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the COGERH Technical 
Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
C.
 
SOHIDRA Technical Cooperation Agreement  
 
1.
 
To carry out Parts 1(a), 2(a) and 2(b) of the Project by SOHIDRA, the Borrower shall 
sign and thereafter maintain and comply with, through SRH, a technical cooperation 
Page  10
9
agreement (the SOHIDRA Technical Cooperation Agreement) under terms and 
conditions approved by the Bank as further specified in the Operational Manual. . The 
Borrower shall cause SOHIDRA within its responsibilities to comply with said 
SOHIDRA Technical Cooperation Agreement until the end of the execution of its 
respective parts of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SRH, shall exercise its rights under the SOHIDRA Technical 
Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the SOHIDRA Technical 
Cooperation Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E. Subprojects
 
1. 
The Borrower through SRH shall carry out the Subprojects and shall cause the 
Subprojects to be carried out by SOHIDRA in accordance with the SOHIDRA Technical 
Cooperation Agreement and procedures acceptable to the Bank for each Subproject 
carried out under Part 2 (a) and (b) of the Project as further detailed in the Operational 
Manual, the Environmental Management Framework, and the Resettlement Framework. 
 
2. 
When presenting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, the Borrower, through SRH, 
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
and in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual, containing, 
inter alia: (i) a description of the Subproject and expenditures to be incurred therein, 
including those expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) 
a
detailed description of how the relevant Subproject meets the eligibility criteria set forth 
in the Operational Manual; (iii) a plan for the administration, operation and maintenance 
of the proposed Subproject; (iv) an evaluation on the legal and physical availability of the 
land necessary for the purpose of the Subproject; (v) whenever necessary, evidence that 
the necessary water rights for the Subproject have been obtained; (vi) evidence that the 
Borrower holds the corresponding environmental permits required for the execution of 
the works planned under the proposed Subproject; (vii) whenever applicable, evidence of 
compliance with paragraph F below; and (viii) such other information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request in respect of the relevant Subproject. 
 
F. Safeguards 
 
1. 
Environmental Management Framework 
 
The Borrower, through SRH, shall, when applicable in accordance with the provisions of 
the Environmental Management Framework (including provisions for pest management, 
forests, chance finding and salvage of cultural property and protection of natural 
habitats)
:
(a) furnish to the Bank for its approval an Environmental Management Plan 
with its respective action plan as well as an Environmental Impact Assessment for each 
Page  11
10 
 
Subproject; and (b) carry out the requirements specified by such Environmental 
Management Plan and Environmental Impact Assessment in accordance with their terms 
for each Subproject. 
 
2. Resettlement 
 
The Borrower shall, through SRH, when applicable in accordance with the provisions of 
the Resettlement Framework: (a) furnish to the Bank for its approval a Resettlement Plan 
for each Subproject; and (b) carry out the requirements specified by such Resettlement 
Plan in accordance with its terms. 
 
3. 
Safety of Dams 
 
Whenever a Subproject includes the construction of a dam which is fifteen meters or 
more in height, or which is between ten and fifteen meters in height and presents, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Bank, special design complexities, the Borrower shall: (i) 
establish and thereafter maintain during the design and initial operation of such 
Subproject, a Dam Safety Review Panel under terms of reference and arrangements 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) cause the relevant dam, reservoir and related structures to be 
periodically inspected by qualified professionals under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Operational Manual, in 
order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, 
or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the  same, 
which may endanger their safety; (iii) furnish to the Bank for its review the periodic 
reports of the Dam Safety Review Panel (to be issued in accordance with its terms of 
reference) and of the professionals referred to in subparagraph (ii) above, together with 
the Borrower’s own comments; and (iv) no later than six months before the expected 
completion of the relevant dam, reservoir and related structures, propose to the Bank for 
its review and approval, appropriate arrangements for their operation and maintenance.   
 
Section II.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators set forth below in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than three months after the Closing Date. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
11 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering said calendar quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Section III.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ Services.  
 All goods, works and non-
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ 
 Services 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, works and non-
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ Services
.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-consulta
nts’ services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including in respect of goods, non-consultants 
services and works, 
convite
,
tomada de preços
 and 
concorrência
 set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law No. 8.666 of June 21, 1993, and, 
pregão eletrônico
 set forth in 
the Guarantor’s Law No. 10520 of July 17, 2002) 
(b) Shopping  
Page  13
12 
 
Contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding are subject to the following 
additional procedures, namely that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank
.
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Least-Cost Selection
(c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by 
the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Amount of the Loan 
 
Page  14
13 
 
Category
Allocated (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Goods, works, non-
consultants’ services and 
consultants’ services 
required for Part 1 of the 
Project, Audits and 
Operating Costs for the 
Project 
 
10,742,500 
 
90% 
 
(2) Goods, works, non-
consultants’ services and 
consultants’ services 
required for Part 2 of the 
Project, except for Part 2 
(b)(i) and expropriation 
costs under Part 2(a) and 
Part 2(b)(ii)  
 
92,000,000 
 
100% 
 
(3) Front-end Fee 
      257,500 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
(4) Premium for Interest 
Rate Caps and Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 4.04 of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL 
__________
103,000,000
For the purposes of this table, the term “Operating Costs” means recurrent costs of the 
Project incurred by SRH, and in accordance with the Technical Cooperation Agreements by 
COGERH and SOHIDRA, including: (i) operation and maintenance of vehicle, repairs, fuel and 
spare parts; (ii) equipment and computer maintenance, including hardware and software; (iii) 
communication costs and shipment costs (whenever these costs are not included in the cost of 
goods); (iv) office supplies and equipment; (v) rent for office facilities; (vi) utilities; and (vii) 
travel and per diem costs for SRH, COGERH or SOHIDRA technical staff carrying out 
supervisory and quality control activities.  
B
.
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,300,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
within twelve months prior to such date for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) 
and (2). 
Page  15
14 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.  The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it 
agrees with such extension. 
Page  16
15 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2015  
 
through April 15, 2029 
 
3.33% 
On October 15, 2029 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
Page  17
16 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  18
17 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.
Definitions
1. 
“Advisory Council” means 
Conselho dos Recursos Hídricos do Ceará,
 an advisory 
council in charge of the overall oversight of the Project, as created and operating under 
the Borrower’s Law No. 11.996, dated July 24, 1992. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
4. “COGERH” 
means 
Co
mpanhia de Gestão dos Recursos Hídricos do Ceará
,
the 
Borrower’s water resources management company as established and operating under the 
Borrower’s Law Number 12.217 of November 18, 1993. 
5. 
“COGERH Technical Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section I. C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and executed between SRH and COGERH 
for the implementation of Part 1 of the Project. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
7. 
“Dam Safety Review Panel” means the panel of experts in dam safety referred to in 
Section I A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” means 
Estudo de Impacto Ambiental/Relat
ório de 
Impacto do Meio Ambiente
,
a
document to be prepared, when applicable, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Environmental Management Framework as referred to in 
Section I.F.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be published and available to the 
public on the website 
www.srh.ce.gov.br
,
outlining specific implementation procedures 
for each Subproject under the Project and providing for mitigation measures and 
monitoring procedures for environmental purposes, including chance finding for cultural 
property and protection of natural habitats, as said assessment may be amended from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior approval
.
9. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the document dated November 2008, 
as published and available to the public on the website 
www.srh.ce.gov.br
which contains 
the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including measures for pest 
management, forests, chance finding of cultural property and protection of natural habitats, 
identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect 
environmental impacts from the carrying out of the Project, including Subprojects, 
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact identified, as well as 
measures for enhancing each identified positive impact. 
Page  19
18 
 
10. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the document (published and available to the 
public on the website 
www.srh.ce.gov.br
), prepared in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Framework, outlining general implementation procedures, 
mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for Subprojects under the Project, as said 
plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
12. 
“Integration Canal” means the conveyance system of bulk water supplies from the 
Castanhão dam in the Jaguaribe River Basin to the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region. 
 
13. 
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project, as updated and 
found satisfactory to the Bank to be adopted by the Borrower,
 
which shall contain, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) the functions and responsibilities of the personnel of SRH in charge of daily 
Project coordination and monitoring; (ii) the functions and responsibilities of Advisory 
Council and of the Dam Safety Review Panel; (iii) the procedures for procurement of 
works, goods and services for the Project and for the Subprojects, as well as for financial 
management and audits; (iv) the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project and of Subprojects; (v) flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds; 
(vi) the eligibility criteria for the Subprojects, their selection and approval processes; (vii) 
the staffing plan for SRH; and (viii) the Environmental Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Framework, all as updated in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and 
the first approved annual operating plan for the first year of the Project. 
 
14. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project between 
the Bank and the Borrower, dated February 10, 2000 (Loan No. 4531-BR). 
 
15. 
 “Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
17. “PRODHAM” 
means 
Projeto de Desenvolvimento Hidro-ambiental
,
the Micro 
Watershed Management Pilot, referred as Part E of the Original Project, described in 
Schedule 2 of the Original Loan Agreement, to read as follows: 
“Part E
:
Micro 
Watershed Management Pilot:
Carrying out of projects in the Selected Micro 
Watersheds comprising the following actitivites:1. Establishment of a methodology for 
prevention of the effects of degradation of vegetation and its rehabilitation, thus 
mitigating adverse environmental impacts. 2. Development of simple techniques for soil 
and water conservation in the micro watersheds by using local human and natural 
resources. 3. Restoration of native vegetation along watercourses and steep slopes. 4. 
Adoption of small erosion control and water retention structures to increase 
interseasonal water availability and improve the conditions for animal husbandry.” 
 
Page  20
19 
 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
September 22, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
19. 
“Resettlement Framework” means the document (published and available to the public on 
the website 
www.srh.ce.gov.br
), dated November 2008 and outlining general 
implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring procedures for 
involuntary resettlement under the Project, as said framework may be amended from time 
to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
20. 
“Resettlement Plan” means a document or documents to be prepared, when applicable, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Framework as referred to in Section 
I.F.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be published and available to the public on 
the website 
www.srh.ce.gov.br
and outlining specific implementation procedures, 
mitigation measures and monitoring procedures (including cadastre and action plan) for 
any involuntary resettlement under the Project, as said plan may be amended from time to 
time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
21. “SOHIDRA” 
means 
“
Superintendência de Obras Hidráulicas
”
the Borrower’s 
superintendency of hydraulic works as created and operating under the Borrower’s Law 
Number 11,380 of December 15, 1987. 
22. 
“SOHIDRA Technical Cooperation Agreements” means the agreement referred to in 
Section I. C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and executed between SRH and SOHIDRA 
for the implementation of Part 2(a) and (b) of the Project. 
23.  
“SRH” 
means 
Secretaria
 
dos
 
Recursos
 
Hídricos
,
the Borrower’s secretariat of water 
resources as created and operating under the Borrower’s Law Number 11.306 of April 1, 
1987. 
24. 
“Subprojects” means the infrastructure activities to be carried out under Part 2(a) and (b) 
of the Project. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or 
after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date. The Bank shall 
Page  21
20 
 
pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the re
maining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. 
Suspension by the Bank 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower (other 
than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to receive 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or otherwise to 
participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in 
part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a determination by the Bank or the 
Association that the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the 
proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
