Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3775-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
TWELFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 135.4 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
April 16, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is determined in relation to a
basket of six reference currencies, with the US Dollar serving as intervention
currency. Since February 23, 1984, the official exchange rate has been set at
Tk 25.17 buying and Tk 25.23 selling per US Dollar. Unless noted otherwise,
the rates shown below have been used throughout this report:
US$ 1            - Tk 25.20
Tk 1             - US$ 0.04
Tk 1 million    - US$ :39,683
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I acre  (ac)                          - 0.4051 hectare (ha)
I maund (md)                          - 82.27 pounds (lbs) = 37.3261 kg
1 metric ton (ton)                    - 1,000 kg = 26.791 maunds (mds)
I cubic foot per second (cusec)    - 0.0283 cubic meter per second
1 mmcf                                - 1 million standard cubic feet
ADMINISTRATIVE STRUICTURE
Old                                                                  New
Union                            - 6-12 villages -                            Union
Thana (Police Station)            - 6-15 unions --         Upazilla (Sub-District)
Subdivision                       - 5-12 Thanas --                 Zilla (District)
District (Zilla)              - 1-6 Subdivisions
Division                         - 5-7 Districts -
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
TWELFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT SUMMARY    . . .  . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
I.  THE  ECONOMY    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     . 1
Introduction  . .  . . . . . ..                  ..              1
Overall Developments and Short-Term Outlook........ 1
The Balance of Payments   .  . .  .  .                         . .  .  3
Public Finance   .  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  .  5
Development Planning and Policy Issues   . . . .  . . . .  7
The Need for Program Aid  .  . . .  . . .  . .  . . .  .  9
Relations with the IMF . . . . .  . . .  . . . .  . . 10
II.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BAIGLADESH  .  . . . . . .  . . . 10
III. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT POLICY REFORMS  . . . . . 12
Introduction  .  . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . . .    12
Public Sector Financial Resource Management . . . . . . . 13
Public Sector Financial Resource Mobilization  .  . . . . . 16
Financial Sector Policy   .  . . . . . .  . .  . . . . 21
Agricultural and Food Policy . . .  . . .  . . . . . . 24
Industrial and Trade Policy  . .  . . . . . . . . .  . 28
IV.    THE  CREDIT  .     .    .     .     .    .     .    .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .   34
V.  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY   . .  . . . . . . .  . . 36
VI. RECOMMENDATION  .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Annex I:   Social and Economic ][ndicators Data Sheets   .  . . . . 37
Annex II:   The Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh  .  . . 42
Annex III:  Supplementary Credit Data  . .  . . .  . .  . . . . 46
Annex IV:   Public Sector Financial Resource Mobilization in FY84 . . 54
Annex V:   Policy Issues in the Financial Sector  . . .  . .  . . 55
Annex VI:   Reforms in Minor Irrigation Policy  .  .  . . . . . . 66
Annex VII:  Reform Measures in Industrial and Trade Policies   . . . 71
Annex VIII: Progress Report on the Eleventh Imports Program Credit   . 83
Annex IX:   Use of IMF Resources. Bangladesh . . . . . . . . . 92
This document has a restricted distributioni and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-.11-
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
ADP     -    Annual Development Program
BADC    -    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BKB     -    Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BPC     -    Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB    -    Bangladesh Power Development Board
BRDB    -    Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BSB     -    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSBL    -    Bangladesh Samabaya Bank, Ltd.
BSRS    -    Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BWDB    -    Bangladesh Water Developmenit Board
CCIE    -    Chief Controller of Imports and Exports
CDST    -    Customs Duties and Sales Taxes
DCA     -    Development Credit Agreement
DFC     -    Development Finance Company
DSL     -    Debt Service Liabilities
DTW     -    Deep Tubewell
EFF     -    Extended, Financing Facility
FY      -    Fiscal Year
GOB     -    Government of Bangladesh
HTW     -    Hand Tubewell
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
IEC     -    Import Entitlement Certificate
IFC     -    International F:inance Corpcoration
IIS     -    Industrial Investment Schedule
IMP     -    Irrigation Management Program
IPC     -    Imports Program Credit
KSS     -    Krishak Samabaya Samilty (Farmers" Cooperative Society)
LLP     -    Low-Lift Pump
MFP     -    Ministry of Finance and Planning
M&LT    -    Medium- and Long-Term
MoF     -    Ministry of Food
MTFPP   -    Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
NBR     -    National Board of Revenue
NCB     -    Nationalized Commercial Bank
NIP     -    New Industrial Policy
O&M     -    Operation and Maintenance
PSE          Public Sector Enterprise
REB          Rural Electrification Board
SFYP    -    Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85)
SITC    -    Standard International Trade Classification
STW     -    Shallow Tubewell
TA      -    Technical Assistance
TCCA    -    Thana Central Cooperat:ive Association
TIP     -    Trade and Industrial Policy
XPL     -    Export Performance License
WES     -    Wage Earners' Scheme



-iii-
BANGLADESH
TWELFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
CRED:IT SUMMARY
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:            SDR 135.4 million (US$ 140.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Purpose:           The Credit will provide foreign exchange to finance
general imports. In order to reduce Bangladesh's
dependence on concessional aid inflows for financing its
import bill, the Government has agreed in the context of
negotiations for this Credit to undertake policy and
administrative improvements in public sector financial
resource mobilization and management, in financial sector
policies, in agricultural and food policies, and in
industrial and trade policies.
Estimated          The proposedi Credit would be available for disbursement
Disbursements:  in two tranches: US$ 70 million equivalent upon credit
effectiveness and. the other US$ 70 million equivalent
subject t:o FL review of the Government's economic
development policies, including in particular the
implementation of the Government's public investment budget
and the Government's efforts to mobilize domestic financial
resources. This review is to take place no later than
October 31, 1984., The bulk of disbursements will take
place during FY85, and disbursement are expected be
completed. in FY86.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT ANI) RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
TWELFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE l?EOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Twelfth Imports Program Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for
SDR 135.4 million (the equivalent of US$ 140 million), on standard IDA terms,
to provide foreign exchange for financing general imports. The Credit would
support improvements in public sector financial resource mobilization and
management, in financial sector policies, in agricultural and food policies,
and in industrial and trade policies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic Trends and
Development Administration," (IBRD Report No. 4822-BD, dated February 27,
1984) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh's economy was severely disrupted by the independence
struggle and by devastating floods and harvest failures in the early 1970s.
Output in agriculture and industry recovered to their pre-independence levels
only in the mid-1970s. Large budget deficits, inflation, rapid population
growth and political instability added to the difficulties. In the second
half of the 1970s, increased economic and political stability provided plan-
ners the opportunity to turn from crisis management to the longer-range
objectives of development. Substantial real increases in aid disbursements
permitted rising public investments. Output in manufacturing rose by 6.3%
and real GDP growth averaged 5.8% annually between FY75 and FY80, despite
several serious setbacks in agricultural production.
B. Overall Developments and Short-Term Outlook
4.      The economic consolidation of the late 1970s has been followed by a
period of financial and economic difficulties. Largely as a result of the
sharp increase in international petroleum prices and declining jute export
prices, Bangladesh's terms of trade deteriorated by over 30% from FY80 to
FY82, and the trade deficit more than doubled between FY79 and FY82, reaching
almost US$ 2 billion (17.9% of GDP) in FY82. At the same time, the interna-
tional recession caused a stagnation of aid inflows in real terms from FY79
through FY82. Although GDP still rose by 5.9% in real terms in FY81, when
favorable weather and improveid input supplies led to a record foodgrain
harvest of 14.7 million tons, the budgetary and balance of payments situation
deteriorated sharply. Commodity aid disbursements declined, adversely
affecting counterpart fund receipts, import capacity and import duty
collections, and delayed adjustments to the tightening resource constraint
caused a budget deficit of about 2.4% of GDP in FY81.



-2-
5.      The situation worsened sharply in FY82.  Prolonged drought reduced
FY82 foodgrain production 2.5% below the FY81 level, triggering rising food
prices and a run-down of public grain stocks.  Food aid arrivals had to be
supplemented by imports arranged on comnercial terms, imposing further strain
on the balance of payments. Reduced agricultural incomes depressed demand
and activity in other sectors, and this recession was aggravated by a 12%
decline in export earnings and a reduction in the real level of public
investment. GDP growth slowed to 1.1% iin real terms, as value added in
agriculture declined by 0.7% and industrial output increased by only 1.1%.
Despite a mid-year cut in the investment: budget, an overall budget deficit
was avoided in FY82 only because substantial sales from public grain stocks
generated unexpectedly large revenues. The rise in foodgrain prices, com-
bined with exchange rate depreciation and the rapid expansion of liquidity
in late FY81, caused inflationary pressures t' increase sharply in FY82.
6.      In July 1982, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) initiated a wide
range of measures to restore financial and monetary stability.  Originally
planned development expenditures for FY83 were reduced by 18%, and the recur-
rent expenditure increase was budgeted at only 10%. New tax measures were
introduced and substantial subsidy reductions and pricing adjustments
effected. Nevertheless, recurrent revenues declined to 12.4% of GDP in FY83
(compared with 13.4% in FY81 and 13.0% in FY82), because the sharply lower
import level reduced import duty collections. As recurrent expenditures rose
to 9.8% of GDP (compared with 8.5% in FY81 anti 9.4% in FY82), the surplus
available for investment financing fell below the levels attained in earlier
years. Nevertheless, improved budgetary management permitted implementation
of an investment program totaling Tk 29.B billion (10% higher than budgeted).
7.      Agricultural production recovered in the second half of FY83, and
aggregate FY83 foodgrain productioni reachaed a record level of 15.1 million
tons. Growth in other sectors was constrained, however, by the reduction in
private disposable incomes caused by GOB's adjustment measures, slow
implementation of public sector investments, and the severely constrained
foreign exchange situation. Although vaLue added in agriculture increased by
3.6%, industrial production declined and GDP increased only by about 2.9%.
The external payments situation was helped by a further 10% depreciation of
the Taka, a 9% increase in aid disbursements, improved terms of trade,
depressed import demand, and a 50% increase in workers  remittances; foreign
exchange reserves could be replenished and by the end of FY83 covered almost
two months of merchandise imports.
8.      The fiscal and pricing measures taken in July 1982, together with the
pursuit of prudent credit policies, had a favorable impact on monetary
developments. Domestic credit expansion during FY83, at 12% (compared with
18% in FY82), was below the ceiling agreed upoIl with the IMF, and the small
reduction in public sector credit n.eeds permittWed a 35% expansion of credit
to the private sector. Nonetheless, because o:E the unanticipated large
surplus in the balance of payments, total liquidity expanded by 28% in FY83,
compared with 8% in FY82. Quasi-money increased much faster than narrow



-3-
money, due in part to the re-emergence of positive real interest rates:
although the large upward adjustmenits in many administered prices in July
1982 caused an initial surge in coInsumer prices, the rate of inflation
declined markedly throughout the remainder of the year.
9.      While average per capita consumption declined in FY83, this decline
was not predominantly felt by the poorest. The recovery of foodgrain produc-
tion during the year shielded most of the population from the most severe
effects of the general recession, and increased grain sales from public
stocks maintained food security and restrained the rise in food prices.
GOB's adjustment efforts also affected mainly the urban and import-dependent
sectors, where average incomes are higher than in the economy as a whole.
Although prices of agricultural production inputs were also raised, the
returns on their use remained markedly positive.
10.     Prospects for FY84 and FY85 are somewhat more favorable: real GDP
growth averaging about 4.5-5% per annum should be possible in FY84 and the
next few years, led by further import substitution in foodgrains, fertilizers
and energy. Activity in other sectors is recovering from the recession of
1982-83, and import demand has begun to pick up in recent months. Foreign
exchange reserves continued to rise rapidly during the first half of FY84,
and with export earnings expected to increase by at least 10% in nominal
terms, the FY84 merchandise import bill can increase to about US$ 2.45
billion. Foreign reserves should not fall below about US$ 400 million by
the end of FY84. FY85 export earnings could rise by 8% and merchandise
imports of some US$ 2.65 billion should be possible, sufficient to sustain
real GDP growth of 5%. The current account deficit may rise to US$ 1,265
million in FY85, just under 10% of GDP, but will be fully covered by aid
inflows. The US$ 230 million in scheduled repurchase obligations to the IMF
and external debt amortization should not pose serious problems.
11.     Borrowing by the Government and by public sector corporations has
continued to be carefully managed during the first part of FY84, but net
credit to the private sector, which expanded by 35% during FY83, rose by a
further 20% by December 1983. Together with the accumulation of net foreign
assets, this has contributed to a 23% rise in liquidity during the first half
of FY84. Accelerating imports should lead to a decline in reserves, but the
original objective of limiting liquidity growth during FY84 to 16% is not
likely to be achieved. The rapid growth in the money supply has not yet let
to a sharp acceleration of inflation, but some prices (especially for
foodgrains) are already well above expected levels, and domestic credit
expansion will need to be carefully monitored over the coming months to avoid
an acceleration of inflation.
C. The Balance of Payments
12.     A massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on external
aid characterize Bangladesh's balance of payments. Export earnings cover
less than 30% of the import bill, and raw jute and jute products account for



-4.-
more than two thirds of export earnings. Although increasing inflows of
workers' remittances kept the current account deficit significantly smaller
than the trade deficit, it averaged over 10% of GNP annually over the past
decade; it was financed by external aid inflows, almost entirely on highly
concessional terms.
13.     In FY81 and FY82, Bangladesh was severely affected by several adverse
developments. While import prices increased sharply, export prices fell and
led to a 2% reduction in export earnings in FY81 and a further 12% decline in
FY82 -- despite significant growth in export volume. The terms of trade
deteriorated by over 30% from FY80 to FY82. At the same time, aid inflows
stagnated in real terms from FY79 through FY82, and the aid composition
changed markedly: commodity aid accounted for 57% of total project and com-
modity aid disbursements in FY79, but this percentage fell to 42% by FY82.
Although the Taka was gradually depreciated by 22% against the US Dollar,
non-food imports increased by only 2% in real terms in FY82, and workers'
remittances increased further, the current account deficit widened to US$ 1.6
billion in FY82 (14.8% of GDP). A net increase of US$ 65 million in external
short-term borrowings and a run-down of Eoreign exchange reserves to US$ 122
million (equivalent to about two weeks of merchandise imports) by the end of
the year were needed to finance the payments gap.
14.     The pressure eased considerably in FY83, due to a 9% increase in aid
disbursements, lower petroleum and food import prices, a 45% increase in
workers' remittances to US$ 628 million, and a further 10% depreciation of
the Taka by mid-year. Despite an 8% decline in export unit prices, export
earnings increased by 10% to US$ 686 million. Import demand was severely
depressed -- due to the economic recession and to GOB's efforts to adjust to
the external resource constraint, and non-foodgrain imports in FY83 totaled
only US$ 1.9 billion (US$ 400 million less than in FY82). The current
account deficit narrowed to US$ 1.1 billion and was fully covered by aid
inflows. By the end of FY83, foreign exchange reserves had increased to
US$ 350 million, almost two months' import equivalent, and most external
short-term debts had been repaid.
15.     The FY84 balance of payments is considerably less constrained.  The
terms of trade have been improving, and merchandise export earnings are
likely to increase by at least 10% in nominal terms. With foreign exchange
reserves replenished (US$ 530 million at t"he end of February 1984) and exter-
nal short-term debts largely paid off, there is room for increased imports of
essential raw materials and intermediate goods to support renewed industrial
growth. Although external debt service payments and repurchases from the IMF
are substantially larger than in FY83, and workers' remittances are not
expected to increase in real terms above last year's level, the FY84 import
bill will probably increase by some US$ 150 million over its depressed FY83
level, to about US$ 2.45 billion; inL real terms, however, this would still be
lower than in FY81 and FY82. Foreign exchange reserves should not fall below
about US$ 400 million by the end of the year.



-5-
16.     As export prices are expected to improve, export earnings might rise
by 8% in FY85, and workers' remittances should total more than US$ 650
million. In spite of higher interest payments on medium- and long-term
debts, available financing should be sufficient for a merchandise import bill
of US$ 2.64 billion -- adequate to s,ustain real GDP growth of 5%, as
foodgrain import requirements are projected to decline by 12% in real terms
in FY85. Under these assumptions, the current account deficit would rise to
about US$ 1.26 billion, just under 10% of GDP. Despite rising obligations
on capital account, which include US$ 79 million in repurchases from the IMF
(see Annex IX) and about US$ 150 million in amortization payments on medium-
and long-term public debts and commercial food loans, this should be manage-
able if aid disbursements materialize as currently anticipated.
17.     Since most of Bangladesh's external borrowings have been on conces-
sional terms, servicing external public medium- and long-term (M&LT) debts
has not been a major problem in the past. M&LT debt service obligations will
increase over the next few years, however, as repayments on loans and credits
(including IDA's own) contracted in the early 1970s are increasingly falling
due. Service payments on external public M&LT debt (excluding food loans and
IMF repurchase obligations) toltaled US$ 120 million in FY83, equivalent to
9.1% of export earnings (including workers' remittances); they are projected
to rise to 12.3% in FY84 and 12.5% :in FY86. The Bank Group's share of
Bangladesh's external public M&LT debt servicing obligations will rise only
slowly, from 9.6% of the total in FY83 to 10.7% in FY86. Total outstanding
and disbursed external M&LT public debt amounted to US$ 4.47 billion as of
June 30, 1983, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 31.8%
of this total. The Bank Group's share of total public M&LT debt outstanding
and undisbursed is projected to increase to about 36% in FY86.
18.     Servicing the US$ 65 million in commercial short-term external public
debts outstanding at the beginning of FY84 will be manageable, as will the
repayment of US$ 72 million on non-concessional loans contracted during the
past three years for financing foodgrain imports.
D. Public Finance
19.     GOB's budgetary revenues are highly dependent on duties and taxes
levied on merchandise imports and on counterpart funds generated by the sale
of aid-financed food and commodity imports; together, these have accounted
for 45-50% of total budgeted recurrent revenues in recent years. If project
aid disbursements are added, import- and aid-generated revenues have provided
roughly two thirds of GOB's total budgeted current and capital receipts.
20.     As a result of the poor trade and aid situation, import duty and
sales tax receipts and commodity aid counterpart fund receipts remained
significantly below originally anticipated levels in the past three years.
Inadequate financial planning and delayed adjustments to the reduced
availability of resources exacerbated these revenue problems. Planned
development expenditures were based on overly optimistic revenue and aid



assumptions, and the financial performance of most public sector enterprises
deteriorated sharply when failure to adjust sales prices to rising costs
compounded their already poor operational efficiency. Despite efforts to
limit the growth of recurrent expenditures -- with adverse effects on real
civil service salaries and on critical operation and maintenance activities
-- the Annual Development Program (ADP) had to be scaled down substantially
at mid-year in FY81 and again in FY82. These problems were aggravated in
FY81 by the need to purchase a record volume of foodgrains to maintain
remunerative farmgate prices, and an overall budget deficit of Tk 4.8 billion
(2.4% of GDP) emerged.  In FY82,, a budget deEicit was avoided only because
poor domestic foodgrain production necessitated substantial grain sales from
public stocks which generated additional budgetary revenues.
21.     The situation in FY83 was even more constrained, chiefly because of
the sharp reduction in the country's capacity to import. When it became
clear that the initial aid and import expectations had been too optimistic,
GOB took restore financial stability and at the same time protect the
implementation of the most important parts of its development program.
Recurrent expenditure growth was budgeted at only 10% -- slightly below the
anticipated rate of inflation. The ADP was reduced by 18% from the initially
announced level to Tk 27 billion -- 8% less than the FY82 ADP and 12% less
than the FY81 ADP in real terms. The number of projects was reduced sharply,
and a 'Core Program' of 532 high-priority projects was specified, amounting
to about 82% of the ADP.  Full funding was initially limited to the Core
Program, while spending on non-Core projects was restricted to unavoidable
expenses until the resource availability outlook became clear at mid-year.
22.     At the same time, GOB introduced new domestic tax measures which
yielded some Tk 600 million in additional revenues in FY83, adjusted the
import duty structure so as to contain import demand for non-essentials and
to mobilize some Tk 500 million in further revenues, and effected substantial
pricing adjustments for goods and services supplied by the public sector in
an effort to reduce subsidies and improve the financial viability of major
public sector corporations. The subsidies on fertilizers and foodgrains were
reduced, and the prices of petroleum products, electricity, gas, newsprint,
paper and public transport services were increased to cover cost increases.
The adjustment effort was impressive, mobilizing some Tk 6 billion (2.3% of
GDP) in resources in FY83 for the public, sector.
23.     Increased resource mobilization, realistic expenditure planning and
improved budgetary management made mid-year reductions in planned ADP outlays
unnecessary.  Although recurrent expenditures were somewhat higher than
budgeted, the current budget surplus was close to the targeted level. The
exchange rate depreciation increased the! domestic currency value of food and
commodity aid receipts and the collection of duties and taxes on imports, and
full spending for non-Core projects was authorized by mid-year; it also
increased the domestic currency valuation of project aid, and actual ADP
expenditures during FY83 totaled Tk 29.8 billion, 10% more than budgeted.
This represented 13.6% of GDP, compared with 13.5% in FY81 and 13.9% in FY82.



-7-
24.     With its FY84 budget, introduced in July 1983, GOB sought to con-
solidate the gains made last year and to set the stage for a broadened domes-
tic revenue mobilization effort in t:he future. The total tax effort was
expected to increase from aboul: 8.3% of GDP in FY83 to 9.0% in FY84. While
domestic taxes, which accounted for 3.6% of GDP in FY83, were expected to
generate only 3.4% of GDP in FY(84 (mainly due to the rapid growth in the
lightly taxed agricultural secl:or in FY84), several new tax measures were
introduced whose full revenue impact will be felt only in FY85 and
thereafter. Total current revenues were budgeted more than 25% higher than
in FY83, at Tk 34 billion; almost 80% of this increase was to come from a
Tk 6 billion increase in duties and taxes on imports. Recurrent expenditures
were again to be tightly controlled, so as to permit a substantial increase
in the current budget surplus. The ADP was budgeted at over Tk 34.8 billion
(5% higher in real terms than ithe actual FY83 ADP). Resources not generated
by external aid inflows were to finance 19.2% of the ADP: this represents
merely 2.3% of GDP and highliglats the urgency of mobilizing more domestic
resources for development financing. A Core Program of 435 projects was
specified, accounting for 73% of the ADP and providing ample room for adjust-
ing expenditures to actual resource availabilities.
25.     The unexpectedly slow recovery of imports has caused a substantial
shortfall in customs duty and sales tax collections below budgeted levels.
Part of this revenue shortfall will be offset by savings in the food budget,
as domestic foodgrain procurement will be far below original expectations.
Nevertheless, the February 1984 review of the budgetary situation indicated
that the the ADP might have to be reduced by about 9% in order to remain in
line with available resources. However, resource prospects have been improv-
ing in recent months -- as the disbursement rates of both project and com-
modity aid have accelerated and additional resources have been mobilized
through new financial instruments. Some cuts have been effected in the
non-core part of the ADP, but it now appears that available financing will
permit the implementation of an ADP somewhat closer to the originally
budgeted level -- without excessive recourse to domestic bank borrowing.
E. Development Planning and Policy Issues
26.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), covering FY81-FY85, was drafted
when financial resource availability prospects were thought to permit an
ambitious expansion of the investment program. In light of the changed
circumstances, GOB reduced the scale of the revised final Plan, which was
issued in late FY83, by 37% to Tk 172 billion. The sectoral allocations have
been modified to reflect priorities under tight resource constraints, and the
private sector is expected to finance 35%, rather than the originally
envisaged 21%, of the total effort. Implementation of this Plan requires not
only adequate financial resources, but also the managerial and technical
capability to carry out development projects and institutional reforms. It
is critical that project implementation be improved over recent performance.
Reforms in financial and development administration will be needed to ensure
efficient use of the resources available, and GOB has initiated a number of



-8-
measures in this regards Even if major improvements are made, however, the
efforts of the public sector alone will not suffice; in key areas, such as
irrigation and manufacturing, the private sector will have to play a major
role, and the revised SFYP recognizes this need.
27.     Although achievement of several important Plan targets has to be
delayed beyond the original target dates, the priorities identified in the
original draft Plan continue to receive highest attention: the achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains; a significant reduction in population growth;
progress towards mass literacy; and energy development, particularly through
accelerated exploitation of natural gas resources. In each of these areas
GOB has prepared sectoral implementation plans, comprising specific invest-
ment programs as well as institut:ional and policy improvements; IDA and other
donors have provided assistance in their preparation.
28.     GOB's Medium-Term FoodgraiLn Production Plan (MTFPP), formulated with
IDA assistance, aims at raising axnual foodgrain production to 20 million
tons; this target, originally set for FY85, but (due to the financial
resource constraint) now moved int:o the second half of the 1980s, is to be
achieved through improvements in the wat:er regime (irrigation, drainage and
flood control), increased provisicon of modern production inputs and extension
and support services, and strengthened producer incentives. The private
sector is to assume the primary role in input provision and financing, while
GOB will seek to maintain producer incentives through appropriate market
interventions.
29.     Reducing the population growth rate will require more determined and
effective efforts to increase the acceptor rate for birth control methods and
to improve public health services than have been made thus far. GOB has
recently restructured its population and public health programs and is
implementing measures to strengthen its staff training and delivery services.
30.     GOB has accorded high priority to the expansion and improvement of
the education system; it has set itself the ambitious target of introducing
universal primary education and expects to enroll 75% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. Steps have also been taken to increase the
vocational content of secondary education, to improve technical education,
and to strengthen the management of the educat:ion sector.
31.     With petroleum imports pre-empting over two thirds of merchandise
export earnings, key requirements for strengthening the balance of payments
are improvements in energy efficiency and the development of domestic energy
sources. Accelerated development of domestic natural gas resources would
permit extensive substitution of gas for impoited oil, and more efficient
energy utilization could be induced through appropriate pricing and supported
by appropriate investments. An Energy Sector Plan is under preparation with
assistance from the Asian Development Bank, emphasizing further exploration
for gas and oil, development of gas fields and gas-based exports, forestry
resource management, and increased gas-based electricity generation.



-9-
32.     The heavy pressure of the growing population on land and the limited
capacity of the agricultural sector to absorb the new entrants into the rural
labor force make it critical that employment opportunities be developed
outside agriculture. A recent IDA report ("Bangladesh: Selected Issues in
Rural Employment", Report No. 4292-BD, March 11, 1983) focussed attention
on this problem, and IDA is supporting GOB in the preparation of an action
plan to generate non-agricultural employment opportunities in rural areas.
33.     Past industrial and trade policies have distorted resource allocation
in industry and hampered the development of an efficient manufacturing
sector. GOB has initiated major policy changes in this area and is preparing
a program for industrial and trade policy reforms. This program will iden-
tify a broad range of policy and administrative improvements -- including
modifications in the tariff and tax structure, in investment and export
policies and incentives, and in industrial planning and promotion.
34.     Preparation of the Third Five-Year Plan (FY86-FY90) has begun, in the
context of a perspective to the year 2000. GOB is seeking to develop sound
sectoral policies and investment programs within a realistic macro-economic
resource and policy framework. Prospects for improving domestic savings, for
external financial support, and for growth in key sectors will need to be
assessed carefully and realistically. Given the vast need for investment in
physical and human capital, for improved operation and maintenance of exist-
ing assets, and for the provision of essential services, particular attention
must be paid to increasing domestic financial resource mobilization.
F. The Need for Program Aid
35.     Bangladesh's need for non-project aid (i.e., commodity or program
aid) arises from the inadequacy of the country's domestic savings to finance
its investments and the similar inadequacy of its foreign exchange earnings
to cover import requirements. In spite of substantial progress in domestic
financial resource mobilization and increasing workers' remittances, national
savings still constitute only about 5% of GNP. Although the investment rate,
at about 15% of GNP, is very low, external aid finances about 75% of total
investments. In view of Bangladesh's poverty, even strong domestic financial
resource mobilization efforts will not permit a radical reduction of the
domestic savings gap in the short tc medium term.
36.     Similarly severe is the structural trade imbalance.  Export earnings
during the late 1970s averaged less than one third of import payments.
Mainly due to the deterioration in the terms of trade, this proportion
declined to 24% in FY82, before increasing again to 29% in FY83, when imports
were sharply reduced. Even with growing import substitution in foodgrains,
fertilizers and energy, the external resource gap cannot be expected to
narrow significantly in the neaLr future, because of the uncertain prospects
for jute and the small base from which other exports are now beginning to
grow. Project aid alone -- in recent years averaging more than 5% of GNP and
covering almost all of the foreign exchange cost of public investments --
would be insufficient to close the savings and external resource gaps.



-10-
Without commodity and program aid, essential imports would therefore have to
be curtailed sharply -- with adverse effects for industrial production, for
public finances in general, and for developme!nt financing in particular.
37.     Effecting the adjustments needed to overcome these deep-rooted
resource problems will take considerable time and needs to be supported by
continued sizeable inflows of concessional aid, much of it non-project aid.
Even with substantial domestic resource mobilization efforts, domestic
financing is unlikely to cover more than 20-25% of the ADP in the next few
years, leaving at least 75% to be financed through external assistance.
Since only part of the development program is suitable for direct project aid
financing, the external assistance required to sustain economic growth cannot
be transferred to Bangladesh by means o.f project aid alone. Aggregate expen-
ditures on externally aided projects in Bangladesh do not usually exceed 60%
of the total ADP, and since most donors rarely finance more than 75% of the
total cost of individual projects, the :Limit for direct project financing
is reached at about 45% of total ADP expenditures. The remaining 30% of the
ADP therefore needs to be financecl by non-project aid.
G. Relations with the IMF
38.     In the past two years, the IMF has provided assistance to Bangladesh
under two compensatory financing arrangements (in February 1982 for short-
falls in jute export earnings, and. in August 1982 for excess cereal import
payments) and under a six-months Standby Arrangement during March-August
1983. Since the FY84 external payments situation has been manageable, GOB
did not seek further Fund assistance for FY84.  Scheduled repurchase obliga-
tions to the Fund will be very large during FY86-FY88 (see Annex IX). The
next consultations between GOB and the IMF are scheduled for April-May 1984.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGIADESH
39.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
operations concentrated on the reactivation of eleven credits, amounting to
US$ 146.2 million, made originally to Pakistan before 1971; in addition, a
consolidation loan (US$ 54.9 million) and credit (US$ 31.0 million) to cover
liabilities arising from projects located in Bangladesh and completed prior
to Independence was approved in 1974. As of September 30, 1983, 72 new
credits have been approved, totaling US$ 2,400.6 million; of this, US$ 862.()
million has been for import credits (11 imports program credits and two
fertilizer import credits). A summary statement of IDA credits and disburse-
ments as of September 30, 1983, is provided in Annex II. Bangladesh became a
member of the IFC in June 1976, and three investments (shipbuilding, invest--
ment promotio:n, and leather manufacturing) have been approved.
40.     Consistent with the country's needs and the GOB's priorities, a major
focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture (22 of the
projects approved as of September 30, 1983, and two fertilizer import



-11-
credits). Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
improve the supply, distribution and utilization of agricultural production
inputs, including fertilizers, irrigation equipment, improved seeds, exten-
sion services, institutional credit and storage facilities.
41.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eleven imports program
credits approved to date. Given the persistent structural imbalance of the
economy and the need for substantial net transfers of resources, program
lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations in
Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
industry projects, jute, textile and sugar industry rehabilitation projects,
several DFC and small-scale industry projects, and the two IFC investments.
42.     Emphasis is also being placed on physical infrastructure projects
which reduce bottlenecks constraining the economy's overall performance. IDA
is supporting rural electrification and the expansion of power generation and
distribution capacity. IDA support for gas development and transmission,
petroleum exploration, refinery modernization and industrial energy
efficiency improvements aims at reducing Bangladesh's heavy dependence on
imported energy. In the transport sector, the upgrading of critical port and
internal transport facilities has received priority attention, while assis-
tance for developing telecommunications is designed to improve the efficiency
of a wide-range of economic and social activities.
43.     The heavy and increasing pressure of Bangladesh's population on its
scarce resources makes external assistance for family planning a high
priority as well. IDA has provided two credits in support of GOB's popula-
tion program, which is beginning to show some success. The development of
Bangladesh's vast human resources is another priority area, and IDA support
has emphasized primary education as well as agricultural, technical, voca-
tional and management training.
44.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has been satisfactory.
Project aid disbursements, however, have lagged behind expectations, owing
partly to domestic financial resource constraints, but also to administrative
bottlenecks and organizational deficiencies. Both IDA and GOB have given
increased attention to project monitoring and supervision in order to iden-
tify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both under
specific projects, including a public administration training project, and
under free-standing technical assistance credits to improve planning, project
preparation and implementation capabilities.
45.     IDA's economic and sector work provides the basis for an active and
continuous dialogue between GOB and IDA on economic policy and development
strategy. It also supports the coordination of external assistance within
the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. In recent years, work has
focussed on agricultural and food policy, irrigation strategy, rural non-farm
employment generation, industrial investment strategy, energy policy and
energy sector investment strategy, financial sector policy, improved domestic
resource mobilization and management, and agricultural credit policy.



-12-
PART III -- RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND I)EVELOPMENT POLICY REFORMS
A. Introduction
46.     Bangladesh has just weathered the worst of an extreme external and
internal financial resource constraint; its principal causes and effects halve
been discussed above. Initially attempting to sustain planned investments
without having to reduce average consumption levels, GOB covered the external
financing gaps of FY81 and FY82 by running down foreign exchange reserves and
resorting to commercial short-tena borrowings. Once these short-term
expedients for avoiding internal adjustments had been exhausted, however, GOB
initiating determined domestic adjustment measures in FY83 which restored
financial and monetary stability in the short term. Unfortunately, the
prolonged drought aggravated the contractionary impact of this adjustment
effort. The task of maintaining ifiscal and mvonetary stability in FY84 became
complicated, therefore, by the necessity of simultaneously reviving economic
activity and restoring growth and development momentum.
47.     In an environment of continued constrained resource availability, the
efforts initiated in FY83 to improve domestic resource mobilization and
utilization will have to be broadened anid intensified. This will entail
measures to tap un- or underutilized potential revenue sources, reduce
subsidies, further strengthen public sector enterprises, and improve the
efficiency of resource use. Within the public sector, major efforts now
under way to improve development administration, budgetary planning, invest-
ment programming and financial administration must be supplemented by
improvements in project implementation. At the same time, the beginning made
in inducing the private sector to play a larger role in the development
effort and, in particular, to generate industrial and export growth momentum,
requires a policy environment conducive to increased private savings and
investment.  Financial, agricultural, irndustrial, trade and pricing policy
instruments will need to be further improved in order to raise the efficiency
of resource allocation and utilization.
48.     Overly centralized and cumbersome decision-making processes,
administrative controls and rationing devices have impeded the efficient
allocation of real and financial resources, both in the public and the
private sectors. GOB has begun to ease administrative controls over resource
allocation in various areas, and major reforms have been initiated in
development administration. Recent reviews ot the financial sector and of
agricultural credit policy identified the major weaknesses in these areas,
and GOB has initiated steps to rectify these problems and to use its policy
instruments more effectively to improve the mobilization and guide the
allocation of private financial resources. S:Lmilarly, efforts are under way
to identify and implement industrial and trade policy reforms to promote
private industrial investment, production and export.
49.     The following sections identify major policy, program and institu-
tional constraints and the actions being takeni by GOB during FY84 to address
them. They comprise measures to (i) improve the utilization of budgetary



-13-
resources, (ii) intensify the mobilization of public sector financial resour-
ces from domestic sources and rationialize public sector pricing, particularly
in the energy sector, (iii) rationalize financial sector policy instruments,
(iv) continue policy and institutional improvements in agriculture, and
(v) make industrial and trade policies more responsive to the needs of an
expanding private sector. (Additional details are presented in Annexes IV
through VII.) Identified in the course of an ongoing dialogue between GOB
and IDA, a number of these reforms are already in various stages of
implementation, and some of them constitute specific steps within action
programs agreed upon under previous imports program credits; Annex III iden-
tifies such continuity where applicable.
B. Public Sector Financial Resource Management
50.     During the past two years, GOB has begun to implement a number of
measures designed to improve administrative efficiency. They include
programs to streamline the structure of the central administration, delegate
increased responsibility to local governments, improve budgetary planning and
administration, accelerate project implementation, and improve the efficiency
of public enterprises. Progress has bgen significant in a number of areas,
including the delegation of financial authority to line ministries and
project agencies, the streamlining of budgetary procedures, the decentraliza-
tion of administrative activities, the denationalization of public
enterprises, and the restructuring of public sector corporations.
51.     The reforms in the ADP process have been particularly important.
Budgetary planning and administration suffered from a tendency to over-
estimate resource availabilities, procedural bottlenecks, reliance on post-
budgetary financial rationing devices, and limited delegation of financial
autonomy and responsibility to project agencies. Reflecting in large part
the uncertainties inherent in programming the disposition of external aid and
in the volatility of the food budget, these problems can only be overcome
through persistent efforts to increase domestic foodgrain production and to
intensify domestic budgetary revenue generation. Nevertheless, improved
budgetary planning and financial administration can help insulate the
implementation of the development program against financial uncertainties.
As already noted, measures were taken in FY83 to improve budgetary management
-- most important among them the formulation of a protected Core Program
within the ADP, the substantial reduction in the number of projects included
in the ADP and particularly of unapproved projects, and the streamlining of
fund release procedures. With the FY84 budget, further actions were taken in
these areas as well as to improve technical assistance programming, rational-
ize debt service collections, and delegate increased financial autonomy to
ministries and project implementing agencies.
52.     Decentralization of Financial Responsibility.  Excessively central-
ized financial administration procedures have proven detrimental to efficient
financial resource utilization, and the separation of spending authority from
expenditure accounting and accountability has been inimical to effective



-14--
expenditure control. GOB has initiated a program to make ministries respon-
sible for preparing their own budgets and maintaining their accounts; expen-
ditures will be made strictly within the limits of funds allocated and
released against approved budgets. Auditing remains the responsibility of
the Comptroller and Auditor General, and. a newly created Public Accounts
Committee, with members drawn from the public and the private sectors, will
review these audit reports. The Ministry of Defense began to operate under
this system in FY83, and the Ministries of Agriculture and of Education
adopted it during FY84.
53.     Public Enterprises' Debt Service.  The growing gap between debt
service liabilities (DSL) of autonomous agenc:ies and corporations on the one
hand and actual collections on the other and t:he procedures applied to
recover DSL from agencies unable to pay had become serious problems in recent
years.  Immediate action was required to minimize the adverse consequences of
shortfalls in DSL collections on budgetary revenues and on project funding
and implementation. Following a review Df the entities most in need of
financial reform, the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) implemented
measures to separate DSL collection from ADP allocations, effective with the
FY84 budget. In addition, 24 corporations encountering difficulties in
servicing their debts have received relief through debt rescheduling, capital
restructuring, or other appropriate means, and in some cases debt relief has
been granted retroactively; the remaining cases still under review will be
settled during FY84.
54.     Improving the ADP Process.  Many problems encountered in project
implementation have their roots in the unrealistically large number of
projects included in the ADPs in the late 1970s and early 1980s, including
many which had not yet been approved or subjected to an adequate examination
of their technical and economic fealsibility.  By FY82, the number of projects
in the ADP had increased to 1,691, of which more than 50% were unapproved.
Complex fund release procedures were devised to ration resources among
projects; as these could not easily discriminate, however, between projects
of differing priority or quality, all projects tended to suffer from inade-
quate or delayed funding and implementation delays. Following major reforms
of the budgetary process introduced in FY83, further improvements (discussed
below) have been introduced this year.
55.     Project Selection.  In preparing the FY84 ADP, new guidelines were
applied for evaluating project proposals, and final project selection was
made by an inter-ministerial Programming Commit:tee. Resource allocations for
sectors and projects were based on an assessmenit of resource availability and
an evaluation of implementiation experience. Moreover, regulations were
issued (a) preventing ministries from including; new projects in the ADP
unless an equal number of ongoing projects are completed and (b) limiting
the total cost of all projects included in the ADP by any agency to less than
five times its total allocation in the FY84 ADP.  Adhering to these tightened
criteria, the number of projects in the ADP was reduced from 1,691 in FY82
and 1,178 in FY83 to 927 in FY84.



-15-
56.     Proiect Approval.  GO3B's project approval procedures are intended to
ensure that projects included in the ADP meet certain standards, but for
various reasons (including the availability of aid financing) project
implementation often started before final approval had been secured. In
addition, projects whose costs exceeded originally approved limits needed to
be revised and submitted for renewed approval. The proliferation of such
Iunapproved' and 'revised unapproved' projects in the ADP in recent years
reduced its overall quality and impeded project implementation (since unap-
proved projects are subject to cumbersome fund release procedures). Project
approval procedures were modified in FY84 -- increasing line ministries'
approval authority (from Tk 5 million to Tk 20 million), tightening the
approval schedule, and issuing more realistic guidelines for estimating
project cost inflation so as to reduce the need for revisions during execu-
tion -- and the number of unapproved projects was sharply reduced in FY83 and
FY84. Beginning in FY84, only approved projects are eligible for inclusion
in the Core Program, and less than two dozen projects remained unapproved by
the time of the mid-year budget review.
57.     Investment Programming.  In order to insulate key projects against
unexpected resource shortfalls and to establish priorities within the ADP,
GOB decided to specify, beginning with the FY83 Budget, a 'Core Program' of
high-priority projects within the ADP for which full funding is to be ensured
even if overall resource availabilities should fall short of budgeted levels.
Each project belonging to the Core Program is identified in the ADP, and
authority to release funds for Core projects according to ADP provisions is
vested with the responsible administrative ministry for the first three
quarters of the year; this is a significant improvement over the previous
practice of subjecting all projects to fund release delays and reductions in
the event of overall resource shortfalls. In FY83, 532 projects were
included in the Tk 22 billion Core Program (out of a total ADP of 1,178
projects and about Tk 27 billion). The same procedure was applied in the
FY84 ADP, with the Core Program of 435 projects accounting for 73% of the
planned Tk 34.8 billion ADP.
58.     The FY84 ADP was budgeted at a size commensurate with what were
realistic resource availability projections at that time, and GOB intends to
avoid substantial deficit financing in FY84. The sectoral composition of the
ADP reflects the development priorities supported by IDA, with strong
emphasis on agriculture and on energy development and a declining public
sector role in industry. The final size of the FY84 ADP is still to be
determined, but as a result of shortfalls in available resources GOB expects
to have to make some cuts in the non-core part of the ADP.
59.     Proiect Implementation.  Delays in project implementation are a
serious problem -- perhaps the most visible and serious manifestation of the
weaknesses of the administrative system to cope with the increasing demands
placed upon it.  In FY82, for example, out of 228 projects targeted for
completion in an ADP of 1,691 projects, only 133 were actually completed;
even after the radical pruninLg of the ADP in FY83, only 162 out of a targeted



-16-
283 projects in an ADP of 1,178 projects were completed. These delays are
not due solely to funding constraints: there is a need to streamline proce-
dures and rationalize policies which impede performance, as well as to
improve progress monitoring and problem solving in project implementation.
GOB has established a special committee to investigate non-financial con-
straints (e.g., recruitment, staffing, training, compensation and promotion
policies; the roles of the Planning Commission, Finance Division and External
Resources Division; the authority and responsibilities of project directors;
and administrative procedures). Through their Local Consultations Group, aid
donors have contributed their observations, and consultations are in progress
between donors' working groups and GOB officials. Progress is being made in
a number of areas to relieve constraints at various stages in the project
implementation cycle, and IDA is preparing a Special Action Credit to support
further efforts in this direction.
60.     Customs Clearance.  Inadequate ADP allocations for the payment of
customs duties and sales taxes (CDST) have caused frequent and long delays in
obtaining customs clearance for imports required for development projects.
GOB has taken steps during FY84 to eliminate this bottleneck. CDST alloca-
tions are now deposited with the Natipnal Board of Revenue (NBR), and pay-
ments due are deducted from these deposits. In addition, ministries have
been authorized to shift unused CDST allocations among projects. Should an
agency's allocations prove to be inadequate, the Planning Commission may
reallocate CDST funds among ministries and/or draw on a special block alloca-
tion for CDST payments (included for the first time in the FY84 ADP to sup-
plement project-specific CDST allocations) to facilitate customs clearance.
NBR has also embarked on a program to simplify customs clearance procedures
and is establishing special cells for clearing aid-financed imports.
61.     Technical Assistance Budgeting.  New procedures have also been intro-
duced to facilitate more effective programming and utilization of external
technical assistance (TA). Rather than budgeting each individual TA under-
taking as a separate project in the ADP, a block allocation of Tk 300 million
has been provided to accommodate all TA projects being implemented or
initiated during FY84. Individual TA projects are screened and approved by
the new TA Project Evaluation Committee, to which the TA Coordination Cell in
the External Resources Division acts as a secretariat. A special TA Project
Proforma has been introduced, tailored to the special characteristics of TA
projects, and all approved TA projects are listed in a new Annual Technical
Assistance Program (ATAP), supplementing the ADP.
C. Public Sector Financial Resource Mobilization
62.     GOB's budgetary constraints mandate that the domestic revenue base be
broadened and more effectively drawn upon. Although the tax/GDP ratio has
been raised from 6.2% in FY76 to 8.9% in FY82, and the recurrent budget
surplus increased from 1.9% of GDP to 3.2% over the same period, the tax/GDP
ratio is still one of the lowest in the world. The structure of the economy
and the low average per capita income levels limit the pace at which domestic



-17-
budgetary revenues can be increased, but there is broad scope for improving
on past performance: revenues not generated directly or indirectly by imports
or aid inflows account for only about one quarter of total budgetary
receipts; the tax burden on agricultural producers is very light; the tax
system is highly inelastic; subsidization of goods and services is widespread
and lacks rationality; and important potential revenue sources (e.g., land,
natural gas) remain largely untapped.
Tax Measures
63.     Past improvements in the tax/GDP ratio have been in large part
attributable to increased import duty collections (due mainly to rising
imports and the substantial depreciation of the Taka). Import-based taxes
contributed two thirds of the increase in tax revenues between FY75 and FY81,
and customs duties and sales taxes on imports currently account for more than
55% of tax revenues. Domestic tax revenues (i.e., excluding customs duties
and sales taxes on imported commodities) averaged only about 3.5% of GDP
during FY80-FY83, and this percentage will decline somewhat, albeit
temporarily, in FY84 as a result of changes in tax policy and administration
and of more rapid growth in the lightly taxed agricultural sector.
64.     GOB introduced new tax measures in FY84 which are expected to gener-
ate about Tk 650 million (or about 0.2% of GDP) this year, including about
Tk 250 million in customs duty collections arising from duty rate changes.
Since GOB also made several changes in the income tax system and in property,
excise and sales taxes which will cause net revenue reductions of about
Tk 350 million, the net impact of the new tax measures will be on the order
of Tk 300 million, or 0.1% of GDP. Some of the new measures contain the
potential for substantial future revenue gains from domestic sources.
Annex IV summarizes the tax and non-tax revenue measures taken in FY84.
65.     In addition to increasing budgetary revenues, GOB is also pursuing
a number of other objectives with these tax modifications. Particularly
important is the attempt to strengthen incentives for private savings and
investments through changes in the income tax system. Changes in excise and
sales taxes and in the customs duty regime are also intended to induce
increased private investment, particularly in export-oriented and import-
substituting industries. Other changes in the income and excise tax regula-
tions and in the customs tariff are designed to streamline tax administration
and improve tax discipline. The tax base has been broadened through
modifications in excise taxes and the introduction of the turnover tax; the
latter, in particular, holds significant potential for future tax base expan-
sion and for improving the elasticity of the domestic tax system.
66.     Income and Profit Taxes.  The proliferation of special exemptions
enacted over the years made the income tax inequitable and ineffective.
Moreover, accounting for only about 1% of GDP, income taxes have been a very
minor source of revenue. GOB has taken a number of immediate corrective
steps this year, in pursuit of two broad initial objectives: the simplifica-



-18-
tion of income tax computations and the promotion of private investment.
Most exemptions from taxable income have been eliminated, while the limit on
investments eligible for tax rebate was increased substantially and the range
of eligible investments expanded.
67.     Excise and Turnover Taxes.  Trad,itionally, taxable manufactured goods
have been assessed by excise officials in the factories., GOB initiated a
fundamental reform in FY84 by introducing self-assessment for a number of
products.  At the same time, GOB made further changes in excise tax rates in
order to strengthen producer incentives and broaden the tax base.  In an
effort to move gradually to a more elastic tax system on domestic production,
GOB also introduced a new 2% turnover tax on a number of commercial and
industrial activities in FY84. Although projected to generate only about
Tk 50 million in revenues this year, this new tax providLes an instrument that
can be applied in future to a wider range of industries and substantially
improve the overall elasticity of the domestic tax system.
68.     Customs Duties and Sales Taxes.  Seekinig to promote domestic
production, discourage non-essential imports and simplify the tariff
structure, GOB has effected major modifications in the import duty and sales
tax regime in the last two years. In FY83, sales taxes on domestic products
were incorporated into the excise tax system, and sales taxes are now levied
exclusively on imported commodities.  The major import duty categories have
been consolidated and reduced from 23 in FY82 to only 7 in FY84; this was
accompanied by adjustments in specific import duty and sales tax rates, to
rationalize production incentives and improve revenue collections. Similar
changes have been made in the structure oE export duties.
Non-Tax Revenue Measures
69.     A number of goods and servic:es supplied by the public sector have
been priced below costs, causing inefficient use of resources and the
accumulation of financial losses in the public sector. The reduction and
eventual elimination of both explicit and implicit subsidies would free
financial resources for critical development undertakings, provide more
rational pricing signals, promote efficierut resource use, and induce the
private sector to finance a larger share of the country's development effort.
In the energy sector in particular, it is important to promote conservation,
ensure the financial viability of the energy sector corporations, and mobi-
lize additional resources for financing critically needed investments.
Following the major steps taken in these areas 'Last year, further measures
taken in FY84 include adjustments in energy prices and in transport and
telephone charges, a reduction in the foodgrain subsidy, and further progress
towards full-cost pricing of small-scale irrigation equipment; their
aggregate revenue impact is estimated at about Tk 455 million in FY84.
70.     Energy Pricing.  Although eniergy imports are small in volume, they
are essential and absorb some 70% of total merchandise export earnings.
Improving the efficiency of energy use and meeting an increasing share of



-19-
total energy requirements from domestic resources are fundamental objectives
of GOB's economic development strategy. The UNDP/IBRD Energy Assessment
Report for Bangladesh, published in October 1982, identified anomalies in
energy pricing and provided an analytical base for specifying needed changes.
GOB has taken several steps since then to move toward economic pricing and
increased operational efficiency. Further measures are needed, however, to
ensure the financial viability of the energy sector corporations, provide for
sound investment planning, encourage energy conservation, and mobilize addi-
tional financial resources for development financing.
71.     GOB has initiated several major undertakings in energy sector
planning, including the Long-Term Energy Planning Project and the Power
Sector Master Plan (both with support from the ADB). Issues being addressed
include (a) the evaluation of long-term energy development options in the
light of domestic energy needs and available resources and (b) the determina-
tion of the financial requirernents for energy sector investments. These
issues underline the necessity of moving towards energy pricing which
provides appropriate signals to energy users and ensures the financial
viability of the corporations operating in the energy sector (facilitating
increasingly more self-financing of investments by these agencies).
72.     Natural Gas.  Natural gas is one of the few resources plentifully
available within Bangladesh and a potential source of substantial budgetary
revenue. At present, however, gas prices are less than 35% of those of
substitute fuels. Rapid and efficient development of the gas sector and of
the energy economy as a whole requires, inter alia, gas tariffs which ensure
that sales revenues cover the economic cost of gas, safeguard the financial
viability of the gas companies, and generate resources for financing gas
sector development. To obtain a sound information base for future gas sector
policy decisions, GOB has initiated studies to provide guidance for future
gas pricing and to identify and evaluate future gas use options and
associated investment needs. In addition, a pilot household gas metering
program will be undertaken to determine the cost effectiveness of metering
and to provide information needed for determining future gas pricing policy.
73.     As an immediate step towards economic gas pricing, gas prices were
raised in July 1983 by a weighted average of about 13% (9.5% for gas used in
fertilizer production and powrer generation and 16.1% for all other gas users)
through a combination of increased excise taxes and higher tariffs payable to
the gas distribution companies. These increases have served to maintain
average user prices for natural gais unchanged in real terms from last year.
With gas sales of 90,000 mmcf in FY84, the revenue impact is expected to be
on the order of Tk 135 million in additional tax revenue for GOB and Tk 55
million in increased sales receipts by the gas companies. Significantly
higher rates would be justified, however, in order to mobilize resources for
future investments and to heLp improve the efficiency of gas use.
74.     Petroleum Products.  The Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC)
accumulated heavy financial losses between FY80 and FY82, mainly due to
delays in passing on import price increases and to inadequate collection of



-20--
arrears (part:icularly from other public sector agencies). In the past two
years, GOB has moved decisively to restore BPG's financial stability, such
that a small net trading surplus is expected in FY84: the increasingly disad-
vantageous crude processing contracts with exlcernal refiners were terminated,
favorable long-term crude oil purchase contracts were negotiated, refinery
throughput has been cut back in favor of increased products purchases in the
soft internat:iLonal market, domestic sales pric:es were raised substantially in
July 1982, in November 1982 and in March 1983 (bringing them into line with
import parity prices), public sector debtors have been directed to settle
their large arrears with BPC expeditiously, and refinery modernization
investments are being undertaken (with IDA support) to improve efficiency and
reduce the output of surplus products.  Authority to adjust sales prices by
up to 10% without prior Cabinet approval was granted to the Ministry of
Energy in July 1982 and subsequent'Ly to ]3PC itself in July 1983. To protect
BPC's financial viability, costs and prices will be reviewed at least once
annually and sales prices adjusted prompt:ly if needed to ensure that revenues
cover BPC's costs. BPC's accumulated losses have been restructured into
long-term debentures, and GOB has provided a subsidy of Tk 400 million to BPC
out of its FY84 budget to enable BPC to service these debts.
75.     Electricity.  In recent years, tthe costs of operations of the
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) far exceeded its revenues, as
tariff adjustments in response to changes in underlying costs were delayed
and insufficient, system losses excessive, and accounting, billing and col-
lection procedures inadequate. BPDB accumulated net financial losses of
Tk 1 billion during FY80-FY82, and payments due to other public sector cor-
porations amounted to over Tk 2 billion by the end of FY83 (more than half of
BPDB's annual operating revenues). In the past:, a large part of these losses
has been absorbed by GOB -- through conversion of loans into equity (averag-
ing Tk 550 million per year from FY79 through FY82) and occasional cash
subsidies (Tk 300 million in FY80 and FY81).
76.     BPDB's financial situation has been significantly strengthened by
several significant power tariff increases effected during the past four
years and by the reduction in average fuel costs achieved as a result of the
commissioning of the East-West Power Inte.rconnector in December 1982.  BPDB
recorded a small profit in FY83, but: not enough to finance much of its FY83
investment program from internally general:ed resources. GOB has agreed with
IDA (under the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project, Cr. 1254-BD) on a program for
BPDB to finance a rising share of its own investments from internally gener-
ated resources, but performance fell well short of the agreed target in FY83,
mainly because inadequate progress was made towards rectifying several major
causes of financial losses. Measures have been initiated, with positive
results, to address these: programs to redluce technical and non-technical
system losses; new accounting, metering, billing and collection procedures;
actions to ensure payment of accumulated d.ebts owed to BPDB by other public
sector agencies and corporations; and two bulk .and retail tariff studies for
BPDB and the Rural Electri:Eication Board (REB). In addition, by rationaliz-
ing the tariff structure on July 1, 1983 (to reduce the extent of cross-



-21-
subsidization and the difference between tariffs charged by BPDB and REB),
BPDB increased its average tariffs by about 3.2%. A further tariff increase
was effected on March 1, 1984, averaging about 9.5%; this will generate an
additional Tk 60 million in revenues in FY84, and it is now expected that
BPDB will be able to finance about 17.5% of its investments in FY84 from its
own resources. If necessary, a further tariff increase will be implemented
in the first half of FY85 to enable BPDB to finance at least 25% of its
planned investments in FY85 from its own resources.
77.     Other Prices and Tariffs.  A number of other non-tax revenue measures
taken in July 1983 reflect GOB's intentions to cover cost increases and
broaden its revenue base. Railway and domestic air fares were raised by
20-25%. Telephone rates were increased by 33% and should increase the
revenues of the Telephone & Telegraph Board by Tk 120 million in FY84. (In
addition, a 10% excise duty was introduced on foreign telex services and
trunk calls.) Fees for various postal services were increased, and service
charges were introduced for certairL public health services. Price increases
were also effected for minor irrigation equipment and rationed foodgrains,
and water charges will be introduced in FY85 for beneficiaries of major
surface water irrigation projects; these are discussed in Section E below.
D.  Financial Sector Policy
78.     With aid inflows likeLy to increase only modestly, if at all, in real
terms and public resource mobilization efforts limited by the narrow tax
base, efforts must be intensified to stimulate private savings and facilitate
the flow of financial resources into efficient private investments. The
organized financial sector has a key role to play in this regard, but past
policies have constrained its ability to serve these objectives. Refinance
and interest rate policies have been inimical to savings mobilization and
efficient credit allocation, and both the private savings rate and private
investment have fallen from FY81 tlhrough FY83. The allocation of credit --
when not pre-empted by the public sector -- has been largely determined by
administrative fiat, rather than by interest rates and demand, and tended to
ignore cost, risk and efficiency considerations. Banks have been regarded as
Government agencies, rather than as financial intermediaries, and their
functions and operating procedures have reflected this perception. The
recent IDA review of Bangladesh's financial sector and the joint GOB/IDA
review of agricultural credit policy have raised awareness of these problems
within GOB, and a number of policy reforms have been initiated.l/
79.     Controlling inflationary pressures and providing a stable financial
environment while simultaneously ensuring adequate credit availability for
the private sector has proved difficult in the past -- mainly because of
1/ See Annex V for a discussion of the major issues in financial sector
policy and for details concerrLing reforms initiated.



-22--
large and uncontrolled public sector borrowings from the banking system which
originated from budgetary deficits and from operating deficits of public
sector corporations. Public sector credit requirements were sharply reduced
in FY83 and have remained comparatively modesl: in the first half of FY84.
Credit ceilings have been set for public sector corporations, and efficiency
measures and increased pricing autonomy are expected to help safeguard their
financial stability and contain their need for access to bank credit.
80.     As nominal interest rates on deposits remained relatively unchanged
for long periods during the past decade, real interest rates were determined
primarily by the rate of inflation and, as a consequence, have been highly
unstable and, on average, negative. This made! the holding of financial
assets very risky, and a large share of private savings was channelled into
real assets, limiting the ability of the banking system to accommodate chan-
ges in credit demand. With rigid niominaL interest rates, it has also been
very difficult to assess the adequacy of private sector credit availability
relative to demand or the opportunity costs of withholding credit to the
private sector in order to accommodate public sector credit needs.
81.     Lending rates should reflec:t the costs and risks of lending to dif-
ferent sectors, so that credit allocation is determined primarily by dif-
ferences in the rate of return on alternELtive investments. GOB has, however,
attempted to pursue various other objectives through its credit allocation
policies -- e.g., channelling credit (often highly subsidized) to selected
sectors, or supporting public sector enterprises experiencing financial
difficulties. Seeking to control both the supply and the 'price' of credit
to specific sectors, GOB used instruments (including subsidized refinancing,
quantitative targets, and allocation directives) which have proven
ineffective, inefficient and inequitable. With interest rates too low to
cover the risks and costs of lending to 'favored' sectors, banks tended to
minimize their own exposure and to evade their credit supervision respon-
sibilities by relying heavily on central bank refinance and guarantees. In
sectors facing credit ceilings, rationing became inevitable -- e.g., through
high collateral and margin requirements. Subsidized credit facilities for
'favored' sectors also proved deficient as a device for providing investment
incentives, because funds are easily diverted from one sector to another.
82.     Interest Rate Policy.  In an environment where movements in the
general price level may be volatile and difficult to control (due, for
example, to unpredictable weather and foodlgrain production), the maintenance
of relatively stable and positive real interest rates on deposits requires a
flexible nominal interest rate policy.  GOB therefore intends not only to
continue to restrain liquidity expansion caused by uncontrolled public sector
borrowings, but also to follow a more active interest rate policy which
encourages domestic savings and simuLltaneously promotes a more rational
allocation of resources. The leveL and structure of interest rates will
henceforth be reviewed at least once annually: if warranted, the central bank
rate will be adjusted appropriately to maintain sufficient incentives for
financial institutions to mobilize their own resources. At present, real



-23-
interest rates on time deposits are positive, and no adjustments in nominal
rates are needed. As a means for mobilizing more private savings, but also
for gauging the cost of raising resources and trends in credit demand in the
economy, Bangladesh Bank has also allowed commercial banks to issue, on a
limited scale, certificates of deposit with floating interest rates; several
banks have already made use of this new facility.
83.     Interest rates and service charges for agricultural and rural sector
lending were increased in October 1983 to levels reflecting the higher costs
and risks involved in such operations (see para. 86). Another immediate step
towards more realistic interest, rate policy was taken at the beginning of
FY84 when GOB modified the terms for government loans to public sector cor-
porations and autonomous agencies: interest rates on both domestic currency
and foreign exchange loans were increased from their previous levels of 9-10%
to 11.5-12.5% for most borrowers (excluding only some corporations and agen-
cies active in power generation and distribution, agricultural development,
and natural resource exploration), making them positive in real terms. GOB
also intends to grant more autonomy to financial institutions to determine
the level and structure of their lending rates in relation to deposit rates
so as to reflect their true cost of funds and to achieve more efficient
allocation of their own resources.
84.     Refinance Policy.  In order to promote the development of an active
capital market and to increase the incentives for financial institutions to
mobilize deposits and improve credit recovery, the refinance policy of
Bangladesh Bank is to be revised to provide greater incentives to financial
institutions to mobilize their own resources. Refinancing is to be provided
at higher interest rates, approximating closely the cost of mobilizing addi-
tional financial savings from the private sector, except where particular
sectors or institutions need refinance facilities at concessional rates in
order to promote socio-economic objectives.
85.     Agricultural Credit Policy.  The rapid expansion of institutional
lending for agriculture since 1976 has been achieved through policies charac-
terized by subsidized interest. rates, extensive reliance on quantitative
lending targets and credit prcgrams with compulsory participation by finan-
cial institutions, and liberal, but discriminatory, refinancing by Bangladesh
Bank. These policies have catLsed problems which threaten the viability of an
expanding agricultural credit system. Low nominal interest rates have not
lowered the real cost of institutional credit for the majority of farmers,
particularly the smaller ones,, and the availability of credit has been shown
to be far more important than its price. Moreover, poor loan recovery has
been more prevalent in low-interest: credit programs, but -- as liquidity
problems were eased through recourse to GOB guarantees and increased central
bank refinance -- little attention has been paid to credit recovery.
Subsidized refinance to lending institutions eroded their incentives to
mobilize deposits. Discriminatory access to concessional refinance has also
been a problem: irrespective of their performance in such key areas as credit
supervision and recovery, some institutions received liberal refinance, while
others faced a resource shortage.



-24-
86.     Based on the recommendations of the joint GOB/IDA agricultural credit
review, GOB took several immediate steps, effective October 1, 1983, to
correct certain problems. Interest on refinance from Bangladesh Bank for
agricultural and rural lending, previously provided at a uniform and highly
subsidized rate of 6% per year, has been made dependent upon the volume of
refinance utilized by the respective institutions and now ranges from 6.0% to
the current Bank Rate of 10.5% per annumn (with an average rate of about
8.5%); refinance for credit to purchase irrigation equipment will be provided
at a uniform rate of 8.5%. Interest rates for short- and medium-term
agricultural credit have been increased, through the addition of service
charges, from 12% and 13%, respectively, to a uniform rate of 16% at the
Upazilla level and are now substantially positive in real terms; the spreads
provided at each stage now cover the costs of funds and of financial
intermediation. The penalty rate on overdues has been increased from 3% to
6% per annum, and loan recovery efforts have been stepped up. The refinance
and on-lending rates for credit providect through the agricultural cooperative
(TCCA/KSS) system supervised by the Bangladesh Rural Development Board will
be adjusted with effect from April. 15, 1.984, consistent with these modifica-
tions in the general agrictultural lendirg rate structure.
87.     Banking Policy.  Steps have also been taken to improve institutional
and administrative aspects of the banking sector. Six private banks are now
in operation.  Two nationaLized commercial banks (NCBs) are being returned to
private ownership. The operational autonomy of the remaining four NCBs is
being increased. Agricultural and rural cred:it application and approval
procedures have been simplified, and loan sanctioning authority has been
further decentralized to regional and branch managers. After five years of
successful experimentation, a new institution, Grameen Bank, has been estab--
lished to provide credit to landless cooperatives for productive invesitments.
177 superfluous rural brancthes of NiCBs have been transferred to BKB and 77
others to Grameen Bank. Ei.forts to strengthen the two industrial development
finance institutions (BSB and BSRS), initiated. last year, are being continued
(see Annex VII).
E. Agricultural and Food Policy
88.     Agricultural development, diversification and growth are crucial for
Bangladesh's development, but require substantial improvements in the produc-
tivity of land and water use. GOB's primary objective, embodied in the
Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP), is to achieve foodgrain self-
sufficiency by expanding irrigation, improving input supply and production
techniques, rationalizing input and output pricing, strengthening producer
incentives, upgrading infrastructure and marketing facilities, improving the
supply of and access to institutional credit, and expanding the private
sector's role in input and output marketing.
89.     Tubewells and low-lift pumps offer the best prospects for rapid and
high-return expansion of irrigation coverage and are well suited to private
(individual or group) ownership and management., The further development of



-25-
the minor irrigation sector has become too extensive for public sector agen-
cies alone to handle effectively, and public ownership and subsidized
seasonal rental of irrigation equipment impose a heavy financial burden on
GOB and provide insufficient incentives for proper maintenance and optimal
utilization. With strong private sector interest in the marketing, servicing
and ownership of irrigation equipment, GOB has turned to the outright sale of
equipment by public suppliers and to direct involvement of the private sector
in the procurement and marketing of irrigation equipment.
90.     Similar steps have beerL taken in other areas.  Fertilizer distribu-
tion has been largely turned over to the private sector, and the distribution
of pesticides is entirely in private hands. The supply of institutional
credit for agriculture has been expanded, and access to such credit improved.
Domestic foodgrain procurement prices have been increased repeatedly to
ensure sufficient producer incentives, and extension efforts have been inten-
sified to increase farmer awareness of modern cultivation technology and of
efficient resource management. To mobilize more private resources for
agricultural development anid to use resources more efficiently, subsidies on
fertilizers, irrigation equipment and diesel fuel have been reduced or
eliminated entirely.  Subsidies on pub]ic foodgrain distribution have been
progressively reduced in an effort to lower its budgetary cost and to
redirect more effective consumer demand into the open grain market.
91.     These efforts have shown positive results, particularly in terms of
rising foodgrain production. Minor irrigation is expanding rapidly, equip-
ment maintenance and utilization is improving, fertilizer consumption con-
tinues to rise at a rapid pace, an increasing share of total development
spending on agriculture is being shouldered by farmers themselves, and con-
sumers (particularly of foodgrains) benefit from the rising output at lower
unit production costs and in an environment of greater price stability.
Major Irrigation Projects
92.     Water Charges.  The Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) has
completed a number of surface water gravity irrigation projects over the past
two decades, but no effective efforts have been made to recover any costs
from their beneficiaries through the collection of water charges. Although
farmers are required to pay charges equivalent to 3% of the gross value of
output from the irrigated land, collections have been insignificant. As a
result, the operating and maintenance (O&M) costs of BWDB projects not only
became an increasing burden on GOB's budget, but were often not adequately
provided for, and the maintenance of project facilities suffered accordingly.
GOB has now decided to implement an equitable and pragmatic system of making
project beneficiaries assume these costs. An Irrigation Water Rate Ordinance
(July 1983) and Irrigation Water Rate Rules (January 1984) have been issued,
and a schedule of rates is being prepared. Charges will be assessed by BWDB,
beginning in FY85, on the basis of land irrigated and crops grown each
season. The rates for the first year are expected to cover about 35% of O&M
costs, and full recovery of O&M costs is to be achieved by July 1990.



-26 -
93.     Operation and Maintenance.  O&M has also suffered due to neglect by
BWDB's field staff who have concentrated their efforts on the implementation
of new projects. Under an agreement reached recently with IDA in the context
of the proposed BWDB Small Schemes Project, GOB plans to improve O&M by
(a) decentralizing BWDB's O&M operations for large projects at the sub-
regional level, assigning exclusive responsibility for O&M to specific field
staff teams, and providing sufficient funding for this purpose, and
(b) transferring O&M responsibility for small projects to the local
governments. This decentralization will begin on a pilot basis in FY85 in
one region, with three others to follow in FY86. The experience gained in
these pilot areas will be used in the formulation of a wider program for
systems rehabilitation. Details of the planned transfer of responsibility
for O&M of small schemes to local governments are still to be worked out.
Minor Irrigation Policy
94.     Based on the recommendations of the joint GOB/IDA review of the minor
irrigation sector, completed in FY82, GOB has been shifting responsibility
for fielding and operating small-scale irrigation equipment -- low-lift pumps
(LLPs), shallow tubewells (STWs), deep t:ubewells (DTWs), and hand tubewells
(HTWs) -- increasingly to the private sector. This has involved, inter alia,
(i) elimination of rental programs and the outright sale of all new irriga-
tioni equipment by public sector agencies; (ii) elimination of subsidies by
pricing all equipment at full current replacement cost -- or, where that
would cause inequities, at the STW-equivalence price;l/ (iii) unrestricted
private sector import of irrigation equipment, and phasing out of public
sector import, marketing and servicing cf minor irrigation equipment; and
(iv) provision of adequate credit for suppliers and buyers.
95.     Progress towards achieving these objectives has been very good (see
Annex VI for details). All new small-scale irrigation equipment fielded by
the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), Bangladesh Krishi
Bank (BKB) and BWDB is now sold, BADC's DTW and LLP rental programs and
BWDB's LLP rental scheme are being phased out, and all rental equipment will
be sold. Since FY83, STW and RTW sales prices have reflected full current
replacement costs, and the subsidies implied in LLP sales prices have been
reduced progressively and are to be eliminated entirely in FY85. DTW sales
prices have been increased in accordance with a pricing schedule, agreed upon
with IDA, which will achieve STW-equivalence pricing by FY86, and DTW rental
charges have been adjusted proportionately.
1/  Under this principle, STWs, LLPs and HTWs are sold at prices covering
their full current replacement cost, while DTWs will be sold at a price
that equates the unit cost of water discharged by a DTW to that dis-
charged by a STW.



-27-
96.     Progress in phasing out public sector procurement and marketing of
irrigation equipment has been uneven, as some aid donors' procurement regula-
tions prevent a fully consistent imLplementation of this policy decision.
Private suppliers are importing equipment and have access to the necessary
credit and foreign exchange. Public sector suppliers now charge at full cost
for spares and maintenance services. Institutional credit for the purchase
of used equipment from BADC and BWDB has been made available since last year.
An Irrigation Management Program (IMP) to train farmer groups in efficient
and cooperative tubewell management, introduced on a pilot basis under an
IDA-supported rural development project three years ago, is being expanded
country-wide to improve the utilization of equipment fielded.
Fertilizer Pricing
97.     The fertilizer subsidy amounted to almost Tk 1.2 billion (over 31%
of cost and almost 10% of the domestic currency component of the ADP) in FY82
and -- with record sales in FZ84 --- is likely to exceed Tk 1.3 billion (24%
of cost) this year. The size of this subsidy severely impinges upon the
availability of resources for financing other essential investments.
Expanded irrigation coverage is more effective for increasing crop production
than continued subsidization of fertilizers and will in turn generate addi-
tional demand for fertilizer.  Moreover, despite a series of substantial
sales price increases since 1979, fertilizer prices are still substantially
lower in Bangladesh than in neighboring countries (thereby encouraging
unregistered fertilizer exports). Although there has been concern about the
impact of price increases on fertilizer consumption, the record sales of FY83
and FY84 and a number of studies strongly confirm that weather, assured water
availability (i.e., irrigation), sufficient fertilizer supply, remunerative
output prices, and access to credit are the main factors determining fer-
tilizer sales.
98.     Under an agreement reached with IDA in 1979, in the context of the
First Fertilizer Import Credit (Cr. 944-BD), GOB undertook to eliminate the
fertilizer subsidy in stages by the end of FY85. However, given GOB's strong
concern that very large price increases might adversely affect fertilizer
consumption and progress towards foodgrain self-sufficiency, it has been
agreed to postpone complete elimination of the fertilizer subsidy to the end
of FY86. While fertilizer prices were not increased in FY84, GOB intends to
increase fertilizer wholesale prices in two steps during the first half of
FY85 so as to reduce the overall subsidy in FY85 to about 15%.
Foodgrain Procurement and Distribution
99.     GOB's foodgrain procurement and distribution policy is being changed
gradually into a market-oriented price stabilization instrument which aims at
improving producer incentives, consumer welfare and food security. At the
same time, GOB continues to promote more efficient private grain trading. To
increase competition in the private grain trade and make the farmgate price
support system operated by the Miniistry of Food (MoF) more effective, GOB has



-28-
over the past three years abolished all Approved Grain Dealers, except those
operating in remote areas. Anti-hoarding regulations and restrictions on the
movement of grains have been withdrawn.  Market weights and measures are
being standardized on the metric system, and rmarket information is being
disseminated regularly via radio broadcasts. As a result of improved produc-
tion and distribution policies, foodgrain supplies and prices have become
more stable over the seasons and the years, improving food security, producer
incentives and consumer welfare.
100.    Procurement Prices.  Ensuring adequate producer incentives requires
periodic review of foodgrain production costs and farmgate prices and, if
warranted, adjustments in the procuirement prices paid for domestic paddy,
rice and wheat by MoF.  The official domestic foodgrain procurement prices
have been increased from Tk 135/md to Tk 144/md for paddy and from Tk 210/md
to Tk 225/md for rice (equivalent to US$ 239/metric ton), effective with the
beginning of the aman harvest in December 1983. With the relatively larger
increase for rice, the implicit margin to compensate farmers and traders for
the cost of milling/husking paddy has been increased to Tk 10 per maund of
rice, more adequately covering the actuail cost of processing paddy into rice.
Procurement prices for wheat have also been increased from Tk 135/md to
Tk 144/md (or US$ 153/metric ton), effect:ive in April 1984.
101.    Ration Prices,  Subsidized grain distribution constitutes a major
burden on the budget. Moreover, the distribution of roughly 2 million tons
of grains annually through the Public Focdgrain Distribution System at prices
below market prices has a detrimental impact on output prices obtainable by
farmers.  To contairn the subsidy, GOB has in recent years reduced the ration
quota, changed the ration mix away from the more highly subsidized rice
towards wheat, repeatedly increased ration prices for both rice and wheat,
and sold more grains at higher prices in the open market.  In view of the
need for further subsidy reduction and of the procurement price increases
announced earlier in FY84, the issue price (ex MoF warehouse) for wheat was
raised, effective on January 2, 1984, from Tk 1.39/md to Tk 149/md and that
for rice from Tk 209/md to Tk 229/md; this reduced the unit subsidy on domes-
tic rice from 19.4% to 16.5% of costs (including storage and handling), and
on domestic wheat from 18% to 16.9% of costs arLd brought ration prices closer
to prevailing market prices for low grades of rice and wheat. These price
increases are expected to reduce the overall fcodgrain subsidy in FY84 by
about Tk 340 million.
F. Industrial and Trade Policy
102.    Momentum for future sustained growith of the economy, especially in
terms of diversifying and increasing exports, will have t:o be generated in
the manufacturing sector, which currently accounts for less than 10% of GDP.
Largely as a result of widespread nationalization after Independence, many of
the large- and medium-scale enterprises are in the public sector, under the
administrative control of sector corporations. These account for about 40%
of value added in manufacturing and for 70% of manufactured exports.



-29-
103.    Since FY75, public sector manufacturing output has grown at an
average annual rate of only 3.5%, compared with about 8% per annum for
private manufacturing. Many enterprises suffer from low capacity utilization
caused by raw material shortages, poor maintenance, lack of spare parts,
shortage of trained labor, frequent power outages, and insufficient working
capital. Weaknesses in policies and institutions -- including failure to
distinguish between social and commercial objectives, overstaffing, lack of
incentives for improving productivity, price controls, and inadequate finan-
cial monitoring and budgetary control -- have contributed to the poor perfor-
mance of most public sector enterprises. IDA has supported the development
of specific action programs to help rectify these problems, particularly in
the jute, textile, fertilizer, sugar, and pulp and paper industries.
104.    Insufficient emphasis has been placed in the past on the creation of
a policy environment conducive to vigorous growth of private industrial
investment, production and exports. Inward-looking policies led to an anti-
export bias and protected industries lacking a comparative advantage, and the
industrial policy environment remains characterized by complicated
administrative procedures and controls which hinder the development of an
efficient private sector. Recent initiatives reflect GOB's increasing aware-
ness of the need to promote industrial development and a greater private
sector role in this process, but the modifications made in recent years in
investment sanctioning, import controls and foreign exchange allocation
procedures do not yet amount to more than marginal changes.
105.    The New Industrial Policy.  The sluggish production and export per-
formance of the manufacturing industry over the past decade indicated a
pressing need for reform of policies, instruments and controls in the
industrial and trade sector. In response to this need, GOB promulgated its
New Industrial Policy (NIP) in June 1982. Aiming at increased utilization of
domestic resources and appropriate technology, geographic dispersal of
industries, employment creation, and the development of efficient export-
oriented and import-substituting industries, the NIP proclaims the need for
an improved policy environmenit for private investment, production and exports
and for greater efficiency in public enterprises. Accordingly, the NIP calls
for a reduced public sector role in industrial production, liberalized
investment controls, reduced price controls, improved export promotion and
financing, and strengthened investment and export incentives.
106.    GOB has moved quickly to implement some important elements of the
NIP, beginning with the denationalization of a large number of public
industrial enterprises. Important initiatives have been taken to improve
the performance of enterprises which remain in the public sector (including
the reorganization of public sector corporations, increased pricing autonomy,
capital restructuring, and progress towards setting up an improved system for
performance monitoring). While their full implementation will take time,
these initiatives have already contributed to improved profitability: after
years of sizeable financial losses, the major public sector corporations
showed an overall profit for FY83. At the same time, the scope for private



-30--
sector industrial investment has been broadened and a number of steps have
been taken to facilitate increased private activity in industrial production
and exports. Annex VII provides details on riecent policy measures.
107.    Trade and Industrial Policy (TIP) Reform Program.  In April 1983, GOB
initiated a major program of reviews and studies of its entire industrial and
trade policy regime. Carried out with technical assistance from IDA, the
program is scheduled for completion in May 1985 and involves seven
components: strengthening of sectoral planning and project identification
capabilities; strengthening of the Tariff Conmmission and implementation of an
Effective Protection Study; a study of the net: value added of industrial
products; a review of investment incentives; improvements in investment
promotion; identification and development of new export product lines; and
improvement of industrial statistics. The TIP working groups are currently
reviewing their work plans to account for policy changes adopted since the
project was originally designed and to reflect GOB and IDA's sense of urgency
that the TIP units formulate interim recommendations for policy and proce-
dural reforms while carryinig out their broader policy review. IDA intends to
support policy, improvements identified in the course of the TIP studies
through its lending operations, including future imports program credits.
Public Industrial Sector Performance
108.    The concern over the performance of public sector enterprises (PSEs)
reflects their large claims on the economy and on GOB's budget -- in terms of
credit extended by the banking system and. of financing provided through the
ADP. PSEs needs for investment financing are met largely through the ADP,
and in several recent years they have absorbed 50-75% of total domestic
credit (other than credit to the Government itself). In most cases, profits
have been small or negative; taken together, the 40 major non-financial PSEs
registered a net deficit in almost every year since Independence. The PSEs'
credit needs were sharply reduced in FY83, as output price adjustments,
improved operating efficiency, financial restruicturing, debt service relief,
and the divestment of unprofitable enterprises enabled many corporations to
realize pre-tax operating profits. Serious problems remain, however --
including conflicts betweerL social and commercial objectives, the lack of
operational autonomy, inappropriate pricinag policies, a compensation system
patterned after that of the civil service, the scarcity of trained managers,
the high rate of staff turnover, and the absence of adequate management
information systems and financial controls. The improvements made in the
recent past need to be consolidated. In addition to improving operational
efficiency, it will be necessary to strengthen financial and operational
monitoring and to provide more operationaL autonomy.
109.    Denationalization asnd Reorganization.  To reduce the preponderance of
the public sector in manufacturing and create a favorable investment climate,
about 110 major manufacturing units have been denationalized since July 1982,
and about 40 others are in the process of divestment. In addition, 49% of
the share capital of 17 profitably operating units retained in the public



-31-
sector is to be sold to private investors. This divestment provides an
opportunity for streamlining the public sector corporations, and a basic
blueprint for reorganization prepared by a special GOB committee is in
various stages of implementation. It reflects the intention to reduce the
public sector's role where the private sector can adequately perform the
required tasks, to manage PSEs having commercial objectives in accordance
with commercial management practices and with increased autonomy, and to move
towards labor and compensation policies in PSEs comparable with those of the
competing private sector. A substantial restructuring along the lines recom-
mended by the committee has already taken place: 13 of 155 corporations have
been abolished, 30 others have been amalgamated into 12, and 21 have been
substantially reorganized internall.y. This reorganization and consolidation
should permit a concentration of effort on improving the performance of the
remaining enterprises.
110.    Debt Servicing and Capital Restructuring.  In an effort to improve
the financial situation of PSEs, GOB has rationalized the procedures for
collecting their debt service liabilities and restructured the debt and
capital structure of a number of public sector corporations and individual
units, through. conversions of loans into equity and/or direct cash infusions
(see para. 53). As an additional measure to strengthen the sector
corporations, GOB intends t:o transfer ownership of the share capital of
individual enterprises, at present held directly by GOB, to the respective
sector corpora.tions, thereby transforming them from primarily administrative
structures into financially integrated holding and operating corporations.
111.    Performance Monitoring.  Implementation of the NIP will have major
implications for the structure and operations of the PSEs, and there is now a
need, inter alia, to: redefine the relationship between GOB and industrial
PSEs; identify and define l'SEs' commercial and social objectives; specify
information requirements for evaluating performance against objectives; and
develop appropriate information systems to facilitate performance evaluation
against stated objectives. GOB has established a high-level committee to
review the performance of the PSEs and initiated a number of programs, at
both the ministry and corporation levels, to develop appropriate monitoring
and control systems. In addition, a UNDP-financed project to develop a PSE
Operational and Financial Monitoring System for the Ministry of Finance and
Planning, to review the PSEs' structures and objectives and to identify an
action program for transforming PSEs into effective economic units will be
initiated in mid-1984 and is scheduled for completion by mid-1985.
Private Sector Industrial Policy
112.    Attempts to improve t:he economic policy environment for private
industry have emphasized the liberalization of investment controls and
approval procedures, strengthening of export incentives, liberalization of
the import regime, and administrative streamlining. More recently, attention
has also been paid to the provision of improved industrial investment and
export financing. Since the policy shift in favor of greater private invol-



-32-
vement in the industrial sector was initiated at a time of severely depressed
economic conditions and of major political and institutional changes within
the country which affected the expectations of potential investors, the
tangible results of these initiatives still remain limited.
113.    Investment Incentives.  Existing incentives aim at promoting private
industrial investment in general and at guiding it into selected priority
sectors and into backward regions of the country. Steps taken in this regard
in FY83 and FY84 include the provision of a concessional import duty rate on
machinery imports for industrial investments in less developed areas, of tax
holidays for new industries, and of excise and profit tax concessions for
export-oriented industries. GOB has established a committee in the Division
of Industries to review, monitor and coordinate efforts to provide more
effective incentives for private investors. In addition, a foreign exchange
risk insurance scheme for investors faced with foreign currency loan repay-
ments has been introduced in July 1983, and retroactive relief has been
provided for past investments affected by the depreciation of the Taka.
114.    Investment Financing.  As discussed earlier, several measures have
been taken in the banking sector which should have a positive effect on
industrial financing. With six private banks now in operation and two NCBs
being returned to private ownership, industrial credit supply, appraisal and
supervision should improve and become more competitive. The granting of
increased operational autonomy to the remaining NCBs should have a positive
impact on their involvement in financing industrial ventures. A thorough
administrative and financial restructuring of the two primary industrial
development finance institutions, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank and Bangladesh
Shilpa Rin Sangstha has been initiated in February 1984 and should be com-
pleted by December 1984, and steps have been taken to reactivate the Stock
Exchange as a source of industrial investment funds.
115.    Investment Approval Procedures.  GOB's primary instruments for guid-
ing private investment into financially and economically viable ventures are
the Industrial Investment Schedule (IIS), the investment sanctioning process,
and foreign exchange allocation and import controls. In spite of previous
rationalization efforts, they have remained cumbersome, restrictive and
inadequate to serve GOB's stated objectives. Following the announcement of
the NIP, GOB has taken a number of steps to rationalize private investment
approval and control procedures. A revised IIS was issued in July 1982 for
the remainder of the SFYP period, reserving only six activities for the
public sector and designating 13 others as 'concurrent' for both public and
private investment. The number of 'free' subsectors in which private invest-
ment requires no formal sanction (provided capital goods imports are not
financed out of official foreign exchange allocations) has subsequently been
expanded in stages from 19 to 49; in the 42 remaining subsectors sanctions
continue to be required. This year, GOB has withdrawn the ceiling on
individual private industrial investments, streamlined vaLrious controls,
increased the investment sanctioning authority delegated to certain financial
institutions and to the Director General of Industries, delegated sanctioning



-33-
authority for smaller projects to regional offices of sanctioning agencies,
imposed time limits for sanictioning investment proposals and for disbursing
approved loans, and established an Investment Assistance Unit to provide
'one-stop' services to potential investors.
116.    Price Controls.  Under the Essential Commodities Act, the Commerce
Division may exercise price controls over 'essential' manufactured goods.
The number of items subject to such controls (originally 47) has been sharply
reduced over the past few years, and only five still remain controlled in
FY84. In addition, GOB has authorized public industrial sector corporations
(most recently the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation) to adjust, in consult-
ation with the concerned ministries, their output prices by up to 10% to
reflect increases in imported input and in energy costs without prior cabinet
approval. Most corporationis have made use of this pricing autonomy in FY84,
gradually moving to free market pricing where they compete with the private
sector or with imports.
117.    Export Incentives.  The incentives for establishing export-oriented
industries and for exporting have been progressively strengthened since the
announcement of the NIP -- mainly through modifications in the duty drawback
system and in the export performance license (XPL) scheme (see Annex VII).
In addition, provisions have been made this year to provide credit for up to
90% of their working capital needs to export-oriented industries, ease their
loan repayment terms, increase their tax rebate on export income from 30% to
50%, and reduce duties on their capital equipment imports. To increase the
incentives for using domestic (rather than imported) inputs in export
products, GOB has also decided to extend all existing export incentives and
facilities applicable in the case of imported inputs (e.g., duty drawback,
XPL, tax exemptions, etc.) to domestic producers of inputs used as in the
manufacture of export products or of products supplied under international
tenders for procurement financed by multilateral aid donors; the administra-
tive details are being worked out.
118.    Export FinjaninL.  The interest rate for export credits (except for
jute and jute products) was reduced from 12.0% to 11.5% in July 1982 and to
9% in July 1983, and interest on Bangladesh Bank refinancing for export
credits was reduced correspondingly from 8.5% to 8.0% and then to 5.5%.
Export credit units are being set up in the NCBs, and a special office has
been established within Bangladesh Bank to monitor and supervise commercial
banks' export financing activities. To expedite claim settlements under the
Export Credit Guarantee Scheme (ECGS), a small managing committee has been
established to review claims,
119.    ImRort Liberalization and Foreign Exchange Allocations.  At the
beginning of FY84, import licensing requirements were abolished for virtually
all importers, and further steps have been taken to expand both the supply of
foreign exchange in the free foreign exchange market and the list of items
importable exclusively through the free foreign exchange market.



-34--
PART IV -- THE CREDIT
120.    The focus of IDA's imports program credits (IPCs) to Bangladesh has
evolved considerably over time.  The first three supported critical post-
independence rehabilitation needs. Beginning with IPC-4, the emphasis
changed to efforts aimed at improving the efficiency of the jute and cotton
textile industries, the country's largest. By FY78, progress in these areas
was sufficient to allow IPC-7 and IPC-8 to focus on export development and
the structural problems of the industrial sector as a whole. Given the
critical importance of the agricultural sector and of food security, IPC-9
and IPC-10 concentrated on reforms aimed at increasing agricultural produc-
tion and improving the efficiency and equity of foodgrain distribution, but
industrial and trade policy improvements also continued to receive attention.
In view of the urgent need to cope with the severe macro-economic difficul-
ties facing the country last year, IPC-l1. not only built on the progress made
under its predecessors -- in agricultura:l and food policies, and in
industrial and trade policies -- but also supported macro-economic policy
improvements, particularly in budgetary resource mobilization and management.
Progress made in these areas is reviewed in Annex VIII.
121.    The proposed Credit was appraised in May 1983.  Negotiations took
place in Washington in February-March 1984; the negotiating team of the
Government of Bangladesh was led by Dr. A. H. Sahadat Ullah, Member, Planning
Commission, Ministry of Finance and. Planrning.
122D    The Credit will provide foreign Exchange to finance general imports.
In order to reduce the country's longer-term despendence on aid inflows for
financing its import bill, the Government has agreed in the context of nego-
tiations for this Credit to undertake further improvements:
(a) in domestic financial resource mobilization for the public sector, in
budgetary management and financial resource utilization, and in
public enterprise efficiency -- SD as t:o improve the effectiveness of
public sector development efforts,
(b) in financial sector and agricultural credit policies, in agricultural
and food policies, and in industrial and trade policies -- so as to
improve the policy environment in which. the private sector can con-
tribute increasingly to economic development and growth.
123.    Eligible Commodities.  The funds t:o be provided under the proposed
Credit would be used to finance any import:s of goods other than those
specified in a short list of ineligible it:ems (Schedule 1, paragraph 1 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Imports directly financed from other
sources would not be eligible for IDA financing. Not more than 25% of the
proceeds of the Credit would be used to finance the import of any commodity
or group of commodities falling within a single 2-digit Division of the
Standard International Trade Classification (SITC), Revision 2.



-35-
124.    Procurement (Schedule 2 of the DCA) will be limited to goods from
countries eligible under the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Both public
and private sector imports will be eligible for financing. Except for
proprietary items, all imports costing the equivalent of US$ 500,000 or more
will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB); IDA will
review procurement decisions after such contracts have been signed and prior
to the submission to IDA of the first withdrawal applications in respect of
such contracts. Non-proprietary items costing less than US$ 500,000 -- up
to an overall ceiling of US$ 40 mi]llion -- may be procured through normal
procurement procedures for such purchases, which generally include the
invitation of quotations from no fewer than three suppliers. Contracts for
commonly traded commodities may be awarded on the basis of price quotations
available from organized international commodity markets. Contracts for
proprietary items or equipment subject to domestic standardization regula-
tions endorsed by IDA may be let on a negotiated basis, but the award of such
contracts will be subject to prior approval by IDA.
125.    Disbursement.  Disbursements will be made against 100% of the foreign
exchange costs (c&f) of eligible imports on the basis of fully documented
withdrawal applications prepared by Bangladesh Bank and forwarded to IDA. To
expedite procurement, GOB will finance contracts for goods amounting to less
than US$ 100,000 from its own resources and request reimbursement from IDA.
Expenditures made prior to credit signing, but after January 1, 1984, in
respect of eligible imports will be eligible for retroactive financing, up
to an aggregate amount of US$ 14 million (Schedule 1, paragraph l(g) of the
DCA). The proposed Credit is expected to be fully disbursed within 18 months
of effectiveness.
126.    Tranching.  The proceeds of the proposed Credit will be made eligible
for withdrawal in two tranches of US$ 70 million each, the first upon Credit
effectiveness and the second subject to IDA being satisfied that the
Government is following sound economic development policies (Schedule 1,
paragraph 2 of the DCA). IDA's judgment in this matter will be based on an
exchange of views not later than O)ctober 31, 1984, on GOB's economic develop-
ment policies -- including in particular those associated with the public
investment program and the policy improvements supported by the Credit (Sec-
tion 3.06 of the DCA); further progress in financial resource mobilization
for the public sector (including the pricing of electricity, small-scale
irrigation equipment, fertilizers and foodgrains) will be specifically
considered.
127.    Taka Fund (Section 3.04 of the DCA).  GOB will deposit Taka funds,
equivalent to the amounts disbursed from the proposed Credit, in an account
currently maintained with Bangladesh Bank and will utilize these funds for
financing its development programs. GOB will furnish to IDA quarterly
reports on amounts released from this account for projects financed by IDA.



-36--
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUM,[ENTS AND AUTHORITY
128.    The draft Development Credit Agreemenl: (DCA) between the Government
of the People's Republic of Bangladesh and the Association and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for :in Article V, Section 1(d), of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
129.    It is a special condition of eff,ective!ness for the proposed Credit
that the Government formally notify IDA of its decision to implement, effec-
tive no later than July 1, 1984, a ferti'lizer wholesale price increase of a
magnitude satisfactory to IDA (Section 5.01 of the DCA). Continued disburse-
ment under the proposed Credit would be conditional upon implementation of
fertilizer wholesale price increases as outlined in paragraph 98 of the text
(Section 4.01 of the draft DCA). Features of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III to this report.
130.    I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.,
PART VI - RECOYMENDATION
131.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit<.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 16, 1984



-37-                                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A
BANGLADESH                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT                LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960-        1970--  ESTIMATE-           ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (TILOUSAND SQ. 101)
TOTAL                                   144.0        144.0        144.0
AGRICULTURAL                             95.2         97.0         97.5
GNIP PER CAPITA (US$)                       40.0          60.0        140.0                276.7                       1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             ..         28.0         49.0                398.4                        792.8
POPULIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   5349L.0          68117.0      90660.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)             5.1          7.6          11.6                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  156.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    430.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                           371.5        473.0        614.7                161.7                        2660.7
PER SQ. KMl. AGRI. LAND               561.9        702.5        908.3                363.1                      196.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                             44.3          46.3         42.8                 36.6                         89.4
15-64 YRS                             52.5          51.1         54.6                 59.2                         S7.2
65 AND ANGVE                            3.2          2.7          2.6                  4.2                          3.3
POPULATION GRGOIm RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   1.9          2.4           2.6                  1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                   3.6          6.3          6.5                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE UIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             53.5         49.2          47.0                 29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             26.1         22.7          17.5                 10.9                          9.6
GROSS .EPRODUCTION RATE                   3.6          3.4           3.1                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..        373.0       1607.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..         12.0                 48.1                         46.6
'OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                           106.0        101.C         93.0                 111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)           87.0         85.0         84.0                 98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0          43.0         42.0                 56.7                         57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              9.0          9.0          7.0/c               13.9                         14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              24.9         23.0          19.7                 12.2                          7.B
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            '7.3         41.0         47.8                  59.6                        6C.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)           159.0        150.3        134.7                  96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFP WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..         45.0         53.0/d               32.9                         37.1
UKBAN                                    *          13.U         15.07d               70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                    ..         47.J         55.077               22.2                         2S.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          6.0          5.0/e               18.1                         41.4
URBAN                                    ..           ..         40.O/e               72.7                         47.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..            ..                  4.7                        33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                   ..        8430.0    10940.0                3506.0                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                    ..       76810.0    24450.0                4797.9                       2462.6
FOP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                    ..        7020.0/f   4500.0/c              1100.6                       1047.2
URBAN                                    ..         820.07f    630.07W               298.4                        651.1
RURAL                                    ..            ..    23360.077              5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..             ..          ..                   ..                        27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                 5.9/          5.8
URBAN                                                 6.1          6.1
RURAL                                    ..           5.g/gj        5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ...
URBAN                                    ..            .
RURAL                                    ..            .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..          3.5
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
_- - - _ _- - - - - - - -_ - - - - --_ - - - - - --_-_ - - - --__ _ - - - - -_ - - - - - - - --_ _   _. ._ _   _ _-_- - _- ._- _ _I_-- _-_-_- - _-_- _ __-_-_-_- - _- - _-_-_- _ __- - _- _ _-_- - _- - _-_-_- _ _- _ _-_- - _- _ _- _ _- _- - _- _ _- _ _- _ - -_ -



-38-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
BANGLADESH               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT              LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOIE
1960-/b      197G-b  ESTIMATE--          ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      47.0         52.0         62.0                 96.1                       101.2
M4ALE                     66.0         68.0         76.0                107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                    26.0         34.0         47.0                 82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       8.0         19.0         15.0                 30.2                        44.9
MALE                      14.0         29.0         24.0                 37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                     1.0          8.0          6.0                 22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              1.0          0.8         14.3                  2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 ..         45.0         44.0                 34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                               ..         26.0         21.0                 18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 21.6         23.0/h       26.0/c-              53.5                        72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               ..          0.4          0.4                  1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVEiS/THOUSAND POP              ..          6.0          8.0                 96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..           ..          0.9                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..           ..           4.7                 16.4                        54.C
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..            ..                  3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            19252.0      23611.0      32341.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      15.2         16.6         17.7                 33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 87.0         86.0         74.0                 69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     3.0          3.0         11.0                 15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION KATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.7         35.7                 42.5                        38.6
MiALE                                 58.7         55.9         57.0                 54.4                        50.7
FE;tALE                               11.4         11.9         13.0                 29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4          1.3                  1.0                         1.1
INrOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5'. OF HOUSEHOLDS             18.3/h         ..         14.6/;               16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             44.57W       44.1/i       42.2A                43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               6.97W        8.77W        6.9/                 6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHiOLDS             17.97h       19.67W       18.22j               17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSO-UTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
UFBAN                                                          139.0/c             133.9                        194.5
RURAL                                   .i. ..                 111.07              111.6                        155,3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
-V- (.., ;- A.PITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..            .                   ..                       178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (7)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         86.0/c              43.8                         24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..         86.07W               51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithnetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1159 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" betweer 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1972; ag 1973; /h 1963; /A  1967; /j 1974.
May 1983



-39-
ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
DEF INITIONS OF SOCiAL INDICATORS
toe:Although the data are dra-   ro   ouce  torai-jugd  huoutaihoiatcean11late   t  holdasobeote  tatteyoa  othec..ratuali
oeparablebecueu   he lack of  caudurdi-ed detiutatu-  a-dcoepts e  bydfeet cc                          LrtsInci ecin   hota.  The dataar,.eoahe                         ..e usfuLt
descr ibe oroer  of nagIt,do, bud ic-t  ccedu, cod chraieic -crtin  taj-t citfeooe h--                  econ
The referenc  grou.s are   ) the .as. -co~ty gouty of the -ibjeot  -outy and (2) u-outry group aith   -ehar Olghrtaoerage  InIoe than the conty grop of the
subjet ouurrr eocrp  for 'tOg   luceI  i PNra  droopabor  .Middl  Incm  North Afr-cdad Middle Ea-', io  1                         b   . cooo  hcau   -yup-gsrci-c ua
affintiel).  Inte  e...seru   an   r ....               gt  or   ouatcolhe rithei   rt   o   ctirdic--  sceho  only. uhen uaunt o-hecoceo
_oa  - To t      .al       -- -ufoorauprisltg laud  -caad inland ecr   lOhi'                         phymic_n  qai I odti,         aneiulecolatuitriny feusi.
1970 atd 9....                                                                                    oploc   e  trtuPrun    ouain dcoiceu ny c_,_b of pr__iucuc
cron   ndrcs)  iildby cci   epc i-nc.sbe  If hoepica-c
GNF Ff  CAPIITA (ISth    CH?o per 0-pilt  -ut-te  at Iorrt Inar-r  prie                                 cial   n  ulcadctae  eea n-ytalodceia 
talolte   h  sae _uteri-u Itehod as dod Suck utlls (i979-9  bai)Heaiittuucei .upalar  etohlb  rone  pemnet- ttfr
1960, 1000, ed 1981 daabyna linnit   nuuit   Othieent   cti  n  pruncyolIf cati lo
ENERGYt CONiSiOfTfONI PEE CAPtTA -idna   raot  osocu   fcu-rulsdl                                               cner .otprsnotl  scte    yaphtca   lt h yandie
6,1970, aod 1990 daEa.urthopal ? i,                                                                                 Incud  gfisprcp!nra  hositasenrul
Tnlutano.Mid-Year 7ch-oadu) -  af July i1 1960, 1970, ocd 19t1                           Od olnocnqaptlnd - Tnloo                        foeasuatu    lccce
Othe  "PoaeItn! (Percent of total) - Utal  of ornin to total populanice,  h   -h
different defutoeu   ranaesgyeft 'll-                  Iopphltpo        ;s.                    ituT
stung  iorel1961,97,eA 91 date.                      -erteSie.t.iubbil                                                        cenIn  or  ootcddl--utl,urbn,SINGro
finl ppuatin b  ae ad te  nd  hei  srtoit.an  frtt       I  18 ility-th                              ....hel  fun tI..Ant -i-cnlypuroae
canto  incuss 1.0.1, and female iufeth.i  eup ...o Ly sai iaingat70.                       h-hlno. reecol.Ieiug                  idiu-emaetocco                    n
ebiaInS ud     opsiy  n   erltt   rnd-o  prtnttnpupu-tifloal,  rbn  ad  oalLI                                                 i logs   ....  ...ii...y.
sisnethe  irth   ais    theuli  h   et   ae   t  al...o the ag-EOo
sguuorfeaueunctg.m  f.thisit, eciodSi2mrft  lirne                                     dlat   oolechnu
feie   t  h    epaten   se  u   nt  e   eeoutunPt,ohc?uec   uto      uci   se  c   enl-rsentl,cl  cdfsl
popuisuon soe 011 be eached                                                          Secod anyac hau,--toat, tLe  r  fol  -. Coo p           ILo as    _
tPe.  die  196,  970ad 100  dan.                                                                 puisusalho.lt  17 iear  ofage  'oro ndne  coot  c
"Ir fo   s torholire           h,dfaptsa   aotfoariotoa   ln                                       enrleclud
foriato MeOroiP                            DOr t    Cide(0idthy. f) nrI_g-ag  liD-                 luolgd ofcial   odcicta- ,o  opIghe fPd6cai obonopyr  le_od
hi ysns),aedreiredSS  yorsanuoeeetrarstitgssosid-rer           ttiynrsdeprcmete11-rconanyinc-doocno
popol aeionek ro ,,a tO-to, igh-O   n    90t.apretg f iota2t  17 adult pou                                                                fiu  aged _5cerodn_r
ysr; p19iaton 1970919 APT  ed   981  dan.  bC-EOntiff....P.T100                                                      1P.de
198.                                                                         l~~~~~7D     d     0-Picensed  ne. ot.      o  tne   n  c  er  ea    gltroc   o.ai
fail   Feon-hcoor      oro  Ibusra  -  oou1n-hr  fecetes5t5o    nefet   aa  o  rcn  re                                                        b-oa   cc ho h cpabLI  sinc
cf bini-ountru  depoth .. oderospiso A   nat tenelh fa .l plnnn-carrestIfue                                          cnig
prugnas.                                                                              Y teocloera coertl;oco-afodtd_PcoaIon;-Torocnldootu--  for
feul   laeiolen   Ic oo  9ofnrnt  oue)-Pronaen  mridrnefel onli   a    ocn    ooeln   o  oe   n  cno    Oooc
ou'   uufhtdhoine   lS.   er;aos    io-uto   aie i                                                   norr.,c-eraonqorncc
oIlganid  a     te  c  sre  uetd uf                                                       'lseocf>f,.hno -dntbuco   croainl-nosth y-r
ana  oouticci01fodcoadtls    ruunaneo osess  sdnobAdeir "I                                                 If i  apear  at       2 les   ou-iesan
food and is on calendar ti year basis .. Cau  tecuo  pi  If good  (eg                      ieadclutndneprTr ccrnortedo  h    ooro
on_fe1n cs  r  can -d Y-   - iggegat  podiuto   ifsubcunr  lenbleuO
bae9  u   atoalaerg   prdrroieaihs                        961-h, 1900, are 1961
soporos, and; .hoge  i   tIdk.  _et  ..pr lee                                                                           LIdeia    ee,ses  oprl;16,.7  a-dItt-i daia.
quatitesuse  i  fod   rocssng,so  lose  inditriouut.Faala(prcet)- fnae  lte  foceas  eranngeof  oilecnt  foce
Oeuesteert-tidn  fdbsdo   bfi-gulred   o   utl                                                     g  cluspeto       abrfreI   arig   ugt y   uun   n
Iniipadhalhinieig  niaena   smsaoe   oy   sei,fain    spreog  c   uo   eo  fre   90   97   c    0   uo
If upyo   edppof    e  opyo   odI  dfnda   bo.Pniisinto     ecn  - cutaI`, nale  ur   ear-anoL no   u
feuient  fur all  boanrtr  seal--odl bybI rolefr  ii                                              a       dtiolto  rae  ar  ocpu.... asitL,  a,ad  oaclbo_o
pae    ru-c.    u",ch1        Srss   iellh   nia    eoen    heehC,17, nb51  aa   Teear   aodn   l'-nricntcu-aa
etnad   e   ie    tnioai   9gaea   oa   r  enad=0                                                          .0s ate   og ag-seo stro  t.re of" the  ,dua In   n  lon
deniped. frceiol            p1e  1   cm   prdy  I             'ltI, 1970 and6 97D7d  98  dt.
data.                                                                        IOCONE ilSThIti'Tluo~~~1-l -,h.,I-IIl  -
:','th.e  data  erioc   fros lfcaIes 19t0.  1970 sui 1901,dta.                                    huasehoide
yero fg   e   huadic    its  1990,              207 and . 196  len .                      ds_oc 1ory  c             -d e It icac  -oos  -too  brla-ccniono
-.de u.Sted      oer(soctu t-loa_,o  -toal,h-on,athcca..                                             uitt oo75yioqo-e   ie  pls tEotil  on-un  rt-oe-ceisco
ucenasntedoiereuuh-eenea  free p-1eitg P-snlee, eb ins  sdOcaFloi o  puet  lcnoladihuo.ot Ii  neIagl  yetll                                                          pl,dIa
urban oresapubll  fountain ort1du970      aedntmrste   00ttr                                Iced 9on0edusinat        _ _to  hiipcspu   oinlnoenaes
thedainfthg  the foDlp e eate  needs
nuc lotludenOr oulecooc don uleuac., ebthor obibun tre Stani, ofhEcotoshc-ng  loch)   Tt  its
batneeteiardssr.            ..tsrn late-luo ---Ion    hOu.f i.cooc    eeyi.onOoacin ,pdni
crices ad siifarln,a)lsicoI                                                                                                                 naytot



-40-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  91.55 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$140 (1982)
Amount
(million US$              Average A.nnual Increase (Z)                 Share of GDP at Market Prices (x)
in current prices)              (in constant Drices)                             (in current prices)
Indicator                       FY82            FY60-70   FY7Q-75   FY75-80   FY80-82             FY60    FY70    FY75    FY80    FY82
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product la            10,947                4.0       -0.6        5.5       3.5         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture /a                       5,107               3.1       -1.3        3.3       2.4          59.9    56.9    62.5    53.4    46.7
Industry /a                         1,506               7.9       -3.2         6.4       3.8           7.7      9.6    11.3    12.7    13.8
Services /a                         4,334               4.9         3.3        8.1       4.9          30.1    30.0    26.2    34.0    39.6
Consumption                           11,373               4.4       -0.7        6.0       3.5           92.4    92.8    99.2    98.0   103.9
Gross domestic investment              1,506              10.9      -10.9        2.0      -6.5           6.9    11.3       8.1    16.7    13.8
Exports of goods & nfs                   841               0.3      -11.7        3.4       9.3           10.0     8.3      3.0      7.8      7.7
Imports of goods & nfs                 2,774               8.8      -12.0        6.1       1.4           9.3    12.5    10.3    22.5    25.3
Gross national savings                  -111              26.5      -17.7       22.1    -38.8            0.9      6.1      1.0      4.0    -1.0
Amount
(million USS                      Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
in current prices)                           .(in current Prices)
FY82                          FY73        FY75        FY80       FY82
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                      627.0                         100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0
Primary /b                             193.9                          40.4        31.5        29.6       30.9
Manufactures                           433.1                          59.6        68.5        70.4        69.1
Merchandise imports                    2,587.0                         100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0
Food                                   360.8                          44.1        42.2        30.2       13.9
Petroleum                              560.6                           3.2        11.1        16.2        21.7
Machinery & equipment                  676.1                         .13.8        11.5        23.0        26.1
Other                                  989.5                          :38.9       35.2        32.0       38.2
FY74      FY75      FY76      FY77      FY78      FY79      FY60      FY81      FY82
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73-100)
GDP Deflator                                          140.6    240.7    183.1    177.2    203.6    216.8    252.7            267.3    295.9
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                   7.9661   8.875S  14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2228  15.4777   16.3447  20.040(0
Export price index                                    104.5    119.0    103.4    108.9    126.5    160.9    198.9            175.7    147.7
Import price index                                    144.9    187.8    180.2    178.2    168.7    208.9    234.9            263.9    261.5
Terms of trade index                                   72.1      63.4      57.4      61.1       75.0     77.0      84.7       66.6       56.5
As % of GDP
(at current orices)
FY75      FY77      lY80        FY82
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                5.4       9.5       10.5         11.6
Current expenditure                                            4.5       7.8        7.7          8.4
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                            +0.9      +1.7      + 2.8       + 3.2
Capital expenditure                                            3.1       S1.5      13.3         12.4
Foreign financing                                              2.4       6.0        8.2          8.0
FY60-70       FY70-71        FY75-80      FY8O-82
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                             4.2           -0.6            6.5         3.3
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                  1.5           -3.0            4.0         0.9
- not available
... - not applicable
/a At market prices.
Lb Raw jute and tea.
ASADD
August 31, 1983



-41-                                                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMZNTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                     Esti-. Projected
FY75     FY76      FY77     FY78      FY79     FY80      FY81      FY82    FY83        FY84
Net exports of goods                                      -1,059      -903      -470      -859     -946   -1,650   -1,822   -1,960  -1,685    -1,790
Exports of goods                                            344      372       405       490      610       722      711       627       655       750
ImporLs of goods                                        -1,403  -1,275        -875  -1,349   -1,556   -2,372  -2,533   -2,587   -2,340    -2,540
Net exports of services                                        21       - 7      -29       -32       -28        4        15      -70       -90      -102
Workers' remittances                                           35        29       60       113       143      210       379      412       600        650
Current account balance                                    -1 003      -882     -439      -778     -831  -1 436  -1 428  -1.618  -1,175   -1,242
Direct private investment                                       ..       ..        ..       ..         .        ..       .         ..
MLT loans (net)                                               498       498      238       398       420      581       513      498       540        607
Grants & grant-like flows                                     382       245      265       393       553      592       584      697       720        735
Other capital flows (net)                                     274        87        17      -39      -16       145       307      295       -57      -100
Change in reserves (- = increase)                            -151        53      -81        25     -124       119        24      128       -28          -
International reserves (end of period)                        266       213      294       269      393       274       250      122       150        150
Reserves as months of imports of next year                   2.4      2.6       2.4       1.9      1.8       1.2      1.1       0.5       0.7       0.6
___ _A____    ctual
FY75     FY76      FY77     FY78    FY79        FY80     FY81      FY82
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                          382       245       265      393       553      592       584      697
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                         519       564       268      435       477      631       562       539
Concessional                                           458       533      244       401      456       600       541      467
Bilateral                                           343       390       144      262       213      273       255
JDA                                                 113       128        86       88       153      152       170       158
Other multilateral                                     3       15        14        51       91       177       83
Non-concessional                                        60        31       24        35        20       30        21       72
Official export credits                               19        -         -         -        -         -        -         4
IBRD                                                   -        -         -        - 
Other multilateral                                    27       18         6         2        3        17        3        26
Private                                               15       13        18       32        17        13       19        42
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding 6 disbursed (end of period)   1,355    1,797    2,053    2,571    2,951    3,216    3,615    3,979
Official                                             1,233    1,689    1,940   2,436    2,808    3,067    3,491    3,835
EBRD                                                  55       55        55       55        55        55       55        55
IDA                                                 255       380       466      554       707      859    1,027    1,181
Other                                               923    1,254    1,419    1,827    2,047    2,154    2,379    2,599
Private                                                122       108      113       135      142       149       124      144
Undisbursed Debt                                       1,019       948    1,016    1,335    1,659    1,718    2,103    2,666
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                                31       88        59       69        95        94       92        87
Interest                                                10        22       28        32       38        43       42        47
Payments as 7 of export earnings                            7.3     20.3      12.7     12.1      13.1     10.6      10.0      10.3
Payments as 7. of GNP                                       0.2      1.2       0.9      0.8       1.0       u,6      0.7       0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (%)
Official                                                 2.0       1.6       1.5      1.3       1.3      1.2       1.6       1.8
Private                                                  2.3       7.8      6.4       6.2       6.1      6.9      10.8       9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                                36.2      42.2     40.6      38.6      36.3     34.2      35.0     35.6
Private                                                 15.3      11.3     11.0       9.5      14.8     19.3       7.6     11.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                          4        3         2        2         1         1        1
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements                -        -         -        -         -         -        -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                        -        1         5        4         4        3         4
IDA DOD/total DOD                                         18        21        22       21        24       26        28
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements               21        22        32       20        32       24        32
IDA debt service/total debt service                         3        2         5        5         4        6         7
IBRD/IDA Lending,
Dec. 1982 (mill. US$)
As % of Debt Outstanding
TERM STRUCTURE                                                 at End of June 1982                                                          IBRD      IDA
Maturity structure of debt outstanding  (%)                                                     Outstanding & Disbursed                   54.9  1,270.0
Maturities due within 5 years                                        16.9                    Undisbursed                                  -   1,047.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                       41.6                    Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed            54.9  2,317.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (I)
Interest due within first year                                         1.7
= not available
ASADD
August 31, 1983



-42-                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 1983)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                 Purpose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 29 credits fully disbursed                        54.90   876.48         -
341       1972  Bangladesh  Tubewells (replaces Credit
No. 208-PAK of 1970)           -       14.00        0.54
487        1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II              -      20.00        2.16
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                -       62.00        1.70
542       1975  Bangladesh  Barisal I[rrigation                 -      27.00       10.46
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation                -      22.00        6.05
621       1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training  -           12.00        2.02
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                   -      16.00        5.75
632        1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shi:Lpa Bank            -      25.00        3.54
724       1977  Bangladesh  Shallow Tubewe:Lls                  -      16.00        1.84Lc
725       1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigat:ion                  -      21.00       10.88
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II           -       5.00        1.01
765       1978  Bangladesh  Jute                                -      21.00       13.03
787       1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II                -      25.00       13.74
825       1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II             -       7.00        3.00
828       1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research               -       6.00        0.91
864       1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control            -      19.00       11.84
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00        3.87
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -      25.00       17.64
921       1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II  -           32.00       26.74
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -       28.00       21.44
941       1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -       22.00        4.83
955       1979  Bangladesh  Simall-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                  -       25.00       20.09
964       1979  Bangladesh  H.ighways II                       -       10.00        7.88
990       1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                      -      37.00       20.74
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all BankiIDA financed projects in execution, rhich is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April. 30 and October 31.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c  Undisbursed balance cancel]Led in October (effective September 29).



-43-                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                 Purpose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II         -       20.00       17.85
1023        1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 -       29.00       23.07
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry
Reha.bilitation                -       20.00       13.80
1042        1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation            -       11.00        7.55
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -       40.00      33.09
1065|d     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale! Industry III           -      35.00       25.39
1091/1     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development           -      85.00       16.47
1096/d      1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport               -      25.00       13.28
1117/d     1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II           -      50.00       27.64
1124Td      1981  Bangladesh  Techni.cal Assistance IV           -      16.00       11.12
1140.1d    1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                      -      18.00       12.75
11471d     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                 -      40.00       27.24
1184/d     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II    -           27.00       24.01
1194/d      1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X                  -     100.00       10.62
1204/d     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer          -      15.00       13.53
1205/d      1982  Bangladesh  Texti:Le Industry
Rehabilitation                 -       .30.00      27.58
1215/d      1982  Bangladesh  Ex:tension & Research II           -      27.00       23.23
1247/d     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                     -      60.00       57.07
1254/d     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power              -      92.00       87.40
1262Jd     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification               -      40.00       38.04
128714      1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                  -      68.00       63.94
1300/d     1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                 -      110.00       75.01
1301/d     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Sulpplemental)                -        6.00        5.19
131814     1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training           -        7.80        7.72
1321/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III              -      35.00       34.35
13491 aIe  1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                    -       12.00       11.73
/d  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Rep'Lenishment denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of
principal are calculated at thie rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect
on September 30, 1983, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits funded
out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on
the dates of disbursement.
Le Not yet effective.



-44-                               ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                 Pur>ose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
1357/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation        -       28.50       28.00
1384/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -     100.00       98.08
1396/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II            -       8.10        8.03
1399/d /e  1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensificat,ion               -        20.00      19.44
1402/d |e  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                      -        23.00      22.64
Total                                                     54.90  2.577.88  1.096.54
of which repaid                                           -         1.63      -
Total now outstanding                                     54.90  2,576.25
Amount sold                                              0.00       0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                            54.90  2.576.25
Total undisbursed                                                            1,096.54
/d  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. Amounts of
principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculat:ed at the rate of exchange in effect
on September 30, 1983, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits funded
out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on
the dates of disbursement.
/e Not yet effective.



-45-                              ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1984) /a
Fiscal                                                             Amounts in US$ Million
Year           Obligor                 Type of Business           Loan   Equity    Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                 1.20     0.36     1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company                      1.05     1.05
Total gross commitments                                            1.20     1.41      2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales            -        -        -
Total now held by IFC                                              1.20     1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                                  0.65      -        0.65
/a  The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1982    Bata Shoe Co.                  Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.              and Tannery                2.70      0.50     3.20



-46-                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 8
BANGLADESH
TWELFTH IMPORTS PROGRIM CREDIT
ANNEX III
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
Identification of Credit           February 1983
Appraisal mission                  May 1983
Negotiations                       February/March 1984
Date of effectiveness (planned)  May 1984
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Formal notification to IDA of the Government's decision to
implement a fertilizer wholesale price increase, of a
magnitude satisfactory to IDA, on July 1, 1984, will be a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 5.01 of
the draft DCA).
2.  The proceeds of ithe Credit will be made available for
withdrawal in two tranches of US$ 70 million each, the
first to be eligible for withdrawal upon effectiveness of
the Credit and the second subject to IDA being satisfied
that the Government is following sound economic development
policies (Schedule 1, paragraph 2 of the draft DCA). IDA's
judgment in this matter will be based on an exchange of
views, not later than O)ctober 31, 1984, about the
Government's economic development policies, in particular
with regard to the implementation of the public investment
program and of the poli.cy improvements supported by the
Credit (Section 3.06 of the draft DCA); further progress in
public sector resource mobilization (including in the
pricing of electricity, small-scale irrigation equipment,
fertilizers and foodgrains) will be specifically considered
(paragraph 126 of the text).
3. Continued disbursement under the proposed Credit would be
conditional upon implementation of fertilizer wholesale
price increases as outlined in paragraph 98 of the text
(Section 4.01 of the draft DCA).



-47-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 8
ANNEX III
SECTION IV: SUMMARY LISTING OF POLICY ISSUES AND OF MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN
MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN IN FY84
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUES                              ACTIONS TAKEN EARLIER                           (text references are provided in parenthesis)
I.   PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
1. Improving budgetary planning            - Working-level Secretariat to the Resources
and investment programing                 Committee established to monitor reaource
availability and budgetary developments
- FY83 Annual Development Programme (ADP) reduced           - FY84 ADP budgeted in accordance with realistic
from  initially announced Tk 33 billion to Tk 27            resource availability forecast (para. 58);
billion in response to financial constraints                ADP currently under review in light of the changed
resource situation (para. 25 & 58)
- Core Program of high-priority projects defined            - FY84 Core Program accounts for 73% of the ADP,
in the FY83 ADP and protected against funding               providing adequate protection for priority projects
shortfalls                                                  against financial resource shortfalls (para. 57)
- Core Program consists of formally approved                - FY84 Core Program consists of approved projects
projects only                                               only (para. 56)
- Number of projects in the FY83 ADP reduced from           - Project selection criteria strengthened (para. 55)
1,580 to 1,128, with 532 in the Core Program                and approval procedures streamlined (para. 56);
number of projects in FY84 ADP further reduced to
927, with 435 in the Core Program (para. 57)
2. Improving financial                                                                                 - Substantial financial responsibility delegated to
administration and                                                                                    administrative ministries (para. 53)
accountability
3. Improving project                       - Project implementation performance reviewed and           - Administrative procedares affecting project
implementation                            administrative bottlenecks identified                       implementation being rationalized (paras. 59-60)
- Impediments to project implementation caused by           - Further modifications in budgetary management and
inadequate financial management ameliorated                financial administration (pars. 51)
througb streamlining of budgetary management
- GOB study of local currency release procedures
for ADP projects followed by steps to streamline
fund releases and improve project implementation:
(a) Core Projects receive local currency release    - Streamlined procedures for payment of customs
for firs3t three quarters of the year without          duties and sales taxes to speed up customs
requirinig separate Finance Division approval          clearances for aid-financed projects; the National
Board of Revenue is simplifying import clearance
(hI Agencies may secure half-yearly fund release           procedures (pars. 601
at a time for projects with lumpy or
indivisible investments                                Mre effective prcgrazming and utilization of
technical assistance (pars. 61)
(c) Increased delegation of financial and
operational authority to project authorities
4. Improving financial management          - Realistic forecast of feasible debt service               - Further progress made in assessing realistic debt
practices and organization of             payments made, and payment obligations deducted             service payments to minimize adverse consequences
autonomous agencies and                   quarterly from ADP fund releases                            for budgetary planning; debt service collection
corporations                                                                                          separated from ADP all'octions; review of capital
- Finance Division review of the need for capital             restructuring needs continues, and further
restructuring and financial rehabilitation of               financial rehabilitation measures, including debt
autonomous bodies, and capital restructuring of             rescheduling and capital restructuring, being
17 corporations                                             taken (paras. 53 N 112 and Anne. VII)
- Development of an integrated public enterprise
monitoring system initiated (para. 113)



-48-
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 8
AN     III
SECTION IV:  SUMMARY LISTING OF POLICY ISSUtES Aim OF MEASIJRES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN (continued)
MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAXES IN FY84
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUES                              ACTIONS TAKEN EARLIER                           (text referesces are provided in parenthesis)
II. PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL
RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
1. Increasing budgetary resources           - New tax measures introduced in the FY3S budget            - Measures introduced to mobilize additional tax
and reducing major subsidies               generated about Tk I billion in additional                  revennes of about Tk 650 million (0.2% of GDP) in
revenues (about 0.4% of GDP)                                FY84, broaden the tax base, and make the tax syst em
more elastic (paras. 64-68 and Annex IV)
- Non-tax revenue measures taken vith the FfY3              -  on-otax revenue measures taken to cover cost
budget to mobilixe some Tk 1.5 billion in                   increases and broaden revenue base, including
additional revenues for the public sector                   incrrases in railway fares, domestic air fares,
telephone rates, postal and health service fees,
and in sales prices for irrigstion equipment and
foodg-ains (psaes. 69-77, 92, 95, 97 & 102)
- FY83 fertilizer subaidy reduced by Tk 500 million    - Fertilizer wholesale prices will be increased in
through a 14% average wholesale price increase in           two steps in the first half of YY85 so as to reduce
July 1982, reducing the subsidy to 19%                      the subsidy in FY85 to 15% (para. 97)
- Foodgrain subsidy reduced by Tk 200 million in            - Ration issue prices increased by 9% for rice and 8%
FY83 through an 11  increase in the issue price            for wheat in January 1984, reducing the total
of rice and an 8% increase in the issue price of            foodgrain subsidy in FY84 by Tk 340 million
wheat in July 1982; issue prices increased again            (para. 102)
in line with increases effected in procureseor
prices in December 1982 to prevent increase it
respective unit subsidies
2. Strengthening financial position         - Electricity (34%), petroleum (41%) and natural            - Natural gas prices increased by about 13% in July
of public sector enterprises               gas (13%) prices increased; prices of othe:                 1983 (para. 73), and electricity tariffs by 3.2% in
co=odities and services affected by energy                  July 1983 and by an additional 9.52 in March 1984
price increases raised to compensate for cost               (pors. 76)
increases
- Disadvantageous crude oil processing contracts with
external refiners terminated and other measures
taken to reduce costs; petroleum products prices to
be reviewed asd adjusted in future in response to
any exchange rate dep-ecistion and/or increased
import costs (para. 74)
- Pblic sector industris1 corporatiDna authorized    - Authority to adjust sales prices extended to
to adjust, in consultation with their ministry,             Sangladesh Petroleum Corporatino  (para. 74)
sales prices of the products of their enterprises
by up to 102 to cover increases ia foreign
exchange costs of impoirted inputs and in en.ergy
costs, without prior approval from the Governmaent
3. Containing non-development              - Recurrent (non-development) expenditure growth            - Recurrent expenditure increase being limited to
expenditure growth                        in FY83 limited to 14%                                      slightly more than the inflatioc rate (para. 24)



-49-
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 8
ANNEX III
SECTION IV: SUMMARY LISTING OF POLICY lSSUES AND OF MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN (continuea)
MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN IN FY84
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUES        _             _        ACTIONS TAKEN EARLIER                            (text references are provided in parenthesis)
III. FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY
1. Improving financial resource             - IDA completed and discussed with GOB its                   - Interest rates on depcsits and the central bank
mobilization and allocation                Financial Sector Review, suggesting major                     rate will be reviewed at least once annually and,
through the banking sector                 policy reforms                                               if warranted, adjusted to maintain financial
institutions' incentives to mobili-e savings
(para. 82)
- Banks authorized to issue Certificates of Deposit
with floating interest rates to mobilize savings
and provide a gauge of credit availability and
demand and of interest rates required to mobilize
savings (para. 82)
- Lending rates will be rationalized to reflect note
closely cost of funds to lending institutions;
agricultural lending rates and interest on
Government loans to public sector entities already
increased (paras. 83 6 86)
- Financial institutions to be granted 0-cr   autonomy
to determine lending rates (para. 83); operational
autonomy of commercial banks increased (para. 87)
- Refinance policy of BRcgladesh Bank will be
rationalized to strengthen incentives for banks to
improve deposit mobilisation, credit recovery and
credit allocation sod to reduce the need for
central bank refinance (para. 84); average
refinance rate raised and sliding rate schedule
introduced for refinan.ce on agricultsral lending
(para. 86)
2. Rationalizing agricultural               - Joint GOB/IDA review of agricultural credit                 - Isterest rates for short- and medism-term
credit policy and administration           policies completed, covering issues related                  agricultural credit increased, with effect from
to credit expansion, cost, recovery,                         October 1, 1983, from 12%-13  to 16% to encourage
refinancing, guarantee provisions, organisation,             lending to agriculture and reflect more accurately
management and lending criteria and procedures               the costs of agricultu.:al lending; interest rate
structure for lending i:hrough the agricultural
cooperative system to be modified accordingly
(para. 86)
- Penalty interest rate on overdues doubled to
6% p.a., effective Octoxber 1, 1983 (para. 86)
- Interest rate on agricultural credit refinancing
linked, with effect from October 1, 1983, to volume
of refinance utilized, ranging from 62 to 10.52, so
as to increase incentives for resource mobilization
by banks; average refinance rate increased from 62
to 8.5% p.a. (para. 86)
3. Improving the institutional                                                                           - Two of the six nationalized commercial banks (NCBs)
framework and administration of                                                                         being returned to privcte ownership; operational
the banking sector                                                                                      autonomy of the other lour NCEs increased; Six
private banks now in opreration; a new bank
specializing in lending, to the landless set up;
rehabilitation of the two industrial development
finance institutions it progress; several new
joint-venture banks established (paras. 87 S 116)



-50-
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 8
ANNEX III
SECTION IV:  SUMAiRY LISTING OF POLICY ISSUES AND OF MEASIJRES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN (continued)
MEASURES TAXEN OR TO BE TAKEN IN FY84
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUES                               ACTIONS TAKEN EARLIER             __             (text references are provided in parenthesis)
IV.   AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD POLICY
1. Major Irrigation
(a) Recovery of operation and                                                                         - Irrigation Water Rate Ordinance (July 1983) and
maintenance costs from                                                                              Irrigation Water Rate Rules (January 1984) issued;
project beneficiaries                                                                               schedule of rates for iY85 under preparation, to
recorer 35% of OM cos:s; full OEM cost recovery to
be achieved by July 1990 (pura. 92)
(b) Improving operation and                                                                           - BWDB's OM operations :or large projects to be
maintenance of completed                                                                            decentralized in stage:: at sub-regional level,
projects                                                                                            specific O5M staff tear-s to be designated, and
sufficient funding to he provided; responuibility
for small project OhM to be transferred to local
governments (pars. 93)
2. Minor Irrigation
(a) Improving utilization and           - Phasing out public sector rental programs                   - Sale of used LLPs and DITWs to contiose until eotire
maintenance of minor                  for low-lift pumps (LLPs) and deep tsbevells                  stock is sold; prices for such equipment detero.ioed
irrigation equipment                  (DTWa) by selling all used rental equipmert                   in vies of this objective (para. 95 and Annex VI)
- Banking arrangements improved to ensure adequate    - Ongoing (Annex VI)
medium-term credit to buyers of used minor
irnigation equipment, and used equipment mids
eligible for TCCA/KSS mediun-term credit
- Reformulation by bWDB of its LLP distribution
policy to correspond to that imiPiated by BADC
- Continued progress tow,ards farmer- ownership              - Ongoing (Annex VI)
of equipment
- Expansion of Irrigation Management Program                 - Ongoing (para. 96)
(b) Reducing subsidies on minor         - FY83 rental fees for LLPs and DTWil doubled                 - DTW rental fees increased by 47% (para. 95 and
irrigation equipment                                                                               Anne. VI)
- All new STWs, LLPs and hTWa to be aold at                  - Sales prices increased by 15% for 1-cusec LLPs and
their full current replacement cost;                         by 20% for 2-cuaec LLPs, to move towards foll
all new DTW. to be sold according to pri-is.g                replacement cost pricing by FY85; subsidy on LLP
schedule (established under IDA's Second DI'W                sales reduced further, bust retained in order to
Project) whereby the STW-equivalence price                   facilitate complete disposal of stocks (para. 95
will be reached in 1986                                      and Annex VI)
- DTW sales prices increased by 40% (para. 95 and
Asnen VI)
- Dowo-psyme.st fur credit purchase- i-cceased to 10%
of purchase price (para. 95 and Anne. YI)



-51-
ANNEX III
Page 6 of 8
ANNEX III
SECTION IV:  SUMMARY LISTING OF POLICY ISSUES AND OF MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN (continued)
MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN IN FY84
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUES                               ACTIONS TAKEN EARLIER          _       __        (teat references are provided in parenthesis)
3. Improving fertilizer                     - Fertilizer wholesale prices increased by weighted   - Fertilizer prices will be increased in two steps in
distribution and utilization,              average of 14% on July 1, 1982, and fertilizer               FY85 so as to reduce the subsidy to no nore than
and reducing fertilizer subsidy            price structure rationalized                                 15% in FY85 (pars. 97)
- Fertilizer retailing and most local and                    - Feasibility of improving fertilizer diatributoon
sub-regional wholesaling turned over to the                  further through direct lifting of fertilizer. by
private sector                                               private dealers from factories and ports is under
consideration (pars. 98)
- Fertilizer retaiil price controls removed
throughost entire country
4. Foodgrain Procurement,
Distribution and Marketing
(a) Providing adequate price            - Procurement prices increased to remunerative                - Domestic procurenent prices increased, in
incentives and reducing               floor levels, but below expected average annual              accordance with principles of providing iocest-ves,
price risks for farmers               market prices                                                 price security and price stability (pars. 101)
- Procurement prices announced before crop
sowing/transplanting and remaining in effect
during crop season; inc:se..es announced after
sowing/transplanting effective only with next
following crop
- Competition in grain trade increased by
abolishing Approved Grain Dealers (AGDs),
except in certain remote areas
(b) Promoting private sector            - Differential between procorement prices far                 - Differential between proc-rement prices for paddy
paddy processing                      paddy and milled rice increased                              and milled rice increased further (para. 101)
(c) Reducing budgetary impact           - Nation issue prices for foodgrains from Food                - Ration issue prices increased in January 1984,
of foodgrain subsidy                  Ministry warehouses increased on July 1, 1982,                reducing unit subsidy an rice from 19.4% to 16.5%
and procurement                       reducing unit subsidies On rice from 28.9% to                 and on wheat from 18% to 16.9% (para. 102)
19.4% and us wheat from 23.92 to 18.0%
(d) Stabilizing foodgrain supply    - Introduction of Open Market Sales (OMS) of rice                 - OMS continuing under simplified procedures
and consumer prices during            and wheat from public stocks during periods of
lean seasons                          short market supply and rising prices
(e) Supporting private sector           - Credit to finance private grain stock holding               - Ongoing
grain storage and marketing           and storage construction expanded; restrictive
grain trade regulations and anti-hoarding rules
liberalized; dissemination of market information
through public media; phased standardization of
market weights and measures on the metric system



-52-
ANNEX III
Page 7 of 8
ANNEX III
SECTION IV:  SUMMARY LISTING OF POLICY ISSUES AND OF MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN (continued)
MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN IN FY84
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUES                               ACTIONS TAKEN EARLIER               _            (text references are provided ic parenthesis)  -
V.   TRADE AND INDUSTRIAL POLICY
1. Improving financial sector               - IDA cDmpleted and discussed with COB findings of    - Continued restraint on public entecprises
policies to promote efficient              its Financial Sector Review which identified a               horrowing to ensure adequate credit availability
private sector industrial                  number of policy reforms                                     for the private sector (para. 110)
investment
- Increased operational a-tonomy granted to
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs); two NCBs
being returned to private o-nership; nit private
banks have begun to opecrate; several new joint-
venture investoent banks established (para. 87 and
Annex V)
- Administrative and finawcial restructuring of the
two primary industrial development financing
institutions in progress (paras. 87 h 116)
- Steps taken to reacctivai:e the Stock Exchange
(pars. 116 and Asnen VII)
- Foreign exchange risk insurance scheme introduced
in July 1983 for private investors  and ret-oactive
relief granted for past investments affected by
currency depreciation (para. 115 and Annem VII)
2. Liberalizing investment                  - New Industrial Policy (NIP) annunced, stating              - Phased implementation of major eleeents of the NIP
licensing and controls                     intent to remove investmet controls in all but               is progress (Annem VII)
a few essential industries
- Simplified controls by Department of Industriea            - Controls and sanctioning requirements over private
and Chief Controller of Imports sod Exports                  investments farther eased, and coiling on
individual private inductrial investments withdrawn
(paras. 116-117)
- Increased authority for developmo?nt finance               - Further delegation of sanction authority, and
institutions and banks to approve investmenits               introduction of time liaits for sanctioning, loan
approval and disbursenert (par.a. 116-117)
- One-stop office set up to handle all licens,ing            - Investment Assistance Unit set up for 'nne-ntop
requirements of private investorE                            service to potential investors (pars. 117)
3. Liberalizing price controls              - Price controls under the Essential Commodities
Act abolished for all but five commodities
- Public sector industrial corporations                      - Sector corporations making use of pricing
authorized to adjust, in consultation with their             autonomy (para. 118)
administrative ministries, sales prices by up to
lOf to reflect inpreases in the foreign exchange    - Limited pricing autonany extended to Sm-glad-oh
coat of imported inputs and in energy costs,                 Petroleum Corporation (para. 74)
without prior Governmen t approval



-53-
ANNEX III
Page 8 of 8
ANNEX III
SECTION IV:  SUMMARY LISTING OF POLICY ISSUES AND OF MEASURES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN (continued)
MEAS'JRES TAKEN OR TO BE TAKEN IN FY84
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUES                               ACTIONS TAKEN EARLIER                            (text references are Lrovided in parenthesis)
4. Promoting export growth                  - Modification of the Import Entitlement                      - All non-trsditional expoart items automatically
and diversification                        Certificate (IEC) system, basing the rate of                 eligible for 40X lIt en:itlement category; moved
entitlement on domestic value added rather than              to higher entitlement esregeries upon determinatien
on gross sales value and increasing the highest              of their domestic value-added content (para. 121
entitlement rate to 80%                                      and Annex VII)
- Flat duty drawback system  introduced for eaport           - Coverage of not soual doly prsbhack system e-panded
commodities (flat rate determined on the basis               to 13 commpdities (Anne.  VII)
of standard production cost to minimize procedural
delays); notional duty drawback scheme introduced
on June 1, 19E.2, for four items
- Interest rate for export c-edits reduced from 11.5%
to 9% and interest on refisome for export credit
guarantee scheme reduce: from 9% to 8% (para. 120)
- Further income tax, duty sod other concessions
granted tc to eoport-oented units Ipara. 121)
- Incentives to use domestic inputs equalized with
those for using inpoetec ispots is the manu-fcture
of export products (pars. 120)
5. Liberalicing import policy               - Free 'secondary' foreign exchange market                   - Further steps to expand supply of foreign eschange
and foreign exchange regime                expanded by increasing both demand for, and                  under the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES), and
supply of, foreign exchange                                  additional iteos shifted  e-clussvely tI  the WES
import list (para. 122)
- Ixport licensing require-eot abolished for
virtually all importers (pars. I,2)
6. Streamlining of public sector            - 110 major public sector unita denationalized                - More public sector units are is the process of
indusateial corporations and               during FY83 to increase the efficiency of                    divestment (pars. 119)
promating a greater rols for               existing industrial inseatmant, to reduce the
the private sector                         burden no public  ector management capacity and            - 49% of the share cpital of none profitable units
increase the role of the private sector                      retained in the public sector being sold Io the
private setopr (pars. 119)
7. Implementing the Trade and               - With IDA assistance, TIP Reform Program                    - Studies under the TIP project scheduled for
Industrial Policy (TIP)                    initiated in Mlay 1983; the program involves                 completion in May 1981 (pars. 108)
Reform Program                             technical assistance for: establishing sector
planning and project identification prosadurra;
an Effective Protection Study and strengthening
of the Tariff Commission; a study of the net
value added of' industrial products; a study on
investment incentives; improvements in private
industrial investment promotion; identification
and development of new export products; and
improvement in industrial statistics



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of I
ANNEX IV
PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL RESOURCE MOBILIZATION IN FY84
Eetimated FY84
Revenue Impact
Measures Taken                                    -__        _     (mill. Tara)                    Notes & Comments
Excise tax on natural gas increased by 5.6% to BPDB and                111.5/a   The combined impact of these twc measures is
fertilizer factories and by 23.7% for all other users                             to increase the gas price psid by the
fertilizer factories and SPIlB from Tk 10.5
Gas tariffs increased by 33.3% to BPDB and fertilizE-r               *  48.5ta    to Tk 11.5/mcf and by all other users from
factories and by 6.3% to all other users                                          Tk 31 to Tk 36/mcf
3.2% weighted average increase in electricity tariffs                * 113        Expected sales of 2,670 GWh
on July 1, 1983
400% increase in electricity duty                                       40
9.5% weighted average increase in electricity tariffs                * 122        Expected sales in March-June 1984 of 948 GWh
on March 1, 1984
Sales price increases for new minor irrigation equipment                68        8,000 STWs, 1,000 DTWs, 4,500 LIPs (BADC only)
Sales price increases for used minor irrigation equipment               10        1,800 1-crsec & 7,200 2-r-sec-  lPs (BADC only)
47% increase in rental rates for DTWs                                   20
Increase in procurement prices for paddy (6.7%) and                    -59        Expected procurement is 190,000 tons of paddy
rice (7.1%) on December 1, 1983                                                   and 22,500 tons of rice
Increase in procurement prices for wheat (6.7%) in April 1984   -13               Expected procurement is 50,000 tons of wheat
Increase in ration issue prices for rice (9.3%) and wheat              340
(6.9%) on December 1, 1983
Elimination of various income tax exemptions                           100        Revenue impact somewhat uncertain
Upward adjustment of taxable income assessment schedules               -10
Elimination of advance income tax collection from importers    -190               Negative impact for one year only
Repeal of Urban Immovable Property Tax                                 -10        Local governments will collect more revenues
New excise taxes on various products                                    97.5
Elimination of, and rate reductions on, existing excise taxes   -11.5
Introduction of 2% turnover tax on certain industria:. and              50
comeercial activities
33% telephone rate increas?                                          * 120
Postal service fee increases                                             7.5
20-25% railway passenger fare increase                                  22.5      First-class and air-conditioned travel only
25% increase in domestic air fares                                     ...
Introduction of certain health service user fees                         1.5
Import duty modifications                                              188
Sales tax modifications                                               -131
100% increase in export duty on wet blue leather                        10
Imposition of Tk 3/kg export tax on loose tea in                        50
January 1984
TOTAL (NET)                                                          L,105.5
* = Measures which have no direct effect on the Central Governiment Budget.
= revenue impact not estimated.
/a  At the time of Budget preparation, GOB's gas sales assumptions were rather conservative at 80,000 ascf; using the
somewhat higher sales assumptions underlying IDA's revenue projections (90,000 mmcf), the impact of GOB's tax
increase would be about Tk 136.3 million and of the tariff increase some Tk 53.7 million.
Note:  FY84 GDP at market prices is projected at about Tk 295 billion, in current prices.  An aggregate (net) new
resource mobilization effort of Tk 1,105.5 million therefore represents about 0.37% of GDP.



55                          ANNEX V
Page 1 of 11
ANNEX V
POLICY ISSUES IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Financial Sector Policy
1.      To overcome Bangladesh's structural problems and sustain economic
development and growth, savings and investment levels need to be raised.  Aid
inflows are likely to increase only modestly, in real terms, and puiblic
resource mobilization efforts, although important (particularly over the next
few years), are limited by the narrow tax base and by the potentiaL negative
effects of increased taxation on private entrepreneurial initiative. It is
crucial, therefore, that greater efforts be made to stimulate private savings
and facilitate the flow of financial, resources into efficient private
investments.
2.      The organized financiaL sector in Bangladesh is still at an early
stage of development -- in terms both of its size and of the range and diver-
sity of its instruments and institutions. Nevertheless, it has a lcey role to
play in the economy, particularly in mobilizing private savings and in
financing the growth of efficient private investment. To attain this
objective, major improvements in policies affecting the financial sector will
be necessary. Past policies have constrained the capacity of the organized
financial sector to mobilize private savings and finance private investment.
Monetary and Interest Rate Policies
3.      Monetary policy consistent with the aims of stimulating private
savings and investment must simnultaneously seek to (i) control infLationary
pressures and provide a stable financial environment and (ii) ensure adequate
credit availability for the private sector. This has proved difficult in
Bangladesh -- mainly because of large and uncontrolled public sector borrow-
ings from the domestic banking system. These large credit requirements
originated from large budgetary deficits caused by inadequate fiscal manage-
ment (e.g., 1.7% of GDP in FY80 and 2.7% in FY81) and from mounting operating
losses of public sector corporations caused by operational inefficiencies and
inappropriate pricing policies (public sector corporations have accounted for
as much as 40% of total bank credit in recent years). In FY80 and FY81,
inflation accelerated sharply as both private and total credit were permitted
to expand very rapidly, while in FY82 overall credit expansion and the rate
of inflation were reduced by placing tight restraints on private credit. In
both instances, the risks and costs of private savings and investment were
exacerbated: first, private savings were severely taxed as real interest
rates fell to sharply negative levels, and subsequently private investment
bore the brunt of the belated adjustment effort.
4.      The conduct of monetary policy has been made more difficull. by GOB's
rigid nominal interest rate policy. As nominal interest rates have remained
relatively unchanged for the past decade (there have been only three sig-
nificant changes in interest rates on deposits -- in FY74, in FY75 and in



-56-                          ANNEX V
Page 2 of 11
FY81), real interest rates have been det:ermined primarily by the rate of
inflation and have been highly unstable. As shown in Table V.1, real deposit
rates have in fact been negative most of the time, and even lending rates
have been negative in real terms for prolonged periods. This made the hold-
ing of financial assets very risky, and a high proportion of private savings,
particularly workers  remittances from abroad, has been channelled into real
assets, such as land, limiting the ability of the financial system to accom-
modate changes in the demand for financial resources. Moreover, with rigid
nominal interest rates, it has been very difficult to assess the adequacy of
private sector credit availability relative to demand or the opporltunity
costs of withholding credit to the private sector in order to accommodate
public sector credit needs.
5.      Two major policy implications emerge from these observatiolns:
(i)  controls over the level of public sector borrowing are essential
if monetary policy is to be successful in containing inflation-
ary pressures and, at the same time, in ensuring adequate credit
for the private sector; and
(ii) relatively stable positive real interest rates (requiring a
flexible nominal interest rate policy) are necessary to provide
adequate incentives for increased private savings which, in
turn, would provide more financial resources for financing
increased levels of private investment.
Table V.1: Nominal and Real Interest Rates. FY76 - FY84
(in percent pier anrLum)
estim.
FY76   FY719  FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
Nominal Interest Rates La
Loans                   11.6   11.1   11.0   13.2   13.4   13.4   13.8
Deposits                 4.2    4.3    4.3    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0
(Time Deposits Lc)       ..     ..             ..    9.4    9.4
Rate of Inflation /b            11.4    9.3   14.1   21.0    6.2   15.9    9.0
Real Interest Rates /a
Loans                    0.2    1.8   -2.7   -6.4    6.8   -2.2    4.8
Deposits               -7.2   -5.0   -8.6  -11.6    0.8   -7.7   -2.0
(Time Deposits /L)       ..     .       ..     ..      ..   -6.5    0.4
not available.
/a Weighted average.
/b Rate of increase in the non-food component of the consumer price index.
c Represent about 70% of total deposits in FY83 and FY84.



_57-                         ANNEX V
Page 3 of 11
6.      GOB's determined efforts to improve the budgetary situation and the
financial position of public sector enterprises portend well for controlling
public sector credit needs and containing inflationary pressures in the
economy, as does the increasing success achieved in stabilizing foodgrain
supplies and prices. Nevertheless, given the difficulties of public sector
financial management in Bangladesh, a policy of freely flexible interest
rates could lead to very sharp and erratic movements in the level of interest
rates. The transition to a more flexible interest rate policy has to be
based therefore on pragmatic considerations which, while introducing greater
flexibility, will also minimize excessive short-run fluctuations. Various
methods could be utilized to implement such a scheme. For example, the
introduction of certificates of deposits, on which both lending and borrowing
rates would be flexible, would provide a gauge for judging trends in credit
market conditions; a prolonged rise in interest rates in this free market
would signal that public sector borrowings should be reduced in order to free
resources for the private sector and/or that interest rates on deposits and
advances should be raised. Alternatively, banks could be authorized to vary
interest rates on deposits within certain margins and time period.
Credit Allocation Policies
7.      The primary objective of credit allocation policies should be to
ensure the allocation of scarce financial resources to their most productive
uses in the economy. GOB has, however, attempted to pursue a number of other
economic and social objectives through the financial sector, and especiallly
through its credit allocation policies. Of particular importance has been
the intent to increase the supply of credit for sectors and borrowers which
historically had inadequate access to institutional credit. Perhaps even
more important has been the tendency to use the banking system to support
public enterprises suffering financial difficulties because of pricing and
management problems, which has had serious adverse implications in terms of
foregone investment opportunities for the private sector and for the conduct
of monetary policy in general. In addition, GOB mandated the provision of
subsidized credit to certain sectors in order to increase incentives for
investment where social profitability was presumed to exceed financial
profitability.
8.      In an effort to reconcile the conflict between the objectives of
increasing the quantity of credit to specific sectors and of controlling its
'price', GOB used a wide array of irnstruments (including subsidized
refinancing, quantitative targets and allocation directives) which have
proven ineffective, inefficient and inequitable. Faced with a complex set of
credit controls designed to ensure credit availability to 'preferred' sectors
and to limit credit to others, lending institutions devised their own means
to preserve some operational autonomy and financial viability. With interest
rates too low to cover the risks and costs of lending to 'preferred' sectors,
they have tended to favor well--established borrowers in these sectors, to
minimize their own exposure by drawing on central bank refinance, and to
evade their credit supervision responsibilities by requiring central bank
guarantees. In sectors where credit had to be limited, informal but effec-
tive rationing became inevitabLe -- e.g., through high collateral and margin
requirements which impinge more harshly on smaller and poorer borrowers and
discriminate only imperfectly among alternative investment opportunities



-58-                         ANNEX V
Page 4 of 11
(since the 'true' cost of credit is hidden). Furthermore, subsidized credit
facilities also proved deficient as a device for providing investment
incentives, because funds can be easily diverted from sectors where credit is
freely available (and 'cheap') to sectors subject to official credit
restrictions.
9.      The allocation of financial resources throughout the economy would
be improved considerably if, instead of the present system of centralized
controls over the cost and quantity of credit:, greater use were made of
differential interest rates as an allocative mechanism. This would ensure
that credit allocation to competing uses is determined primarily by differen-
ces in the rate of return on alternative investments. Direct Government
intervention in credit allocation should be 'limited -- used only to correct
well-identified supply-side inefficiencies in credit allocation that arise
due to the behavi.or of financial institutions ('e.g., excessive risk aversion,
or lack of informiation regarding creditworthi'ness of potential borrowers).]/
Such limited and selective credit controls should be used cautiously, par-
ticularly where they have to be accompaaied by interest rate subsidies. In
most instances it, is the limited supply of credit, rather than its price,
that limits potential borrowers. If interest: rate subsidies are at all
deemed desirable, they should be provided explicitly to financial
institutions, financed either out of GOB's budget or by Bangladesh Bank's
profits.  Under the present systemn, financial institutions are compelled to
charge high interest on loans to certain sectors and users in order to cross-
subsidize lending to sectors for which GOB =ndates low interest rates; as a
consequence, interest rate differ,entials bear little relationship to the
relative risks and costs of lendinag to different sectors and borrowers.
Refinance and Liquidity Control
10.     In the absence of a well-developed capital market, specialized finan-
cial institutions (such as Bangladesh Krishi Bank, Bangladesh Samabaya Bank,
and the House Building Finance Corporation) h.ave relied heavily on Bangladesh
Bank refinancing to sustain their own credit programs. Demand for central
bank refinancing has grown rapidly over the past few years and now threatens
to conflict with Bangladesh Bank's responsibility for controlling domestic
liquidity growth. In the short to medium term, the specialized financial
institutions, particularly those operat:ing in the agricultural sector, are
likely to require continued substantial refinancing from the central bank.
If the use of refinance facilities is to have no detrimental impact on the
development of a viable capital market cnd on the incentives for banking
institutions to mobilize financial resources from alternative domestic
sources, the rate of interest on refinance facilities needs to approximate at
least the cost of mobilizing additional financial savings from the private
sector. Where subsidies continue to be required, they should, as suggested
I/ The financial system is, however, a poor vehicle to correct inefficien-
cies in credit allocation that arise on the demand side due to distor-
tions in other markets, for example, unstable jute prices or an over-
valued exchange rate.



59                          ANNEX V
Page 5 of 11
above, be provided explicitly in the form of interest rate subsidies rather
than through subsidized refinanice facilities.
11.     Central bank control over liquidity growth is best exercised through
control over the monetary base (e.g., through variations in the volume of
refinance) or over the money multipLier (i.e., through variations in reserve
requirements). The present system, which relies heavily on specific
administrative controls and credit ceilings on an individual financial
institution, is unnecessarily costly and cumbersome.
Institutional Policies
12.     Policy reforms such as those outlined above would allow the financial
resource allocation process to take place in a more decentralized manner and
to be more responsive to, and reflective of, market forces. To complement
these and other policy reforms, and to ensure that the intended benefits will
be realized, substantial changes in the operating practices of the financial
institutions in Bangladesh will be required. Institutional policies need to
be rationalized -- providing for greater operational autonomy within finan-
cial institutions as well as for more viable capital structures and a more
realistic profit retention policy for the commercial banks. Past policies
have eroded the net worth of the nationalized commercial banks, and they have
come to be increasingly viewed and treated as quasi-Government departments
rather than as independent financial institutions.
13.     The growth of private sector involvement in the banking system can
be expected to inject a significant element of competition into the financial
system, particularly in the urban areas. Failure of an individual private
bank might have repercussions for the stability of the financial system as a
whole. In order to protect depositors and enhance public confidence, some
form of deposit insurance would be desirable.
B. Agricultural Credit Policy
14.     The rapid expansion of institutional lending for agriculture since
1976 has been achieved through policies characterized by three fundamental
features: firstly, the bulk of agricultural credit has been provided at
subsidized interest rates, relative to the rates charged in other sectors and
to the real costs of agricultural lending; secondly, extensive use has been
made of quantitative lending targets, specific credit programs that were
compulsory for participating financial institutions, and liberal refinancing
by Bangladesh Bank; thirdly, although a number of institutions have been
involved in providing agricultural credit, the financing and lending terms of
the various programs have been determined in a highly centralized manner by
Bangladesh Bank. These policies have caused problems, however, which
threaten the long-term viability of an expanding agricultural credit system.
Given the priority attached to the rapid spread of irrigation-based HYV
technology and to agricultural development in general, the requirement for
institutional credit to support continued agricultural development is
expected to continue to increase at a rapid rate. This necessitates policies
to ensure the loug-term viability of agricultural lending operations.



-60-                          ANNEX V
Page 6 of ll
15.     Under the supervision and control of Bangladesh Bank, agricultural
credit programs are administered by a number of institutions in ways which
reflect their particular structures, traditions and priorities: Bangladesh
Krishi Bank (BKB), which is the single largest lender to the agricultural
sector and provides mainly medium-term credit for capital investments in
agriculture and agro-industries; the nationalized commercial banks (NCBs);
Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd. (BSBL), the apex bank for the traditional
cooperative credit system; and the Bangladesh Rural Development Board
(BRDB)l/ which supervises and supports the two--tiered agricultural coopera-'
tive system under which credit to members is refinanced by the largest of the
NCBs, the Sonali Bank. In addition, the country-wide Special Agricultural
Credit Program (SACP) was launched in 1977 specifically to provide short-term
crop credit, particularly to smaller farmers without adequate collateral;
NCBs have accounted for over 70% of lending under the SACP, the remaining 30%
being disbursed by BKB.
Interest Rate Policy
16.     The policy variable with the widest repercussions for trends in the
volume of agricultural credit and for the pattern of overall financial
development in the rural areas is the inLterest rate. Institutional credit
for agriculture has long been provided at interest rates insufficient to
cover the relatively high costs and risks involved. The administrative costs
of agricultural lending are estimated to be about 6% for banks and special-
ized financial institutions and about 9%: for lending programs of cooperatives
that reach farmers at the village level; to this must be added a margin
required to cover bad debts, amounting to about 4%. With nominal short- and
medium-term lending rates of 12% and 13%, respectively, and even with
Bangladesh Bank providing highly subsidized refinance at only 6%, all par-
ticipating institutions have been faced with :negative margins on their
agricultural lending operations. Even the BRDB Cooperative System, charging
an effective rate of 17.5% for short-term crop credit and with a far better
loan recovery record than all other programs ;and institutions, has been under
stress, in part because it depended on tefinance from Sonali Bank at 7.5%
interest.
17.     The subsidization of agricultural credit has been intended to ensure
cheap credit to farmers, allowing them to purchase modern production inputs;
high interest rates were thought to make it difficult for farmers to service
their loans and to cause high rates of defaull:. Evidence shows, however,
that marginal rates of return on the use of modern production inputs are
considerably higher than interest rates for institutional credit and that
farmers are more sensitive to the availabilitvy of credit than to its price.
Moreover, there is no evidence that low nominal interest rates translate into
lower real costs of institutional credit for farmers, particularly the
smaller ones.  Because of the mandated low interest rates, banks find it more
profitable to lend for other purposes, anad the services provided by them fall
far short of what is desirable; with demand for institutional credit greatly
exceeding available supply, most farmers usually face considerable difficul-
./  Formerly the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP).



-61-                         ANNEX V
Page 7 of 11
ties in obtaining institutional creidit and are willing to pay 'iniformal fees'
to obtain loans. As a consequence, the effective cost of credit to farmers
is substantially higher than what is officially mandated. There is also
considerable evidence suggesting that poor recoveries are more commonly
associated with low-interest credit programs: with negative real interest
rates, borrowers benefit by postponing repayment. The BRDB credit program,
with its substantially higher interest rates, has the best recovery
performance, and there are indications of improving recovery performance
under the SACP following the introduction of penalty rates on overdues.
18.     As a result of low interest rates, and in spite of highly subsidized
refinancing by Bangladesh Bank, short-term agricultural credit operations in
Bangladesh (with the possible exception of the BRDB program) have not been
financially viable, and the growth in agricultural credit supply had to be
ensured by excessive dependence on quantitative targets. Faced with negative
margins on agricultural lending, financial institutions depended either on
cross-subsidization from lending to other sectors, on Government loans and
on extensive refinance from Bangladesh Bank to sustain their agricultural
credit operations and lacked incentives for improvements and innovation in
the provision of financial services in the rural areas. At the same time,
there has been a significant increase in the incidence of delays in repay-
ments and outright defaults, further prejudicing financial viability. Over
the longer run, continued growth of agricultural lending will not be sus-
tainable unless its financial viability can be established and safeguarded.
This will inevitably require an interest rate regime which ensures the
profitability of such lending.
Refinance Policy
19.     The second key issue regarding agricultural credit policies is
refinance policy. In order to offset, at least partially, the ef'fects of low
interest rates on the profitability of agricultural lending, Bangladesh Bank
has provided liberal refinance facilities for the bulk of agricultural lend-
ing at a concessional rate of 6% (i.e., 4.5% below the bank rate). Although
subsidized refinance to lending institutions significantly lowered their cost
of funds and thereby reduced the negative margins faced by lendinig
institutions, it also largely eliminated their incentives to mobilize funds
from alternative sources and to apply such resources to agricultural lending.
In effect, thus, Bangladesh Bank refinance has substituted for financial
resources that could and should be mobilized by banks themselves and then be
made available for agricultural lending. Although this refinance policy
facilitated the rapid expansion of agricultural lending in the recent past,
it also prevented the development of a self-sustaining agricultural credit
system.
20.     An additional serious problem in agricultural refinance policy has
been discriminatory access to concessional refinance facilities provided by
Bangladesh Bank: irrespective of their performance in such key areas as
credit supervision and loan recovery, some institutions (especially BKB and
BSBL) received liberal refinance, while others (notably BRDB) faced a
shortage of resources. Access of different credit programs to concessional
refinance has ranged from 0% in the case of BRDB to 60% for BKB and 95% for
BSBL; until last year, the BRIDB system has been financed exclusively by



-62-                         ANNEX V
Page 8 of 11
Sonali Bank which provided the required resources at 7.5%.  Moreover, with
subsidization directly linked to riefinance facilities, the degree of sub-
sidization depends on the quantity of refinance provided and discriminates
against programs with limited or no access to refinance facilities. This ha.s
severely hindered, if not undermined, the efficient development of institu-
tions involved in agricultural lending, because it served as a strong disin-
centive against the mobilization of resources from sources other than
Bangladesh Bank.
Credit Allocation Policy
21.     There is strong evidence indicating that mandatory credit programs,
such as the SACP, are difficult to target effectively and substitute, at
least partially, for existing credit flows to small farmers. Two alternative
approaches to ensure adequate credit supply to small farmers should be
considered. Firstly, experience in Bangladesh indicates that cooperatives,
when well run aLnd provided with an adequate financial spread to cover costs,
serve as an effective institutional. chanrnel for providing credit to smaller
farmers at least cost. Secondly, a well designed program of Government
guarantees can serve to reduce collateral requirements for smaller farmers,
while allowing financial institutions more flexibility in the design of
credit programs and autonomy in the selection of borrowers.
Recovery Performance
22.     With the possible exception of the BRD]5 credit program, agricultural
credit recovery performance -- although varying somewhat among institutions
and programs - is poor and declining, but its effects on the viability of
continued agricultural lending have been essentially ignored. There has been
no systematic and reliable estimation of the extent of bad loans; they are
rarely classified as unrecoverable or written off; and true profitability of
lending has been overstated by the accounting practice of including accrued
(rather than actually paid) interest in net profit calculations. Liquidity
problems attributable to poor loan recovery have been ameliorated through
recourse to increased Bangladesh Bank refinance and GOB guarantees,
apparently without taking into cons:iderat:ion thLe potentially very large
liabilities transferred to GOB's budget.
23.     Some generalizations about lthe causes af this poor credit discipline
are possible. Performance has been particularly poor under the SACP (due in
part to the lack of experience of NCBs in agricultural lending and the
weaknesses of the procedures used to identify and select borrowers) and in
the traditional cooperative credit system operated under the apex of BSBL
(because of poor financial management throughout the system). The markedly
better recovery performance of BRDB can be attributed to several factors: it
is intensively supervised; group liability creates strong social pressures
against potential defaulters; and the BRDB credit system attempts to bring
the source of credit down to the village level, albeit at a higher interest
cost, thus minimizing real fixed costs to farmers of acquiring loans. In
contrast, the NCBs have adopted a relatively high degree of centralization in
internal loan approval authority and rely on cumbersome and time-consuming
loan application procedures to ration credit among applicants, with the
consequence that the real fixed costs to the borrower in terms of time and



-63-                         ANNEX V
Page 9 of 11
travel costs can be as high as 30-40% of the total loan value.  High fixed
costs impinge upon small loans and short-term loans to a much larger extent
than upon larger and longer term loans. Borrowers therefore have an incen-
tive to convert their short-term crop loans into de facto Longer term loans
by delaying repayment.
Credit Guarantees
24.     Since refinance is available only for current loans, the Government
established two 'guarantee' programs to provide some financing Lor late
repayments and overdue loans. The effect of such programs is to provide
adequate liquidity to BKB and BSBL, since recovery of short-tera crop loans
is normally stretched over as much as 3-5 years, and to provide an additional
partial guarantee for loan defaults under the SACP.
Organizational and Institutional Development
25.     The Bangladesh Bank has encouraged the proliferation of rural
branches of various financial institutions without regard to the viability of
such a development. As a result, the number of non-viable ruraL bank
branches is very high, with problems of duplication and overlap in some areas
and locations, yet with inadequate overall coverage because of the concentra-
tion of branches at the Upazilla headquarters level. The management of
overall institutional agricultural lending in the country by Bangladesh Bank
has been weak. There has been a proliferation of lending schemes, terms and
conditions. Reporting procedures are inadequate, and it is almost impossible
for bank branch managers and lending officials to be fully cognizant of the
variety of lending and reporting procedures. In addition, banking institu-
tions have been burdened with mandates and tasks that should be handled by
other agencies. These and other management and organizational issues have
not been adequately addressed by Bangladesh Bank.
C. Recent Policy Reforms
26.     Interest Rate Policy.  In order to encourage domestic savings and
simultaneously promote a more rational allocation of financial resources, GOB
intends to move gradually towards a more flexible interest rate policy which
would maintain relatively stable positive real interest rates on deposits.
Interest rates on time deposits and loans are expected to remain positive in
real terms during FY84, given current and projected inflation rates (see
Table V.1). The level and structure of interest rates will in future be
reviewed at least once annually to ensure that (a) real interest rates on
deposits remain positive, to induce monetized savings, and (b) the central
Bank Rate is set an an appropriate level to provide adequate incentives to
commercial banks to mobilize financial resources on their own.
27.     Lending rates should reflect the real costs and risks involved in
lending. Accordingly, interest rates and service charges for agricultural
and rural sector lending were increased in October 1983 to levels reflecting
the higher administrative costs and risks involved in such operations (see
para. 29). Another important immediate step towards a more realistic inter-
est rate policy was taken at the beginning of FY84 when GOB modified the
lending terms to public sector corporations and autonomous agencies, both for



-64-                         ANNEX V
Page 10 of 11
domestic currency loans and for foreign exchange loans. Interest rates on
both domestic currency and foreign exchaage loans were increased from the
previously prevailing levels of 9-10% to 11.5-12.5% for most borrowers --
excluding only some corporations and agencies pursuing primarily social,
rather than commercial objectives in such high-priority sectors as power
generation and distribution, agriculturaL development, and natural resource
exploration. In addition, GOB intends to grant to financial institutions
more autonomy and flexibility to determine the level and structure of their
lending rates so as to achieve greater eEficiency in the allocation of credit
resources.
28.     Refinance Policy.  In order to increase the incentives for financial
institutions to mobilize deposits and improve credit recovery, Bangladesh
Bank's refinance policy is being modified. Except where particular sectors
or insitutions may require concessional refinance facilities to promote
socio-economic objectives, refinance facilities are to be provided at higher
interest rates, approximating closely the cost of mobilizing additional
financial savings from the private sector; GOB will examine the possibility
of providing concessional credit through direct interest rate subsidies,
rather than through refinancing at subsidized interest rates. The agricul-
tural refinance policy has already been revised along these lines in October
1983 (see para. 29).
29.     Agricultural and Rural Lendling.  Several major steps have been taken,
effective October 1, 1983, to rationalize agricultural and rural credit
policy:
(a) Interest rates for short- and medium-term agricultural credit have
been increased, through the addition of service charges to cover the
costs and risks of such lending, from 12% and 13%, respectively, to a
uniform rate of 16% at the Upazilla headquarter level.
(b) Penalty rates of interest on overdue agricultural loans have been
increased to a flat rate of 6% per annum, replacing the previous
system of charging 0.5% penalty per quarter and up to a maximum of 3%
per annum.
(c) The interest charged to lending institutions on refinance from
Bangladesh Bank for agricultural and rural lending has been made
dependent on the volume of such refinarLce utilized by the respective
institutions, so as to strengthen their incentives to mobilize
resources through deposits iand improved credit recovery; refinance is
now provided at rates ranging fron 6.0%i to 10.5% per annum, rather
than at a uniform rate of 6% as in the past, and the average cost of
refinance will be on the order of about 8.5% (see Table V.2).
(d) To promote the expansion of irrigation coverage, refinance for credit
to finance irrigation equipment purchases by farmers and farmers'
groups is being provided up to 90% at a uniform rate of 8.5%.
(e) The refinance and on-lending rates for credit provided through the
agricultural cooperative (T(CCA!KSS) system supervised by the
Bangladesh Rural Development: Board will be adjusted with effect from



-65-                         ANNEX V
Page 11 of 11
April 1984, consistent with these modifications in the general
agricultural lending rate istructure; refinance will be provided by
Bangladesh Bank to Sonali Bank at 8.5% p.a., and interest rates to
final borrowers under the system will be 19% p.a. for short-term
loans and 16% p.a. for medium-term credit. These rates will be
substantially positive in real terms and will provide sufficient
spreads for the financial intermediaries involved (including the
TCCAs and KSSs) to cover their costs.
30.     Certificates of Deposit.  As a means to gauge trends in market condi-
tions for credit and to mobilize more financial resources, Bangladesh Bank
has recently permitted several commercial banks to issue of Certificates of
Deposit with floating interest rates. The banks have already begun to make
use of this new instrument to mobilize additional savings.
31.     Financial Sector Administration.  Steps have also been taken to
improve institutional and administrative aspects of the banking sector.  Six
private banks are now in operation.  Two nationalized commercial banks (NCBs)
are being returned to private ownership. The operational autonomy of the
remaining four NCBs is being increased.  Agricultural and rural credit
application and approval procedures have been simplified, loan sanctioning
authority has been further decentralized to regional and branch managers, and
the number of bank branches in rural areas is being reduced to no more than
two per Upazilla. After five years of successful experimentation, a new
institution, Grameen Bank, ha.s been established to provide credit to landless
cooperatives for productive investments. 177 superfluous rural branches of
NCBs have been transferred tc BKB and 77 others to Grameen Bank. Efforts to
strengthen the two industrial. development finance institutions (Bangladesh
Shilpa Bank and Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha), initiated last year, are
being continued (see Annex VII), and a new investment finance institution
has been established in partnership with Saudi Arabia.
Table V.2: Schedule of Refinance Rates for Rural Lendin&
Interest Rate
on Refinance from                 Percentage of Refinance Utilized
Bangladesh Bank            Commercial    Bangladesh         Bangladesh
(in % p.a.)                Banks        Krishi Bank    Samabaya Bank
6.0                                                     30-49.9%
7.0                                                     50-69.9%
7.5                     30-49.9%       30-49.9%            -
8.0                                                     70-79.9%
8.5                     50-59.9%       50-79.9%         80-89.9%
9.0                                                     90-100%
9.5                     60-79.9%       80-94.9%           -
10.5                     80-100%        95-100%



-66-                             ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 5
ANNEX VI
REFORMS IN MINOR IRRIGAT:[ON POLICY
I. Introduction
1.      GOB's strategy for agricultural development in the short to medium
term, reflected in the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan, accords high
priority to the expansion of minor irrigation -- low-lift pumps (LLPs),
shallow tubewells (STWs), deep tubewells (DTWs;) and hand tubewells (HTWs).
The joint GOB/IDA review of the minor irrigation sector, comp'Leted in 1982,
identified several key policy objectives and measures to improve the pace and
efficiency of minor irrigation development in Bangladesh:
(a) Expanded Role of the Private Secitor. A larger role for the private
sector in the procurement, marketing, and servicing of minor irriga-
tion equipment was identified to be necessary in view of the growing
burden on, and the high cost to, public sector agencies (such as the
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation) in delivering equip-
ment and support services.
(b) Elimination of Subsidies. Invest:ment in small-scale irrigation has
been shown to be highly profitabLe for farmers; the joint review team
consequently recommended that subsidies on the sale and/or rental of
small-scale irrigation equipment (which have been a heavy burden on
GOB's budget, precluded an expanded role of the prival:e sector, and
led to inefficiencies in eq[uipmerLt utilization) be eliminated as
rapidly as feasible.
2.      Successful implementation of these policy intentions requires, inter
alia, (i) the elimination of rental programs aind the outright sale of all
new irrigation equipment by public sector agencies; (ii) elimination of
subsidies by pricing all equipment at full current replacement cost -- or,
where that would cause inequities, at the STW-equivalence price;l/ (iii) the
sale of all existing rental equipment, and increased rental fees until their
sale is completed; (iv) unrestricted private sector import of irrigation
equipment, elimination of discrimination against the private sector in duty,
tax and credit facilities, and phasing out of public sector import, marketing
and servicing of minor irrigation equipment; anid (vi) provision of adequate
medium-term credit to support farmer and group purchase of equipment, tar-
geted particularly to more efficient farmer cooperatives.
1/ Under this principle, STWs, LLPs and llTWs will be sold at prices cover-
ing their full current replacement cost, while DTWs will be sold at a
price that equates the unit cost: of water discharged by a DTW to that
discharged by a STW.



-67-                             ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 5
II. Measures Taken in FY83
3.      In FY83, GOB initiated implementation of many of the key measures
identified above, and significant progress in different areas was achieved:
(i)  All new minor irrigation equipment fielded by the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), Bangladesh Krishi Bank
(BKB) and Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) was sold rather
than rented. BADC's DTW and LLP rental programs and BWDB's LLP
rental scheme are being phased out, and all rental equipment is being
sold. LLP distribution free-of-charge under the Canal Digging
Program, which had undercul BADC's LLP sales efforts, was ended.
(ii)  A full-cost pricing formula for STWs and LLPs was established.  STW
and HTW sales prices were set at the full current replacement cost
level, eliminating subsidies and permitting private suppliers to
compete with the public sector. The subsidies implied in LLP sales
prices were reduced and are to be eliminated entirely in FY85. A
program of graduated annual increases in sales prices for DTWs,
agreed upon with IDA, was initiated so as to achieve STW-equivalence
pricing by the end of a four-year transition period. Public sector
agencies now also charge at full cost for spare parts and repair and
maintenance services.
(iii) Rental fees for LLPs were doubled and a program of graduated
increases in DTW rental rates was initiated in FY83.
(iv)  Adequate medium-term credit was made available to support farmer and
group purchase of irrigation equipment. To facilitate the sale of
used equipment by public sector agencies, credit for the purchase of
used equipment from BADC and BWDB was made available through commer-
cial banks and through the BRDB cooperative system; since then, used
equipment sales have been substantial.
(v) Steps were taken to ensure that adequate import licenses were issued
for the import of equipment and spares (for STWs) by the private
sector and that the private sector did not face any duty/tax dis-
crimination in its efforts to import and distribute such equipment.
Private importers are importing equipment and spares and have access
to the necessary credlit and foreign exchange. Public enterprises
manufacturing or assembling minor irrigation equipment and components
are now selling these at the same prices to private and public
purchasers. Progress has been uneven, however, in phasing out public
sector procurement, import and marketing of minor irrigation
equipment, as some aid donors' procurement regulations prevent a
fully consistent implementation of this policy decision.
(vi) As of FY83, farmers and farmers' groups within BWDB project areas
have been permitted 1:o purchase STWs from any public or private
supplier.
4.      The impact of these measures was very positive, as evidenced by the
substantial increase in equipment fielded and by the resultant increase in



-68-                                ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 5
dry-season fertilizer consumption and in. rice and wheat production. With a
total of 39,172 units, STW sales during FY83 exceeded the FY82 figure by
about 30%. DTW sales (3,124 units) more than doubled in FY83, and LLP sales
(12,319 units) increased by more than 20%.  DTW rentals (11,613 units)
increased by 9% as old equipment was reserviced; LLP rentals, by contrast,
declined from 30,580 units in FY82 to 20,037 units in FY83. Public sector
agencies continued to phase out their rental programs; sales of used rental
equipment increased sharply, and it is intended to sell all such equipment by
the end of FY84. The expanded role envisaged for the private sector in the
distribution of minor irrigation equipment was successfully achieved, backed.
by improved credit procedures and disbursement:s: private dealers accounted
for over 36% of total STW sales. The acreage covered by minor irrigation
increased from about 2.4 million acres in FY82' to over 2.7 million acres in
FY83.
III. Measures Taken in FY84
5.      In order to sustain this momentuma, several further steps, aimed at
consolidating the progress achieved so far, were, taken in early FY84. These
steps are outlined below.
6.      STW Pricing.  In the course of FY83, the external value of the Taka
was depreciated by about 11%, considerably increasing the cost of imported
irrigation equipment; the costs of domestically produced equipment also
increased, mainly due to increased raw matterial costs. In response to these
cost increases, sales prices for SI'Ws sold by private suppliers were
repeatedly adjusted upwards over the course of the year, and Bangladesh Bank
issued the necessary notifications of increased private sectoDr STW sales
prices to the banks and agencies involved in lending for farmer purchase of
STWs from private suppliers. Public sector suppliers (BADC and BKB) did not,
however, adjust their STW sales prices which consequently lagged behind those
charged by private suppliers. This anomaly has been rectified: cost
increases have been fully reflected in the 12% sales price increase for STWs
announced on August 1, 1983.
7.      LLP Pricing.  Subsidies were retained in FY83 on the sales prices of
1-cusec and 2-cusec LLPs in order to facilitate quick disposal of the very
large stock of equipment held by BADC.  Substantial progress was made towards
achieving this objective, but sizable stocks still remained with BADC at the
end of FY83. To ensure that progress in rapidly selling these stocks is
sustained, additional procurement of LLPs has been essentially limited to
1-cusec LLPs for which there is strong farmer demand. Sales prices for
1-cusec LLPs have been set at levels which ensure continued farmer demand and
at the same time represent progress towards full-cost pricing.
8.      Although agreement reached between GOB and IDA in 1982 called for
full-cost pricing of LLPs in FY84, GOB and IDA subsequently agreed that some
subsidy -- albeit smaller than in FY83 -- would be retained in FY84 so as to
facilitate the rapid disposal of al]L remaining LLP stocks. Accordingly, FY84
sales prices were increased by 15% for 1-cusec LLPs and by 20% for 2-cusec
LLPs, further reducing (but not eliminating) the respective unit subsidies.
A somewhat larger relative subsidy (25% of costs) has been retained for
2-cusec LLPs so as to expedite the complet:e sale of all remaining 2-cusec



-69                               ANEX VI
Page 4 of 5
LLPs.  Substantial progress has already been made in disposing of T,ese
stocks, but the objective may riot be fully achieved by July 1, 1984, the
original target date. GOB will. provide to IDA by October 1, 1984, a state-
ment of progress made in disposing of its LLP stocks and of the further time
required to dispose of all remULining stocks.
9.      DTW Pricing.  As agreed under IDA's Second Deep Tubewell Project, a
program of graduated annual increases in sales prices for DlVs was initiated
in FY83 so as to achieve STW-equivalence pricing by the end of a four-year
transition period. In accordance with this agreement, the FY84 price of a
DTW was increased by about 40%, representing a real increase in prices of
about 25% when taking account of cost increases.
10,     DTW Rental Charges.  Rental charges for DTWs have been increased by
47% at the beginning of FY84, from Tk 3,400 to Tk 5,000 per annum.
11.     LLP Rental Charges.  Rental charges for LLPs were not increased in
FY84 -- in view of the large increase in rental charges imp]lemerted last year
and of the intention to eliminate rental programs altogether; the entire
remaining stock of used rental LLPs is being sold.
12.     Down-Payments for STW and LUP Credit Purchases. Dcwn-payments
required for the purchase of LLPs and STWs against institutional credit have
been increased to 10% of the sales prices of such equipment, so as to ensure
greater buyer commitment to optimal equipment utilization and credit
discipline.
13.     Tubewell Siting.  With the rapid increase in the field.tng of
tubewells, particularly by private distributors, there is increased danger of
improper siting (too close to each other or to HTWs; DTWs in STW areas; STWs
in areas not suitable for STWs; etc.). To help ensure proper and efficient
siting of deep and shallow tubewells, GOB has formulated regulations for
tubevell siting and initiated supervisory and enforcement activities in this
regard. Since July 1983, regulatory bodies have been created at the local,
regional and national level: Upazilla Irrigation Teams, District Irrigation
Committees, and the National Coordinating Committee for Irrigation
Management.  The Upazilla Irrigation Team is most directly concerned with
implementing the procedures anid guidelines drawn up by the ational and
district-level committees; it reviews applications for tubewell installation
and is required to determine the feasibility of the proposed site within
seven days from receipt of the application and approve or reject the applica-
tion within two weeks. Such approval is required before an application for
the purchase of irrigation equipment financed with bank credit will be
approved. Initial unfamiliarity with procedures and regulations caused some
delays, but have been overcome, and the procedures have become
institutionalized.
14.     The Ministry of Agriculture is also reviewing the "zoning' recommen-
dations contained in a recently completed UNDP study on optimal groundwater
management. Such 'zoning' regulations would have to be periodically reviewed
and updated, and GOB intends to establish an agency for groundwater monitor-
ing and for evaluating and regulating groundwater utilization, probably under
the recently established National Coordinating Committee for Irrigation



-70-                              ANNEX VI
-70-                               Page 5 of 5
Management. In addition, the 'Thana Plan Books' will be updated to guide
local officials in the efficient implementation of development programs
(minor irrigation development, rural works, drainage and flood control,
transportation, etc.) at the local leve!l.
15.     Equipment Utilization.  An Irrigation Management Program (IMP) to
train farmer groups in efficient, equitable and cooperative deep tubewell
management was introduced on a pilot basis three years ago in selected vil-
lages under an IDA-supported rural developmenit program. Under this program,
field staff of the Bangladesh Rural Development Board, the Department of
Agriculture (Extension) and BADC train and support farmer cooperatives in
essential elements of equipment management; this includes: (a) preparation of
command area maps, plot plans and irrigation schedules; (b) organization of
group meetings; (c) training; (d) laying of irrigation channels;
(e) preparation of irrigation budgets; and (f) obtaining credit for produc-
tion expenditures. During its pilot phase, 'IMP substantially increased the
area irrigated within the wells' command area, as well as farmer participa-
tion and crop yields. The program is now beiing expanded country-wide.



-71-                         ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 12
ANNEX VII
REFORM MEASURES IN INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY
I. Introduction
1.      The New Industrial Policy..  The sluggish production and export per-
formance of Bangladesh's manufacturing industry over the past decade indi-
cated a pressing need for reforms in industrial and trade policies. In
response to this need, GOB promulgated its New Industrial Policy (NIP) in
June 1982. The NIP proclaims ithe need for increased utilization of domestic
resources and appropriate technology, employment creation, the development of
efficient export-oriented and import-substituting industries, and geographic
dispersal of industries -- but above all for an improved policy environment
for private industrial investment, production and exports and for greater
efficiency in public sector industrial enterprises. To achieve these
objectives, the NIP calls for: a reduced public sector role in industrial
production; denationalization of a Large number of enterprises; improvements
in the efficiency and profitability of public sector enterprises; liberaliza-
tion of investment controls and sanctioning procedures; reduced price
controls; improved export promotion and financing; and incentives for
increasing domestic production and iexports. GOB has already taken steps to
implement elements of the NIP, and additional measures are in various stages
of preparation.
2.      Although various procedures have been streamlined in the past two
years, the industrial and trade policy environment remains characterized by a
complex and pervasive system of controls and regulations. Rapid industrial
growth led by private investment initiatives is unlikely to occur in such an
environment. At the same time, a substantial dismantling of controls can
only be expected to take place if the attitudes and environment which led to
the imposition of controls and regulations in the past are changed. Market
forces must be allowed, for example, to impose sanctions against unwise
investments: as long as entrepreneurs expect, and receive, protection and
financial concessions to stay in business regardless of their efficiency,
inefficient investment decisions will continue to abound and GOB will con-
tinue to feel the need to scrutinize and sanction all major proposals.
3.      The recent changes in industrial policy have been in the right direc-
tion and should facilitate a recovery of the industrial sector back to the
growth rates experienced before 1981. However, industrial growth needs to be
accelerated well above these rates if labor absorption in industry is to have
an appreciable impact on overall economic growth and employment generation.
This will require substantial further policy actions, including the continued
maintenance of an appropriate exchainge rate and a system of appropriate and
reasonably uniform incentives and protection across sectors.
4.      Trade and Industrial Policy (TIP) Reform Program.  In April 1983, GOB
initiated a major program of reviews and studies of the entire industrial and
trade policy regime. The program, carried out with technical assistance from



-72-
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 12
IDA, is scheduled for completion in May 1985 and involves seven components:
strengthening sector planning and project identification; strengthening of
the Tariff Commission and implementation of an Effective Protection Study; a
study of the net value added of industrial products; a review of investment
incentives; improvements in private industrial investment promotion; iden-
tification and development of new export product lines; and improvement of
industrial statistics. The TIP working groups are currently reviewing their
work plans to account for the policy changes adopted since the project was
originally designed and to reflect GOB's and IDA's sense of urgency that
interim recommendations for reforms be formulated while the broader review of
industrial policies is being carried out; this review should be completed in
April 1984. IDA intends to suppiort such policy and procedural improvements
through its lending operations, including future imports program credits.
II. Public Sector Industrial Performance
5.      Public sector enterprises (PSEs) play a major role in Bangladesh's
economy. The five major public minufacturing sector corporations account for
about 75% of total industrial productioni.  In the commercial energy sector,
public corporations account for aLmost all economic activity. Transport
activities are also dominated by the public sector. Prior to the recent
measures to involve the private sector in banking activities, the six nation-
alized commercial banks held about 85% of total deposits, the remainder being
held by branches of seven foreign banks/, Public specialized financial
institutions are also the principal source of institutional finance for
agriculture, industry, home building and insurance.
6.      Because of their dominant role in the economy, the poor performance
of most PSEs has caused growing concern, reflecting their large claims on the
economy and on GOB's budget -- in terms of credit extended by the banking
system and of financing provided to them through the ADP.  The need for PSEs'
borrowings from the domestic banking system was sharply reduced in FY83: duie
to output price adjustments, further efforts to improve operating efficiency
and reduce costs, financial restructuring, debt service relief, and the
disinvestment of many loss-making enterprises, many corporations realized
pre-tax operating profits in FY83 and expect t:o do so again in FY84. More
important for the long run, GOB conferred to public sector corporations
increased pricing autonomy, authorizing them to adjust their output prices by
up to 10% to cover rising costs cf imported inlputs or energy.
7.      A number of basic problems remain, howrever: the existence of often
conflicting social and commercial objectives, particularly in pricing and
labor policies; the lack of operational autonomy; a compensation system
patterned after that of the civil service, providing little room for incen-
tives or for rewarding performance; the scarcity of trained mid-level and
senior managers and the high rate of staff turnover at critical skill levels-;
and the absence of adequate manageiment information systems and financial
controls which would facilitate performanice monitoring. The gains and
improvements made in the recent past need to be consolidated. Over the
longer run, it will be necessary -- in addition to improving operational
efficiency -- to strengthen financial and operational monitoring and to
provide more operational flexibility and autonomy.



ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 12
8.      These problems have beein well known for some time.  Movement from
general agreement to corrective action has been impeded, however, by the
inability to overcome two basic obstacles: first, the tendency of ministries
to exert excessive control over the day-to-day operations of PSEs under their
supervision, and second, the reluctance of the civil service to have PSE
employees enjoy a compensation package comparable to that of the private
sector and more favorable than its own.
9.      A renewed commitment to addriessing the problems of the PSEs is
reflected in the report of the (Committee for Reorganization of the Public
Statutory Corporations. Its work was undertaken in April/May 1982, and most
of its recommendations relating to the restructuring of enterprises were
accepted by GOB in June 1983. The Committee touched upon all aspects of the
role of PSEs, and its final recommendations reflect several fundamental
principles: (i) the objectives to be achieved and the criteria for evaluating
performance should be defined more precisely; (ii) the public sector's role
should be reduced where the private sector can adequately perform the
required tasks; (iii) the number of autonomous bodies should be reduced
through amalgamation and/or abolition where overlaps exist or functions are
non-essential; (iv) PSEs with commercial objectives should be managed in
accordance with commercial management practices and provided with more
management autonomy; (v) explicit subsidies should be provided by GOB in
cases where financial losses are attributable to government actions con-
sidered to be essential in the interest of public policy; and (vi) labor
policies in PSEs should be comparable with those of the competing private
sector, and compensation should be adequate to attract and retain competent
management and staff. If implemented in full, these recommendations would go
far in alleviating the constraints which currently impede performance.
10.     Denationalization.  Efforts to improve the performance of PSEs are
more likely to succeed if the focus of attention is more limited. In this
context, disinvestment is an important policy instrument.l/ To reduce the
preponderance of the public sector in manufacturing and create a favorable
investment climate, but also to streamline the public sector corporations,
about 110 major manufacturing units (including 33 jute mills and 26 cotton
textile mills, the remainder being in the chemical, food and engineering
sectors) have been divested to the private sector since July 1982, and about
40 others are in the process of divestment. The jute and cotton mills were
returned to their former owners, while the other units were either returned
to their previous owners or sold to the highest bidders. In addition, 49% of
the share capital of 17 profitably operating units retained in the public
sector is being sold to private investors to stimulate the capital market and
mobilize additional investment capital. (Two of the six nationalized commer-
cial banks are also being returned to private ownership.) GOB anticipates
that this full or partial re-privatization of enterprises will be completed
by mid-1985. The scope for further actions will depend to some extent on the
success of the recently divested firms as well as on the general environment
for private investment. The private sector thus far has been quite willing
lj From the mid-1970s to July 1982, GOB returned to private ownership
about 600 units, most of them too small to warrant government attention.



-74-                         ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 12
to seize the opportunities offered. Although it is still too early to assess
the performance of the divested firms, preliminary evidence suggests that
production has increased and profits are being generated.
11.     Reorganization.  Divestment will allow a major consolidation and
streamlining of the enterprises remaining in the public sector, providing an
opportunity to bring about substantive improvements in operational efficiency
and financial viability.  A blueprint for consolidation was prepared by the
Committee for Reorganization of the PubLic Statutory Corporations (see
para. 9) which reviewed 155 organizations and recommended a substantial
restructuring: 13 organizations to be abolished, 30 others to be amalgamated
into 12, and 21 to undergo major restructuring; these recommendations have
already been implemented in full. The other 91 are being kept in their
present form, subject to a more detailed examination of their organizational
structures and manpower requirements.  This follow-up work is being carried
out under the auspices of the Martial Law Committee on Organizational Set-up,
as is the implementation of those recommendations for reorganization which
have already been gazetted.
12.     Debt Servicing.  Two major probLems affecting the implementation of
development projects implemented by autonomous agencies and PSEs have been
(a) the growing gap between their debt service liabilities (DSL) to the
Central Government on the one hand and actual collections on the other and
(b) the procedures applied to recciver DSL from agencies unable to pay.
Although, in principle, DSL are payable quarterly out of each agency's
revenue budget, the Finance Division in fact had to deduct DSL from agenciess'
ADP allocations for projects under implementation. These deductions were
usually concentrated in the fourth quarter and left many agencies unable to
implement budgeted investments. Lasting improvements in debt servicing
capacity obviously require improved financial performance by autonomous
agencies and corporations; immediate action was required, however, to mini-
mize the adverse consequences of shortfalls in 'DSL collections on budgetary
revenues and on project funding and implementation.
13.     A first step was taken during the FY83 budget formulation, when the
Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) established with each autonomous body
a realistic level of its debt service payments to be made during FY83 and
instructed the responsible ministries to deduct DSL payments from ADP
releases in quarterly instalments rather than during the last quarter. Where
debt service obligations were found substantially exceeding the capacity to
pay, only 50% of the interest due was deducted from ADP allocations, and the
agency was required to submit a comprehensive program for financial
rehabilitation for review by MFP.
14.     Having completed its review of the enterprises most in need of finan-
cial reform, MFP implemented the following measures (effective with the FY84
budget) to separate DSL collection from ADP allocations for PSEs:
(a) Only interest due on ongoing projects (for which ADP allocations
typically cover interest payments during implementation) is deducted.
from quarterly ADP allocations to implementing agencies. Where
project implementation is delayed and amortization payments would
fall due before income is being generated, MFP may extend the grace
period until actual project completion.



-75-                         ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 12
(b) Interest and amortization payments on debts incurred for completed
projects are to be paid out of agencies' internally generated recur-
rent revenues. Where this would cause problems, agencies may opt for
DSL deduction from their quarterly ADP fund releases; DSL will also
be deducted from ADP allocations if agencies default on DSL payments
payable out of their revenue budgets.
(c) Agencies encountering difficulties in servicing their debts may
request relief from MFP. If income generation is only temporarily
insufficient to cover their full DSL, repayment of the principal may
be rescheduled. If projects are not expected to generate sufficient
income even in the future, their capital may be restructured by
converting loans into equity or grants and the terms of financing may
be revised (including interest rate revision, debt rescheduling,
etc.). The debt/equity ratios of a large number of projects and
corporations have already been revised during FY83 (see para. 13),
and in some cases debt relief was granted retroactively. The remain-
ing cases still under review will be settled during FY84.
15.     Capital Restructuring.  In conjunction with the rationalization of
procedures for collecting DSL from public sector corporations, the causes of
their poor financial performance have been reviewed and a number of corpora-
tions and individual units underwent capital restructuring, through conver-
sions of loans into equity and/or direct cash infusions. During FY83, 17
corporations benefitted from capital restructuring, as Tk 5.5 billion in
outstanding debts were converted into equity, Tk 1.3 billion in debts were
converted into grants, and Tk 580 million in additional equity was provided
by GOB. By February 1984, 7 additional corporations had been dealt with,
with Tk 650 million in debts converted into equity and Tk 320 million
provided as new equity. As an additional measure to strengthen the sector
corporations, GOB intends to transfer ownership of the share capital of
individual enterprises, at present held directly by GOB, to the respective
sector corporations, thereby transforming them from primarily administrative
structures into financially integrated holding and operating corporations.
16.     Performance Monitoring.  Implementation of the NIP will have major
implications for the evolution of the structure and operations of the PSEs,
and there is now a need, inter alia, to: redefine the relationship between
GOB and industrial PSEs; identify and define the commercial and social objec-
tives of the PSEs; define information needs to facilitate evaluation of
performance against objectives; identify the causes of poor performance in
meeting stated objectives; and deveLop appropriate management information
systems to enable performance evaluation against objectives. As part of a
comprehensive review of the government structure, GOB has established a
Committee to review the interrelationship between ministries, corporations
and enterprises and to determine appropriate criteria for measuring opera-
tional performance. The Committee is expected to complete its review before
the end of FY84, and (upon acceptance by the Government) its recommendations
are to be implemented during FY85. At the same time, the Division of
Industries is undertaking a review to identify opportunities to upgrade and
integrate existing PSE monitoring systems at the enterprise, corporation and
ministry levels.



-76)-                          ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 12
17,     To complement these efforts, there is also a need to carry out a
short, but in-depth, analysis of the PSEs and. to identify a program of
actions for transforming them into effective economic units and for develop-
ing a PSE monritoring system. As ain important first step to meeting this
need, a LID-financed technical assistance project (with IDA acting as
associate ager-cy) to develop a PSE Operaitional and Financial Monitoring
System for the  - inistry of Finance and ?lanning and to review the PSEs'
structures ana objecti-ves has been. formulated; it will be initiated in mid-
1984 and is scheduled for completion by mid-1985.  The project is designed
to: (a) develop a management informationi reporting system that would
facilitate collection of pertineat information for formulating and evaluating
economic aud fintancial policies relating to PSEs; (b) set up an improved
mechanism Cfor monitoring financial and budgetary performance of PSEs;
'c) formulate devices for signalling events calling for management decisions;
(d' establish a performa:nce evaluation system coupled with incentives for
improved performance; and (e) strengthen the Autonomous Bodies Wing of the
Ministry of Finance as well as other min.istries to provide advice and assis-
tance to PSEs on improving perform-ance.
III Private Sector Industrial Pclicy
18.      In; attemptiing to improve the economic piolicy environment for the
private industrial sector, emphasis has been placed so far on the liberaliza-
tion of investment controls and approval procedures, strengthening of export
ineetitives, liberalization of the import regimie, and administrative
streamliningz   More recentlIy, attention has also been paid to the provision
of improved inldustrial investment and export financing. Since the policy
shift in favor of greater private sector involvement was announced and
initiated at a time o severely depressed ecornomic conditions and of major
political an' `nstitutlonal changes within the country which affected the
expectations of notential investors, the tangible results of these initia-
tives still rreain limited.
19       IndustriaL  I_Lstment Finac .  A number of administrative and
policy measures have been taken in the banking sector (see Annex V) which
should have a positiVe effect on industrial financing. With six private
banks now in operati on and two NCBs being returned to private ownership,
industrial credit availability, appraisal, provision and supervision should
improve and become more competitive. The granting of increased operational
autonomy to the remaiinRna  TCBs should have a positive impact on their invol-
vement in financing industrial ventures.  The increased investment sanction-
ing authority delegated to finanoing institutions, the decentralization of
sanct:ioning and loan approval authority within NCBs to regional branch
offices, ansd the  Mposition of time limits for investment sanctioning and for
disbursing approved loans are specific mEasures already taken to streamline
industri.al credit administration (see paras. 25-26).
20.     As part of the more general measures being taken to improve the
industrial credit administration, the major aid donors providing industrial
financing have agreed --ith GOB on a comprehens:Ive review of the two primary
industrial development financing iastitutions, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB)
and Bangladesh Sh ilpa Rin Sangstha. (BSRS).  The review -- which includes a
determinatirn of sectoral neea , institutional capabilities and appropriate



-77-                         ANNEX VII
Page 7 of 12
structuring -- is being funded by UIDP, with ADB as executing agency and IDA
as an associate agency. Consultants have been selected and began their work
in February 1984; implementation of agreed-upon recommendations is expected
to commence in the fall and to be completed by December 1984.
21.     An important recent initiative has been the establishment of several
foreign banks and joint venture banks to promote investment in Bangladesh.
These include: the Industrial Promotion and Development Company of Bangladesh
(IPDC), a joint venture established in 1981 by GOB (30% of equity) and four
international development finance institutions (including the IFC); the
Islamic Bank of Bangladesh, a joint venture with 70% private foreign equity,
formed in 1983; the Arab-Bangladesh Bank, a joint venture with 60% foreign
private capital, established in 1983; and the Saudi-Bangladesh Industrial and
Agricultural Company, a joint venture of GOB and the Government of Saudi
Arabia, set up in 1983 and expected to become operational in FY85.
22.     Stock Exchange.  GOB took several steps in July 1983 to reactivate
the Stock Exchange as a source of industrial investment funds. The stamp
duty which was required for the transfer of shares has been withdrawn in
order to ease such transfers. Public limited companies registered in
Bangladesh are now required to furnish their audited annual accounts to the
Stock Exchange within six months after the closing of their accounts. Public
limited companies registered in Bangladesh with a paid-up capital of Tk 10
million or more are required to be listed on the Stock Exchange. Under the
revised income tax regulations, one third of the total income of an assessee
can now be invested, free of taxes, in shares of public limited companies
listed on the Stock Exchange. And shares of multi-national companies held by
GOB are being divested to the Investment Corporation of Bangladesh (ICB) to
back up its portfolio of shares traded in the Stock Exchange.
23.     Investment Incentives..  Existing investment incentives aim not only
at promoting private industrial investment in general, but also at guiding
such investment into selected priority sectors and into backward regions of
the country. Measures already implemented include: accelerated depreciation
allowances for new industries:; the provision of a concessional 2.5% import
duty rate on machinery imports for industrial investments in less developed
areas and for industries using 70% or more of indigenous inputs, compared
with the normal rate of 15%; the provision of tax holidays of 5 years and 9
years for new industries established in developed and less developed regions,
respectively; reduced fees on investment licenses and import permits for
industries being set up in backward areas; and various excise and profit tax
concessions for export-oriented industries. GOB has established a committee
in the Division of Industries to review, monitor and coordinate efforts to
provide more effective fiscal incentives for private investors.
24.     Investment Approval Procedures.  The objective of GOB's investment
controls and approval procedures is to guide private investment into under-
takings which are financially and economically viable and to ensure the
efficient allocation of scarce foreign exchange to the private sector for the
import of equipment and raw materials. The major instruments used in pursuit
of these objectives are the Industrial Investment Schedule (IIS), the invest-
ment sanctioning process, and foreign exchange allocation and import



-78-                         ANNEX VII
Page 8 of 12
controls. In spite of previous rationalization efforts, they have remained
cumbersome, restrictive and inadequate tco serve GOB's stated objectives.
25.     The IIS has served its intended function as a planning instrument
only poorly, as it neither established priorities among subsectors nor indi-
cated capacity trends within individual subsectors. Following the
announcement of the NIP, GOB issued a revised, more indicative and less
restrictive, IIS in July 1982 for the remainder of the Second Five-Year Plan
period (FY81-FY85). Only six sectors now remain reserved for the public
sector: arms and ammunitions, atomic energy, telecommunications, air
transport, generation and distribution of electricity, and mechanized
forestry operations. 13 subsectors are specified as 'concurrent' for both
public and private investment. The number of "free' subsectors in which
private investment requires no formal sanction (provided capital goods
imports are financed entirely through the WES/XPL market, suppliers' credits
or non-repatriable direct foreign investment) ras expanded from 19 to 41; in
the 50 remaining subsectors sanctions continued to be required.l/ At the
same time, GOB withdrew the ceiling on individual private industrial
investments, increased the investment sanctioning authority delegated to
financial institutions and the Director General of Industries, streamlined
various controls exercised by the Department of Industries and the Chief
Controller of Imports and Exports, provided for automatic registration of
projects financed entirely without iforeign exchange allocations from public
sources, and established an Investment Assistance Unit in the Department of
Industries to provide 'oue-stop' services to potential investors.
26.     This gradual policy liberalization has been continued in FY84, as GOB
(i) expanded the list of 'free' sectors whtere no sanction is required for
private investors to 49, (ii) set time limits for sanctioning investment
proposals, (iii) imposed deadlines on financing institutions for disbursing
approved :Loans on sanctioned investments, (iv) delegated sanctioning
authority for smaller projects to regional offices of sanctioning agencies,
and (v) decentralized the approval authority within commercial banks for
working capital loans.
27.     Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance.  A foreign exchange risk insurance
scheme for investors faced with foreign currency loan repayments was intro-
duced in July 1983, initially for a 5-year triaL period. Investors financing
capital goods with foreign exchange loans will pay a foreign exchange risk
insurance premium of 2.5% per annum to their financing institution for
deposit in a special fund maintained by Bangladesh Bank; all exchange rate
fluctuation risks will then be fully borne by Bangladesh Bank. For past
investments affected by the depreciation of the Taka, GOB has retroactively
1/  The actual effect of this apparent liberalization of investment sanc-
tioning remains limited by the requirement that all investments of more
than Tk 1 million (US$ 40,000) and/or with raw material import require-
ments of 20% or more of the total have to be approved by the high-level
Investment Authorization Board. Since most projects' raw material import
requirements exceed this ceiling, even most of those in the so-called
'free' sectors require Investment Authorization Board approval.



-79-                         ANNEX VII
Page 9 of 12
provided relief through the introduction of a special scheme which allows the
conversion of part (30% if the loan was contracted before 1975, 50% if it was
contracted later) of the debt 'liabilities attributable to exchange rate
changes into preferred equity holdings (with 7% interest payable per annum on
such equity) by the lending agencies concerned.
28.     Price Controls.  Under the 'Essential Commodities Act, the Commerce
Division may exercise price controls over 'essential' manufactured goods.
The number of items subject to such controls (originally 47) has been sharply
reduced over the past few years, anid only five still remain controlled:
fertilizers, petroleum products, newsprint, rationed food, and certain
pharmaceuticals. In addition, GOB 'has authorized public industrial sector
corporations to adjust, in consultation with the concerned ministries, sale
prices by up to 10% to reflect increases in imported input and in energy
costs without prior cabinet approval. Most corporations have begun to make
use of this pricing autonomy, gradually moving to free market pricing where
they must compete with the private sector or with imports. Major pricing
adjustments have been made in FY83 and FY84, for example, by the Bangladesh
Textile Mills Corporation, the Bangladesh Steel and Engineering Corporation
and the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation, contributing sig-
nificantly to the turnaround in the aggregate profitability of the largest
public sector corporations from an FY82 deficit of Tk 0.9 billion to an FY83
pre-tax profit of Tk 0.95 billion. Increased competition and market-oriented
pricing will encourage efficiency in resource use, improve the financial
condition of PSEs, and allow the introduction of performance monitoring and
incentive systems based on profitability and/or productivity.
29.     Foreign Investment.  GOB has indicated that it welcomes direct for-
eign investment as well as foreign participation in joint ventures and has
specified its intentions in the Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and
Protection) Act of 1980. Foreign investment is especially welcome in
industrial undertakings which: (i) require specific technology available to
the foreigr investors; (ii) will make more intensive use of domestic natural
resources; (iii) strengthen the balance of payments; (iv) provide additional
employment opportunities; or (v) contribute in any other manner to the
economic development of Bangladesh., The Act provides various assurances
concerning protection against non-business risks, profit and capital
repatriation, compensation, etc. To expedite administrative procedures and
assist foreign investors, a Foreign Investment Cell has been established
under the direct supervision of the Prime Minister. An Export Processing
Zone (EPZ) has been established in Chittagong, where wholly-owned foreign
enterprises can be set up; various special incentives are being offered to
export-oriented industries in the EPZ, including a five-year tax holiday and
complete exemption from customs duties. To date, these initiatives have only
had limited success: during FY83, 17 foreign investment proposals, with an
aggregate investment value of about Tk 910 million (US$ 37 million) and a
foreign exchange component of Tk 550 million, were approved, but many of
these have yet to be implemented. The first 2 garment factories are expected
to begin operations in the EPZ in April 1984.



-80-                         ANNEX VII
Page 10 of 12
IV. External Trade and Payments Poliy
30.     The main instrument used during the past few years to strengthen the
balance of payments has been a substantial depreciation of the real effective
exchange rate; this has had significant positive effects on non-essential
import demand, inflows of workers' remittances, export incentives, and -- not
least -- budgetary revenues arising from the collection of customs duties and
sales taxes on imports and from the sale of aid-financed commodity and
foodgrain imports. As witnessed by the f$rther gradual depreciation of the
Taka during FY84, GOB intends to continue to pursue policies aimed at
strengthening the balance of payments and the international competitiveness
of Bangladesh's tradeable goods. Important progress has been made already inL
recent years with regard to export promotion, and the rapid growth of non-
traditional exports in the past three years is in large measure attributable
to this policy thrust. Further liberalization of- the import policy, expan-
sion of the free foreign exchange market, and easing of administrative for-
eign exchange allocation procedures will be important additional elements of
a desirable balance of payments policy.
31.     Export Financing.  Since FY83, Bangladesh Bank has been accepting
export bills denominated in a number of foreign currencies (in addition to
Sterling and US Dollars) for rediscounting, including those of member
countries of the Asian Currency Union.  The interest rate for export credits
(except for jute and jute products) was reduced from 12.0% to 11.5% in July
1982 and to 9% in July 1983, and the interest rate on Bangladesh Bank
refinancing for such export credits was reduced correspondingly from 8.5% to
8.0% and then to 5.5%. To reduce administrative delays in processing export
credit applications, time limits have been set for processing export credit
applications, export credit units are being set up in the NCBs, and a special
unit has been created within Bangladesh Bank to monitor and supervise commer-
cial banks' export financing activities. To expedite claim settlements under
the Export Credit Guarantee Scheme (ECGS), a four--member managing committee
has been created to review and settle claims; and the interest rate on
refinancing for the ECGS has been lowered from 9% to 8% if the banks assume
blanket cover. To help promote the export of cIrust and finished leather,
special rebates have been introduced in FY84 to offset the higher interest
payable (relative to export credits) on ge.neral purpose credits obtained by
finished and crust leather exporters for purchasing hides and skins.
32.     Export Incentives.  The incentives for establishing export-oriented
industries and for exporting have been significantly strengthened since the
announcement of the NIP -- mainly through maodifications in the import duty
drawback system and in the export performance license scheme. At the same
time, provisions were made to provide institutional credit to export-oriented
industries for up to 90% of their working capital requirements, ease loan
repayment terms for export industries, increase the income tax rebate on
export income from 30% to 50%, and reduce import duties on capital equipment
imports for export-oriented industries. In addition, travel facilities and
regulations pertaining to the use of foreign exchange for business travel,
market development and product promotion have been improved further, and as
of July 1984 producers and exporters of nor.-traditional products are entitled
to obtain special rebates for fire and marine in.surance premia paid in
respect of products shipped for export.



-81-                         ANNEX VII
Page 11 of 12
33.     Exporters of manufactured products may obtain a drawback of import
duties and sales taxes paid on imported components of products exported. In
the past, the duty and tax drawback was calculated on the basis of proof of
duty and tax payments made. To provide additional incentives, a flat rate
drawback system was introduced several years ago; its coverage has been
expanded over time, and it now applies to all commodities not yet covered by
the new notional duty drawback scheme; since July 1983, drawback payments are
being effected through exporters' own banks. To improve the system further,
GOB introduced a notional dut:y drawback svstem in FY83, initially replacing
the flat rate drawback systeDi on eight export products; this scheme has been
expanded in FY84 to cover 14 products. As exporters have experienced dif-
ficulties in taking full advantage of these provisions, GOB introduced a new
option in FY84 whereby eligible exporters may opt to pay all import 'duties
and sales taxes for imported inputs and obtain an interest-free 90-day bank
advance equivalent to the peirmiss:ible drawback of such duties and taxes.
34.     The Export Performance License (XPL) system, under which eligible
exporters may obtain Import Entitlement Certificates (IECs) equal in value to
a certain percentage of their net fob export earnings, has been modified in
the last two years in order to improve the incentives provided. IECs are
freely transferable, encashable w:ith Bangladesh Bank, and entitle the holder
to import any commodity permissible for import under the WES/XPL system and
for which the holder is an eligible importer. Exporters may use IECs to
satisfy their own import requirements, but most of them are sold in the
WES/XPL market where IEC sellers obtain additional revenue on account of the
exchange rate premium. Since FY83, authorized foreign exchange dealers have
been permitted to buy IECs, as GOB sought to increase demand for IECs and
thereby improve their incentive value to exporters. At the beginning of
FY83, GOB also increased the maximum rate of entitlement from 60% to 80%, and
based the entitlement rate (40%2 60% or 80%) on the domestic value-added
content, rather than the gross export value, of the commodity exported. At
the same time, all non-traditional exports (i.e., products other than raw
jute, jute manufactures other than carpets, and loose tea) were made
automatically eligible for a rate of 40%, to be moved up into the 60% or 80%
entitlement categories upon determination of their domestic value-added
content. Following further review and upgrading during FY83, 43 export
products now qualify for IECs in the 80% category and 30 in the 60% category.
35.     To strengthen the incentives for using domestically produced inter-
mediate inputs in export productsi (in place of imported inputs) and thereby
increase the domestic value-added content of exported manufactures, GOB has
decided to extend all existing export incentives and facilities applicable in
the case of imported inputs (e.g.,, duty drawback, XPL/IEC, tax exemptions,
etc.) to domestic producers of products used as direct inputs in the manufac-
ture of export products or of products supplied under international tenders
for procurement financed by multilateral aid donors. Administrative details
to bring this system into operation are being worked out.
36.     Import Policy and Foreizn ExchanRe Allocation.  The primary
administrative instruments used Ito conduct the import policy are the foreign
exchange allocation system and the annual Import Policy Order. The existing
policy framework was set up to cope with extreme shortages of foreign



-82-                        ANNEX VII
Page 12 of 12
exchange, but with the recent successful adoption of a more realistic
exchange rate policy and the restoration of reasonable holdings of foreign
exchange reserves, there now is room to relax to some extent import and
foreign exchange controls which imipede the efficient growth of industry.
Specifically, the relative amount of foreign exchange allocated by market
mechanisms, rather than by administrative decisions, needs to be increased by
expanding both the supply of, and the demand for, foreign exchange in the
free foreign exchange market. The! transition from the existing regime to a
free market system obviously needs to be engineered carefully and in a phased
manner, so as to avoid major disruptions of economic activity.
37.     Some important reforms have already been effected in recent years.
The most significant innovation has been the introduction of the option of
financing imports through a free, or secondary, foreign exchange market where
supply and demand determine the price of foreign exchange and, hence, its
allocation among competing users. This free foreign exchange market was
originally established -- as the so-called Wage Earners' Scheme (WES) -- to
attract official transfers of foreign exchange earned by Bangladeshis working
abroad. Over the past few years, it has been modified and expanded and now
derives some of its supply of foreign exchange from part of the earnings of
exporters of non-traditional commodities (see para. 34); accordingly, it is
now referred to as the WES/XPL market. The dominant source of funds,
however, remains the inflow of workers' remittances from abroad. Foreign
exchange placed into this market is commonly sold in auction to bidders
seeking to obtain financing for Lmports or for travel and/or study abroad.
The rate of exchange prevailing in this miarket therefore varies with supply
and demand, and there usually is a substantial premium over the official
exchange rate. This premium -- at presernt about 10%, but as high as 20-30%
for long periods in recent years -- has been a major incentives for wage
earners to use official channels fcor remitting their foreign exchange earn-
ings back to Bangladesh; by the same token, it has also been an important
incentive for non-traditional exports.
38.     The share of total imports financed through the WES/XPL market has
increased from 8% in FY79 to 24% by FY83 (if imports financed directly by
project aid, barter arrangements or commodity aid supplied in kind are
excluded, the share of all other imports financed through the WES/XPL market
has increased from 12% in FY79 to 41% in FY83). Nevertheless, the bulk of
total imports remains subject to tight and complex administrative regulations
and controls, and imports are permitted only if the items are explicitly
included in one of several lists published in the annual Import Policy Order.
39.     GOB has taken several steps in the direction of import liberalization
in FY84 by expanding further the list of commodities importable exclusively
through the WES market. With certain exceptions (including, foodgrains,
coal, fertilizers, arms and ammunitions, items reserved for sole agents of
foreign suppliers, and banned items such as obscene materials), all items
which can be imported by industrial or conmmercial importers are also eligible
for import through the WES/XPL Scheme. At the same time, the list of items
importable exclusively under the WES/XPL scheme has been increased further
and public sector importers now have to meet 40, of their requirements
through the WES/XPL market. Finally, import li(censing requirements have been
abolished for virtually all importers to import all items covered by the Open
General License (OGL) system.



-83-                            ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 9
ANNEX VIII
PROGRESS REPORT ON THE ELEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
I. Introduction
1.      The Eleventh Imports Program Credit to Bangladesh (Cr. 1300-BD), for
an amount of SDR 100.8 million (US$ 110 million equivalent), was approved by
the Executive Directors on November 23, 1982. It was signed on December 10,
1982, and became effective on March 4, 1983. The credit was released for
disbursement in two equal trEncheEs, the first upon credit effectiveness, the
second on August 17, 1983, after a review of progress made in implementing
the policy improvements supported by the credit. As of January 15, 1984,
disbursements out of this credit t:otalled SDRs 45.0 million, and SDRs 53.1
million had been committed, leaving SDRs 3.7 million still uncommitted.
2.      With its Ninth and Tenth Imports Program Credits, IDA shifted the
focus of its program lending to Bangladesh from subsectoral action programs
to broader sectoral policy improvements. Given the critical importance of
the agricultural sector in the economy and of food security concerns in
national economic policy formulation and development activities, both credits
supported the implementation of policy improvements aimed at increasing
agricultural production and at improving the efficiency and equity of
foodgrain distribution. The specific measures supported concerned the
allocation of financial resources to agricultural development, promotion of
the private sector's role in the provision of irrigation equipment and in the
storage and trading of foodgrains, improvements in public foodgrain procure-
ment and distribution policies, strengthening of agricultural planning, and
rationalizing agricultural input pricing.
3.      The Eleventh Imports Program Credit (IPC-l1) built on the progress
made under its predecessors by supporting further improvements in agricul-
tural policy, but also sought to support a broader range of policy improve-
ments -- in financial resource mobilization for the public sector, in
budgetary management, in agricultural and food policies, and in industrial
and trade policies.
II. Macro-Economic Policies and Developments
4.      The policy adjustments supported by IPC-ll brought about significant
budgetary, monetary and balance-of-payments stabilization. As the Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) remains committed to the pursuit of economic growth and
development in an environment of budgetary restraint, monetary discipline and
prudent external payments pclicies, the outlook is for continued financial
and monetary stability.
5.      Balance of Payments.  The current account deficit in the balance of
payments was reduced to about US$ 1.1 billion (about 10% of GNP) in FY83,
well below the FY82 deficit of US$ 1.6 billion (over 14% of GDP). Most
external short-term commerci.al debts incurred to finance imports of petroleum
and other crucial raw materials have been repaid. Further exchange rate



-84-
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 9
adjustments during the first half of FY83 (culminating with the switch from
Sterling to the US Dollar as intervention currency and the pegging of the
Taka at Tk 24.5lUS$ on January 11, 1983) were effective in curtailing non-
essential import demand and in improving the profitability and international
competitiveness of both traditional and non-traditional exports. The inflow
of workers' remittances increased by about 50%, partly in response to the
exchange rate adjustment and the introduction of banking facilities designed
to ease such transfers. The strengthened external payments position per-
mitted a rebuilding of Bangladesh's foreign exchange reserves, which (at
about US$ 350 million) covered about eight weeks of merchandise imports on
June 30, 1983, compared with only two weeks at the beginning of the year.
6.      Monetary Situation.  The fiscal and pricing measures taken in July
1982, the avoidance of a budgetary deficit, anad the pursuit of prudent credit
policies during FY83 had a favorable impact on monetary developments.
Domestic credit expansion, at 12%, was comforl:ably below the ceiling agreed
upon under the Stand-by Arrangement with the ][MF. Net credit expansion to
the public sector was less than 1%, providing ample room for a significant
expansion of credit to the private sector (35%). The rate of monetary expan-
sion only increased again at the end of the year, due to the larger than
expected build-up of international reserves. Quasi-money (up 32%) grew
considerably faster than narrow money (up 23%), due in part to the re-
emergence of positive real interest rates.
7.      The rate of inflation was sharply brought down over the course of the
year. The upward adjustments in many administered prices in July 1982 --
which represented primarily a venting of previously repressed inflationary
pressure -- caused a surge in consumer prices in the first quarter FY83, but
the rate of increase declined sharply over the next nine months and averaged
only 9.9% for the year as a whole. Monet:ary restraint, the avoidance of bank
borrowing to finance a budgetary deficit, increased foodgrain production
during the second half of the year, and effective stabilization of foodgrain
prices through sales from public grain stocks during periods of rising prices
were major factors contributing to thl,s price stabilization.
III. Public Financial Resource Mobilization and Budgetarv Management
8.      Domestic Financial Resource Mobilization.  With its FY83 budget,
announced on June 29, 1982, GOB introduced new tax measures in an effort to
mobilize some Tk 1.17 billion (about 0.45% of GDP) in additional budgetary
revenues, effected significant subsidy reductions, and announced a number of
substantial pricing adjustments for goods and services provided by public
sector agencies. The most notable price increases announced included: fer-
tilizers (about 14% on average), ration issue prices for rice (11%) and
wheat (9%), petroleum products (30% on average), electricity tariffs (34%)
and natural gas (13%). The combined effect of these measures was a shift of
resources from the private to the public sector equivalent to about 2.4% of
GDP. Moreover, the depreciation of the Taka generated additional budgetary
revenues (import duties, sales taxes and commodity aid counterpart funds)
totaling about Tk 1.0 billion, despite the decline in dutiable imports. Not
all of the expected increase in domestic l:axes was actually realized, and a
substantial part of the increase in non-tax revenues was used to place public
sector enterprises on a sounder financial footing, rather than to support the



-85-
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 9
budget directly (see para. 14). Without these revenue mobilization measures,
it would have been impossible to finance even the reduced level of planned
development expenditures in FY83.
9.      Increased mobilization of budgetary revenues, reduced expenditures on
consumer subsidies and restrained current expenditure growth combined to
achieve a current budget surplus close to the targeted level, despite the
granting of significant 'dearness allowances' to most civil servants (the
first improvement in civil service remuneration since 1977). Exchange rate
adjustments increased the domestic currency counterpart value of food and
commodity aid receipts and the collection of customs duties and sales taxes
on imports; it also increased the domestic currency value of the project aid
component of the ADP. The ADP could be fully funded as planned, and spending
for non-Core projects was authorized by mid-year.
10.     ADP Planning and Implementation.  Given the severity of the resource
constraint and the need to maintain a minimum momentum in development
activity, GOB complemented its resource mobilization effort with a reduction
of the planned FY83 ADP from the initially announced level of Tk 33.0 billion
to Tk 27.0 billion (representing an 8% real decline from the FY82 ADP). As a
consequence of the Taka depreciation, the domestic valuation of external aid
inflows (and, thus, of foreign exchange expenditures on ADP projects)
increased, and the initial ADP size was adjusted upwards at mid-year. Actual
ADP expenditures during FY83 totalled about Tk 29.8 billion. In sharp con-
trast to earlier years, when planned development undertakings could not be
fully implemented because of financial resource shortfalls from budgeted
levels, improved budgetary planning and management in FY83 permitted GOB to
finance the ADP as planned, without having to make costly mid-year cuts in
project implementation. No recourse to bank financing was planned, and by
the end of the fiscal year GO3B had in fact accumulated a significant surplus
vis-a-vis the banking system, because its food operations had generated
substantial cash revenues, rather than the originally expected deficit.
11.     The sectoral composition of the FY83 ADP reflected GOB's development
priorities, which IDA has endorsed. Agriculture (including water resource
development and rural development) accounted for the largest single share of
public investments. Other priority sectors receiving substantial resource
allocations were energy, education, transport, and health and family
planning. Ongoing and planned investments in agriculture and education are
substantially those included in the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan and
the Medium-Term Education Plan, both of which were formulated with IDA
assistance. In the energy sector, both IDA and the Asian Development Bank
are providing assistance in investment planning.
12.     In the past, the budgetary process suffered from several deficiencies
as an instrument for managing public financial resources and allocating them
to their most effective use. With the FY83 budget, GOB initiated several
major improvements in the budgetary process to ensure that resource
availabilities were realistically determined and then allocated to priority
sectors and to the most desirable projects within sectors. This emphasis on
greater realism in budgetary planning and programming made major mid-year
budget revisions and cut-backs in planned investments unnecessary; budget
adjustments in FY83 were primarily necessitated by the exchange rate



-86-
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 9
depreciation which required a revaluat;ion of the foreign exchange component
of the ADP.
13.     The major modifications iin budgetary planning and administration
introduced at the beginning of the year included: the preparation of realis-
tic forecasts of likely resource availability; the specification of a 'Core
Program' of 532 priority projects within the FY83 ADP, covering about Tk 22
billion (80% of total planned ADP expenditures), and the decision to
authorize spending during the first part of the year only on 'Core Projects';
the elimination of a large number of 'unapproved  projects from the ADP; the
reduction in the number of projects in the ADP from 1,580 originally
envisaged to 1,127; the decision to release allocated funds to implementing
agencies for the first three quarters of the fiscal year at once, rather than
in quarterly installments; and the delegation of greater financial authority
to project implementing agencies and to project directors. The combined
effect of these and other measures was to preserve the budgetary planning
framework intact during the course of the year and to streamline the
administration of public sector development i-inancing.
14.     Public Sector Enterprise Finances.   The poor financial performance
of most public sector enterprises (PSEs) has in the past adversely affected
both GOB's budgetary situation (since budgeted receipts of debt service
payments and profit transfers from PSEs were rarely achieved) and monetary
stability in the economy (since PSEs borrowed extensively from the banking
system to cover their operating deficits). Together with the FY83 budget,
GOB effected a number of major adjustments in prices and user charges for
goods and services provided by public sector suppliers (including power, gas,
petroleum products, fertilizer, foodgrains, small-scale irrigation equipment,
and transport fares). In addition, GOB authorized public sector industrial
corporations/enterprises to increase, in consultation with the administrative
ministries concerned, their output prices by up to 10% in response to
increases in the cost of imported production inputs or in energy costs,
without prior cabinet approval. These measures substantially improved the
financial situation of the corporations concerned and sharply reduced their
need to take recourse to the banking system to cover operating losses.
15.     GOB also initiated a fundamental restructuring of the public
enterprise sector. 28 jute mills and 26 cotton textile mills, under public
ownership and management since the independence war, were returned to private
ownership in FY83, together with 16 other industrial units. Several private
banks were licensed to operate in the country,, and two of the six national-
ized commercial banks are in the process of disinvestment to private
ownership. GOB also began the process of capital restructuring of PSEs,
providing new capital infusions in a number of cases and converting outstand-
ing debts into equity in others. At the same time, the debt-service obliga-
tions of PSEs to the treasury were investigated and re-determined at more
realistic, servicable, levels.



-87-
ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 9
IV. Sectoral Policy Measures
A. Agricultural Policy
16.     Irrigation Policy.  GOB took a number of further steps in early FY83
to improve the supply, fielding and utilization of small-scale irrigation
equipment and to shift a larger share of the total cost of the irrigation
program to its private beneficiaries. The import, marketing and servicing of
shallow tubewells (STWs) was opened to the private sector; all new irrigation
equipment fielded by public sector suppliers was on a sales-only basis;
rental programs are being run down rapidly, as used rental equipment is also
being sold; sales prices for shallow tubewells were increased to the full
cost level; and the subsidies on low-lift pump (LLP) and deep tubewell (DTW)
sales and rentals were sharply reduced. Credit provision for the purchase of
irrigation equipment was significantly improved, particularly for farmer
cooperatives.
17.     The impact of these measures was very positive, as evidenced by the
substantial increase in equipment fielded and by the resultant increase in
dry-season fertilizer consumption and in rice and wheat production. With a
total of 39,172 units, STW sales during FY83 exceeded the FY82 figure by
about 30%, and STW sales by private dealers (14,260 units) accounted for over
36% of the total. DTW sales (3,124 units) more than doubled in FY83, LLP
sales (12,319 units) increased by more than 20%, and DTW rentals (11,613
units) increased by 9%; LLP rentals, by contrast, declined from 30,580 units
in FY82 to 20,037 units in FY83, as public sector agencies continue to phase
out their rental programs. The substantial gains in equipment sales more
than offset the decline in the number of rental units fielded. Irrigated
area covered by minor irrigation increased from about 1.7 million acres to
about 2.7 million acres between FY78 and FY83. The FY83 boro crop reached a
record 3.5 million tons, and wheat production recovered from its FY82 set-
back to set a new record of about 1.1 million tons.
18.     Fertilizer Policy.  In line with GOB's intention to eliminate the
fertilizer subsidy, fertilizer sales prices were increased by a weighted
average of 14% in July 1982. Fertilizer prices have been more than doubled
since 1979, and the average unit subsidy has ben reduced from about 50% in
FY79 to less than 20% in FY83. The total subsidy declined from 9% of the ADP
in FY79 to about 3.4% in FY83. Fertilizer sales lagged well behind targets
early in the year, but increased very rapidly during the second half of the
year when improved weather and greatly expanded use of irrigation facilities
restored the profitability of fertilizer use; fertilizer sales during FY83 as
a whole, at about 969,000 tons, exceeded the previous record by 17%.
19.     Similar progress was made with respect to the distribution of
fertilizers. Responsibility for fertilizer wholesale operations at the local
and sub-regional levels has been almost entirely shifted from the public to
the private sector, with about 90% of all fertilizer sales by the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) now taking place from its
regional wholesale centers. Retail price controls were abolished throughout
the country in April 1983. BADC's marketing costs declined, fertilizer
availability throughout the country improved, and retail prices now reflect
the actual distribution costs incurred by dealers; with overall fertilizer



ANNEX VIII
Page 6 of 9
supplies sufficient to meet demand, there has been no evidence of unduly high
retail margins.
20.    Foodgrain Procurement Poljgy.  GOB's domestic foodgrain procurement
policy has undergone a significant change over the past several years.
Originally conceived as a mechanism for replenishing public foodgrain stocks
to supply the urban areas and to meet exigencies of natural disasters and
famines, it has now assumed the additional and equally important function of
maintaining price incentives for producers. Accordingly, setting and achiev-
ing quantitative procurement targets has been de-emphasized, while the main-
tenance of remunerative post-harvest prices for rice and wheat growers has
become the primary objective of domestic grain procurement. When market
prices exceeded procurement prices in both YY82 and FY83, domestic procure-
ment totalled only about 300,000 tons in FY82 and about 190,000 tons in FY83.
To cope with the grain supply shortage and to stabilize market prices, GOB
lined up additional imports instead (including on commercial and deferred-
payment terms).
21.     The procurement prices for paddy, rice and wheat were increased
further in FY83 and remain close to world market prices if quality differen-
ces and transport costs are taken into consicleration. The differential
between rice and paddy procurement prices has been widened to provide incen-
tives for private milling, preserve jobs in the rural rice processing
industry and reduce the Food Ministry's storage and distribution costs.  The
announcement of procurement prices prior to planting has proven effective in
influencing farmers' cultivation and investment decisions, and the abolition
of virtually all Approved Grain Dealers (AGDs) as intermediaries in the Food
Ministry's procurement operations has proven beneficial in increasing com-
petition in the private grain trade.
22.     Foodarain Distribution Policy.  In order to stabilize the domestic
foodgrain market and to ensure sufficierLt effective demand for farmers'
rising output, GOB continued its efforts to convert the traditional foodgrain
rationing system into an effective instrument for market price stabilization
and food security maintenance. GOB continued to reduce the large subsidies
incurred in foodgrain sales from public stocks, as ration issue prices for
both rice and wheat were raised twice during FY83 and are now slightly above
the respective domestic procurement prices. 'The unit subsidy on rice (about
46% in FY78-80) was reduced to about 19.4% in FY83, and the unit subsidy on
wheat (29% in FY78-80) to 18.0%. The relative share of foodgrains dis-
tributed through the traditional ration systenm channels to mostly urban
consumers was reduced further, as ian increasing proportion of the total was
sold through channels benefitting the lower income groups in drought-affected
rural areas and in the open market during high-price periods.  As a result,
price increases during the post-monsoon 'lean' season were held in relative
check; the arrival on the market of the subsequent aman harvest and of the
very good boro and wheat crops later in t.he year then brought about a sig-
nificant easing of grain prices.
23.     Agricultural Credit Policy.  The volume of both medium- and short-
term agricultural credit has increased rapidly over the past several years.
GOB and IDA carried out a joint review of agricultural credit in FY83 to
identify measures that would strengthen agricultural credit operations.



ANNEX VIII
Page 7 of 9
B. Industrial and Trade Policy
24.     With the announcement, in June 1982, of its New Industrial Policy
(NIP), GOB moved in favor of a more liberal climate for private investment, a
greater role for the private sector, and greater efficiency in public
enterprises. The NIP provides for, inter alia, (i) increased participation
of private investors in the development of the manufacturing sector;
(ii) reduced controls over, and simplified approval and sanctioning proce-
dures for, private industrial investments; (iii) improvements in the operat-
ing efficiency and profitability of public sector manufacturing enterprises;
and (iv) the provision of incentives for increasing domestic production and
exports. The policy announcement was followed by a number of measures
designed to implement the first phase of the new policy.
25.     Denationalization.  About 70 major units in the manufacturing sector
(including 28 jute mills and 26 cotton textile mills) were returned from
public to private ownership during FY83. The jute and cotton textile mills
divested were returned to their former private owners, while the other units
were either returned to their previous owners or sold to the highest bidders.
18 further manufacturing enterprises are in the process of divestment. Share
values have been established for 17 profitably operating units which have
been retained so far in the public sector, but in which 49% of the share
capital is to be transferred to private ownership through share sales.
Similarly, two of the six nationalized commercial banks are being returned to
private ownership, and 49% of the share capital of the other four are to be
sold to private investors. Finally, six private commercial banks have been
licensed to operate in Bangladesh and have begun operating.
26.     Private Industrial Investment Controls.  Controls, approval proce-
dures and sanctions over private industrial investments have been liberalized
further during FY83. The ceiling on sanctioning authority for individual
private industrial investments delegated by GOB to the two industrial
development finance institutions (Bangladesh Shilpa Bank and Bangladesh
Shilpa Rin Sangstha) has been substantially increased, restoring it in real
terms to the level prevailing in FY78, and is no longer considered to be a
critical impediment to private industrial investment intentions. Various
other controls exercised by the Department of Industries and by the Chief
Controller of Imports and Exports have been streamlined and made more
flexible. Private industrial investments financed without foreign exchange
allocations from GOB have been made eligible for automatic registration. And
a 'one-stop  investors' center has been established to service potential
foreign investors.
27.     Price Controls.  The number of manufactured items subject to price
controls by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (under the Essential
Commodities Act) was further reduced in FY83. The only major manufactured
product groups still subject to such controls are newsprint, domestically
produced milk food for infants, cement, and pharmaceuticals. GOB also
authorized, as noted in para. 14, public industrial sector corporations to
adjust, in consultation with the concerned ministries, the sale prices of
their products by up to 10% if required by increases in the foreign exchange



-90-                          ANNEX VIII
Page 8 of 9
cost of imported inputs or in energy costs, without the need to secure prior
cabinet approval.
28.     Export Incentives.  In an effort to improve incentives for exporters,
GOB decided to expand the notionaL duty draw-back scheme initiated last year
for imports of inputs used in the production of certain specified export
commodities (replacing the flat rate duty drawback system for the items
concerned). During the course of FY83, five additional export items (out of
an initial list of 13 proposed for the scheme) were declared eligible for the
scheme.
29.     Incentives provided through the Export Performance License (XPL)
Scheme have also been further strengthened. Under this scheme, exporters of
non-traditional commodities (i.e., all items other than raw jute, traditional
jute manufactures, and loose tea) may receive Import Entitlement Certificates
(IECs), which can be exchanged for additional import licenses, up to a
predetermined percentage of the fob value of their exports (net of freight,
insurance and commission payments made in foreign exchange). IECs are freely
transferable and can be sold in the WES/XPL market. The rate of entitlement
is based on domestic value-added content.  The maximum rate of entitlement
was increased in FY83 from 60% to 80% of the net fob export value. All
non-traditional exports are now automatically eligible for IECs valued at 40%
of their net fob export value; eligibility for the higher entitlement
categories of 60% or 80% is decided upon, determination of the domestic value-
added content of the export commodities concerned. In FY82, only 40 items
had been eligible for the 60% maximum rate then in effect, but at the begin-
ning of FY83, 29 commodities were made eligible for 80% entitlements and 26
items for 60% entitlements.
30.     Liberalization of the Import Regime.  With some exceptions (e.g.,
drugs and medicines, arms and ammunitions, items reserved for import by the
Trading Corporation of Bangladesh, items reserved for sole agents of foreign
suppliers, and banned items such as obscene materials, etc.), all items
listed in the FY83 Import Policy Order as permissible for import by
industrial or commercial importers were also made eligible for import under
the Wage Earners Scheme (WES) and Export Performance License Scheme (XPL).
In addition, the list of items eligible for import exclusively under the
WES/XPL scheme was further increased, and public sector importers were
authorized for the first time to import under the provisions of the WES/XPL
system.
31.     Trade and Industrial Policy (TIP) Reform Program.  In April 1983, GOB
initiated the Trade and Industrial Policy (TIP) Reform Program. The program,
comprising a number of major studies on trade and industrial policy reform
and carried out with IDA assistance, is expected to lead to the specification
and subsequent implementation of reforms in export policies and procedures,
the tariff structure, domestic indirect t-axation, investment and export
incentives, macro-industrial planning, the planning process for public sector
industrial investments, private industrial investment promotion, and
industrial statistics. A detailed work program was made available to IDA for
review and comments in September 1983 ancd was found to be sound. The TIP
Program is expected to be completed by May 1985.



-91-
ANNEX VIII
Page 9 of 9
32.     Public Sector Enterprise Performance Monitoring.  In an effort to
improve the financial situation of public sector corporations and
enterprises, GOB rationalized the procedures for establishing their debt
service liabilities and their capacity to service such debts. In addition, a
large number of public sector corporations and individual units underwent
capital restructuring, through conversions of Government loans into equity
and/or direct cash infusions. Moreover, in recognition of the need to
redefine the role of public sector enterprises (PSEs) in the industrial
sector and to develop appropriate systems for monitoring performance against
agreed objectives, GOB established a high-level committee to review the
performance of the PSEs and initiated a number of programs, at both the
ministry and corporation levels, to develop appropriate monitoring and con-
trol systems. A UNDP-financed project for the development of a PSE
Operational and Financial Monitoring System for the Ministry of Finance and
Planning and to review the PSE's structures and objectives has been
formulated; it will be initiated in mid-1984 and is scheduled for completion
by June 1985.



-92--                                                    ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 1
ANNEX IX
USE OF FUND RESOURCES: BANGLADESH
(in millions of SIRs)
Gross Credit Drawings
Regular                  Total                           Net                      Undrawn Balance
Compensatory      Oil      Stand-By    Trust        Drawings      Repurchases      Drawings                       of Agreed
and Buffer    Facility   and EFF    Fund             and             and            and                       Stand-Bys cr
Stock Drawings  Drawings  Drawings  Borrowing  Borrowings/a   Repayments/b  Borrowings/c  Charges/d                 EFFs/e
1972/73         62.5             -          -          -           62.5              -           62.5            0.8                -
1973/74           -              -        29.2         -           29.2              -           29.2            1.7               2.1
1974/75           -            51.5       22.6         -           74.1            20.5          53.6            6.0                -
1975/76           -            40.5       41.0         -           81.5             7.8          73.7           11.1              2:.5
1976/77         39.1             -         2.4         -           41.5            49.4          -7.9           12.8                -
1977/78           -              -          -        21.6          21.6            23.0          -1.3           11.8                -
1978/79           -              -          -        30.2          30.2            33.9          -3.7           10.7                -
1979/80           -              -        85.0       63.9         148.9            75.2           73.7           9.6                -
1980/81           -              -       220.0        6.5         226.5            57.4         169.1           16.0             580.0
1981/82         60.0             -          -          -           60.0            16.5           43.5          30.6                -
1982/83         71.2             -        22.8         -           94.0            50.6           43.4          31.2              45.6
Projected:
1983/84                                   45.6kg                                   34.0                         33.2
1984/85                                                                            75.6                         28.3
1985/86                                                                           110.3                         20.0
1986/87                                                                           138.5                         13.5
1987/88                                                                            99.5                          7.0
1988/89                                                                            41.0                          3.8
1989/90                                                                            28.5                          2.5
1990/91                                                                            14.7                          1.5
/a  Use of Fund credit (regular stand-by drawings, EFF drawings, oil facility drawings, compensatory facility drawings, and
buffer stock drawings) plus Trust Fund borrowing.
/b Repayments through Repurchases of drawings and throuigh Repaymrients of Trust Fund borrowings.
/c Total drawings and borrowings minus total repurchases and repayments (a - b).
/d  Interest on Credit Drawings and on Trust Fund borrowing.  Noize: Charges are shown on a calendar year basis.
/e Undrawn balance of Stand-by or EFF agreements.
/f EFF was cancelled at the request of the Government on June 2L, 1982.
La Fully drawn in July and August 1983.
Source: International Monetary Fund.



