Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15769
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2737-UNI)
June 21, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(March 1996)
Currency Unit                             =            Naira
Exchange Rate at:
appraisal    US$1.00               =            Naira  1.00
1987         US$1.00              =             Naira 3.32
1988         US$1.00              =             Naira 4.28
1989         US$1.00              =             Naira 7.38
1990         US$1.00                            Naira 7.95
1991         US$1.00              =             Naira 9.82
1992         US$1.00              =             Naira 18.84
1993         US$1.00              =             Naira 22.00
1994         US$1.00              =             Naira 22.00
1995         US$1.00              =             Naira 82.00
WVEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)          =             0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                =             3.28 feet
1 square meter             =             10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter              =             1.31 cubic yards
1 kilometer (km)           =             0.62 inches
1 square kilometer         =             0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)             =             2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)            =             2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)         =             2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMIS
ADP          Agricultural Development Project
FACU         Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FDL&PCS   Federal Department of Livestock and Pest Control Services
LIMECU       Livestock Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
NACB         Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd
NAPRI        National Animal Production Research Institute
NLPD         National Livestock Development Division
NVRI         Nigerian Veterinary Research Institute
PPR          Peste des Petits Ruminants (Small Ruminants Disease)
WLC          Western Livestock Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table Qf Content
Preface
Evaluation Summary                     .........................                     ............................
Project Implementation Experience and Results ..................................................ii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned  ............                                 ................. iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives, Covenants and Financing ...................................................                                   1
Implementation Experience and Results ...................................................                                         3
Major Factors Affecting Project Performance ...................................................                                    7
Project Sustainability ....................................................                                                       8
Bank Performance ...................................................                                                              9
Borrower Performance ....................................................                                                         9
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned                                  ......................... ......... 10
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment                                 .......................................... 12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                     .......................            ............................ 13
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................................... 14
Table 4: Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .............. ..................... 14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .................................................. 15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation  ................................................... 17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project                              ......................................... 18
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................... 19
Table 8B: Project Financing  ................................................... 19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits                                ....................................... 20
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants                   .......................             ............................ 21
Table  11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................ 24
Table  12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                              ....................................... 24
Table  13: Bank Resources: Missions                                ........................................ 25
APPENDIXES
Appendix A: Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation Summary
Appendix C: Miscellaneous Tables
Appendix D: Map (IBRD19816R1)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan No. 2737-UNI
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Livestock
Development Project in Nigeria, for which Loan No. 2737-UNI in the amount of US$81
million equivalent was approved on June 8, 1986.
The loan closed on June 30, 1995, after 3 annual extensions beyond the original
closing date of June 30, 1992. Final disbursement was on November 28, 1995 and $6.05
million which remained undisbursed was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Solomon Bekure, Agriculture and Environment Division,
West Central Africa Department, and was reviewed by Surjit Singh (AF4AE), Cynthia C.
Cook, Division Chief, AF4AE and Franz Kaps, Operations Advisor, AF4DR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission on May 9, 1995 and the Aide Memoire of that mission can be found in Appendix A.
It is based on material in the project file, field visits and interviews with government officials,
officers of the Nigeria Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd. and project beneficiaries. The
Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution and initial preparation and commenting on the draft ICR. The Borrower's
summary of its own evaluation of the project is attached unedited as Appendix B to the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan No. 2737-UNI
Evaluation Summary
1.    Introduction. This project is a successor of the First Livestock Development Project
(Ln. 1091-UNI, US$21 million) which the Bank financed during 1974-1983. The first project
attempted to improve beef cattle production by nomadic and semi-nomadic graziers,
smallholders, large commercial farmers and parastatals. Overall, the project was rated a
failure. The main component, large scale private and parastatal ranching, was not successful
and the research, training and marketing components were eliminated when there appeared to
be little prospect of them taking off. However, the smallholder stock fattening component,
and the introduction of trypanotolerant N'Dama cattle were both considered successful. The
Second Livestock Project was designed on the basis of the experience thus gained.
2.    Project Objectives. The objective of the Second Livestock Development Project was
to increase livestock production and consequently farmers' income. It was also to encourage a
variety of sectoral reforms, in particular through: (a) shifting emphasis towards support of
small traditional producers; (b) utilizing the private sector as instruments of production and
input supply; (c) introducing full cost recovery of farm inputs and veterinary supplies; and (d)
establishing a livestock sectoral planning capacity. To achieve these objectives, the project
consisted of five components: (a) smallholder credit for the purchase of farm inputs, (b)
settling of pastoralists in grazing reserves; (c) livestock systems research; (d) animal health
and other production support programs; and (e) project management and support services.
The project was redesigned at its mid-term review in 1989. While the objectives of the project
did not change, the redesign expanded some components, added a pilot dairy development
scheme, and adjusted implementation arrangements in order to attain the original objectives
more effectively (para. 4).
3.    Specific Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. Specific covenants for loan
effectiveness were: (a) gazetting 5 grazing reserves; (b) appointing 7 key management staff,
including the financial controller; (c) depositing N4 mn into the project account; (d) signing a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the Nigerian Agricultural and
Cooperative Bank (NACB). Other covenants related to NACB lending policies and project
implementation. The covenants were largely met with the exception of progressively
increasing the interest rate for agricultural loans to bring them in line with inflation and rates
pertaining to other sectors of the economy. The Bank's attempts to increase NACB's lending
rates were strongly resisted by the Borrower, fearing that this would discourage investment in
the agricultural sector (paras. 5-7).
4.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives, as stated in the SAR were
well thought out and consistent with promoting Nigeria's agricultural development in general,
and that of the livestock sub-sector in particular. The shift of emphasis to support smallholder
livestock producers was timely and drew upon the lessons from the preceding project and
world-wide evidence that successful rural development is contingent on supporting smallholder
producers (para. 8).



- ii -
Project Implementation Experience and Results
5.     Achievement of Objectives and Project Sustainability. As planned, the project gave
emphasis to small traditional producers by providing producer credit, technical advice and
animal health services. It organized, on a pilot basis, processing and marketing of milk of
small pastoralists through cooperative arrangements but was unsuccessful in transferring
distribution of inputs to the private sector. It made progress in cost recovery for inputs and
veterinary but full cost recovery was still way off. It made significant impact in capacity
building for sectoral planning and management but its effect on the research system was
minimal. In terms of global production, its selective interventions were restricted but positive
and resulted in increased production and higher farmer incomes. The Borrower has prepared a
post-project operational plan which it is committed to fund. It requires an annual funding of
N55 million, about the same level of counterpart funding of the project as in the last two years
of implementation. Given the commitment of the implementing institutions and participating
farmers and pastoralists and the built-up capacity of the implementing agencies, maintenance
and continuation of the activities initiated under the main components of the project is likely
for those activities less dependent on government funding. Beneficiaries of grazing reserves
would be required to pay user fees to finance the cost of maintaining the facilities in the
grazing reserves, and this may not materialize as the pastoralists are accustomed to getting
such services free (para. 33). Under the current country economic circumstances, the
sustainability of government funding at the required level is uncertain.
6.     Project Costs and financing. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at
US$128 million. The financing plan was: Bank loan (US$81 million); Federal Government
(US$31.6 million); NACB (US$4 million) and beneficiaries (US$11.4 million). As at
December 14, 1995, a total of US$60.95 million was disbursed and the remaining US$20.05
million was canceled (US$14 million during implementation and US$6.05 million after loan
closing). This was 81 percent of project cost excluding beneficieries' inputs. The actual
contribution of the Borrower was $10.21 million (or 14 percent). NACB contribution was as
per the original estimate, accounting for 5 percent. The substantial shortfall in government
counterpart funding and the untimely release of the such funds slowed down the rate of
project implementation significantly. The project's closing date was successively extended
three times from June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1995 with cancellation of Bank loan funds of
US$10 million and US$4 million in 1992 and 1993 (para. 25).
7.     Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives. The project was implemented
during a difficult period of major structural adjustment of the economy during its first six
years followed by political instability in the last two years. Key factors affecting the project
were: (a) massive devaluation and hyper-inflation, substantially increasing the counterpart
funding requirements of the Borrower in Naira terms; (b) frequent changes in project
managers, directors, ministers and state administrators, delaying critical decisions in project
implementation; and (c) structural rigidities and excessive centralization of Borrower's
agencies, preventing effective collaboration of federal and state agencies thus slowing down
project implementation and hampering widespread dissemination of livestock extension (paras.
26-30).
8.     Bank Performance. The Bank's performance in the identification, appraisal and
supervision of the project was satisfactory. When it became apparent that the project was
getting into difficulties during the first two years of implementation, the Bank reacted quickly



- iii -
and collaborated with the Borrower in redesigning the project. It rendered technical assistance
to the project by providing various livestock experts during supervision (para. 37).
9.     Borrower Performance. On the whole, the Borrower's performance in implementing
the project was satisfactory, but this was largely attributed to the commitment and the quality
of staff at the implementation level who worked under difficult circumstances. Inadequate and
untimely releases of counterpart funds, frequent change of project managers, low spending
thresholds of the Project Manager and the Federal Director DL&PCS and cumbersome
approval procedures contributed to the slow rate of project implementation (paras. 38-39).
10.   Project Outcomes. The overall performance of the project can be regarded
satisfactory as the project managed to increase livestock production and the income of over
60,000 smallholder livestock producers directly, thus shifting the emphasis of public support to
small traditional producers and contributing to poverty reduction in rural Nigeria. The
economic rate of return is 17 percent compared with the SAR estimate of 19 percent (Table 9).
Beneficiaries of the project were trained intensively in new technologies, i.e. in stock
fattening, poultry and milk production, animal health care and growing leguminous pasture
and shrubs as livestock feed. Average net income increase per beneficiary ranged from
N3,265 for cattle fattening to N68,950 for egg production, with an incremental production of
6,990 tons of meat and 881,880 dozen eggs. The rate of credit repayment was satisfactory. In
January 1995, the rate of credit recovery stood at 82.5 percent (paras. 10-1 1).
11.   Implementation of the grazing reserve component was unsatisfactory. Out of a
revised target of 20 grazing reserves, only 12 were gazetted and 10 fully equipped with water
facilities, access roads and perimeter fire breaks. A further 6 were partially developed. Only
715 out of the 2,500 pastoralist families envisaged were settled. However, the number of
livestock these settlers possessed (49,956 head) was greater than that estimated (46,250 head)
for the 2,500 at appraisal. The pilot dairy development program showed satisfactory
performance, reaching about 1,190 farmers in Kaduna State and organizing them into 10
registered cooperative societies with one apex federation (para. 12).
12.   Implementation of the capacity building component of the project was highly
satisfactory. A unit for sub-sector planning, monitoring and evaluation was established. It
played a critical role in the livestock sub-sector review and the preparation of a possible
successor project. A Livestock Credit Unit was established at NACB and was made
responsible for field supervision of the smallholder credit component. The special studies
undertaken enabled a broader understanding of the livestock sub-sector and provided a
valuable data base for planning and implementation of further development of the sub-sector.
On the other hand the research program implemented was unsatisfactory mainly due to lack of
counterpart funding and its impact was thus modest. A program of progressive recovery of
costs of drugs and feed was introduced. However, the objective of transferring the distribution
of livestock inputs to beneficiaries of the credit to the private sector was not achieved (paras.
13-24).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
13.   Key Findings of Implementation Experience. Decentralizing implementation of some
components to state livestock and veterinary services of 6 selected states proved that the rate of
implementation could be increased several-fold. Gazetting of grazing reserves is a major land



- iv -
reform exercise that takes a long time and requires more expertise than in the livestock field,
i.e. economics, sociology, law and public administration. In addition, it emerged that there
was insufficient consultation with beneficiaries in designing, developing and managing grazing
reserves. Pastoralists resisted settling in grazing reserves despite the project's best efforts to
achieve this objective.
14.   Plans for Future Operations. The Borrower is implementing a post-project operational
plan that continues the key programs initiated under the project: smallholder livestock credit,
livestock extension, dairy development, grazing reserve development, vaccination of small
ruminants against PPR (Peste des Petits Ruminants - Small Ruminants Disease), and the open-
nucleus N'Dama cattle multiplication program. The Borrower is strongly committed and keen
to further development of the livestock sub-sector. A livestock sub-sector review was
conducted in 1992 and a successor project prepared with the assistance of the FAO/CP in
1994. At project pre-appraisal the Bank considered the project too large and complex. It was,
therefore, split into two projects, i.e. Animal Health Services and Livestock Production
Services. Further processing of these projects is currently in abeyance (para. 41).
15.   Key Lessons Learned are: (a) decentralizing project management to involve state
livestock and veterinary services increased the rate of implementing the livestock extension
and animal health components of the project several fold; (b) smallholder credit for livestock
fattening is successful and NACB would need to reform its lending policy and procedures to
reduce the time and cost of loan processing and loan recovery; (c) considerable demand for
feed and other livestock inputs need to be created by livestock extension before the private
sector can supply these in rural areas; (d) gazetting grazing reserves is a major land tenure
reform program, which is time consuming and requires the involvement of economists,
sociologists and lawyers in addition to range and livestock management specialists; (e)
pastoralists are not necessarily interested in settling in grazing reserves situated in arid and
semi-arid regions; they would rather maximize access to dry season grazing by moving their
animals to more humid regions; and (f) small quantities of surplus milk produced by settled
pastoralists in Nigeria could be tapped for marketing in the urban areas, and more importantly,
organized milk collection in villages liberates women from the arduous task of walking long
distances and spending a lot of time in hawking their milk. The associations organized under
the scheme are also helping to empower farmers in accessing development resources (para.
42).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan No. 2737-UNI
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    Introduction. This project is a successor of the First Livestock Development Project
(Ln.1091-UNI, US$21 million) which the Bank financed from 1974 to 1983. The first project
attempted to improve beef cattle production by nomadic and semi-nomadic graziers,
smallholders, large commercial farmers and parastatals. Overall, the project was rated a
failure. The main component, large scale private and parastatal ranching, was not successful
and the research, training and marketing components were eliminated when there appeared to
be little prospect of them taking off. However, the smallholder stock fattening component,
and the introduction of trypanotolerant N'Dama cattle were both considered successful. The
Second Livestock Project was designed on the basis of the experience thus gained.
Project Objectives, Covenants and Financing
2.    Project Objectives and Components. The objective of the Second Livestock
Development Project was to increase the production of animal products and consequently
farmers' income. In addition, it was to encourage a variety of sectoral reforms already
endorsed by the Federal Government, in particular through: (a) shifting emphasis towards
support of small traditional producers; (b) utilizing the private sector as instruments of
production and input supply; (c) introducing full cost recovery of farm inputs and veterinary
supplies; and (d) establishing a livestock sectoral planning capacity.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the project consisted of the following components: (a)
smallholder credit for the purchase of farm inputs (32 percent); (b) settling of pastoralists in
grazing reserves (1 percent); (c) livestock system's research (5 percent); (d) non-credit
livestock production program, including the operation of N'Dama cattle ranches (4 percent);
and (e) project management and support services (58 percent), including: (i) manpower
development; (ii) vehicles and equipment for participating institutions; (iii) establishing a
livestock sectoral planning capacity for the Federal Government; (iv) technical assistance and
(vi) special studies including a review of the existing veterinary services.
4.    The project was redesigned at its mid-term review in 1989. The redesign did not
change the objectives of the project. It expanded a few components (animal health services,
livestock breeding, grazing reserves, and credit models to cater for animal traction, poultry
and pig production), added a new pilot dairy development scheme, and restructured the way
the project was to be implemented in order to attain the original objectives more effectively,
given the changed economic framework and the initial difficulties encountered in project
implementation. This resulted in a major reallocation of the proceeds of the loan among the
components. Two notable changes introduced during the redesign of the project were: (a)
gradual transfer of some project activities, i.e. grazing reserve management, livestock
extension and animal health services, to state ministries of agriculture and their agricultural
development projects (ADPs), with the Federal Department of Livestock and Pest Control
Services (FDL&PCS) focusing on policy formulation, program planning and coordination, and



- 2 -
monitoring and evaluation of program implementation by the States; and (b) reduced reliance
of the project on technical assistance. At the time of redesign, there were 15 expatriate TA
staff from a foreign management firm contracted to provide 45 man years of such assistance.
5.     Covenants to Achieve Project objectives. The legal covenants of the project and their
status are summarized in Table 8. Specific covenants for loan effectiveness were:(a) gazetting
five grazing reserves; (b) appointing 7 key management staff, including the financial
controller; (c) depositing N4 mn into a commercial bank project account; (d) signing a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the Nigerian Agricultural and
Cooperative Bank (NACB). These covenants were met by the Borrower with a delay of 3
months.
6.     Covenants specific to NACB lending policies and project implementation required the
Borrower to: (a) exchange views with the Bank on the results of the national agricultural credit
study being carried out by the Central Bank of Nigeria; (b) review interest for agriculture
annually with a view to: eventually bringing it more into line with inflation and reducing the
differential in interest rates for loans between the agriculture sector and the other sectors; and
ensuring adequate margins for lending institutions and reducing subsidies on loans by the
Borrower for on-lending ; (c) lend to smallholder livestock producers a minimum of N4 mn
out of NACB's own resources; (d) establish and operate a livestock credit unit at NACB; (e)
establish a revolving credit fund from the proceeds of principal repayments to NACB; (f)
establish a credit committee in each of the States to assist in preparing and monitoring credit
operations; and (g) make contractual arrangements with livestock research institutions for
carrying out applied livestock systems research in support of the project's development
program. Other covenants related to preparation of annual work program and budgets,
accounting and reporting.
7.     These covenants were largely met, except those relating to annual reviews of interest
rates for the agricultural sector. In 1987, the 13 percent p.a. NACB rate was 5 percent below
commercial rates. It was raised to 16 percent in 1988 and reduced to 15 percent in 1989 when
commercial rates were still 18 percent p.a. Commercial rates escalated to 25 percent in 1990
and to 32.5 percent in 1992. NACB rates increased only to 17 percent in 1990. The Central
Bank pegged commercial rates at 21 percent during 1993-95, while the NACB rate fluctuated
between 15-17 percent. The Bank's attempts to increase the NACB lending rate was strongly
resisted by the Borrower, fearing that it would discourage investment in the agricultural sector.
8.     Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives, as stated in the SAR were
well thought out and consistent with promoting Nigeria's agricultural development in general,
and that of the livestock sub-sector in particular. The shift of emphasis to support smallholder
livestock producers was timely and drew upon the lessons from the predecessor project and
world-wide evidence that successful rural development is contingent on supporting smallholder
producers. The livestock systems research, the special studies, manpower development, and
institutional development components were essential elements of support to livestock
development in Nigeria.
9.     Achievement of Project Objectives. The project, as planned, emphasized government
support to small traditional producers by providing to them production credit, animal health
services and technical advice; organizing processing and marketing of milk of pastoralists; and
improving the health of small ruminants mainly owned by small farmers. The project was not
able to achieve its objective of transferring input supply activities to the private sector but was
able, to a limited extent, to shift dairy production to a farmers' cooperative. Full cost



- 3 -
recovery for veterinary supplies and feed was not achieved but recovery was progesssively
increased to about 50 percent. However, it made strong gains in building institutional capacity
in sectoral planning, management of the sector and the decentralization of technical and
veterinary functions to state goverrnments. It also had very limited impact on improving the
research system. In terms of global production increases, its intervensions were selective and
thus impact was restricted but positive in terms of increased farmer incomes from higher
production.
Implementation Experience and Results
10.   The Smallholder Livestock Credit and Livestock Extension Services Component, the
major vehicle for reaching smallholder livestock producers, was very successful. About
23,000 farmers, who were beneficiaries of the livestock credit, were trained intensively in
new technologies for supplementary feeding of livestock for fattening, poultry and milk
production, disease prevention and animal health care, and growing leguminous pasture and
shrubs as livestock feed. The project was on target in terms of the numbers of beneficiaries
reached and in increasing their income. As at June 30, 1995, a total of N169.14 million,
representing 22,907 loans (compared with redesign target of 30,055) was disbursed.
However, repeat loans were only about 30 percent of the total number of loans. Most of the
loans (N1 17.68 million or 70 percent) were for cattle fattening (Table 9).
11.   Daily weight gains averaged 365 grams/day/head of cattle (or about 60 kg./head
fattened), compared with the SAR estimate of 600 grams/day/head. This was mainly due to
irregular supply of cottonseed cake, though farmers' reluctance to feed the recommended
amount also contributed to lower weight gains. Through the livestock credit component, the
project stimulated directly the incremental production of about 6,995 tons of meat and
881,880 dozen eggs, thus increasing the income of participating farmers. Beneficiaries
obtained an estimated average net income of: N3,265 for cattle fattening, N6,292 for sheep
fattening; N3,890 for pig fattening; N16,230 for broiler and N68,950 for egg production. The
rate of credit repayment was satisfactory. As at January 1995, the recovery rate stood at 82.5
percent (compared with SAR target of 85 percent) with N124.3 million repaid out of the
N133.9 million due.
12.    The Grazing Reserve Component was partially successful. Out of a revised target of
20 grazing reserves only 12 were gazetted and 10 fully developed with water facilities, access
roads and perimeter fire breaks. A further 6 were partially developed. Only 715 out of the
2,500 pastoralist families envisaged were settled. However, the number of livestock these
settlers possessed (49,956 head) was greater than that estimated (46,250 head) for the 2,500 in
the SAR. Implementation experience revealed that many pastoralists preferred to move their
cattle between dry and wet season grazing areas to secure adequate forage for their livestock.
They were, therefore, interested in utilizing the grazing reserves during certain periods of the
year as opposed to settling and using them year-round. The objective of the grazing reserve
development was subsequently modified to accommodate the wishes of the pastoralists.
Identification, surveying, demarcation and gazetting of stock routes linking the drier Sudan
Savannah grazing areas in the north to the wetter sub-humid grazing areas in the middle belt
was made a prominent feature in order to facilitate the use of grazing reserve resources as well
as to resolve the oft-occurring conflicts between pastoralists and crop farmers.
13.   Livestock Systems Research. A much smaller livestock systems research program
than that envisaged in the SAR was implemented due to shortage of counterpart funding. The
impact of the research component was, therefore, modest. Nearly half of the research



-4-
protocols started were not completed at project closing. However, the component succeeded
in effecting attitudinal change in the researchers and demonstrated the need for collaboration
amongst the scientists from the various institutions. They now appreciate the importance of:
livestock systems research, consideration of socio-economic issues in research design and
applicability of research results to farmers' situations. A lot of data were generated in the
forage production and utilization experiments and 13 results have been selected for
development of extension packages. In the veterinary field, the Nigerian Veterinary Research
Institute (NVRI) made substantial progress in developing a vaccine for goat and sheep Pox.
Progress was also made in developing a vaccine against ticks and is being tested in the grazing
reserves and breeding farms by a scientist from Ahmadu Bello University. The project also
financed the hosting of the Second International Symposium on Dermatophilosis Research at
Vom in 1992. The redesign of the project provided funds for the National Animal Production
Research Institute (NAPRI) to introduce a computer based information system for livestock
systems research. This was not implemented and thus it continues to be very difficult to link
Nigerian scientists efforts with the international body of knowledge on livestock systems
research.
14.   The Animal Health and Production Component comprised: (a) animal health program,
including vaccination against Peste des Petites Ruminants (PPR), treatment of mange and
deworming of goats in the humid belt, and distribution of veterinary drugs in collaboration
with state veterinary services; (b) the pilot dairy development scheme added at redesign; and
(c) N'Dama cattle importation, breeding and distribution.
15.   The Animal Health Program. About 186,000 small ruminants belonging to 38,356
farmers were vaccinated, dewormed and treated against mange. The operation was highly
successful in reducing mortality rates from over 50 percent down to 16-20 percent. The
intemal rate of return for this component alone was about 32 percent compared with 17.1
percent for the whole project.
16.   The project supported the rehabilitation of three state veterinary clinics and three
diagnostic laboratories and procured veterinary drugs worth N15.4 million for sales to
livestock producers through state veterinary services. This operation was not implemented
satisfactorily. The states' replenishment rate of the drug revolving fund stood at 47 percent as
of March 31, 1995. This was partly due to the inability of the states to sell the drugs as
cheaper brands were available in the market, although some of these were of dubious quality.
The project collaborated with the manufacturers of "Pour-on" in testing it on pastoralists'
cattle in two grazing reserves as an effective means of controlling economically important
vectors such as the tsetse fly and ticks. The project also assisted in field-testing a chemical
solution formulated by NVRI to control Dermatophilosis. Although the tests were
inconclusive on curing the disease, the solution was found to be useful in treating the lesions
caused by the disease.
17.   The Pilot Dairy Development Program was successful, reaching about 1,190 farmers
in Kaduna State and organizing them into 10 registered cooperative societies with one apex
federation. Although the volume of milk (340,000 liters in 4 years) the pilot scheme
collected and marketed for the farmers fell short of expectations, it demonstrated that
smallholder agro-pastoralists in Nigeria could supply milk to urban centers, and that dairy
development takes a considerable amount of skilled manpower in milk handling, processing,
marketing and organizing farmers' associations and training them on how to manage these
associations. Daily collection of milk increased from the initial 174 liters in 1991 to 1068 liters
in 1994. The federation has now acquired majority ownership of the Kaduna dairy plant. It is



-5-
expected that milk collection, processing and marketing will pick up momentum. The
valuable lessons learnt from the pilot scheme and the trained and experienced manpower would
be very useful in expanding the program in Kaduna State and for initiating similar programs in
Plateau, Kano and Kwara States, where the potential for similar development exists.
18.   The beneficiaries of this component are mainly women, who look after the calves,
milk the cows, process and sell the milk, the revenue of which they control. By collecting
milk from their villages, the scheme saved the women a substantial amount of time they would
have spent walking to markets and spending half a day, 2-3 days per week, to sell their milk.
The farners' associations organized under the scheme are empowering farmers by providing
valuable fora for the discussion of other community problems which they face. Leaders of the
association are now voicing the concerns and problems of their members, to which the state
and local governments are beginning to listen and respond.
19.   The N'Dama Cattle Multiplication and Distribution Program suffered a serious setback
due to severe shortage in the supply of this breed of cattle in Nigeria. It was assumed at
appraisal that the Western Livestock Company (WLC) would make available 2,849 female
N'Dama cattle for the project and an additional 1,250 would be imported. However, WLC
was able to deliver only 91. The planned imports were thus increased by this shortfall.
Unfortunately, it took some time to sort out the logistics of importation, and in the meantime
the Naira had been devalued substantially. In 1990 the landed cost came to about N7,000 per
head , which was more than double the price of Zebu cattle at that time. As selling at a price
affordable by farmers would require a heavy subsidy, it was decided to import only 1000 head
from Senegal for forming two nuclei herds at Adada and Fashola for breeding and distributing
the progenies. Initially, there was high mortality in the imported herd associated with
acclimatization. So far, only 681 head of N'Dama, mostly in-calf heifers, were distributed to
116 farmers with a total of 539 head remaining in the nuclei herds. The beneficiaries have
signed an agreement to participate in the open-nucleus breeding program, involving them as
outbreeders to supply breeding N'Dama cattle to other farmers.
20.   Project Management and Support Services Component. The maower develop=
aspects of this project were highly successful. A total of 2,937 staff of the Federal and state
livestock and veterinary services as well as staff of NACB received in-house and in-country
training while 133 staff received overseas training. Induction courses were conducted for 860
staff and 278 staff attended technical workshops and conferences. The use of tehnira1
assistance and the efforts at sectoral capacity building were highly satisfactory. The project
redesign reduced the level and cost of technical assistance substantially (para. 4). Nigerian
staff were assigned to work with their 15 expatriate counterparts at the zonal offices and at the
Kaduna headquarters. A vigorous and well structured training program was instrumental in
the Nigerians taking over the expatriate positions, except those of the heavy equipment
engineer and the Financial Controller, within the first four years of project implementation.
The two posts were taken over by Nigerians one year later in 1994.
21.   The Livestock Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (LIMECU) was established
under the project to strengthen the capacity of the FDL&PCS. The unit is responsible for:
policy formulation, planning of livestock development programs and their monitoring and
evaluation in collaboration with the states. LIMECU also maintains and manages the national
livestock data base and information system. LIMECU played a critical role in the livestock
sub-sector review and the preparation of a successor project with the assistance of the
FAO/CP. A Livestock Credit Unit was established at NACB and was made responsible for
the field supervision of the smallholder credit component through the branches of the bank



- 6 -
nation-wide. Training, vehicles and office equipment were provided to the manager and staff
of the unit which proved to be effective.
22.   In 1994, project implementation was partially decentralized by transferring the
responsibility for implementing project activities to state livestock and veterinary services. Six
pilot states (Bauchi, Imo, Kwara, Plateau, Sokoto and Yobe) were chosen to test the concept.
Implementation was accelerated, particularly in vaccination and treatment of animals, and in
delivery of livestock extension messages. In these states, vaccinations of livestock increased
dramatically from 4.6 million to 10 million and treatment from 2.2 million head to 6.5 million
compared with the previous year prior to decentralization. A similar transfer of project
implementation to the remaining 25 states, based on the lessons learnt from the six pilot states,
were to be implemented under a successor project.
23.    The special studies undertaken enabled a broader understanding of the livestock sub-
sector and provided a valuable data base for planning and implementation of further
development of the sub-sector. The studies originally included were a livestock census,
evaluation of animal health services in Nigeria and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) program
for the project, which were all completed. For the first time in Nigeria, the national livestock
census produced reliable estimates of livestock population by species, breeds, states and agro-
ecological zones and other valuable data on vegetation and on distribution of livestock during
the dry and wet seasons. These data are invaluable for future planning and policy decisions in
developing the livestock sub-sector. Some of the recommendations of the animal health study
were used to improve animal health services during implementation of the project. However,
the major reform needed at the state level did not occur and was to be incorporated in a
successor Animal Health Services project. The recommendations of the M&E study were
implemented during the project time-frame.
24.   Further studies included at project redesign were on: (a) the demand and supply of
dairy products; (b) a review of the poultry sub-sector; (c) livestock marketing; (d) hides and
skins production and marketing; and (e) transhumance of livestock. Results of the dairy study
were used to design the pilot dairy development scheme under the project. The transhumance
study was still ongoing at project closing. The poultry sub-sector study was dropped as it was
substantially covered by a study undertaken at the University of Ibadan. Planning for the
livestock marketing and hides and skins study was started too late. It was planned to include
them in the studies to be conducted under a successor project.
25.   Project Costs and financing. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at
US$128 million. The financing plan was: Bank loan (US$81 million); Federal Government
(US$31.6 million); NACB (US$4 million) and beneficiaries (US$11.4 million). As at
December 14, 1995, a total of US$60.95 million was disbursed and the remaining US$20.05
million was canceled (US$14 million during implementation and US$6.05 million after loan
closing). This was 81 percent of project cost excluding beneficieries' inputs. The actual
contribution of the Borrower was N10.21 million (or 14 percent). NACB contribution was as
per the original estimate, accounting for 5 percent. The substantial shortfall in government
counterpart funding and the untimely release of the such funds slowed down the rate of
project implementation significantly. The project's closing date was successively extended
three times from June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1995 with cancellation of Bank loan funds of
US$10 million and US$4 million in 1992 and 1993.



- 7-
Major Factors Affecting Project Performance
26.   Overview. The project was being implemented during a difficult period when major
structural adjustment of the economy was taking place in the first six years and when political
instability set in during the last two years.
27.   Devaluation and Inflation. The Naira lost 70 percent of its value against the US Dollar
in the first year of project implementation from parity to N3.32 per dollar. It continued to
tumble down in successive years until 1993 when the Federal government pegged it to N22 to
one US Dollar (Table 14). This caused immense inflationary pressure in the economy,
substantially increasing the recurrent costs of the project much beyond the estimates at
appraisal. Although counterpart funding provided by the Borrower increased in absolute
terns, it was not commensurate with the inflationary trend. As the Naira spending authority
limits of the Project Manager and the Federal Director of Livestock remained stagnant in the
face of galloping inflation, approvals for minor procurement of goods and services had to be
referred to higher authorities (the Director-General and the Minister) who were usually busy
and did not attend to these matters urgently. This slowed down the rate of project
implementation. The components that particularly suffered were the grazing reserve, animal
health services, animal breeding, research and special studies components expanded during the
1989 redesign. In a situation of tight counterpart funding, the tendency of project managers
was to use available funds for financing programs already underway and to defer new
initiatives.
28.   Frequent changes in administration also had marked negative effects on project
implementation. During the life of the project, there were 8 Ministers of Agriculture, three
Directors of FDL&PCS and three Project Managers. The change from military to civilian and
then to military rule delayed the acquisition of the Kaduna dairy plant for expanding the dairy
development component for about 2.5 years. The creation of new states, industrial actions
resulting in shortage of fuel, and civil strife during project implementation also took their toll
in slowing down project implementation.
29.   Structural rigidities within the Federal Ministry of Agriculture did not foster
cooperation and collaboration between Federal Departments responsible for Agriculture and
Livestock. Consequently, livestock extension has been plagued by limited understanding and
implementation in the field. While the ADPs were designed to deal with both crops and
livestock under the unified agricultural extension system, the Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit (FACU) that was coordinating the ADPs nation wide was under the
Department of Agriculture. This arrangement oriented most of the ADPs towards crop
extension to the exclusion or marginalization of livestock extension. Some ADPs lacked
livestock expertise but did not utilize the expertise within their state livestock and veterinary
services to promote livestock extension. Others ran their own mobile veterinary services.
FACU recognized this and created a Livestock Section within its own organization without
discussing the matter with the FDL&PCS. It also fought unsuccessfully to prevent the
FDL&PCS from establishing its own Livestock Monitoring, Evaluation and Coordination Unit
(LIMECU). This state of affairs did not augur well for livestock extension in Nigeria.
30.   Livestock extension to mixed crop/livestock farmers has remained weak as a result of
limited collaboration between the project and the ADPs. Livestock extension to project
beneficiaries under the livestock fattening, small ruminant, poultry and pig rearing credit
programs were all performed by the National Livestock Development Division (NLPD)



- 8 -
without the involvement of the ADPs, though most of these were mixed crop/livestock
farmers. Although the project had sourced for extension packages and printed extension
pamphlets and bulletins which were made available to the ADPs, these often were not put to
good use as livestock extension was marginalized in topics chosen for coverage in the monthly
technology review meetings. A national committee was established by FACU in 1994 to
develop a methodology for extension of livestock packages, but the FDL&PCS did not
participate actively. Lack of collaboration between FDL&PCS and FACU reduces the benefits
farmers could derive from livestock extension.
Project Sustainabiity
31.   Given the commitment of implementing institutions and participating farmers and
pastoralists, sustainability of the activities initiated under the main components of the project is
likely for activities less dependent on government funding. The grazing reserves will require
funds for maintenance and high degree of collaboration between pastoralists and the federal
and state agencies. The project had already started handing over implementation
responsibilities to state livestock and veterinary services. They would continue the operation
of livestock extension services in collaboration with the ADPs. NACB is committed to
continue with livestock credit as part of its normal agricultural portfolio. It has already built
under the project a livestock revolving fund which would be used exclusively for livestock
credit and NACB is willing to contribute additional amounts as and when its liquidity position
permits. The technical support required for credit for cattle fattening in extension and input
supply would be provided by State extension services and NLPD.
32.   The Kaduna State Government has sold a 55 percent share of the Kaduna dairy plant to
the Kaduna Milk Federation. The commercial aspects of the pilot dairy component appear
sustainable. The development aspects of training staff and the management of the Federation
and the cooperatives will be continued by Kaduna State and the Federal Government. The
experience gained in Kaduna could be used to replicate dairy development initiatives in other
states.
33.   The operation and management of grazing reserves would be the responsibility of the
States. The manpower trained to operate the heavy equipment units for maintenance and
development of infrastructure in grazing reserves would be operated by FDL&PCS.
Beneficiaries of grazing reserves would be required to pay user fees to finance the cost of
maintaining the facilities in the grazing reserves. This may not materialize as the pastoralists
are accustomed to getting such services without charge.
34.   The open-nucleus breeding scheme started with farmers rearing N'Dama cattle would
be supported by the nucleus herds at Adada and Fashola, which would be operated by NLPD.
After 1998, the bulk of the breeding work would be done by farmers themselves with the
nucleus ranches providing recording and performance testing.
35.   The drug revolving fund would continue to be operated by state veterinary services
under a more strict supervision of FDL&PCS. A scheme of assisting private veterinarians in
the provision of motorbikes, veterinary kits and drug supplies with credit in kind is being
considered for funding by the Borrower. The PPR vaccination and deworming of small
ruminants in the humid belt would be continued by state veterinary services on a full cost
recovery basis. The unfinished research protocols conducted under the project by NAPRI,
NVRI and the universities would be continued under the National Agricultural Research
Project.



36.   The post-project operational plan for the period 1995-2000 would cost an average of N
53 million per year to implement the above activities which would be necessary to continue
project initiatives. This is about the level at which the Federal Govermnent was supporting the
project in the last two years of its implementation. It is important that the Federal
Government continues to fund the project at this level in order to ensure its sustainability.
Although the Government appears committed to fund the post-project operational plan, it
would be important to view this within the full historical context of its support to the project
and current economic circumstances of the country. For components that are dependent on
government funding, sustainability is uncertain.
Bank Performance
37.   The Bank's performance in the identification, appraisal and supervision of the project
was satisfactory. When the prevailing economic environment was changing and it became
apparent that the project was getting into difficulties during the first two years of
implementation, the Bank reacted quickly and collaborated with the Borrower in redesigning
the project. The Bank rendered technical assistance to the project through the involvement of
various livestock experts during supervision. The Bank was responsive to constraints identified
during implementation. Bank financing ratios were amended to facilitate procurement of
various categories under the loan.
Borrower Performance
38.   The Borrower's performance in implementing the project has ranged from deficient to
satisfactory. A real plus for the project has been the quality of staff and their enthusiasm for
the project initiatives which made it possible for the project to achieve substantial results.
Inadequate and untimely releases of counterpart funds, frequent change of project managers,
low spending thresholds of the Project Manager and the Federal Director DLP&CS and
cumbersome approval procedures for amounts in excess of these thresholds contributed to the
slow rate of project implementation. The opportunity of significantly improving animal health
services nationwide and developing the activities of the other divisions of the FDL&PCS, as
well as making a significant advance in livestock research was lost due to lack of counterpart
funding. The limited amount of counterpart funds available had to be devoted to the priority
programs started earlier.
39.   Failure of state lending agencies to meet NACB's eligibility criteria slowed down
commencement of provision of credit to smallholders, a main component of the project. Once
it was agreed that NACB would directly lend to smallholders using its branch offices in the
States, setting up the guidelines and procedures for administering the credit and training staff
took some time. Some of these procedures were too cumbersome, e.g. repeat loans were
treated exactly as new ones and had to go through the same procedures of screening,
verification and personal guarantees. It took almost two years to streamline the lending
process before the credit component finally took off in 1990.
40.   Assessment of Outcome. The overall outcome of the project can be regarded as
satisfactory since the project managed to increase livestock production and the income of over
62,000 smallholder livestock producers directly, thus shifting the emphasis of public support to
small traditional producers and contributing to poverty reduction in rural Nigeria. The
economic rate of return is 17 percent compared with the SAR estimate of 19 percent (Table 9).
The assumptions made in the economic analysis are similar to those made in the original SAR



- 10-
with beef as the only internationally traded commodity and distortions in local prices adjusted
using the standard conversion factor of 0.85. Benefits were calculated only for incremental
production of livestock enterprises (cattle, sheep and pig fattening and broiler and egg
production) and the incremental production accruing to control of PPR disease. Training and
research benefits were treated as non-quantifiable. On the cost side, as in the original SAR,
costs of livestock research and sectoral planning were not included. Only 50% of grazing
reserve and civil works were included.
41.   The capacity building components of the project were highly successful. A large
number of staff received in-service training both in-country and overseas. Planning capacity
for the livestock sub-sector was established at the Federal level. The special studies conducted
under the project have enabled a broader understanding of the livestock sub-sector and
provided a valuable data base for planning and implementation of development activities in the
sub-sector. The research component was only partially implemented due largely to lack of
counterpart funding and its impact was modest. A program of progressive recovery of costs of
drugs and feed was introduced. However, the objective of transferring the distribution of
livestock inputs to beneficiaries of the credit and pilot dairy components of the project to the
private sector was not achieved.
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
42.    Future Operation. The Federal Government of Nigeria is committed to further
development of the livestock sub-sector. As mentioned earlier, it has prepared a post-
operational plan for the project's future operation. This plan was prepared in August 1995 and
its translation into Summary Expenditures over the period 1995-2000 is given in Table 1 in
Appendix 'C'. It sets out, amongst others, input and output indicators for a smallholder credit
scheme, grazing reserves and stock routes, vaccinations of small ruminants, N'dama cattle
ranches, livestock extension activities and expansion of dairy activities. A livestock sub-sector
review was conducted in 1992 and a successor project prepared with the assistance of the
FAO/CP in 1994. At project pre-appraisal the Bank considered the project too large and
complex. It was, therefore, split into two projects, i.e. Animal Health Services and Livestock
Production Services. Further processing of these projects is currently in abeyance.
43.   Key Lessons Learned
(a) Project implementation, vested in a single Division FDL&PCS in Kaduna, was
excessively centralized. Participation of the states both in funding and implementation was
sidelined. The project co-opted state livestock officers and created a parallel federal office in
the states to implement the project. The states' contribution was only the continued payment
of salaries of the co-opted state officers. They had no say in the implementation of the
project. Thus an opportunity to build the capacity of state livestock and veterinary services and
to mobilize their manpower and financial resources was lost. This also slowed down the rate
of implementing activities of a nation-wide project in a large country. Decentralization was
made a reform objective of the project redesign in 1989. Although it took the project three
years to start decentralization in six pilot States, the experience proved to be rewarding (para.
24). Future livestock development initiatives in Nigeria should take this into account.
(b) The project has demonstrated that smallholder livestock enterprises are financially
viable and that the livestock portfolio of NACB performed far better than its crop portfolio.
Although the Bank encouraged NACB to start group lending to reduce lending costs and



- 11 -
increase loan repayment rates, NACB's management remained conservative and failed to
initiate it.
(c) It was assumed at appraisal that the private sector would distribute livestock inputs
to smallholder livestock producers. A combination of factors made this objective unattainable.
In the case of feed, the problem was that of insufficient demand to warrant stocking by rural
retailers. Lack of access to foreign exchange to import the drugs, introduction of fake and
expired drugs into the market induced by the massive devaluation of the Naira and subsidy on
the price of veterinary drugs by many states militated against the distribution of veterinary
drugs by the private sector. Furthermore, the Veterinary Act does not allow private
veterinarians to stock and dispense veterinary drugs. It would need to be amended to allow this
and to enable federal and state veterinary services to regulate trade in veterinary drugs.
(d) Adequate consultation was not made with the beneficiaries and State personnel in
designing the grazing reserve development component of the project. It was assumed that
pastoralists are always on the move in search of water during the dry season. If water were
provided they would settle and some of them would be induced to cultivate leguminous
pasture. This assumption proved to be wrong. Water was provided but few pastoralists chose
to settle. Even those that settled were sending part of their herd away from the grazing
reserves during the dry season. The consultations and socio-economic studies carried out
during the implementation showed that pastoralists are maximizing access of their herds to
more nutritious pastures in the sub-humid middle belt of the country during dry seasons.
Belatedly, NLPD initiated the demarcation and legislation of stock routes that would facilitate
the movement of herds between pastures in the northern Sudan savannah and the sub-humid
middle belt. This underscores the importance of appropriate and adequate client consultation
in designing project components.
(e) The process of identification, surveying and gazetting of grazing reserves through
the state bureaucracies proved to be a time consuming and an arduous task. Although the
project documents do not refer to land reform, excising huge chunks of land and adjudicating
them for a particular end use is a significant land reform exercise, which takes a long time and
particular skills in law, administration and diplomacy apart from technical skills in surveying.
In addition, entrusting this component only to range management specialists and surveyors
contributed to slow progress of this component. The unit implementing the grazing component
would have benefited immensely from a mix of professionals in law, sociology, public
administration and economics.
(f) The Dairy scheme showed that small quantities of surplus milk produced by
settled pastoralists in Nigeria could be tapped for marketing in the urban areas, and more
importantly, the associations organized under the scheme are also helping to empower farmers
in accessing development resources.



- 12-
Part II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substanil         Parial          Neeligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                        E                El
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                                                   E3
Institutional Development                             El                                 []
Physical Objectives                                   El               E                 E
Poverty Reduction                                     El               I]
Gender Issues                        El               l3               E 
Other Social Objectives                                                El                El
Environmental Objectives              E               E                El
Public Sector Management                              1=               1                 El
Private Sector Development            E                                El                El
Other (specify)                       E               E                El
B. project Sustainability                Likel                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
C. Bank Performnance                     satisiofa              Satisfactorv               Deficient
Identification                          l                                                 E l
Preparation Assistance                El                                                 El
Appraisal                                                      El                         El
Supervision                                                    El                        El
D. Borrowr Performance                          satisfactory    Satisfacto       Deficient
Preparation                                    E               El
Implementation                                 E               l               E
Covenant Compliance                            E                               El
Operation (if applicable)                      E               E               E
HigU. Afagch
E. AsssmentofOutcome                    satisfactQn   Satisfactory    UnaisaA           unsatifact=n
El1                              El                El



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                      Purp           Apprval  Status
Preceeding Operations
1.    1091 -UNI          Livestock I  Livestock Dev.      1974  Completed    |
2.    1092-UNI            Funtua ADP  Integrated Rural Dev. 1975   Completed
3.    1099-UNI            Gusau ADP                       1975  Completed
4.    1 164-UNI           Gombe ADP                       1975  Completed
5.    1454-UNI            Lafia ADP                       1977  Completed
6.    1455-UNI            Ayangba ADP                     1977  Completed
7.    1667-UNI            Bida ADP           "            1977  Completed
8.    1668-UTNI           Ilorin ADP                      1979  Completed
9.    1719-UTNI           ARMTI        Agric./Mgt.Trng.    1979  Completed
10.   1838-UNI           Oyo North   Integrated Rural     1980  Completed
13.   1 982-UNI          Kano ADP      Development
11.   1854-UNI           Ekiti/Akoko   g                  1980  Completed
ADP
I 12   98 1-UNI           Bauchi ADP         "1981  Completed
13.   1982-UNI           Kano ADP            "1981  Completed
14.   2029-UNI           ATAP         Agric.Tech.Assist.  1981  Completed
15.   2185-UNI           Sokoto ADP  Integrated Tech.Asst. 1981  Completed
16.   2436-UNI           Kaduna/      Agricultural Dev.    1986  Completed
g                  ~~~~~~Katsina
117.   2741 -UNI          South Borno        "4            1986  Completed |
18.   2988-UNI           MSADP II           It            1989  Completed
019.   3126-UNI           Tree Crops   Oilpalm             1989  Completed
Following Operations
1.    2035-UNI           MSADP III           "            1989  Ongoing
2.    2261-UNI            Agric.Resrch. Improved basic Res. 1991  Ongoing
3.    3483-UNI            NATSP        Exten/Adapt. Res.   1992  Ongoing
4.    3451-UNI            Nat. Fadama  Small Scale Irrigation  1992  Ongoing
5.    3183-UNI           Nat. Seed    Improved Seed Supply 1990  Ongoing
6.    2353-UNI            Env. Mgmt.  Environmental Mgmt. 1992  Ongoing
6.    3483-UNI            Agric.Tech.   Technical Support    1992  Ongoing



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                        November 1982
Preparation                                                       March 1983
Appraisal                                                         February 1985
Negotiations                                                      December 13, 1985
Board Presentation                           June 24, 1986        July 8, 1986
Signing                                                           October 31, 1986
Effectiveness                                Jan. 29, 1987        April 10, 1987
Mid-term Review (if applicable)                                   Oct./Nov., 1989
Project Completion                           Dec. 31, 1991        December 1994
Loan Closing                                 June 30, 1992        June 30, 1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Appraisal    4.90    18.60   35.60   51.00   61.60    72.90    78.60    81.00    81.00    81.00
Estimate    _
Actual       5.90    9. 11   15.33   27. 10   31.80    36.46    51.19    55.85    59.23    60.95
Actual as %    120   49      43      53      52      50       65      69       73       75
of Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: November 28, 1995



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
.___________________________                                A ctual  as   %
SAR      Revised              Revised
Key Indicators          Unit   Estimate   Estimate   Actual   Estimate*
1. Smallholder Credit Scheme:
Summary
a. Loans disbursed: Nos.       no.        14,020      30055   22,907         163
b. Loans disbursed: Value    N '000                  133861   169140         126
c. Loan repayment: Value     N '000                  133900   124300
d. Loan repayment: %            %             85         85      82.5         97
1.1 Beef faftening
a. Loans beneficiaries         no.         11400      24560    16890          69
b. Loans disbursed: Value    N '000                  103880   117686         113
1.2 Work oxen
a. Loans beneficiaries         no.             0        150      919         613
b. Loans disbursed: Value    N '000            0       1715    15983         932
1.3 Poultry layers
a. Loans beneficiaries         no.           100        643     1358         211
b. Loans disbursed: Value    N '000                    4200    13074         311
1.4 Poultry Broilers
a. Loans beneficiaries         no.             0                1365
b. Loans disbursed: Value    N '000            0               10984
1.5 Pig fattening
a. Loans beneficiaries         no.             0        700     1085         155
b. Loans disbursed: Value    N '000            0       1400     5874         420
1.6 GoaVSheep breeding
a. Loans beneficiaries         no.             0        600      986         164
b. Loans disbursed: Value    N '000            0       1960     3681         188
1.7 Agropastoralist/Mixed Farmer
a. Loans beneficiaries         no.          1850       23701     138           6
b. Loans disbursed: Value    N '000                   12502      698           6



- 16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (cont.)
1.8 N'Dama Cattle
a. Loans beneficiaries           no.            680         235        73           31
b. Loans disbursed: Value      N '000                     78350      1058            1
1.9 Dairy
a. Loans beneficiaries           no.                        525        326
b. Loans disbursed: Value      N '000                      3710       104            3
Sub total: no          no.                                22846
value       N '001                              169142
1.10 Livestock extension
a. Bulletins distributed         no.                      80000      6633            8
b. Posters distributed           no.                      60000    35650            59
c. Films produced                no.                         14       109          779
d. Films distributed             no.                        350       125           36
e. Radio broadcast               no.                         10         0            0
f. Livestock newspaper           no.  I            I         10         1 I1
Note:  * It is difficult to compare values as the exchange rate of the Naira was changing
drastically during the course of project implementation. A better comparator is comparison
of the number of activities achieved versus the targets set at redesign. These are highlighted
for easy identification.



- 17-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I                                |___________________________  I  SAR/Revised-J  SAR/Revised
Key Indicatorsm           Unit  |Estimate  |Actual    Estimate
1. Smaliholder Credit Scheme
1.1  Beef faKtening
I   cattle purchased                 no.          96800    94805            98
daily weight gain               gram            600      376           6.
mean faKtening period           days            120      118           98
incremental beef produced       ton           3795      3130           82
mean net income/cattle fattened  Naira          n.a.    1633
mean net income/beneficiary p.a.    Naira       n.a.    3267
1.2 Sheep Fattening
sheep fattened                   no             n.a.   56000
meat produced                   ton             120      330          275
mean net income/sheep fattened  Naira           n.a.     787
mean net income/beneficiary p.a.    Naira      n.a.    6292
1.3 Pig Fattening
pigs faKtened                    no             n.a.   38280
meat produced                   ton            n.a.    1840
mean net income/pig faKtened   Naira            n.a.     649
mean net income/beneficiary p.a.    Naira       n.a.    3892
1.4 Poultry layers
eggs produced                  dozen         300000   881880          294
meat produced                   ton              25      175          700
mean net income/layer           Naira           n.a.     192
mean net income/beneficiary p.a.    Naira       n.a.   68951
1.5 Poultry Broilers
birds produced                   no            n.a.  1383620
meat produced                   ton             n.a.    1520
mean net income/broiler        Naira           n.a.       54
mean net income/beneficiary p.a.    Naira      n.a.   16231



- 18 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No. Study                            Status      Impact of Study
1. Evaluation and the proposal for  Completed   The information was useful in the
improvement of animal health               identification and preparation of an
services                                    Animal Health Services Project
2. Demand and Supply of Dairy      Completed   The information was used for design
Products                                    and implementation of the pilot
dairy development scheme
component that was added at mid-
term review of the project
3. Livestock Census Study          Completed   The data is providing valuable basis
for planning and monitoring of
development programs in the
livestock sub-sector
4. Monitoring & Evaluation Study   Completed   It assisted in improving the
monitoring and evaluation data base
and is provided information for
evaluating impact of the project
5. Identification and Protection of the  Completed  is providing information for
North West transhumance route.              demarcation, surveying and
gazetting of stock route
6. Identification and Protection of the  On-going    will provide information for
Central and North East                      demarcation, surveying and
Transhumance route.                         gazetting of stock route
7. Review of Veterinary Legislation    On-going    will provide basis for amending the
Veterinary Act in order to facilitate
privatization of animal health
services



- 19-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ million)             (US$ million)
Local   Foreign           Local  Foreign
Category         Item           costs    Costs    Total   Cost    Costs   Total
1         Civil Works            1.90     7.70     9.60    0.70      0.37    1.07
2         Plant, vehicle and
equipment, furniture   1.00    18.20    19.20    3.89     20.53   24.42
& spares
3         Farm inputs(Credit
N'Dama cattle and     15.60    32.40    48.00    14.89     2.07    16.96
other farm inputs)                                                .-
4         International staff
services and training          14.40    14.40    1.08     16.00   17.08
I   eSta ii             a _            _i   .zii_iniAW
6         Plant and vehicle
operating (excluding  6.10      8.90    15.00    7.61     0.62     8.23
spare and general
services and Dairy
Development)
6___Refund of PPF                                                     1.15    1.15
Total                 47.00    81.00    128.00   34.42    40.74   75.16
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign
No.       Source         costs    Costs              Cost    Costs       Total
1. IBRD                11.3      69.7     81.0    20.21    40.74       60.95
2. Domestic
Contribution
(FGN)               31.6       -       31.6    10.21       -        10.21
NACB                4.0                4.0       4.0                 4.0
Farmers             11.4       -       11.4     n.a.       -         n.a.
Total               58.3     69.7   I 128.0    34.42    40.74       75.16



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Project   Project    Net   Net Benefit   Net       Net        Net   Net Benefit   Net      Net
Benefit             Benefit   Benefit   Benefit              Benefit  Project
Year     Cost   Beef Fat. Sheep Fat.  Pig Fat.   layers   broilers     PPR      Total  Benefits
r_______    ________   ________    _________  (in  thousands  of Naira)
1987    9678.03                     -                                   -         -      -9678
1988     30024     1487       104        11                  51        -14       1639   -28385
1989     23789     3969       168       1003                1164        -8      6296    -17493
1990     29446     9345      787        2395      -99       7979        -6      20401    -9045
1991     24083    11167      281        2239      -315      8270       -11      21631    -2452
1992     37614    20529      263        3277      405       7564        8       32047    -5567
1993     37642    26957      949        7668      1007      6195       37       42812    5170
1994     41923    28430      1156      8651       1229      6742       47       46255    4332
1995     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
1996     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
1997     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
1998     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
1999     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
2000     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
2001     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
2002     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
2003     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
2004     41923    56860      1156       8651      1229      6742       47       74685    32762
2005     41923    56860      1156   j  8651       1229      6742       47       74685    32762
2006     41923 T 56860       1156       8651  T  1229       6742       47       74685    32762
Net Present Worth @ 17% = Naira 1,453,100
Economic Rate of Return  = 17%
Note: Tables providing details on individual costs and benefits are provided in Appendix
C (Tables 2- 9).



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agrmnt/ Covenant Present fulfillment date
Section      type       status         Original                                  Description ofeovenant                                             Comments
Revised
2.01         4          C                            NACB shall: (a) out of its own resources make loans to smallholders under Part A (2) of  NACB contribution of N4,000,000 made as
the Project in an aggregate amount of not less than four million Naira (N4,000,000);  30th April, 1989.
CD       6/30/86             (b) no later than June 30, 1986 establish and operate a livestock credit unit on the basis of    The unit was established as at July, 1987.
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
2.06         3          NC                           NACB shal relend the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn under Category (3) (a) in Schedule  Identified SLAs were unable to comply
I to the Loan Agreement to State lending agencies under Financing Agreement satisfactory   with the eligibility criteria. This condition
to the Bank which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule I to this  was waived and the Bank agreed that
Agreement. Said State lending agencies shall be selected by NACB in accordance with  NACB would lend directly to farmers.
eligibility criteria Jan/Feb 1988 satisfactory to the Bank.
2.07         2          C                            NACB shall establish a revolving credit fund from the proceeds of repayments of principal   SLDP Revolving Credit Fund establi-shed
under the Financing Agreements.                                                 by NACB as at November 1990.
2.08         3          C                            NACB shaDl establish a credit committee, in each of the States in order to prepare and  State implementation committees were
monitor credit operations under the Project at State level. Each such committee shall  established in al states as at February,
include a representative of NLPD.                                               1987.                                   M
2.09         3          C                            Provision of credit and the distribution of farm and veterinary inputs under the Project  The Livestock Credit Committee
shal be coordinated by the joint NACBINLPD credit committee which shaU operate in  (NACB/NLPD) operated the credit
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.                   program and input requlrements on an
annual basis.
(a) NACB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accountin practices its operations and financial condition, including separate records and
accounts for loans made under the Financing Agreements.
3.01 (c)      3          CD       1/29/87    2/27/87  Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Loan to NACB under a subsidiary loan
agreement approved by the Bank.
3.04 (b)      5          CD       1/29/87    2/27/87  Borrower shal cause the grazing reserves referred to in Part I to be gazetted by the States   All 5 grazing reserves gazetted before loan
concerned in accordance with the Borrower's Grazing Reserves Law and cause the  effectiveness. Five more reserves wore
development of pastoralists, to be carried out in accordance with the guidelines agreed by    gazetted since effectiveness. Guidelines in
the Borrower and the Bank as set out in Workin Paper 4 of the Project.          Working Paper 9 were largely folowed
during implementation.
3.05         4         CD        1/29/87    2/27/87   Borrowers shal make adequate budgetary provisions for the Project, and: (i) shall open at
a commercial bank and thereafter maintain with adequate flmds a Project Account to be
operated by NLPD and to be used exclusively for payment for goods and services required
CD       1/29/87    2/27/87  for the Project; (ii) shaDl pay into the Project Account an initial amount of N4,000,000;
and
CP     Continuous           (iii) shal thereafter pay into the Project Account quarterly in advance such amounts as  Funds were released, but not in adequate
shaDl be required to pay the Borrower's contribution to the costs of the Project and the non-  amounts and in a timely manner.
-   -         -      incremental expenditures of NLPD



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd.)
Agrmnt/ Covenant Present fulfihlment date
Section       type       status         Original                                     Description ofcovenant                                                Comments
Revised
3.06         3,9                                       Borrower shall cause NLPD to:
C      Continuous            (a) limit its administration of agricultural credit by commercial banks to an aggregate
amount of loans outstanding at any one time to N2,000,000;
CD       2/27/88              (b) take all necessary measures to accomplish orderly transfer to NACB within one year
after the Effective date of the revolving credit fund administered by it under Loan 1091
CD      8/31 each             UNI;
year               (c) submit to FMAWRRD for approval, and to the Bank for information by August 31 of
CD      quarterly             each year its annual budget, work plan and procurement program for the next fiscal year;
each year            and
(d) prepare and submit quarterly management reports on the progress of the Project to
FMAWRRD, FLD and the Bank.
3.07         12          NC       6/30/86              The borrower shall: (a) Exchange views with the Bank on the results of the National  Credit line to NACB was not extended
Agricultural Credit Study being carried out by the Central Bank of Nigeria;        beyond June 30, 1994
NC       12/31/86             (b) by December 31, 1986 formulate an implementation program on the basis of the
conclusions and recommendations of said study as they would affect the Project and as
agreed upon by the Borrower anW the Bank; and
NC      continuous            (c) thereafter carry out such program in accordance widh its terms.
3.08         10          C                             Borrower shall cause NLPD to enter into appropriate contractual arrangements for the
carrying out by the National Animal Production Research Institute, the International
Livestock Center for Africa and any other institutions acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank of Part A (7) of the Project on behalf of and under the supervision of NLPD.
4.01          1          C       continuous            (a) Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
CD         6/30               (b) The Borrower shaD: i. have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section,
each year            including the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
ii. furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, a
certified copy of the external audit report ; and
C                            iii. such other information concerning said accounts and the audit thereof and said records
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; (c) For all eligible expenditures
under the Loan, maintain separate records and accounts; ii. retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records evidencing such expenditures; iii. enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to examine such records; and iv. ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit and that the report thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by the said auditors as to the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in respect
of such expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they were provided.



- 23 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd.)
Agrmnt/  Covenant  Present   fulfillment date
Section       type        status          Orginal                                       Descrption ofeovenant                                                   Comments
Revised
4.01          1           C       continuous             (b) NACB shatl: (i) have its accounts and fmancial statements (balance sheets, statements  NACB did not submit audited accounts
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance    within the stipulated time. These were
with appropriate auditing principles consistendy applied, by independent auditors     usually delayed for over one year. The
CP      each year              acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the end of  audits were for the whole operation of
each such year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,    NACB and did not include a separate
and (B) the report of such audit by the said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the   statement for the project as required.
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and                                             NACB' attention was called to this
CP       each year             (iu) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said accounts and the audit  requirement on several occasions.
thereof and said records as the bank shaD from time to time reasonably request.
C                              (c) For aDl expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, the NACB shall: (i) maintain, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
C                              such expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, atl records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documentation) evidencing such expenditures;
C                              (iu) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
CP                             (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in para
(b) of this Section and that the report dhereof contains,in respect of such separate accounts,
a separate opinion by the said auditors as to the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in respect                                         N
of such expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
4.02          12          NC         NC                  (a) Borrower shall annually review interest rates for with a view to eventually (i) bringing  Credit line to NACB was not extended
the cost of borrowing more into line with inflation: (ii) reducing the differential in interest    beyond June 30, 1994
rates for loans between agriculture sector and the other sectors; (iii) ensuring adequate
margins for lending institutions; and (iv) reducing subsidies on loans by the Borrower to
NACB for on-lending. Borrower shall exchange views annually with the Bank in this
regard;
(b) Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the difference in interest rates
NC        1/1/88               for loans in the agriculture sector and those for commercial loans shall: (i) be not more
NC        1/1/89               than three percentage points by January 1. 1988; (ii) be not more than two percentage
NC        1/1/92               points by January 1, 1989; and (iii) be further reduced substantialy by January 1, 1992.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                      8.  = Indigenous people                                                             8. Present Status:
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from         9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                      10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9                              C  =  covenant complied with
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds                11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation                CD =  complied with after delay
4. =  Counterpart funding                                  12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action               CP =  complied with partially
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing       13.  = Other                                                                            NC =  not complied with
agency
6. =  Environmental covenants
7. =  Involuntary resettlement



- 24 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No non-compliance with Bank OMS was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                            Actual
Project Cycle                                                     l
Weeks                 US$('000)
Through Appraisal           54.4                     84.2
Appraisal-Board           118.8                    241.0
Board-Effectiveness         21.4                     50.5
Supervision             249.9                    517.1
Completion               4.3                      0.9
TOTAL                 448.8                    893.7



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number   Days         Specialized       Implemen    Develop-
Stage of     Month/           of      m           Staff Skills       tation       ment        Typcs of
Project Cycle   Year          Persons    Field     Represented          Status    Objective     Problems
Through Appraisal   4/82-8/84     11          95      AE,EC,CS,LS
Appraisal through    1/85-10/86   14         53       AE,EC,CS,LS, FA,    _            _           Cattle breeding & poor
Board Approval                                        AR                                           finan. perform. of WLC
Board Approval     9-28-10/86    3           28       AC,AE,EC             _           _
thru Effectiveness
Supervision 1      6121-7/10/87   2           19      AC,OP                NA          NA          NA
Supervision 2      1128-2/6/88    2          9        AE.,LS               2           2           Credit Component
Supervision 3      10/15-31/88    5           17      EC,AE,LS,FA          2           2           Overstaffing
Supervision 4      5/16-31/89    2            16      EC,AE                2           2           Overstafing, Credit, and
Extension - Redesign
Supervision 5      10/16-        3            18      AE,EC,CON            NA          NA          Madara Plant - capital for
11/4/89                                                                        dairy farmers
Supervision 6      521-6/8/90    2           18      AE,EC                2           2           Counterpat fund., staffing,
procurement
Supervison 7       3/10-19/91    2            10      LS,AE                NA          NA          Counterpart fmd, proj mgt
disbursement, & grazing
Supervision 8      10/24-26/91    2           14      LS,AE                NA          NA          Counterpart fund., credit,
11/8-18/91                                                                     grazing, and studies
Supervision 9      5121-6/1/92    3           12      LS,AE,FA             2           2           Project Accounts
Supervision 10     10/21-23/92    1          3        AE                   NA          NA          NA
Supervision II     1/9-20/93     3            16      AE,LS,DS             2           2           Feedstuff& NACB funds.
1/25-28/93                                                                     Prep Lvstk m & Sec. Rev.
Supervision 12     10/6-28/93    3           23       AE,LS,VT             2           2           Pilot Milk Scheme and
Veterinary Drugs.
Supervision 13     5/8-23/94     3            16      AE,LS,PR             2           2           NA
Supervision 14     12/6-17/94    3            12      LS,AE                NA          NA          Pilot Milk Scheme, breed-
ing ranches & extension
Completion         5/9-26/95      1           18      AE                                           NA
Key: AC= Agric. Credit, AG=Agriculturist, AE=Agric. Economist, EC=Economist, A=Finan.Analyst,
AR=Research Spist., LS=Livestock Splst., DS=Dairy Splst., VT=Veterinarian, PR=Proc. Analyst.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire
(Appendix A)






FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aide Memoire
of
THE WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE MISSION OF
December 1994
Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission, comprising Messrs 0. Nduaka (AF4NG, Mission Leader), S.
Bekure (AF4GA, Livestock Economist), and Dele Ilebani (AF4NG, Agricultural Economist)
supervised the Project during December 6-17, 1994. The mission visited field activities of the
Project, particularly: farmers participating in the smallholder credit and the open-nucleus
N'Dama cattle multiplication and distribution schemes, and the pilot state livestock
development programs in Imo state, the inclusion of livestock packages in the unified
extension system (UES) in Abia and Imo states and the applied research program funded
under the project in Benue state. The mission held discussions with the senior management
and implementing officers of the National Livestock Projects Division (NLPD); the heads of
LIMECU, and the Divisions of Livestock Development, Pastoral Resources Development,
Animal Health and Veterinary Public Health of the Federal Department of Livestock and Pest
Control Services (FDL&PCS), the Director of the Animal Production Research Institute;
officials of the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU); and H.E. the Military
Administrator of Kaduna State.
2.    The findings of the mission and the agreements reached, which are summarized in this
aide memoire and are subject to confirmation by Bank management, were discussed on
December 16, 1994 at a wrap-up meeting chaired by the Director, FDL&PCS in Abuja.
Annex 1 gives a matrix of the actions agreed upon, the deadline for their execution and the
officers responsible. The mission is grateful to the Director of FDL&PCS and his senior staff
and the Project Manager, NLPD and his staff for the excellent arrangements made for its visit
and the useful discussions it held with all parties involved in the implementation of the Project.
Summary and General Remarks
3.    Over all, the Project is progressing satisfactorily. However the political crisis and the
general scarcity of fuel in the last six months had adversely affected project implementation.
Shortage of foreign exchange and the attendant instability of the Naira in parallel markets has
instigated sustained inflationary pressure on the economy. The high rate of inflation
experienced during 1994 subjected the project to high operating costs, particularly those
pertaining to the operation of heavy equipment in the grazing reserves.
4.    The 1994 Fiscal Year (FY) counterpart funding release was about 95% of that
allocated and timely. The standard of accounting and financial control is satisfactory. The
intemal audit unit is being strengthened and control of operation of stores tightened.
Satisfactory progress was made in procurement. Goods ordered under ICB 3 are being
received. Contracts under ICB4 have been signed and the equipment is expected to be
delivered before June 1995.
5.    Both disbursement and loan recovery have proceeded well. The recovery rate now
stands at 70%, making livestock the portfolio with the best repayment record in NACB.



2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Consultations were made with iocal government councils, traditional rulers and state officials
of Sokoto, Kebbi, Niger and Kwara States for surveying, demarcating and legislating the
1,265 km. long Northwest-Southwest stock route. Socio-economic surveys were conducted
in eight grazing reserves.
6.    Processing capacity of the Kaduna dairy plant at 2,000 litters per day is still
constraining the expansion of milk collection from farmners. The transfer of shares from the
Kaduna State Government to the milk Federation has not been concluded because of
complications arising from Katsina State's demand for revaluation of the assets of the dairy
plant. This is now resolved and the transfer of shares is likely to be concluded by February
1995 (Para.21-22). The Productivity of the N'Dama herds at the two multiplication stations
has improved. The number of farmers participating in the open nucleus N'Dama multiplication
scheme is increasing. Progress in the development of the other stations for breeding the
indigenous stock remains unsatisfactory (para. 26-27) .
7.    Applied research and studies financed under the project are progressing well. The
project is preparing an extension training manual using the results of research projects
completed thus far. The treatment and selection of livestock topics in the monthly technology
review meetings (MTRMs) of the unified extension system has been problematic as the
orientation of most of the ADPs is crop based. The mission held discussions with ADP,
FACU and FDL&PCS officials to resolve the outstanding issues (para. 38-39).
8.    Collection of outstanding balances in the drug revolving fund have improved
dramatically from 9% during the last supervision mission to 64%. However much remains to
be collected from the participating State Veterinary Services, whose outstanding balance
stands at 60% (para. 28). The pilot state livestock development program initiated under the
project in six states has shown that this approach is cost effective and should be the model to
follow in future livestock development initiatives (para. 41-42). Finally, the project is making
adequate preparations to prepare the Borrower's implementation completion report.
Review of Proiect Implementation
9.    Proiect Manazement and Staffin2. The heavy equipment specialist, who was the
last expatriate in the project left in June 1994. The Nigerian Chief Mechanical Engineer
(CME) who has been understudying him is directing the projects' workshop and the program
of the heavy duty machinery and other engineering duties of the project. He has taken a Bank
sponsored international procurement course in Ghana together with the project's procurement
officer. The project should utilize his skills in all stages of procurement, requiring the
preparation of bidding documents. The functions of organizing milk producing farmers under
the Kaduna  Federation and the collection, processing and marketing of milk are completely
separated. The Head of Commercial Operations is now fully responsible for the latter.
Proiect Financin! and AccountinE.
10.   For the first time in the project's history, counterpart funding of the project was both
timely and adequate during fiscal year (FY) 1994 . The Federal Government released Naira
52 million out of the Naira 54.7 million it allocated to the project. The allocations for the
second and third quarters were released together at the beginning of the second quarter. The
project has requested an allocation of Naira 52.7 million for FY 1995, which is expected to be
released during the first half of 1995.



3
11.   The operation of the Special Account were examined and found to be satisfactory and
in compliance with the covenants of the loan agreement and Bank guidelines. The project has
responded to the 1994 management letter of the external auditors. The internal audit section
is being strengthened and the stores control system being tightened. The in-service training
program for accounts and stores staff has been intensified, registering 578 man days of
training in 1994. The project's bankers are regularly submitting returns from the Central Bank
of Nigeria on conversion of US Dollars in the Special Account into Naira. The software for
computerizing the project's accounts has been installed and training of staff on operating the
system has commenced. The mission recommends that the manual system be operated
concurrently for six months in order to allow sufficient time for detecting and rectifying any
bugs that may occur in the system.
12.   The project's expenditures to-date and management's proposal for reallocation of funds
in the remaining six and half months ot the project's life were reviewed. The mission's
recommendations for reallocation of funds is given in Annex 2. Subsequent to the Bank's
management approval of this reallocat ion, the Development Loan Agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower would need to be amended to reflect the approved reallocation.
13.   Procurement. Items ordered under ICB-3 have arrived and are being cleared at the
ports. ICB-4 contracts for the supply of rigs and spare parts have been signed and are
expected to be delivered by xx, 1995 The livestock service center at Udubo grazing reserve
(GR) has been completed and the one at Bobi GR is underway. Plans for the completion of
the Kachia pastoralist training center, and the civil works for the border post and quarantine
at Illela and Gamburu were reviewed by the mission.
14.   The contract for constructing the Kachia Pastoralist Training Center has been formally
revoked as the contractor had abandoned the site. Due to the short time remaining before the
closing date of the project, the Bank had earlier proposed that the project float the bid on the
understanding that the winrning contractor is paid the contract price as a lumpsum at the
completion of the buildings. The project's consulting architects have advised that the contract
be awarded on the basis of price quotation from pre-qualified reputable and competent
contractors, in view of the need to complete the construction before June 30, 1995, and the
relatively few contractors that would be willing to finance such a large sum (approximately
US$ 727,000) on their own. Project management has requested for a waiver for such
procurement as the threshold of the project for price quotations is under US$60,000.
15.   Considering that: (a) abandonment of the half completed buildings would lead to their
destruction by the elements and pilferage; and (b) the non-completion of the buildings would
necessitate the indefinite postponement of the training program envisaged for pastoralists and
medium level cadre of staff employed in the management of grazing reserves and stock routes
developed under the project; and after consulting with the Bank management, the mission
confirms the willingness of the Bank to consider, under exceptional circumstance, to waive
the LCB requirement provided that the Project: (a) uses the same architects to be paid at
Government rates for the supervision of the completion works; and (b) solicits price
quotations from at least five contractors, who would be willing to be paid a lump sum of the
contract price upon completion of the works, save a mobilization fee for which they would
provide a performance bond. The complete documentation of the analysis of the price
quotations and the recommendations of the consulting architects and the CVs of all the
bidders would have to be submitted to the Bank for no objection.



4
16.   Except for minor civil works in the grazing reserves, the project's proposal for
rehabilitation and construction of other civil works, particularly those at the border control
posts would cost more than US60,000, requiringe LCB. which would take some time to
proces, leaving very little time for the completion of the works before June 30, 1995, the
closing date of the project. The mission strongly advises Project Management not to
proceed with the processing of these civil works.
Smaliholder Credit
17.   Reimbursement to NACB under this component stopped as of July 1, 1994 due to the
exhaustion of the allocated sum of US$10.50 and due to non compliance of NACB, over the
years, to gradually increase interest rates of its loans to parity with commercial lending rates.
NACB is now charging the mandatory 21% imposed by the Federal Government on all loans.
NACB is using the repayment of outstanding livestock loans to finance new loans and has in
fact added Naira 13 million of its ows n funds to this revolving livestock credit fund. Noting the
increased demand for smallholder liv estock credit and the 70% repayment rate this portfolio is
achieving, the NACB management intormed the mission that the Bank's unilateral reduction of
the credit fund under the loan from the original US$24.2 million to US$10.5 million was not
warranted and pleaded for additional allocation of funds to the credit component, following
which Project Management requested a reallocation of US$500,000. The mission informed
Project Management that this request would not be granted by the Bank.
GrazinE Reserve (GR) Develonment.
18.   The mission reviewed the draft report, articulating the Federal Government's policy on
grazing reserve and stock route development and gave its comments. The document still
requires some work. It was agreed that the Head of Pastoral Resources Division and the
Deputy Director of Livestock Development Division would collaborate in rewriting the
document, incorporating the mission's comments.
19.   The project held consultations with 23 local government councils, traditional rulers
and state officials of Sokoto, Kebbi, Niger and Kwara states in developing a workable
methodology and procedure for surveying, demarcating and legislating the proposed
Northwest - Southwest Stock Route, traversing about 1,265 km, from the Illela, along the
Sokoto/Niger border to the Gidan-Magajiya GR in Kwara State. Surveying and demarcating
the entire route is scheduled to commence shortly.
20.   Socio-economic and resource surveys were conducted in eight GRs and boundary
demarcation was completed for the 35,000 ha. Mayo Kam GR in Taraba State. Construction
of the Udubo livestock service center is completed and is being handed over to the Bauchi
State Government. Similar construction has started in the Bobi grazing reserve in Niger State
Pilot Dairy Development Scheme
21.   . Limited pasteurizing capacity at 2,000 liters per day is constraining expansion of the
milk collection and marketing and the membership of the associations and the Federation.
Fuel scarcity and the frequent breakdown of the old boiler, coupled with lack of cold storage
facilities contributed to the reduction of milk procurement from members of the Federation. It
is clear from the statement of accounts that the operation would not be commercially viable



5
unless the volume of milk collected is increased substantially. The acquisition of majofity
share in the Kaduna dairy plant by the Kaduna Milk Producers Federation would have to be
completed before renovating the plant and equipment. However the process of this
acquisition became complicated and delayed by Katsina State's demand that the assets and
liabilities of the plant be revalued to determine its share of the plant for determining its
compensation.
22.   This revaluation has now been completed and the Military Administrator assured the
mission that the Kaduna State Government has the funds and is arranging to pay for this
compensation. He revealed his full understanding of the value of the pilot dairy development
scheme for the social and economic development of smallholders in Kaduna State by citing the
usefulness of the scheme, not only in generating revenue for the households but also in
liberating the womenfolk from the burden of walking daily long distances to markets to hawk
their milk, thus affording them to spend more time attending to their responsibilities at home
and on the farm. He reiterated his support for the Federation's proposal and stated that the
matter should be settled by the end of January 1995. The mission recommends that the
Project Manager follow-up this development closely to finalize the share purchase before the
closing date of the project.
23.   The mission is pleased to note that its earlier recommendation of using plastic sachets
in marketing yogurt as well as instituting a system of cost accounting and determination of
monthly profit and loss positions of the milk collection, processing and marketing operations
have been implemented.
N'dama Cattle Multiplication and Distribution'.
24.   As at the end of September 1994, there were a total of 825 animals, 549 at Adada and
276 at Fashola. Mortality rate of young stock at Adada declined from 7.5% in 1993 to 3.87%
in 1994, while that of adult stock remained about the same at 4.6%. It would seem that the
rouging of poisonous plants and the planting of snake repellent legume are partially
responsible for the decline in overall mortality in Adada. The mortality rate of adult stock in
Fashola declined from 3.2% in 1993 to 1 38% in 1994, while that of young stock increased
from 4.9% in 1993 to 7.3% in 1994.
25.   In 1994, 58 animals were sold, bringing the total number to 651. During the period
under review, 20 farmers purchased animals out of which eight have registered to participate
in the open nucleus breeding scheme. To date, 116 farmers have benefited in the N'Dama
breeding scheme through credit and direct sales and 61 have registered to participate in the
open nucleus breeding scheme. The mission recommends increased effort to register many
more farmers.
Other Breeding Pro2rams
26.   The foundation stock of 60 pigs at the Pig Breeding and Testing Center at Okpuje,
Enugu State, has multiplied to 177 in about three years. A majority are Large White (83)
followed by Land Race (53) and 38 crosses of these two breeds. Production of feed on the
station has commenced with cassava planted on a 4 ha. plot. This would be expanded to
include maize in the next cropping season.
I Adada and Fashola ranches started withi 1 144 N'Daxna cattle of wtich 1,050 were imported from Senepa in 1990



6
27.    The mission expresses its disappointment at the very slow development of the other
livestock breeding stations. Not much has been accomplished at the Funafuna cattle breeding
station, apart from the establishment of improved pasture of 10 ha. and the preparation of
silage for dry season feeding of the 171 White Fulani cattle. No development work has taken
place at the Oshire Muturu cattle breeding station and the Zugu goat breeding station.
FDL&PCS should staff these stations with competent and responsible managers and
technical officers and cut down on the red tape for the release and utilization of funds,
including allowing the stations to utilize income generated from the sale of livestock to
farmers for financing operating costs.
Distribution of Veterinary drugs
28.   Efforts of the Animal Health Division in collecting the outstanding balances of the
drug revolving fund have yielded an impressive result. Collection of outstanding balances has
dramatically improved from 9 percent in May 1994 to 64 percent in November 1994.
However, the outstanding balance of State vi :-inary services stands at 60%, compared with
2% for private veterinarians, veterinary teaching hospitals and other institutions. The Division
is intensifying its efforts in recovering outstanding balances from the States and is planning to
distribute drugs on a cash and carry basis and sanction defaulting states, instituting deduction
at source, where necessay.
29.   Shortage of foreign exchange and the instability of the Naira in parallel markets has
forced major-veterinary drug suppliers such as Pfizer have altogether stopped importation.
Noting that the shortage of veterinary drugs on the market and the escalating price has
encouraged the proliferation of drug adulteration and counterfeiting, which is detrimental to
the livestock industry, the project requested the mission to lift its earlier restriction on direct
importation of veterinary drugs by the project. The mission is still of the opinion that the
project should refrain from direct importation and recommends that the required drugs be
procured through LCB, in which international firms are allowed to participate. Major
suppliers would participate in the bid if it is made clear to them that the project, would pay the
foreign exchange cost in convertible currency. However, it should be noted that the LCB has
to be prepared immediately so that the drugs could be received before June 30, 1995, the
closing date of the project.
Research
30.   The project has rationalized the 20 completed research projects out of the original 32.
It has selected eleven and produced an extension manual on transferable technologies for
smallholder livestock producers in Nigeria. The mission reviewed the manual and is of the
view that its contents are not extension packages but a useful reference material for resource
persons in the MTRMs and subject matter specialists. The mission reiterates its earlier
recomnmendation of involvement of extension specialists and agricultural economists in
formulating extension packages and quantifying input/output relationships and their economic
implications. The formulation of livestock extension packages should not be restricted to
completed sponsored research but should be extended to the packages used in the present
livestock production models as well as relevant research in the research institutes and
universities. The mission encouraged the publication of the manuscript after revision and
editing.



7
31.   Regarding the uncompleted research projects started under the project, the mission
recommends that application be made to the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP)
for their continuation. The research on the performance of West African Dwarf Sheep at the
University of Ibadan has not taken off. Consequently its funding has been discontinued. The
project should recover the vehicle and funds allocated to the scientist.
32.   Fetal calf serum and new-born calf serum have been ordered for the development of
vaccine against Sheep and Goat Pox at NVRI, Vom. The mission was informed of the high
rate of breakdown of experimental cattle that had been treated for Dermatophilosis with the
ethno-pharmacological preparation Lamstreptocide A&B at NVRI during the last heavy rains.
even though the returns from the other trial locations have not been received, for overall
evaluation, it would seem that the active ingredients in the preparation cleared the lesions, but
were not effective against the bacteria which are lodged in the dermis. Caution must be
exercised in recommending the preparation for farmers' use.
33.   The research on integrated pest management (1PM) had been approved an its
execution had commenced in ABU, Zaria. The chief investigator has been offered an
attachment for four weeks in UF/USAID/SADC Heartwater Research Laboratory in Harare to
study cowdria culture technique as a means of enhancing the development of a vaccine against
cowdriosis and ticks. 1PM has been instituted into the N'Dama ranches at Adada and Fashola
breeding stations on his advice.
Studies.
34.   Important gaps have been identified in the monitoring and evaluation data base for
providing a reliable estimate of the project's impact on beneficiaries and the livestock sub-
sector. These were identified by a consultant, using a logical framework matrix, linking
objectively verifiable indicators of the project's impacts, and their means of verification.
Arrangements are being made to conduct rapid appraisal surveys to fill these data gaps
3 5.   The North West transhumance study has been completed. The hides and skins
production and marketing and the North East Transhumance study would be launched shortly.
These need to be completed and accepted by the project before June 30, 1995. The consultant
conducting the Central Transhumance study has failed to complete his assignment. A systems
analyst was engaged to analyze the raw data collected by the consultant. This points out the
need for a more rigorous scrutiny of the competence and reliability of consultants-engaged by
the project.    -
36.   The acceptance of the design and costing of an epidemiology and livestock
infornation system study has been delayed unduly as a result of the failure of LIMECU to
send her comments on time. The project is urged to expedite action in accepting the report
and to pay the consultant accordingly.
37.   The compilation of veterinary pharmaceutical laws would be resubmitted to the Bank
after amending the terms of reference to reflect the revised scope of the task.
Livestock in the Unified Extension System
38.   Durng the field visit, there were reports, by both staff of the NLPD and Imo Pilot
Livestck Development Program, of discrimination against the inclusion of livestock topics in



8
the MTRMs. Few livestock topics featured inthe MTRMs. The earlier report of
concentration of efforts on promotion of rabbit rearing to the exclusion of other livestock in
the MTRMs was also made. The mission held separate discussions with the Project Manager,
Imo ADP and the Coordinator of the South-East Zonal Workshop at the National Root Crop
Institute, Umudike, to resolve these issues.
39.   The Project Manager of IMO ADP assured the mission of his desire to collaborate
with the Pilot Livestock Development Program. The South-East Zonal Workshop was in
session at the time of the visit. The Coordinator agreed to feature more livestock topics in the
MTRMs and to ensure that all livestodck species were featured. He agreed on the
appointment of more livestock resource personnel to deal with the different species of
livestock. He would show flexibility in the selection of livestock resource persons and would
involve the State Livestock Department and NLPD in the selection. It is expected that the
attitudinal change of the Coordinator and his colleagues over livestock would spill over to
Abia, Cross River, Rivers, Akwa Iboni. Enugu and Anambra states.
40.   The mission witnessed large number of young male cattle on sale at the livestock
control post and market in Katsina- Ala in Benue state. The traders described the increasing
demand for weaners inrecent years Fhis development is most likely to be a spin off from the
cattle fattening enterprise popularized by the project.
Trainin.
Pilot States Livestock Development Pro2ram.
41.   The Pilot State Livestock Development Program initiated in the six pilot states of
Bauchi, Imo, Kwara, Plateau, Sokoto and Yobe is progressing very well. The mission visited
the execution of the program in Imo state and reviewed its progress and evaluation report as
well as those of the remaining five states. The number of animals vaccinated and clinically
treated shows a dramatic increase compared with preceding years. For instance, in Imo State
the vaccination figures increased 300 fold. Similarly, treatment of animals increased to 3.2
million animals. Credit recovery rate alsoincreased significantly. Such increased rates of
performance were also recorded in the other states to varying degrees.
42.   These programs had each conducted a livestock resource and diagnostic survey and
identified farmers' needs and constraints. Program implementation was subsequently focussed.
The programs are-6perating as originally conceived under the State Director of Veterinary
Services and with the staff of the Department. They are thereefore able to achieve so much
with little financial and material resources. This vindicates the idea of decentralisation of
implementatio in which States are the implementors of livestock development programs and
the Federal Department, rendering technical and fiancancial support, formulating livestock
policies and playing regulatory and supervisory roles. The mission recommends the
installation of key indicators of program impact on beneficiaries in the management
information system and train State staff charged with data colection and monitoring.
Implementation Completion Report
As a follow-up to the letter to the Project Manager by the former Task Manger, on
December xx, 1994, the mission continued sensitizing the Project on the objectives of the



9
project's implementation completion report (ICR), its preparation, including completing
questionnaires and tables. Preparation of the post-project operational plan for sustaining the
activities started under the project and the need for the Project to request the agencies that
participated in implementing the components of the project, such as NACB and NAPRI, to
contribute to the ICR was also discussed. It was agreed that the Project would submit to the
Bank its draft ICR on or before April 30, 1995 and that the last supervision mission of the
Bank which would commence the preparation of the Bank's ICR would be fielded, beginning
the first week of May 1995. The Bank would prepare the final ICR within two months of the
completion of this mission, i.e. by July 31, 1995. The Borrower would finalize its ICR and
submit it to the Bank on or Before September 30, 1995.
aidm1294



l0
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WORLD BANK SUPERVISION MISSION OF December 1994
Table 1. Schedule of Actions Agreed upon
Fulfill-
Actions to be Taken                      Responsible Ofricer  Deadline    meet
____________________             date
1.  the manual accounting system be operated concurrently with the  Kifasi              begin
computerized system for a period six months in order to allow sufficient           01/01/95
time for detecting and rectifying any bugs that may occur in the latter              end
30/06/95
2.  In completing construction of the Kachia Training Center, the Project:   Mina, Yahuza, Idris,  01/31/95
(a) uses the same architects to be paid at Government rates for the  Procurement Officer
supervision of the completion works: and (b) solicits price quotations
from at least five contractors, who would be willing to be paid a lump
sum of the contract price upon completion of the works, save a
mobilization fee for which they would provide a performance bond. The
complete documentation of the invitation to bid, and CVs of all the
bidders would be submitted to the Bank for no objection. Once the
Bank's no objection is obtained, the analysis of the bid by the
consulting architects, the award recommendation and the three best
ranking bidders would be submitted to the Bank for no objection of the
award
3.  Except for the completion of the Kaclia Training Center and minor  Maina, Kifasi   begin
civil works in the grazing reserves and breeding stations that would cost          17/12J94
less than USS60,000, Project Management should not proceed with
processing other civil works, costing more than USS 60,000
4.  Follow-up of sale of shares of Kaduna dairy planit to the milk  Maina, Yahuza       28/02/95
1Federation before the closing date of the project.
5.  increase effort to register many more fanners in the open-nucleus  Uza, Okpeke      begin
N'Dama multiplication Scheme                                                       20/12l94
6.   FDL&PCS should staff its livestock breeding stations with competent  Director FDL&PCS,  begin
and responsible managers and technical officers and cut down on the  Amogu, Maina,  02/02/95
red tape for the release and utilization of funds, including allowing the
stations to utilize income generated from the sale of livestock to farmers
for financing operating costs
7.   Veterinary drugs be procured through LCB, in which international firms  Abegunde, Maina,    31/01/95
are allowed to participate and are informed that the project would pay    Procurement Officer
the foreign exchange cost in convertible currency; and the LCB to be
prepared immediately so that the drugs could be received before June
30. 1995, the closing date of the project.
8.  extension specialists and agricultural economists to be involved in  Uza             begin
formulating extension packages and quantfying input/output
relationships and their economic implications. The formulation of                 01101/95
livestock extension packages should not be restricted to completed
sponsored research but should be extended to the packages used in the
present livestock production models as well as relevant research in the
research institutes and universities.



11
Fulritl-
Actions to be Taken                      Responsible Ofricer  Deadline    ment
9.   application be made to the National Agricultural Research Project  Uza, Maina     28/02/95
____  (NARP) for the continuation of the uncompleted research projects
10.  Caution must be exercised in recommending the preparation     Uza,Okpeke            begin
Lamstreptocide A&B for farmers' use.                                               17/12/94
I    the installation of key indicators of program impacts on beneficiaries in  Alli, Abegunde,  31/01/95
the management information system of the pilot states livestock  Yahuza, Rikin
development program and train State staff charged with data collection
and monitoring
12.  Head of Pastoral Resources Division and the Deputy Director of  Samu, Amugu        28/02/95
Livestock Development Division would collaborate in rewriting draft
report, articulating the Federal Government's policy on grazing reserve
and stock route development, incorporating the mission's comments.
13.  Regardinz the ICR:
(a) Project to request the agencies that participated in implementing the  Maina, Yahuza  24/12/94
components of the project, such as NACB and NAPRI, to contribute
to the ICR;
(b) Project would submit to the Bank its draft ICR on or before April    Maina, Yahuza  30/04/95
30, 1995;
(c) arranging last supervision mission of the Bank which would  Nduaka, Bekure     15/04/95
commence the preparation of the Bank's ICR would be fielded,
beginning the first week of May 1995:
(d) the Bank would prepare the final ICR withlinl two months of the  Nduaka, Bekure  31/07/95
completion of this mission, i.e. by July 31, 1995; and
(c) the Borrower would finalize its ICR and submit it to the Bank on or  Maina    30/09/95
before September 30, 1995.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Borrower's Evaluation Summary
(Appendix B)



2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2737 - UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives I
1.    The objective of the project is to increase the production of livestock products and
consequently farmers income. The strategy employed was to shift emphasis towards support
of the small traditional producers while ensuring full cost recovery of farm inputs and
veterinary supplies. Settlement of transhumance families would be encouraged through the
establishment and development of grazing reserves. A livestock sectoral planning capacity
would also be developed by the project. These objectives were reiterated at project redesign
with the additionof a pilot dairy program, a national breed development program, an
expanded animal health program, and the encouragement of the unification of extension to
settled smallholders.
2.    The Staff Appraisal Redesign Report (SARR) indicates that around 30,000 families
(approx. 200,000 people) would benefit directly from the project. At full development (10
years from commencement), the expected incremental annual production would be about
11,000 tons of meat, 3.4 million litres of milk, and 1.4 million dozen eggs. It was also
expected that a total of some 2500 transhumant families and their cattle would be settled in
20 grazing reserves by the project at full development.
Implementation Experience
3.    Project implementation was generally satisfactory. Delays were experienced initially
due to mainly counterpart funding problems, the inability of State on Lending Agencies
(SLA) to satisfy the conditions laid down by the Nigerian Agricultural Cooperative Bank
(NACB) due mainly to their indebtedness to the latter in other operations. Delays in
finalising the redesign document and obtaining approval for procurement from the Ministry
also to a certain extent contributed to the initial setback in project implementation.
4.    Loan draw down was very slow at the beginning. Although recurrent expenditures
far exceeded SAR estimates, the low level of drawdown was caused primnarily by shortfalls in
capital expenditures. Much as insufficient counterpart funding from the Federal Government
of Nigeria (FGN) has contributed to this low levels of loan draw down, the initial insistence
of the Bank to place all civil works under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) also contributed
tot he initial delay in the utilisation of the loan.
5.    The project has performed well in the implementation of the credit component inspite
of the initial delays mentioned above. Physical targets for the credit and non-credit
development/production models both exceeded SARR estimnates. However, there were
regional variations. Loan disbursements have at times been constrained by the inability of
NACB to disburse fund to branches in some cases due to delays in reimbursing to NACB
from project finances. The re-imbursements have at times been fraustrated by constant
changes in the foreign exchange policies of the Federal Goverrnent.
6.    On grazing reserve development, 12 reserves have been gazetted against a Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) estimate of 20. Similarly, 10 reserves were planned out of the 12
gazetted against an SAR estimate of 20. This represents 60% and 50% achievements
respectively. On infrastructural development inside the grazing reserves, 951 lan of fire



3
tracing were constructed and over 304 boreholes dug. However, settlement on the reserves
has been slow, with settlement taking place in only 7 reserves and about 715 out of the SAR
target of 2500 transhumance families (29%) realised. To facilitate the utilisation of the
grazing reserves, stock route were made a major component of the former.
7.     The N'dama multiplication and distribution programn encountered a number of
problems locally and internationally and this necessitated the limiting of the importation to
the first lot of 1000 animals. Only 91 animals were provided by the Western Livestock
Company (WLC) against the 2849 planned. Included during the redesign of the project is
support to the National Livestock Breed Development Program for a range of livestock
breeds. Much of this is related to infrastructural development and pasture establishment.
The achievement recorded under this component was unsatisfactory. Lack of management at
the ranches, limited supervision, chronic under funding and lack of clear objective all
contributed to this discouraging result.
8.     Final reports have been received for 20 of the 32 research programs contracted to
various research institutes and universities. These were at various stages of completion. By
close of the loan, 4 of the research programs were still on-station while 7 were on-farm and
an extension manual containing packages and messages for 13 technologies were developed
from the 20 research programs.
9.     The Anand pattern pilot dairy development program has achieved some considerable
success. A dairy development unit has been established and has become the nucleus of the
Kaduna Federation of Village Milk Producers Association Ltd. (KFVMPA). Thirty One
primary milk cooperative associations have been established of which 11 were registered as
cooperative societies. Total membership is 1189. The project has assisted the federation to
maintain and operate the Kaduna dairy plant for the production of yoghurt and fresh milk.
The federation has since its establishment collected 375,204.5 litres of milk from its
members.
10.   The project participated and actively assisted in the implementation of the unified
extension system through mainly the provision of support to Agricultural Development
Projects (ADPs) and collaboration with coordinating research institutes for selection of
livestock topics and their inclusion in the calendar of activities.
11.   Various studies have been undertaken under the project. A national livestock
resource survey was completed. A study for the evaluation and proposal for the
rehabilitation of the national animal health services was also completed. A national dairy
study for the estimation of the supply and demand for dairy products was also undertaken, as
well as some socio-economic studies in some grazing reserves. However, the hides and skin
study, the livestock and meat marketing study and the poultry study remain uncompleted by
project completion. While, the survey of the central and North East transhumance routes
were on-going. similarly, the study on the veterinary and pharmaceutical legislation was
also on-going.
12.   The project has provided training for a total of 133 persons overseas and for 2937
persons at local venues including in-house training. Some 860 staff have received induction
training, while another 278 have attended technical workshops/conferences.
13.   As part of the strategy of strengthening policy formulation, program planning, and
monitoring and evaluation roles within the Federal Department of Livestock and Pest Control
Services (FDL & PCS), the project has helped set up a Livestock Planning Monitoring
Evaluation and Coordinating Unit (LIMECU). Similarly, Livestock Credit Unit (LCU) was
set up in the NACB which together with the revolving fund created out of the loan recoveries
is expected to provide a basis for sustaining livestock credit in Nigeria.



4
14.   The transfer of project implementation through the establishment of state pilot
programs was found to accelerate project implementation. In addition the experiment was to
have aroused the interest of the states in livestock development as evidenced by the increased
funding.
Results
15.    Project objectives have been achieved to a large extent. Under the smallholder credit
scheme a total of 24,044 loans valued at N164.9mmn were disbursed, most of which were
livestock fattening. Under cattle fattening (including secondary fattening) a total of 16,225
loans valued at Ni 10.3 mn were disbursed and an equivalent of 52,512 cattle purchased.
With an average weight gain per cattle fattened at 60kg, the total incremental beef produced
is 10,160 tons. In addition to this, the project has by promoting cattle fattening made
available to the market substantial quantity and high quality beef that would normally have
been slaughtered as culled animals. Similarly, 1713 loans valued at N8.9 mn were disbursed
to sheep farmers, with an average weight gain per sheep fattened of 27kg, mutton produced
is 1,415 tons. In the case of pig fattening 1050 loans value at N5.6mn were disbursed
producing 593 tons of pork. The total amount of eggs produced is 881,884 dozens, while
723,846kg of broiler meat were also produced. However renewal of loans fell far below the
expected target of 80%. Out of the total loans disbursed only 7,246 were renewals
representing 30%.
16.   Implementation of the infrastructural development component of the grazing reserves
were initially hampered as a result of difficulties in gazetting of the reserves and issuance of
land titles. The project however did well in constructing a total of 951km of roads instead of
the 1,200km planned. Also, the project constructed 74 dams from 120 planned and
renovated 34 from 60 planned. A total of 2,623 ha of land were cleared and 304 boreholes
drilled by the project. Seven hundred and fifteen (715) pastoralists were settled with 49,956
cattle. Fourty nine (49) land titles were also issued.
17.   Mortality of small ruminants has been reduced from 50% to 16% as a result of the
Pestes Des Petit Ruminants (PPR) vaccinations program. The reduction in the mortality rate
has increased output in meat, kidding and survival rates and hides and skin.
18.   Institutional and internal capacity building efforts have resulted in the establishment
of LIMECU and the LCU. In addition the State Pilot Livestock Development Program
(LDPs) were established in the states thereby increasing the impact of the project in these
states. Linkages were also established with ADPs and the states Department of Livestock
and Veterinary Services. All the technical assistance position were successfully taken over
by Nigerians.
19.    Sustainability: The sustainability of the project would largely depend on the
continued government funding of the operational cost of the NLPD/LCU as provided in the
operational plan attached. In addition the success or otherwise of the transfer of project
implementation and the ability of NACB to continue funding livestock credit as proposed in
the operational plan will also to a large extent determine the sustainability of the project.
20.   The SAR had established the overall Economic Rate (ERR) to be 20%, while the
calculated ERR at project completion is 17.12%.
Findings and Key Lessons Learnt
21.    Some findings and lessons that can be derived from the project experience are
sunmmarised below:
a)     vesting overall project implementation on a federal institution without taking
cognisance of the states involvement reduces project impact and slows the rate at which
project objectives could be achieved.



5
b)     although the supply of farm inputs is best left to the private sector, there must be
some exceptions mainly because of the nature of livestock operations and the lack of
incentives for retailers to market some specific livestock feeds.
c)     farmer involvement at an early stage in designing of project is essential, otherwise as
we saw with the grazing reserve development component, putting infrastructure alone does
not necessarily result in automatic settlement.
d)     making the project credit driven has at times caused the project to slow down
because of delay in disbursing funds to the NACB branches in the field.
e)     experience with the agropastoralist model has re-iterated the fact that new
technologies particularly with regards to livestock production must be tested overtime and
socio-economic parameters established before they are presented for adoption by farmers.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Miscellaneous Tables
(Appendix C)



Table 1: POST SLDP OPERATIONAL PLAN CONSOLIDATED COST TABLE
(Naira)
Categoiy                                         1995          1996         1997          1998         1999          2000       T.i
Management (recurrent)                         27,595,069   25,144,646   25,144,646   25,144,646   25,144,646   21,955,646   1~~221
Credit                                          48,625,000   95,975,000   95,975,000   95,975,000   95,975,000   48,625,000   4......  ^.-.^ . 1.2W.O
Dairy                                           14,538,250  153,331,460   87,824,060   96,651,820  105,607,580  114,726,340  ~?2....... 7.5 1 2 Q
Grazing Reserve & Stock Route                   19,686,000   25,440,000   21,530,000   22,032,000   13,242,000    9,242,000. .It-5.1417SZ.00
Small Ruminants (non-credit)                      350,000       350,000      350,000       350,00       350,000       350,000.-   2~O~
N'dama Ranches                                     70,000        70,000       70,000  __70,000 __70,000                70,000 -.'"''".'
Unified Extension Systems with ADPs               245,000       245,000      245,000       245,000      245,000       245,000   "'' ''' ' B 
Commercial & Pastoral Extension System            276,800       276,800      276,800       276,800      276,800       276,800   .... ... B2 - B.0BBB
Heavy Equipment Commercialisation*                550,000       550,000      250,000       250,000      250,000       250,000 - : :-  0,0
. .......~~~~~~ . .  10  ~~~~1~~~~Z90B  2~~~~1~~B0~~08  240 9~~~~~~2~0  241 ~~~~~1~~1 02~~~~ 195~~~74D~~~788 1~~~~2Z681~.......
2; B B B -: -B B B BB B :: : ....................................... ........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............
Note: Cost does not include the cost of full commercialisation, as this is still being worked out
Aug. 1995



Table 2: Estimation of Incremental Production
Table: Estmation of Incremental Meat Production
1. Bef Fattening       19a     1939      1990     19S1      1SS2     1993     1994     Total
Catlle purtiaaed   4372      5185    12814    8s50       e207      5484     3364    48176
1443     1443     1443      1443     1443     1443      6s57
1711     1711     1711      1711     1711     8555
4163     4183     4163      4163    16650
2954     2954     2954     6861
2048     2048     4097
1 81a    1S10
Sub-total no. cate    4372      6623     15768    16266    16477    17802    17482    940s
Sub-total tone of be    14       219      520       537      54       587       577      3129
2. Sheep Fattening     1983     1969      1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     Total
Sheep Purchaad      1535      2744     11182    3793      2273     3954      Ie33    27114
507      507      507       507      507      507      3039
908      908      906       906      906      4526
3890     3690     3690      3890    14760
1252     1252     1252     3756
750      750      150
1305     1305
Sub-total no. sheep    1535     3251    12594    s891       8627     11056    10042    55001
Sub-total tone of mutton   9        19       74       52        51       65        59      329
3. Plg Fattening     1968      1989     1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     Total
Pigs purchased      22      2864      4729     3236     4007      3447     1978    20263
7        7        7         7        7        7        44
945      945      945       945      945      4726
____________________  _______  ____ 1561  1561  1561  1561     6242
_  1068     1068     1068      3204
1322     1322     2645
___________________  _______  _______  r______  _______   ______   1138   1138
Sub-total no. pigs     22      2871      6581     574S     7586      8360     6019    38260
Sub-total tons of pork   1        136      273       277      36       402      3ss      1841
4. Poultry -Layer.    1968      1989     1990      1991     1992     1993      199      Total
Culled layen                         2990     8655    29718    18443    20164    76190
987      987      987       967     3947
2922     2922     2922     6766
9807     9607    19614
5428     8426
Sub-total no. layers culled                 2990      9842    33627    30159    39326   115943
Sub-total tons of meat                      4        1S       So        46       69       174
Incremental dox Eggs                    157548   202599   248061   122680   153996   3a1684
5. Poultry - BroIleb   1968     1969      1990     191      1992      1993     199      Total
No. produced      1998    80795   266064   110349   103161   110148   61950   714485
859      659      859       659      859      659      3956
20082    20062    20062    20062    20082   100312
87801    87801    87801    87801   351204
30415    36415    36415   109248
34043    34043    680s8
38349    36349
Sub-total no. broilers    1998    81454   286786   218872   248099   289129   277280  1383618
Sub-total tons of meat   2        68       315       241      273      316       308     1522
total poultry mea produced  2      68       320       256      323       383      364      1696
Total Incremental
meat produced      157      444      1166      1121     1263   1417        1 138     6
Note:
About 67% of the loans given out each year are for repeater borrowers. f Is assumed that each yer
the 33% who are not repeater. will continue their oparetlon by plowing back theIr equIty and some
of their profit Some borrowers were not repaying the principal In order to avoid the lngthy procedura
of NACS for loan renewal



Table 3: Estimation of Economic Benefits and Costs
Enterprise              Unit          1988      1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     19941
1. Beef fattening
1.1 Incr. beef produced    ton          144      219      520      537      544       587      577
1.2 Economic price      Naira '000    12.40    20.20    20.30    25.20    41.90    52.80    56.00
1.3 Benefit             Naira '000     1789     4418    10563    13527    22783    31019    32325
1.4 Cost                Naira '000      302      449     1218     2360     2253      4062     3895
Incremental net benefit  Naira '000  1487     3969      9345    11167    20529    26957    28430
2. Sheep fattening      Unit           1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994
2.1 Incr. mutton produced  ton            9       19       74       52        51       65       59
2.2 Economic price      Naira'000     14.00    10.92    13.04      9.92     9.48    21.72    26.50
2.3 Benefit             Naira'000       126      209      966      519       481     1412     1565
2.4 Cost                Naira '000       23       40      179      238       217      464      409
Incremental net benefit  Naira '000   104      168       787      281      263      949      1156
3. Pig fattening        Unit           1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994
3.1 Incr.pork produced  ton               1|     138      273      277       365      402      386
3.2 Economic price      Naira'000     11.76     8.48    10.16    10.72    11.44    23.20    26.45
3.3 Benefit             Naira '000       12     1171     2776     2964     4175      9318    10202
3.4 Cost                Naira '000        1      168      381      725      898      1650     1551
Incremental net benefit  Naira '000    11     1003     2395      2239     3277     7668      8651
2       68      320      256       323      363      364
4. Layers               Unit           1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994
4.1 lncr. meat produced    ton                              4       15        50       45       59
4.2 Economic price meat  Naira '000   29.46    22.89    30.69    39.59    32.68    33.86    45.53
4.3 Incr. doz eggs produced               -        -   157548   202599   245061   122680   153996
4.4 Economic price doz.
eggs                    Naira           8.5      6.3      9.9      11.9     11.6     14.4       19
4.5 Benefit meat        Naira'000         -        -      138      584      1648     1532     2686
4.6 Benefit eggs        naira '000        -        -     1560     2411      2843     1767     2926
Sub -total benefit   naira '000     -        -     1697     2995     4491      3298     5612
4.7 Cost                                  -        -     1796     3310      4086     2291     4383
Incremental net benefit                 -         -      -99     -315      405     1007      1229
5.  Broilers            Unit           1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994
5.1 Incr. meat produced    ton            2       68      315      241      273       318      305
5.2 Economic price      Naira '000    29.46    22.89    30.69    39.59    32.68    33.86    45.53
5.3 Benefit             Naira '000      65      1547     9682     9532     8919    10769    13887
5.4 Cost                Naira '000       14      383     1702     1261      1355     4573     7145
Incremental net benefit  Naira '000    51     1164     7979      8270     7564     6195      6742
U



Table 4: Import Parity Price, Beef
Item                    1988       1989        1990       1991        1992       1993        1994
Current Dollars (c/kg)              252         257        256        266         244        253         256
World CPI Deflator                    1       0.94       0.86        0.84        0.8        0.83       0.87
1986 Constant Prices                 252        242         220        223         195        210         223
$/tonne                      2520        2416       2202       2234        1952       2100        2227
Naira Exchange rates                4.284       7.38        7.95       9.82        18.8     21.996      21.99
Naira Equivalent (N/Tonne)            10796      17829       17503      21942       36698      46189       48976
Add Handling Charges/tonne                85        128         170        213         255        298         425
Add Transport to Reference Market           383        383         765        765        1148       1530        1530
Total                      11263      18339       18438      22919       38100      48017       50931
Add Marketing Costs (10% of Overhead)     1126       1834        1844       2292        3810       4802        5093
Reference Market Price (NJTon)           12389      20172       20281      25211       41910      52819       56024
Table 5: Economic Prices of Non-Traded Animal Products (1986 Constant Prices), 1988-94
j  1988        1989       1990       1991        1992        1993       1994
Domestic CPI Deflators                1.96       2.99         3.1       3.44        4.99       5.45         5.9
Mutton (N/Tonne)                 14002      10925       13043       9898        9477      21718       26499
Pork (N/Tonne)                  11749       8460       10150      10730       11438      232101     40613
Egg (Dozen)                      8.5        6.3         9.9       11.9        11.6       14.4         19
Chicken (N/Tonne)                 29460      22890      30690       39592      32679       33863      45527



Table 6: Parameters for Establishing Economic Costs
Foreign Exchange Components
Civil Works                                                     0.8
Plant & Equipment                                                 1
Vehicles                                                          1
Inputs                                                        0.85
Technical Assistance                                              1
Local Salaries                                                    0
Plant, Vehicle and Equipment
Operation                                                      1.45
Standard Conversion Factor                                    0.85
Discount Factor                                               0.12
Table 7: Economic Costs (N 000)
1987       1988        1989       1990        1991        1992       1993        1994
MUV Deflators                            1.1        1.15        1.17       1.23        1.26       1.32        1.36        1.39
Dom. CPI Deflator                        1.9       1.962       2.99       3.102       3.435      4.994       5.448       6.902
Exchange Rates                          3.37        4.28       7.38        7.95        9.82      18.84          22       21.99
Civil Works (costed at 50%)               85        274           0           a        282         574         442        704
Plant, Vehicle and Equipment             346      16202       10755       12331       9382       16471       16147      33599
Technical Assistance                    8393       7229       11344       18930      147391      18993       196211      4504
less 50% Trading Costs                    51        268         773         218         33         898       3729          14
less Sectoral Planning                    57        276        2903        8001       6383        4357        3829       2555
less System research                      27         99         612        2692       2689        1063        3244       1799
Net Technical Assistance                8259       6587        7056        8019       5634       12675       8819         136
Local Salaries                          1092       1723        1631        1679       1866        1769       2667        2639
Plant Vehicle and Equipment
Operations                                 o       5363        4419        7530       7019        6176       9626        4895
Total project Costs                     9781      30149       23862       29559      24183       37665       37701      41972
Less 50% Grazing Reserve
Cost                                     103        124          73         113        100          51          59         47
Grant Total                             9678      30025       23789       2944       24083       37614      37642       41928



Table 8: Prevailing Exchange Rates, Cost of Living Index and Interest Rates
Interest Rates % p.a.
Year       Exchang-e Rate           CPI             Commercial    NACB
1986       USS1.00 =N 1.00          100
1987       USS.00 = N 3.32                               18           13
1988       USS1.00 = N 4.28         196                   18          16
1989       US$1.00 = N 7.38        299                    18          15
1990       USSL.00 = N 7.95        310                   25           17
1991       USSI.00 = N 9.82        3.44                  25           15
1992       USSI.00=N 18.84         4.99                  32.5         15
1993       US$1.00 = N 21.99       5.45                   21          17
1994       USS.00 = N 21.99        5.90                   21          15
1995       USS 1.00 = N 82.00                             21          16



Table 9: Financial Analysis of Livestock Enterprise Models
1. Cattle Fattening
Unit Cost  Value
CASH INFLOW                            Unit   Quantity   Naira    Naira
a. Cattle Sales                         no.  T   2         130001   26000
b. Loan                                Naira               10000    10000
c. Equity                              Naira               11383    11383
Total Inflow                       Naira                         47383
CASH OUTFLOW
a. Stock Purchase                       no.       2         9000    18000
b Operating Costs
- Supplementary Feeds               Naira                 1071     1071
- Medication                       Naira                1 926     1926
- Salt Lick                         Naira                 440       440
c. Loan Repayment                      Naira                 oo 1000  1000C
d. Interest Payment (18%, 4mnts)       Naira                 600      600
Total Outflow                      Naira                         32037
Net Cash Balance                     Naira                        15346
Net Cash Balance to Equity           Naira                         3963
Opportunity Cost of Own Capital      Naira                          696
Net Return to Owners Labor & Mgmt.   | Naira                       3267
Net Return to Manday (124 Days)      Naira                    t      26
Net return per animal fattened       Naira ,          _            1633
2. Sheep Fattening                  |                               =
______________________  _Unit Cost  Value
CASH INFLOW:                Unit   Quantity   Naira    Naira
a. Sheep Sales                      {  no.        8         3800    30400
b. Loan                                Naira               10000    10000
c. Equity                              Naira  |            11800    11800
Total Inflow                     _                 F             52200
CASH OUTFLOW:                        _         _____
CASH OUTFLOW|j
a. Stock Purchase                       no.       8         2600    20800
b Operating Costs                    _         ___
- Supplementary Feeds               Naira  |             1100      1100
- Medication                        Naira  _              400       400
- Salt Lick                         Naira                 200       200
- Molasses              Naira  |              300       300
c. Loan Repayment                      Naira               10000    10000
d. Interest Payment (18%, 4mnts)       Naira  ___  ________           600
Total Outflow                      Naira  1         _            33400
Net Cash Balance           Naira  I                      18800
Net Cash Balance to Equity     Naira  I_ I_I_7000
Opportunity Cost of Own Capital  Naira  ______708
Net Retum to Owners Labor & Mgmt.   Naira  I_____6292
Net Return to Manday (122 Days)   Naira  __|                      52
Net return per animal fattened   Naira            ______        787



Table 9 (cont'd): Financial Analysis of Livestock Enterprise Models
3. Pig Fattening
Unit Cost    Value
CASH INFLOW:                              Unit       Quantity      Nalra       Naira
a. Pig Sales                               no.           6             1675       10050
b. Loan                                   Naira                        4000       4000
c. Equity                                 Naira                        1680        1680
Total Inflow                          Naira                                   15730
CASH OUTFLOW_
a. Stock Purchase                          no.           6              638        3828
b Operating Costs
- Supplementary Feeds                  Naira                         1550       1550
- Medication                            Naira                        300         300
c. Loan Repayment                         Naira                        4000        4000
d. Interest Payment (18%, 4mnts)          Naira                         240         240
Total Outflow                          Naira                                   9918
Net Cash Balance              Naira                                   5812
Net Cash Balance to Equity        Naira                                   4132
Opportunity Cost of Own Capital     Naira                                    240
Net Retum to Owners Labor & Mgmt.     Naira                                   3892
Net return per animal fattened      Naira                                    69
4. Broiler Production
Unit Cost    Value
CASH INFLOW:                  Unit       Quantity      Naira       Naira
a. Broiler Sales                           no.          285             200      57000
b. Loan                                   Naira                       24000      24000
c. Equity                                 Naira                        9650       9650
Total Inflow                                                                  90650
CASH OUTFLOW:                        L             L
CASH OUFLO                                                   __
a. Day Old Chicks                          no.          300              30       9000
b. Investment Costs Amortized
- pen construction                     Naira                         500         500
-feeders                               Naira                          50          50
- drinkers                             Naira                          50          50
- lantem                               Naira                          50          50
b Operating Costs
- Feed                                 Naira                       21000       21000
- Medication                           Naira                        3000        3000
- labor                                Naira                        4800        4800
- transport               Naira    .                    300         300
c. Loan Repayment                         Naira                       24000      24000
d. Interest Payment (18%, 4mnts)          Naira                                   1440
Total Outflow                         Naira                                   64190
Net Cash Balance   _Naira    .284C
Net Cash Balance to Equity        Naira                                  16810
Opportunity Cost of Own Capital     Naira                                    579
Net Retum to Owner's Labor & Mgmt.    Naira                                  16231
Net return per bird           Naira                         _64



Table 9 (cont'd): Financial Analysis of Livestock Enterprise Models
S. Poultry Layer Production
Unit Cost    Value
.CASHINELQW.                  Unit       Quantity      Naira       Naira
a. Culled Layers Sales                     no.         300              117      35100
b. Egg Sales                             doaen         2000             65      130000
b. Loan                                   Naira                      24000       24000
c. Equity                                 Naira                      60150       60150
Total Inflow                                                                249250
CASH OUTFLOW:                                                       .
CASH OUTFLOW
a. Day Old Chicks                          no.         360              30       10800
b. Investment Costs Amortized
- pen cponstruction                    Naira                        500         500
-feeders                               Naira                         50          50
- drinkers                             Naira                         50          50
- lantern                              Naira                         50          50
b Operating Costs
- Feed                                 Naira                       70000      70000
- Medication                           Naira                        4500       4500
- labor                                Naira                        4800       4800
- transport               Naira                         350         350
c. Loan Repayment                         Naira                      24000       24000
d. Interest Payment (18%, 4mnts)          Naira                       1440        1440
Total Outflow                         Naira                                 116540
Net Cash Balance              Naira                                 132710
Net Cash Balance to Equity       Naira                                   72560
Opportunity Cost of Own Capital     Naira                                   3609
Net Retum to Owners Labor & Mgmt.     Naira                                  68951
Net return per bird           Naira                                     192



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FrEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Map (IBRD19816R1)
(Appendix D)






IBRD 19816R1
NIGERIA
IBRD
ASSISTED
L ka   AGRICULTURAL
G, y          fx                                                :                                7                                     X                              PROJECTS
SOK                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPLETED
SOKOR  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1Cocoa I (Loan 764-UNI)
61 t  \  G   v  4 i < >AF^ff:5Rl $( . DUGU                          | 2  Cocoa 11 (Loon, 1045-UNI)
* LivetoCkI (Loana 1091 -UNI)
4     Funtua (Loan 1 092-UNI)
5     Gusau (Loa,n 1 099-UNI)
0 6  Rice (Loan 1 1 03 - UNi(
>  ffi >   Gr>cermg4    #    GcZ-ng  P   KA170tN;;x   2   \                 0        >                 a                                                                        7    Gon,be7 Lon 1 164UNI)
8     Im  Oil Palm (Loan 1I 92-UNI)
9     Lakfa (Loon 1454-UNI)
R-servo,                     W       NlF;                                                   B sNA <                                                                                                       wy 8AUCHI  1 0    Aya,gba (Loan 1455-UNI)
11    Riners Odl Palm (Loan 1591 -UNI)
r .KVLA,@ | / Cb MINNA q JO5 g                                                                                          9 12    Bida (Loan 1667-UNI)
1 3    Ekiti-Akobo (Loan 1 854-UNI)
LJ                                                                                                                                              1|2 . .ATE.4fJ i / - \ _-= CANCELLED
/ ltng A                                                                                           t                                                                                                  / )   - 1- 5  J v /  YOLAe/ O^Oda Oil Palm (Loan 11 97-UNI)
SBendel Odi Palm (Loan 1183-UNI)
t  C w  X  ILORIN  t             9                                  9            , _        <               Rese-ze                /EXISTING
R                                                                                                           )1.,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ltn (Loon 1668-UNI(
A A   -   z  \   t2t)Nf7(/fts-  ,8J          j I                      B    Forestry (Loon 1679-UNI)
CO K U T.>1                                     R-(ch/         1 0                            MAKURDI          )                  L                /                                                             C      Ag9sir& IR-.(o M -&o nagement
r               O~~~~~NDO   /gRnh                                           Jl~)D   Oyo Noth (Leonl 1838-UNI)
E    Bo-chi St. (Loan  1981-UNII
LAG-                                              -r<(3   Jb B                                                                i)     F    Kano St (Loan 1982-UNI)
ANAAPk 4                                                                                                                                        rD     Agr Tech Assist. Project
-ph,bee p,eyprd by                                                                              (Loan 2D29-UNI(
W      eniew n s t B e-uek  - *-l                                                             G      Sokolo St (Locn 21 85-UNI)
y The W. Ho >J*l(.)l  /zuFl r  ueetoi hrYord 8nnk                                    H     Kacdul-  St (Loan 2436-UNI)
ed  the  booed-ries sheii               (J Stoic Copitois                                         i      MSADP I (Loait 2733 UNI)
,dWS,ERRI           J                                     one y,udeemeeTnt W-1d e l9- og          _       SiotSue8rdat,es                                   K     Borno St.      Loan 2741 UN)
Gsif of Guinea \ ll _t t_ CALABAR  e t.t-   olselaenl   oroceptoreu t-nternpilo ulBo indarieL                               MSADP II
Gti/f of Guineo                                                                                                                       B.-oM[r[kq "    "'   50   1'1                2n,d Lovestock ILoan 2737-UNI)
N  f   AgVvt  l             MILrc D   2r  41>  ^,,  50  100                                                            Ti   iW APPRAISED                   MSADP IIl
ItJ2( }tKii    6    8                                                                                Logos, Ondo, Oyo, & Rivers States
tdoveniaLe 1989      '









IMAG INGA
Report N:-       157 69
Type: ICR



