D_cument Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5795-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
SFCOND LT'.ESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 7, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =         N
US$1.00                   N1.00
N1.G0 0                   US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All weights and measures used in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (ton)  =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)      =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)    =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)         =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 liter (1)          =  2.1 pints (pt)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP       -   Agricultural Development Project
CBN       -   Central Bank of Nigeria
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
FLD       -   Federal Livestock Department
FMAWRRD   -   Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources
and Rural Development
FMG       -   Federal Military Government of Nigeria
ILCA      -   International Livestock Center for Africa
LCU       -   Livestock Credit Unit (in NACB)
NACB      -   Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd.
NAPRI     -   National Animal Production Research Institute
NLPD      -   National Livestock Projects Department
RBRDA     -   River Basin and Rural Development Authority
RCF       -   Revolving Credit Fund
SLA       -   State Lending Agency
WLC       -   Western Livestock Company Ltd.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ............................  (i)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................... (iii)
I. BACKGROUND ............................................  1
A.  Introduction ......................................  I
B.  The Agricultural Sector ......     ....................   1
II.  THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR ...................                 2
A.  Significance of Livestock in the Economy    ..    2
B.  Characteristics of the Livestock Sector    . .    3
1. Livestock Distribution and Production
Systems .......................................  3
2. Socio-economic and Institutional
Organization ..................................  5
C. Development Strategies and Constraints. .             6
-III  THE PROJECT.8
II .    TH    PRJECT   ................................... ... 
A.  Objectives and Summary Description       .    .      8
B. Detailed Features                .         .         10
1. Livestock Production Program .................. 10
2.  Project Management and Supporting Services .... 13
C. Cost Estimates                  ..                   16
D. Proposed Financing                .        .         17
E.  Procurement ....................................... 20
F. Disbursement         ...................... 21
G.  Credit Arrangements      .................. 23
H.  Accounts, Budgeting and Reporting Requirements....  26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission con-
sisting of Messrs. Raine, Headworth, Byrne, Maguire, Ms. Reedy (Bank)
and Messrs. Yates, Awogbade, von Kaufman (consultants), and Jaiswal
(Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit), who visited Nigeria in
January/February 1985. Mrs. E. Sunderland provided the secretarial
support and figures were checked by Mr. D.D. Taneja.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)                                Page
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT           ..              27
A. Project Coordination and Management ...............  27
B. Research ..........................................  29
C. Post-Project Development ..........................  29
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES        .      .       30
A. Production ........................................  30
B  Demand and Marketing ..............................  30
C. Prices ............................................  31
VI. FINANCIAL IMPACT ......................................  32
A. Livestock Producers ...............................  32
B. Credit Institutions ...............................  34
C. Government ........................................  35
D. Cost Recovery of Farm Inputs ......................  36
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .....................................  36
A. Project Benefits ..................................  36
B. Economic Analysis .................................  38
C. Risks and Sensitivity .............................  38
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..... ...........  40
ANNEXES
1   Key Features of the Agricultural Sector
3-1 Phasing of Credit and Non-Credit Investment Program
3-2 Livestock Production Program - Technical Coefficients of Models
3-3 Livestock Production Program - Input Requirements
3-4 Project Components by Year
3-5 Detailed Cost Estimates by Nature and Purpose of Expenditure
3-6 Project Costs by Financing Category
3-7 Detailed Project Financing Plan
3-8 Detailed Program Financing Plan
3-9 Special Account No. 2
3-10 Local Competitive Procurement Procedures
3-11 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
3-12 Disbursement Profile
3-13 Summary of NACB Profit and Loss Accounts
3-14 Summary of NACB Balance Sheets
3-15 Lending Terms and Conditions
3-16 NACB - Indicative Revolving Credit Fund Summary
4-1 Technical Assistance, Credit Funds and Input Supply Flow Chart
4-2 Project Implementation Schedule
4-3 National Livestock Projects Department - Organization Chart



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES (continued)
5-1 Projected Incremental Project Production
5-2 Comparison of Financial and Economic Prices for Beef Sides Imported
as Frozen Beef and O.r-noof Cattle, in two Markets
5-3 Calculation of Economic Liveweight Farmgate Price for Cattle from
Imported Frozen Beef and On-Hoof Cattle
5-4 Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices for Commodities
6    Farm Income Analysis With and Without the Project
7   Economic Rate of Return
Naps    IBRD 15065R6 - Nigeria - IBRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
IBRD 19129   - Nigeria - Second Livestock Development Project



(i)
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE
Document No.
A. Background
1.    Nigeria - Agricultural Sector Memorandum,               4723-UNI
February 25, 1985
2.    Nigeria- Agricultural Pricing Policy,                   4945-UNI
June 15, 1985
B. Project Identification and Preparation
1.    Second Livestock Development Project,                   222.204
Preparation Report, Vol. I, II, III, Livestock
Project Unit Kaduna, March 1983
2.    The Green Revolution, A Livestock Production Plan    222.205
for Nigeria, Y.A.M. Mogaji, September 1981
3.    Livestock Development Project (Loan 1091-UNI)           UNI-LnlO91-R/C
Project Completion Report, WAPAB, July 2, 1984
4.    Second Livestock Development Project,                   222.206
Sociological Survey, Moses A. Awogbade, 1984
5.    Livestock and Land Use in Southern Gongola State        222.207
(Executive Summary, Main Report, Appendices)           A, B and C
Resource Inventory and Management, Limited.
December 1984
6.    Trypanotolerant Livestock in West and Central           222.208
Africa, Vol. 1 and 2, International Livestock          A and B
Centre for Africa, Addis Ababa, 1979
7.    Nigeria, Arrangements for Institutional Credit          222.209
Y.S. Borgaonkar and K. Nageswara Rao, Agric.
Finance Corporation, Bombay, India, 1984



(ii)
Document No. (cont'd)
8.    The Nigerian Livestock Feed Industry, Veritak              222.210
(Nigeria) Ltd. in association with PAI Associates
International, January 1983
9.    The Dynamics of Cattle Distribution in the Nigerian        22 .21J
Subhumid Zone, International Livestock Centre for
Africa, Aerial Survey Unit, David Bourn and
Kevin Milligan
10.    The African Trypanosomiases, World Bank Technical          222.212
Paper Number 4, C.W. Lee and J.M. Maurice, April 1983
11.    Papers presented at the 2nd ILCA/NAPRI Symposium on        222.213
Livestock Production in the Subhumid Zone of Nigeria    (A aad B)
1974-1984, Part I and Part II, ILCA, Kaduna
C. Working Papers
Volume I
1.    The Livestock Subsector                                     229.119(1)
2.    The Pastoral Fulani, Land Tenure and
Grazing Reserve Development                               229.119(2)
3.    Livestock Production Models                                 229.119(3)
4.    N'D-ma Cattle Ranches                                       229.119(4)
5.    Livestock Systems Research Program                          ?22.ci9(5)
6.    Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
-Credit Procedures                                        229.119(6)
7.    Assistance to the Federal Livestock Department
--Livestock Sectoral Planning Unit                        229.119(7)
Volume II
8.    Staff Development and Training Program                      229.119(8)
9.    National Livestock Projects Department
-Organization of Livestock Production Program
and Job Descriptions                                      229.119(9)
10.   Special Studies                                             229.119(10)
11.   Detailed Cost Tables                                        229.119(11)
12.   Economic Analysis                                           229.119(12)
WAPAB
February 1986



(iii)
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:      Pastoralists and mixed farmers; National Livestock
Projects Department 1|; Nigerian
Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd.; 18 State
Governments; Federal Livestock Department;
International Livestock Center for Africa; and
National Animal Production Research Institute.
Loan Amount:         US$81.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable over 20 years. including five years of
grace, at standard variable interest rates.
Project             This second phase project would use some of the
Description:         successful technologies developed under the First
Livestock Project (Loan 1091-UNI) which on the
whole, was only partically successful, and more recent
research findings. On a nationwide but selective basis,
the project would support the development of cattle and
goats and, to a small extent, sheep and poultry. The
main objective would be to increase livestock production
through improved nutrition and animal health and thereby
increase farmers' incomes. The project would support the
Government's reoriented livestock development program
which emphasizes the small scale private producer. The
project would Include: (i) credit for the purchase of
farm inputs, including imported trypanotolerant N'Dama
cattle; (ii) equipment for participating institutions;
(iii) settling of pastoralists on grazing reserves; (iv)
livestock systems research; (v) a manpower development
and training program; (vi) technical assistance;
(vii) greater involvement of the private sector in
supporting services; (viii) establishment of a livestock
sectoral planning capacity for the Federal Government;
and (ix) funds for special studies including a review of
the existing veterinary services.
1/   National Livestock Projects Department, formerly National Livestock
Project Unit.



(iv)
Summary Project Cost Estimates
US $mn
Local    Foreign      Total
A. LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
PROGRAM
1.  Credit Program                               7.5        21.4        28.9
2.  Non Credit Program                            .9          1.0        1.9
3.  N'dama Ranches                               1.0          1.0        2.0
4.  Grazing Reserves                              .8           .5        1.3
5.  Livestock Systems Research                   3.0          1.7        4.7
Sub-total:                       13.2        25.6        38.8
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND
SUPPORT SERVICES
1. Nat'l Livestock Projects Dept.
- Admin. & Central
Services                                8.2         18.9       27.1
-Field Services                           14.3          6.8        21.1
Sub-total NLPD:                     22.5         25.7       48.2
2.  NACB Livestock Credit Unit                   1.3           .5        1.8
3. Fed. Livestock Dept.
Sectoral Planning Unit                     .2          2.5         2.7
Sub-total:                       24.0        28.7        52.7
Total Base Costs:                       37.2         54.3        91.5
Physical Contingencies                        .9         1.0         1.9
Price Contingencies                        20.2         14.4        34.6
Total Project Costs:                       58.3a)       69.7       128.0
a) of which US$5.0 mn in duties and taxes
Financing Plan (US$ mn):                       Local      Foreign      Tota'.
IBRD                                        11.3        69.7        81.0
NACB                                         4.0          -          4.0
Farmers                                     11.4          -         11.4
Federal Government                          31.6          -         31.6
Total                               58.3       69.7       128.0
Estimated Disbursements (US$ mn):
IBRD Loan
FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94
Annual                     4.9  13.7  17.0  15.4  10.6  11.3   5.7   2.4
Cumulative                 4.9  18.6  35.6  51.0  61.6  72.9  78.6  81.0



(v)
Benefits and Risks: The project would: (i) increase livestock pro-
duction and income of some 30,000 families
(approx. 200,000 people); (ii) reorient Govern-
ment livestock development strategy towards the
traditional smallholder and the private sector;
(iii) promote mixed crop and livestock farming; and
(iv) provide a livestock sector planning capacity.
At full development, the expected annual production
would amount to about 3,000 tons of meat, 1,000 tons
of milk and 300,000 dozen eggs. This project would
devote considerable effort to expand nationwide
systems and channels to deliver credit and technical
assistance to farmers. Once these systems are
successfully set up, it is envisaged a follow-on
project could reach substantially more beneficiaries
than the 30,000 this project has targeted. Risks
include maintaining control of this nationwide
project and providing adequate follow-up supervision
of project participants. Provision has been built
into the project to reduce these two risks.
Economic Rate of Return: Approximately 19%.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5795-UNI
Maps: IBRD 15065R6
IBRD 19129
WAPAB
February 1986



NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested
World Bank assistance for a Second Livestock Development Project (Livestock
II). The project would be implemented over 5 years, and is estimated to
cost US$128 mn. At full development, the project would increase the
productivity and incomes of about 30,000 pastoralists and farm families
throughout the country through the supply of credit for farm inputs,
support services, improved institutional effectiveness and coordination.
1.02      The proposed project would be the successor to the First
Livestock Development Project--Livestock I (Loan 1091-UNI, US$21 mn, of
December 1974, closed July 1983). Both the November 1982 identification
report and the March 1983 preparation report, written by consultants
contracted by the Federal Livestock Department (FLD), proposed a project
totalling about U3$620 mn. In September 1983, a pre-appraisal mission
recommended a smaller project of about US$120 mn that would concentrate on
the promotion of proven livestock development technologies on a scale that
could be managed by available management. The appraisal mission confirmed
this approach as the most appropriate.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03      Economic Background.  Recent macro-economic and policy develop-
ments are discussed in "Nigeria - Country Economic Memorandum." Report No.
5913-UNI, dated December 18, 1985 (green cover).
1.04      The Agricultural Sector 1/  Agriculture is the leading non-oil
sector in Nigeria, directly supporting about 60% of the population, and
providing 26% of GDP, 5% of total exports and 98% of non-oil exports in
1983. Production is overwhelmingly by smallholders, using traditional,
manual technology. There are conflicting estimates of the growth in
domestic food production due to the poor data base. However, the Bank's
most recent analysis 1/  concludes that in the period 1970-82, food
supplies in Nigeria increased in absolute terms at or just below the
assumed population growth rate (2.7%). Overall demand for staple food
1/        A full account of the agricultura'l sector is given in Nigeria -
Agricultural Pricing Policy, Report No. 4945-UNI, June 15, 1985,
and in Nigeria - Agricultural Sector Memorandum, Report No.
4723-UNI, February 25, 1985. Key statistics of the sector are in
Annex 1.



- 2 -
grew at about 2.9% per annum and part of this growth was met by imports
encouraged by trade and fiscal policies. Between 1973 and 1983 food
imports rose more than eleven times from US$174 mn to about US$2,000 mn.
On the other hand, agricultural exports dropped from US$174 mn in 1974 to
US$71 mn in 1982. Recent restrictions on imports have reversed this trend
and encouraged increases in domestic foodcrop production. The sector has
faced intensive competition for labor and skills from other expanding parts
of the economy, and many young people have left agriculture for the towns.
This trend has diminished and has probably been reversed since the 1983
drop in oil revenues. Inflation and ;he overvalued naira raised production
costs, especially hired labor, so tlat competition in world markets became
increasingly difficult.
1.05      The present administration has given high priority to the agri-
cultural sector and has recently committed itself to increase the share of
the Federal capital budget to agriculture. The Bank has been actively
involved in the sector, committing a total of US$1,252.9 mn for 25
agricultural projects (Map 15065R6). Most of these projects have been for
area agricultural development, followed by tree crops, fertilizer imports,
livestock, forestry, training and technical assistance.
II. THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR 2/
A. Significance of Livestock in the Economy
2.01      The livestock sector makes an important contribution to the
national economy. Nigeria has the largest animal population in West Africa
with an estimated 9 million cattle and 30 million goats and sheep.
Agriculture as a whole constitutes approximately 26% of GDP, while
livestock, about 4%. In 1981 prices, this amounts to about US$2 billion.
While supporting data is unavailable, livestock provides both a source of
employment and income for a large segment of the rural population, and an
important source of protein in the local diet. It offers a source of
capital accumulation and savings which can be easily liquidated when cash
is needed.
2.02      The sharp rise in oil revenues in 1976 caused an increase in
demand for animal products but supply did not keep pace. The 1981 Bank-
assisted livestock sector review estimated that since 1976, supply has been
growing at 1.8% per annum, while demand at 5.1% in the period 1976-81. Oi'l
revenues increased incomes considerably, and with a high income
2/        Because this report deals mainly with livestock and not other
agricultural subsectors, for simplicity, the term livestock
sector will be used in this report.



- 3 -
elasticity of demand for animal products, the growing gap between supply
and demand was largely met by imports. In 1981, imports valued at about
US$400 mn represented 25% of animal protein consumed. While import
restrictions have existed since 1979, since 1983 Government almost
completely banned imports of most animal products and feeds, in an effort
to reduce the import bill. This had the effect of increasing domestic
prices and reducing animal protein intake in the Nigerian diet. The high
prices however, have provided a strong incentive to increase local
production.   Working Paper 1 describes the livestock sector in more
detail.
B. Characteristics of the Livestock Sector
1. Livestock Distribution and Production Systems
2.03      Ecology and Livestock Distribution.  Livestock distribution is
determined by tsetse fly incidence. Tsetse flies are major transmitters of
trypanosomiasis among a wide range of wild and domestic animals. In
non-tolerant cattle species (97% of Nigerian cattle), a severe attack will
result in death. The N'Dama and Muturu cattle breeds are tolerant to this
disease (trypano-tolerant).
2.04      The semi-arid ecological zone (400-900 mm rainfall/annum) is
virtually tsetse fly free and consequently carries 75% of the livestock
population, despite having the lowest forage resources. Because of low
rainfall and high population pressure on the land, overgrazing is often a
problem. The sub-humid zone (900-1,500 mm) has opened up to crop farming
in the last decade which, together with a tsetse fly eradication program,
has reduced the tsetse fly's natural habitat. As a consequence, permanent
cattle population in the zone has recently increased dramatically, and is
now estimated at 3-4 million head. This zone presents the greatest
potential for crop and livestock development due to lower population
density and higher rainfall. Despite having the greatest natural forage
resources, the humid zone (+1,500 mm) has the smallest livestock population
because of the high tsetse fly infestation. Only about 300,000
trypano-tolerant cattle and 3.5 million dwarf goats are held in this area
by smallholder crop farmers. These ecological zones are shown in Map
19129.
2.05      Livestock Production Systems.  Few traditional mixed
crop-livestock farming systems exist in Nigeria. Where they do exist, they
are oriented towards subsistence with some marketing of surplus animal
products. The systems use little or no outside labor and very few
purchased inputs. Livestock is a complementary enterprise to cropping:
farmers take advantage of any land, labor or feed resources which have no
alternative use. Cropping activities also benefit from livestock in terms
of increased soil fertility (manure) and draught power. Despite the
systems' relatively low productivity, it increases the value of the final
product significantly, because in comparison to modern production methods,



- 4 -
the use of high cost resources and purchased inputs is low. From the point
of view of the economy, these systems are more efficient than
high-input/output production systems when the latter depend on distorted
price regimes (para 2.09). The development of existing and new mixed
farming systems would help provide significant production increases, both
for livestock and crops.
2.06      Ninety-seven percent of cattle are owned by pastoralists, mostly
Fulani. Unlike the mixed farmer described above, livestock is the
principal source of income for the migrating pastoralist. The average
number of animals per family is about 45. Production is low, as in most of
West Africa, averaging a 45% calving rate, 110 liters of milk per cow per
year, and an offtake of 9%. There are three main constraints to increasing
cattle production: animal disease, lack of adequate nutrition and land
tenure. (a) Inadequate control of animal diseases has led to serious
losses in the national herd. Until recently, the major diseases of cattle,
rinderpest and contagious bovine pluero-pneunomia (CBPP), had been
controlled by vaccination. For several reasons, including poor veterinary
coverage (para 2.13), rinderpest has reappeared and caused an estimated
I mn deaths in the 1982-1984 epidemic. Trypanosomiasis (para 2.03) and
streptothricosis are other livestock diseases which can cause significant
economic loss. (b) Nutritional stress is experienced by cattle during the
last 2.5 months of the dry season from January through March. This stress
reduces fertility and milk production, and increases calf mortality. (c)
Land tenure arrangements are a constraint to pastoralists who wish to
settle, which in turn, could provide the basis to increase livestock and
crop production through mixed farming. Pastoralists have established
economic ties with crop farmers by exchanging milk for grain, and during
the dry season migrations, manure for crop residues. However, this
migration, combined with greater pressure on land, has resulted in
conflicts with crop farmers who claim that migrating livestock eat and
damage their crops. Partly because of these conflicts and the opening-up
of the sub-humid zone, about 25% of pastoralists have settled where they
have been able to overcome land tenure constraints (para 2.10).  Settled
pastoralists generally take up crop farming to meet family crop subsistence
requirements which reduces their economic dependence on livestock. As a
consequence, many pastoralists who cultivate crops (agropastoralists)
reduce their herd size to accommodate the sedentary life. This is a
significant development because it reduces overgrazing problems, and, nore
important, initiates mixed farming which increases the productivity of both
crop and livestock production. It is estimated that a further 50% of
pastoralists wish to settle but cannot do so due to land tenure
constraints. Recent research findings, supported under Livestock I, by the
National Animal Production Research Institute (NAPRI) and the International
Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) have been used to develop a leguminous
fodder plot for pastoralists which integrates into this agropastoralist
system and increases its productivity in two ways: (i) it provides a high
quality feed during the critical dry season and (ii) after a few years, the
soil fertility increases, and the plot can be used for cropping, thus
forming a permanent rotation system.



2.07      Three other less significant forms of cattle production exist in
Nigeria. The first is the semi-arid zone crop farmer who keeps a few head
of cattle as draft oxen for land cultivation and transport, or to fatten
for sale at the end of the dry season when meat supplies are low and prices
high. The second is the humid zone crop farmer who keeps trypanotolerant
cattle--in larger herds of up to 30 head in the west and from one to six
head in the east of the country. The third consists of large scale public
sector cattle ranching operations which have generally been unsuccessful
(para 2.13).
2.08      The 30 million goats and sheep provide approximately 20% of
available animal protein. Most are kept as part of the pastoralists cattle
herds in the semi-arid zone. In the humid zone, dwarf goats are commonly
kept by mixed farmers and either allowed to free graze as in the west, or
penned as in the intensively cultivated areas in the east. The main
constraints to increasing dwarf goat production is the disease PPR (pest of
small ruminants) and malnutrition, particularly during the goat's first
year. The penning system often causes malnutrition by not providing a
sufficient or balanced diet. Because of these two constraints, the
mortality rate in dwarf goats is as high as 25%.
2.09       Nigeria's poultry population of about 130 mn birds is divided
into two distinct flocks: the first, accounting for 88% of the national
flock, is owned by farmers in traditional village scavenging flocks; the
second, accounting for the remainder of the flock, is owned by commercial
producers. Productivity is higher in commercial production: hens from the
traditional flocks produce on average 50 eggs per year, while the
commercial flock produce about 170. The traditional flock is constrained
mainly by disease (newcastle, fowl pox and typhoid). The commercial
flock's constraints are the same diseases, and an over-reliance on maize
imports which are cheap compared to locally produced maize due the
distorted price regime caused by the overvaluation of the naira, and to low
world market prices. These imports have been periodically restricted by
Government as part of austerity measures, which resulted in many commercial
operations collapsing due to the lack of a cheaper local source of feed.
2. Socio-Economic and Institutional Organization
2.10      Land Tenure.  The 1978 Land Tenure Decree vested all land in
State Governors. An official title to land (Certificate of Occupancy) can
be obtained through this Decree, but the process is both lengthy and costly
and, therefore, out of the reach of most farmers and pastoralists. Despite
the Decree, traditional land tenure systems continue to operate in most
areas. The community exercises the right of ownership and individuals
cannot possess absolute title to land. Village heads allocate uncultivated
land and usufructuary rights continue as long as land is cultivated. This
system favors the crop farmers over many pastoralists who wish to settle
(para 2.06 and Working Paper 2).
2.11      Infrastructure and Marketing.  The increase in the road network
since 1950 has been of major importance to the livestock sector as it



- 6 -
allows easy access for mass vaccination campaigns, and to cattle markets.
Virtually all cattle moving the 700-1,000 miles from traditional northern
producing areas to large southern markets, now travel by truck. Livestock
are marketed and processed by the private sector atid the operations are
generally considered well organized and cost-effective. Government attempts
to provide parallel marketing and processing facilities have been
unsuccessful (para 2.13).
2.12      Institutional Structure.  Within each state government's Ministry
of Agriculture is a Department of Animal Health and a D)epartment of Animal
Husbandry. The Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural
Development (FMAWRRD) has recently been reorganized. The Federal Livestock
Department is now responsible for planning and monitoring livestock
activities, controlling rinderpest and CBPP (contagious bovine
pleuro-pneumonia), and keeping a check on the veterinary public health
situation. The state ministries are responsible for control of all other
animal health problems. The National Livestock 1'roject Unit (NLPU) 3/
established under Livestock I, was upgraded within FMAWRRD in 1984 and
given the responsibility for coordinating and implementing all federally
funded livestock production activities in the country. This gives NLPD an
important coordinating role in livestock production within each state.
Federal and state parastatals involved in direct livestock production
schemes were established during the last decade, but many have been
disbanded following disappointing results (paras 2.13 and 2.19).
C. Development Strategies and Constraints
2.13      Livestock.  In the 1970's, Government attempted co introduce
modern commercial livestock operations in an effort to reduce the animal
products supply gap (para 2.02). This effort included setting up large
parastatal ranches, marketing and processing facilities, and recruiting
large numbers of staff into State and Federal Livestock Departments. The
1981 Bank-assisted livestock sector report reviewed these experiences and
pointed out the failings of this approach: the technology was inappropriate
for Nigerian conditions and state run enterprises operated at a loss. In
addition, Government's large expenditure was not offset by cost recovery
for services and inputs provided so that now, funds even for basic
veterinary inoculations are unavailable. Because of this approach,
production increases were minimal. At the same time, the small traditional
livestock producer, who owns 95% of the livestock in the country, was
by-passed.
2.14      Credit.  Government's agricultural credit strategy has been to
encourage agricultural development by: expanding the commercial banks
3/        National Livestock Project Unit (NLPU), now National Livestock
Projects Department (NLPD).



branch network, establishing the Nigerian Agricultural & Cooperative Bank,
Ltd. (NACB), providing subsidized interest rates to farmers, establishing
an agricultural credit guarantee scheme for commercial banks, and directing
commercial banks to allocate an increasing percentage (now 12%) of their
loans and advances to the agricultural sector.
2.15      Despite the resources available for credit, the agricultural
credit system as a whole is weak and has done little to stimulate the
sector, particularly for smallholders. Financing institutions, especially
cooperatives, are affected by overdues ranging from about 10% in the
stronger institutions to about 50% in the weaker ones. These overdues are
caused mainly by inadequate lending procedures, adverse climatic conditions
and political interventions. However, the overall situation is improving
recently with better credit discipline and serious efforts being made, with
considerable success, to recover overdues. Interest rates for agricultural
development are below both deposit and commercial lending rates and do not
provide commercial banks with the incentive required to increase
agricultural lending. Commercial banks have only relatively recently
entered the field of direct agricultural credit to smallholders, e.g.
Livestock I (para 2.16).
2.16      Experience with Past Lending.  Although Livestock I (para 1.02)
was largely unsuccessful, there were some successful components. Like
Government's other livestock development schemes (para 2.13), the
components which attempted to promote technologies which were inappropriate
to Nigeria, failed. The Livestock I Project Completion Report (PCR)
identified the smallholder fattening scheme as the only successful
production component. This scheme provided credit and simple technological
improvements to an existing production system (para 2.07). Farmer demand
to participate in the scheme increased to the point that in 1983,
Government, from its own resources, extended the project's scope
nationally. In addition, commercial banks contributed a total of about
US$1.0 mn by way of parallel financing to the scheme. The additional scaff
required for the national expansion were attached to NLPD from existing
animal production and veterinary state extension staff at the sole
additional cost of providing field and petrol allowances. Despite these
efforts, it was impossible to meet the full farmer demand to participate in
the scheme due to the lack of credit funds.
2.17      The PCR identified other successful aspects of the project
including importing 4,400 N'Dama cattle breeding stock into the tsetse
infested humid zone (paras 2.03 and 2.04), recovering costs for inputs, and
sett4ing up an institutional framework to deliver credit, input supply, and
animal health and production assistance. The project also assisted NAPRI
and TLCA in developing and replicating nationally, new technologies to
improve traditional mixed farming systems (para 2.06). Despite the overall
successful institutional framework, the PCR identified specific
institutional weaknesses, namely inadequate field supervision, project
monitoring and evaluation, and training.



2.18      Future Development Strategy and Bank Role.  As a result of the
lessons learned from the sector report, Livestock I, and from NAPRI and
ILCA research findings, the Federal Government has decided to shift the
emphasis of its support to the livestock sector in two important ways: (a)
technically, by encouraging the promotion of simple, proven improvements to
traditional mixed farming systems, and (b) financially, by using existing
institutions more effectively rather than creating new ones, giving the
private sector a greater role in production, credit, marketing and input
supply, and instituting cost recovery mechanisms for farm inputs. Both
measures would reduce Government expenditure in areas the private sector
would assume and thus would allow Government to focus resources on
providing essential support services to the sector (e.g. veterinary
assistance).
2.19      In pursuit of the shift in emphasis described above, FMG has
already taken certain measures. It is privatizing the National Livestock
Production Company--a parastatal involved in animal production, processing
and marketing, and also the vaccine production facility at Vom. Regarding
agricultural credit, Government has indicated its intention to make lending
for agriculture more attractive to financing institutions by increasing
interest rates (para 3.43). The proposed Second Livestock Development
Project (Livestock II) fully reflects the principles underlining these
objectives and will be FMG's main livestock production program in the Fifth
National Development Plan (1986-1990).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
3.01      The project's objective is to increase the production of animal
products and consequently farmers' incomes. In addition, it would
encourage a variety of sectoral reforms already endorsed by the Federal
Military Government (FMG), in particular through: (a) shifting emphasis
towards support of small traditional prcducers; (b) utilizing the private
sector as instruments for production and input supply; (c) introducing full
cost recovery of farm inputs and veterinary supplies; and (d) establishing
a livestock sectoral planning capacity.
3.02      The proposed project would, over five years, help raise the
productivity of some 30,000 pastoralists' and mixed farmers' small cattle
herds and goat flocks. Sheep and poultry production would be assisted on a
smaller scale. The project would also devote considerable effort to expand
nationwide systems and channels to deliver credit and technical assistai.ce
to farmers. Once these systems are successfully set up, it is envisaged a
substantially greater number of participantes could be reached than the
30,000 this project has targeted. Project components are divided into two
main categories:



- 9 -
(a) the Livestock Production Program, which, through six types of
livestock development enterprises, would:
-    assist about 11,000 smallholders fatten cattle and sheep;
-    help some 2,500 agropastoralists and mixed farmers grow dry
season fodder;
-    assist about 15,000 goat breeders grow forage;
-    manage a N'Dama nucleus breeding unit and distribute from it
trypano-tolerant N'Dama cattle to about 180 mixed farmers in
the western states;
-    import a further 1,250 N'Dama cattle and distribute them to
500 small mixed farmers in the eastern states;
-    assist 100 farmers in poultry production; and
-    assist pastoralists to settle on grazing reserves by
providing infrastructure and land tenuce rights; and
(b) Management and Supporting Services, which would:
-    strengthen the National Livestock Projects Departmeut (NLPD)
by providing staff, technical assistance, training, housing,
vehicles and equipment;
-    provide training, vehicles, equipment and field allowances
to the Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank, Ltd.
(NACB). and to the State veterinary and livestock production
staff attached to the project;
-    arrange for the delivery of farm inputs and veterinary
supplies to project participants;
-    provide research institutions with staff, vehicles, equip-
ment and allowances to conduct livestock systems research;
and
-    establish a livestock sectoral planning capability in the
Federal Livestock Department.
3.03      Several existing institutions would participate in project
implementation, of which NLPD and NACB would have the main roles. NLPD
would have principal responsibility for implementing the project and in
particular it would:
-    coordinate field and credit services;
-    promote the adoption of technical packages by farmers;
-    provide training, supervision and management of selected
state livestock extension staff who would be responsible for
the field supervision of farmers' investments;
-    arrange for the procurement and distribution of farm inputs
and veterinary supplies;
-    establish the simple infrastructure required (access roads
and small dams) on grazing reserves for the settlement of
pastoralists; and
-    manage two N'dama holding ranches.



- 10 -
3.04      NACB would be the principal credit agency and would make loans to
farmers through one or more selected lending agencies in each state.
B. Detailed Features
1. Livestock Production Program.
3.05      The livestock production program incorporates FMG's recent
emphasis of utilizing simple traditional farming systems as a means to
increase livestock output (para 2.18). The technical packages for the six
types of enterprises or models the project would promote are relatively
simple and aim at improving animal nutrition and health.   Removing
nutritional and health constraints by providing dry season leguminous
forages, other feeds, and veterinary assistance, has been shown to increase
livestock productivity in two ways: (a) the animal's growth rate is steady,
and (b) the animal's reproductive capacity and the ability of the offspring
to survive are significantly improved. Increasing productivity in these
two ways results in a quicker herd or flock growth, animals reaching
slaughter age at an earlier age, and greater milk and egg production.
3.06      The techi.ical improvements are simple and yield attractive
returns to farmers (para 6.03), but have not been adopted before for three
reasons: (a) only recently have iesearch findings identified the
constraints to improving traditional production systems, and found
solutions which are socio-economically acceptable to producers; (b) the
initial investment required is often too large for the producer, but too
small to interest the banking system; (c) farm inputs and veterinary
supplies have not been readily available at the farm level. The project
would address these constraints by promoting research findings, providing
credit to finance farmer investments, and arranging for distribution of
farm inputs and veterinary supplies. All livestock development models
would receive credit except the goat breeder who can afford to pay the
small initial investment costs from his own resources. During the latter
part of Livestock I's research program, NLPD promoted these models and they
were successfully adopted by pastoralists and/or mixed farmers. Since
then, they have been further refined following a sociological study and a
national replication of the models. By project completion, improved
nutrition and health would be provided to about 40,000 breeding cows and
calves belonging to pastoralists settled by the project, 45,000 mature
cattle before slaughter, 7,400 trypano-tolerant cattle to be introduced
into southern Nigeria, 100,000 goats and 20,000 laying hens.
3.07      Full cost recovery for farm inputs (except fertilizer, a minor
input, which is subsidized by Government) and veterinary supplies would be
carried out (para 6.09) as was partially begun under Livestock I.
3.08      The different types of investment specifications required for
each operation, income and operating expenses, cash flow, expected returns



- 11 -
and technical coefficients have been analyzed in six illustrative farm
models, summarized below and detailed in Annexes 3-1 through 3-3, and
Working Paper 3.
L.vestock Production Program - Development Models
In,vestm.
Number of                      % to be      Cost of
Participants/  Principal       Financed    Model
Models          Inputs a/      by Farmer  (Naira) b/
1. a. Agropastoralist/Mixed Farmer
Forage Development           925        FB, V,F            20        4,000
b. as above, with
water supply                 925        FB,V,F,0           42        7,500
Subtotal              1,850
2. Smallholder Cattle
Sheep Fattener             11,400        V,F,A              10        3,000
3. Goat Breeder                   15,200       FB,V              100           100
4. Western N'Dama Breeder            180       FB,V,F,A           30        10,600
5. Eastern N'Dama Breeder            500       FB,V,F,A           11         2,200
6. Poultry Producer                  100       V,F,A,0            20         3,300
Total                29,230
a/   FB = fodder plots or forage garden (goats)
V  = veterinary inputs
F  = feed
A  = animals
0 = other major investment (Model lb =
water source, Model 6 = renovation
of building and equipment)
b/   Rounded.
3.09      Model 1.  Agropastoralist/Mixed Farmer Forage Development.  This
model would assist 1,850 pastoralists and mixed farmers establish
leguminous fodder plots to provide supplementary feeding to cattle herds
during the dry season. The model is seen as the most important from an
agricultural development point of view because it provides the basis for
introducing a mixed farming, crop rotation system. Such systems are
lacking in most parts of Nigeria and West Africa, and they coald
significantly increase the productivity of both livestock and crop
production. The fodder provides high quality dry season feed to the cattle



- 12 -
thus preventing the severe nutritional stress they normally experience at
that time of the year. Equally important, the leguminous fodder crop
improves soil fertility and the fodder plot can be rotated with crops after
a few years. The principal constraints to the adoption of the technology
is the land tenure structure (para 2.06) which prevents pastoralists from
settling. Under Livestock I, five grazing reserves totalling 115,000 ha,
were developed by NLPD. A start has been made on these reserves in
providing 10 ha plots to pastoralists who wish to settle, crop, and
establish fodder plots. Under the project, three more reserves would be
developed. The pastoralists to be settled on the reserves would invest in
establishing a 4 ha leguminous fodder plot with ring fencing and where
necessary, water facilities. At full development, herd numbers are
expected to increase by 20% and offtake and milk sales by 50%.
Participants would include pastoralists to be settled on the reserves, and
other agropastoralists and mixed farmers (not on the reserves) who are
already settled. The Livestock I reserves ore Kachia (Kaduna State), Gujba
(Borno State), Udobo (Bauchi State), Garkida and Sorau (Gongola State).
The three new reserves would be: Gidan-Magajiya (Kwara State), Donga
(Gongola State) and one other to be selected by NLPD in Niger State
(Working Paper 2). As the grazing reserves must be gazetted before land
can be officially assigned to pastoralists, it would be a condition of
effectiveness that at least 5 reserves have been gazetted. This was agreed
at negotiations.
3.10      Model 2.  Smallholder Cattle, Sheep Fattener.   This model,
already proven successful under Livestock I (para 2.16), aims to increase
the slaughter weight of mature cattle and sheep of about 11,000 mixed
farmers. Farmers would purchase 4 head of cattle or 20 sheep and feed them
crop residues and locally available agro-industrial by-products (e.g.
brewers grain, palm kernel meal, groundnut meal). Over a 120 day fattening
period, 4 head of cattle would gain about 70 kg live weight each and would
be prevented from losing another 35 kg during the dry season. The sheep
would gain about 10 kg each. Cattle would be sold at the end of the dry
season when meat supplies are low and prices high, and the sheep sold
before the Muslim Salah festival when prices rise considerably. While
most cattle would be sold for slaughter, some would be retained as work
oxen, thus doubling the area a farmer can prepare and crop.
3.11      Model 3.  Goat Breeder.  This model would assist some 15,000
established mixed farmers in the south (para 2.08) develop their goat herds
(on average, 6 head) through forage development and animal health. As
investment costs are low, no credit would be provided. At full
development, goat live weight sales from individual farms would rise from
32 kg to around 90 kg per annum.
3.12      Model 4.  Western N'Dama Breeder.  Under Livestock I, 4,400
N'dama cattle were imported into the country to increase the limited number
of trypano-tolerant cattle in southwest Nigeria (para 2.04). These cattle
were held on ranches owned by the Western Livestock Company (WLC),
including Upper Ogun and Akunu in Oyo and Ondo States, to be bred and sold
off. The project would sell off most of the remaining herd and keep a



- 13 -
nucleus breeding herd on Upper Ogun Ranch, to be managed by NLPD (Working
Paper 4). About 180 medium-sized livestock owners in the 3 southwestern
states of Ogun, Oyo and Ondo would receive 10 breeding females each and
would establish dry season foddet plots. At full development, cattle
numbers in individual herds would increase from about 32 to 58 head, and
cattle sales would increase from 2 to 9 per annum.
3.13      Model 5.  Eastern N'Dama Breeder.  The sEme rationale as in
Model 4 applies to this model for the southeast of Nigeria. An additional
benefit would accrue, however, as the base local herd is the Muturu cattle
breed which is significantly smaller than the N'Dama (about 602 lighter
than the N'Dama). Cross-breeding would, therefore, increase the average
weight of the Muturu cattle by 30%. About 1,250 N'dama cattle would be
imported from other West African countries over a four-year period. The
cattle would be held on Odada ranch at Nsuuku, Anambra State, managed by
NLPD, for a short quarantine and acclimatization period before being sold
to about 500 established mixed farmers in groups of 2 or 3 head. At full
development, the average herd of 5 head would double, and valuable
trypano-tolerant breeding cattle would be sold in eastern Nigeria, an area
where the cattle population was almost decimated in the 1967-1970 Civil
War.
3.14      Model 6.  Poultry Producer.  The project would help about 100
small commercial egg producers who had given up production due to lack of
credit and appropriate feeds, but who want to resuscitate their enterprise.
This pilot scheme would be based on an ongoing research program (para 3.15)
which is searching for economical local sources of monogastric (poultry and
pig) feeds to overcome present reliance on imported feeds (para 2.09).
Preliminary results indicate that it is financially viable to promote the
model, but cost and benefits would be checked yearly before credit is
released as the financial viability of the model is sensitive to
input/output prices. Each participant would come into production with
about 200 layers producing about 3,500 dozen eggs and 300 kg of meat
annually.
3.15      Research.  The project would continue the support given under the
first project (para 2.06) for four systems research activities and would
add a fifth. The four on-going investigations cover further research into
the use of fodder in mixed farming systems, trypano-tolerant cattle in
humid zone agriculture, and animal feeds, with particular attention to
monegastric feeds and work oxen maintenance feeds. The new research
activity would cover development packages for small livestock (pigs,
poultry, duckrs etc.) in villages. The National Animal Production Research
Institute (NAPRI) and the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA)
would carry out the research program (Working Paper 5).
2. Project Management and Supporting Services.
3.16      In pursuit of FMG's policy to maximize the use of existing
organizations, public and private, the project's interventions would be



- 14 -
limited to making better use of existing staff and organizations. The
project would provide the following investment support.
3.17      National Livestock Projects Department (NLPD).  By the end of the
first project, NLPD had become established as an effective instrument for
the promotion of livestock development although it was recognized in the
Project Completion Report that field supervision, monitoring and
evaluation, and training needed to be strengthened. Under this project,
Government has already agreed to set up three zonal offices which, with the
one already established at Ibadan, would strengthen technical supervision
of state NLPD offices and would improve coordination between institutions
participating in project implementation. Training (para 3.21), monitoring
and evaluation (para 3.23) would be strengthened and technical assistance
provided (paras 3.22). Houses for staff would be built in states where it
is more economical to build than rent. NLPD's organization is further
detailed in Chapter IV.
3.18      Extension Services.  As under Livestock I, existing state staff
would provide animal health and production extension services under NLPD's
direction and supervision. This small cadre of state staff, reaching a
maximum of 25 per state, would cDntinue to have their salaries paid by
their respective state governments. To improve their effectiveness, the
project would provide training, field allowances, and, where necessary,
vehicles (mostly motorcycles).
3.19      Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd. (NACB).   Support
would be given to NACB by the provision of funds, as a grant, for technical
assistance, staff, vehicles and operating expenses, and office equipment.
This would enable NACB to establish a small Livestock Credit Unit which
would be responsible for implementing, supervising, and monitoring progress
of the project's credit component. Further details of NACB are in para
3.35 and Working Paper 6.
3.20      Federal Livestock Department (FLD).   The project would assist in
establishing a Livestock Sectoral Planning Unit in FLD to provide the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture with the institutional capability to design
and implement a sector-wide planning, monitoring and evaluation program.
This would support a recent Ministry of Agriculture reorganization (para
2.12) whereby FLD has been mandated to plan, monitor and critically
analyze the sector's development. The project would provide the necessary
expertise and equipment to enable FLD to assess its role, define a list of
sector planning priorities based on surveys and special studies, and
regularly produce statistics and information for livestock sectoral policy
planning and decision-making (Working Paper 7).
3.21      Training.  The project would set up a training unit in NLPD, as
this was identified as a weakness under Livestock I. A detailed skill gap
analysis was carried out to produce the project's first year training
program by identifying: (a) particular activities required to implement the
project, (b) skills required to carry out those activities, and (c) skills
of existing staff. This analysis would provide the training unit with the



- 15 -
necessary information to meet its two longer term objectives as the project
training needs change: first, identify the skills required to carry out
project activities and second, put in place a skilled training unit capable
of providing on-the-job training and staff development programs. A small
training center would be set up at Kachia Grazing Reserve, 60 km from
project headquarters in Kaduna, to assist the field staff training program.
A special effort would be made to provide communication skills to extension
agents dealing with pastoralists that would be sensitive to the
pastoralists' cultural norms. Management staff at headquarters and state
level would receive training through the Bank assisted Agriculture and
Rural Management Training Institute (Loan 1719-UNI of June 1981) and
through a well-planned and monitored counterpart training program. A
program of staff development would be established to enable promising
project staff to acquire skills required for positions demanding increased
responsibility. Details of the training and staff development program are
in Working Paper 8.
3.22      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide internationally
recruited staff to give mainly technical rather than managerial assistance.
Nigerians who have received on-the-job training during Livestock I and
during the more recent national expansion of the project, are considered to
be adequately trained to assume most management positions. In the interim
period between the first and proposed second project, the existing
Livestock I management contract was extended through a project preparation
facility (PPF) (para 3.34). The management firm's performance under
Livestock I was found satisfactory by FMG and the Bank, and there is a
possibility the same firm would be retained for this project. Funds were
also made available by the PPF to give training to Nigerians in senior
management positions in NLPD and NACB, before Livestock II effectiveness.
Both these measures would provide staff with further formal and counterpart
training. In addition, it will ensure for a quicker project start up. For
Livestock II, fifteen experienced technical staff would be recruited on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The recruitment of these 15
staff and their job descriptions, were agreed at negotiations. The project
would provide funds for 12 internationally-recruited staff in NLPD, two in
FLD and one in NACB for varying periods of time. Since a strong
counterpart training program would exist (para 3.21), several positions
have been made available for only three years. The positions required to
be filled by internationally recruited staff are: NLPD - financial
controller, technical controller, head of training and manpower
development, head of monitoring and evaluation, chief land use planner,
water development engineer, workshop engineer, zonal supervisor (4), N'dama
ranches manager; FLD - livestock sectoral planner and an information
specialist; NACB credit-specialist. Job descriptions are in Working Paper
9. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the financial controller,
technical controller, head of training and four zonal supervisors had been
appointed.
3.23      Studies.  The project would provide funds for three studies:  (a)
a national livestock census aimed at producing reliable livestock
statistics on which to base development plans; (b) an evaluation of animal



- 16 -
health services. Government is intending to reduce the cost and improve
the performance of its veterinary services (para 2.13). The study would
determine means to make the service more effective, including privatization
of services, and would provide an action plan which the project could help
implement; and (c) a monitoring and evaluation program for NLPD which would
be drawn up based on information required by management, and on what
information can be accurately collected by field staff. The work of the
monitoring and evaluation unit would then be periodically reviewed. Terms
of reference for these studies were agreed at negotiations (Working Paper
10), and it was further agreed that NLPD and FLD would consult with the
Bank prior to the engagement of consultants, that the latter would be
properly qualified and experienced, and would be employed on conditions and
terms satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
3.24      Total project costs over the five year project implementation
period 1986-91 are estimated at US$128 mn (N128 mn) of which US$69.7 mn
(N69.7 mn) or about 54% would be foreign costs. If taxes and duties are
excluded, total costs would be US$123 mn (N123 mn).  Project costs are
calculated using prices obtained at appraisal, and updated to levels
expected to prevail in September 1985. Physical contingencies have been
calculated at 10% for civil works and 5% for vehicles and equipment and
recurrent costs other than salaries for which no physical contingencies are
added. Price contingencies are calculated on updated base costs plus
physical contingencies and are compounded annually, using the following
rates: all local costs: 1986-91 14%; foreign costs: 1986 7.5%; 1987-90 8%;
1991 5%. FMG has taken some important positive initiatives as part of the
1986 budget. However, uncertainties continue regarding future
macro-economic policies, namely the timing and extent of a medium-term
reform program. For the purpose of estimating project costs, it has been
assumed conservatively that the Government will compensate for half the
differential between domestic and international inflation rates either by
allowing the nominal exchange late to depreciate or through containing
domestic inflation. For the purpose of this analysis, the latter has been
assumed, i.e. a constant nominal exchange rate with domestic inflation
contained at 14%--below the level it would reach if the exchange rate
depreciated in nominal terms. Total contingencies are equivalent to 28% of
total project costs or 40% of base costs. Detailed project costs are found
in Annexes 3-4 through 3-6 and Working Paper 11 and are summarized below:



- 17 -
Project Cost Summary
Z of   Z of
US $mn                Naira mn           Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Exchange Costs
A.   LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
PROGRAM
1.  Credit Program                 7.5   21.4   28.9    7.5    21.4   28.9          74     32
2.  Non Credit Program              .9    1.0    1.9       .9      1.0    1.9       53      2
3.  N'dama Ranches                 1.0    1.0    2.0    1.0        1.0    2.0       50      2
4.  Grazing Reserves                .8      .5    1.3      .8       .5    1.3       38       1
5.  Livestock Systems Research   3.0    1.7    4.7    3.0          1.7    4.7       36      5
Sub-total          13.2   25.6   3d.8   13.2    25.6   38.8         66      42
B.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND
SUPPORT SERVICES
1. Nat'l Livestock Projects Department
- Admin. & Central Services  8.2   18.9   27.1   8.2         18.9   27.1       70      30
- Field Services              14.3    6.8   21.1  14.3        6.8   21.1       32      23
Total NLPD:        22.5   25.7   48.2  22.5       25.7   48.2       53      53
2. NACB Livestock Credit Unit    1.3        .5    1.8   1.3         .5    1.8       28      2
3. Fed. Livestock Dept.
Sectoral Planning                .2    2.5    2.7    .2        2.5    2.7       93       3
Sub-total:         24.0   28.7   52.7  24.0       28.7   52.7       54      58
Total Base Costs:       37.2   54.3   91.5  37.2        54.3   91.5       59    100
Physical Contingencies          .9    1.0    1.9    .9        1.0    1.9       53       2
Price Contingencies           20.2   14.4   34.6  20.2       14.4   34.6       42      38
Total Project Costs:          58.3   69.7  128.0  58.3       69.7  128.0       54    140
D.  Proposed Financing
3.25      In addition to IBRD and FMG financing, the project would be
financed by the Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd. (NACB) and
by participating farmers. NACB, wholly owned by FMG, is the principal
lending institution to the agricultural sector. Its proposed contribution
would be direct to State lending agencies to fund part of the credit
program, in accordance with a lending schedule agreed during negotiations.
Farmers' contributions are aggregated from proposed down payments which
vary from 10Z to 42% of individual investment costs. Financing details by
component are in the table below and in Annex 3-7.



- 18 -
Summary Project Financing Plan
(US$/1 million)
IBRD        NACB   Farmers       FMG     Total
Civil Works                    7.7          -         -        1.9        9.6
Plant, Vehicles,
Equipment, Spares           18.2          -         -        1.0       19.2
Farm Inputs, Credit           28.1         4.0       8.4        -       40.5
Farm Inputs, Other             4.3          -        3.0       0.2        7.5
Int. Salaries, Consul-
tants, Training             14.4          -         -         -       14.4
Local Salaries                              -         -       22.4       22.4
Vehicle, Plant Op. Costs       1.3          -         -        1.0        2.3
General Op. Costs              7.0          -         -        5.1       12.1
Total Financing Required
for Project                 81.0         4.0       11.4     31.6     128.0
Z            63            3         9       25         100
3.26      Of the total project cost of US$128.0 mn (1128.0 mn), IBRD would
finance US$81 mn at its variable interest rate for a period of 20 years
including a five-year grace period.  The IBRD loan would represent 63% of
project cost or 66% of costs net of taxes and would cover 100% of foreign
exchange and 21% of local costs net of taxes.  FMG would provide N31.6 mn
(25% of project cost), phased to minimize the financial burden in the first
project years, and increase gradually to a level corresponding to
incremental recurrent costs after project completion. FMG's expenditures
and recoveries deriving from the project are further discussed in para
6.07.  The remaining project cost would be financed by NACB N4 mn (3%), and
farmers N11.4 mn (9%).  NACB would only finance credit for the smallholder
fattening scheme (Model 2, para 3.10) and would fully disburse its 14 mn
before using IBRD funds for that component. This was agreed at
negotiations. NACB's contribution is considered appropriate having regard
to its financial resources and commitments (see para 3.35).
3.27      Program cost totals US$ 195.6 mn (1195.6 mn) and is composed of
project costs of US$ 128.0 mn (para 3.24) and non-incremental recurrent
costs of US$ 67.6 mn made up and financed as follows and further detailed
in Annex 3-8.



- 19 -
Summary Program Financing Plan
(US$/N million)
State       Other
FMG       Govt's   Institutions a/  Total
Non-Incremental
Local Salaries              17.2      21.3            0.8         39.3
Vehicle, Plant Operating   12.9       -               0.3         13.2
General Administration      11.6      -               3.5         15.1
41.7      21.3           4.6          67.6
Project Cost (para 3.25)                                         128.0
Program Cost                                                     195.6
a/  Other institutions comprise NAPRI N 0.6 mn, ILCA N 3 mn, and WLC
N 1 mn.
3.28      To help offset possible delays in disbursements due to foreign
exchange authorizations, cash flow and budgetary procedural problems which
have in the past adversely affected implementation of IBRD supported
projects, the Bank would place a total of US$5 mn (N5 mn) in a Project
Special Account which would be used to prefinance reimbursable eligible
expenditures. Initially, while project expenditures are occuring at a
slower pace, the amount advanced would be US$3 mn. Details of this
Account, denominated Account No. 2 (the project's main bank account being
No. 1) and agreements reached at negotations, are in Annex 3-9. In
addition, it was agreed during negotiations that: (a) FMG would provide for
the non-incremental staff and operating costs at current levels in the
Federal recurrent budget; (b) FMG would wake an initial deposit of N4 mn
into Account No. 1, and would promptly thereafter pay the balance of its
annual contribution to project ccst, totalling N31.6 mn over the 5 years,
and its share of non-incremental expenditure totalling about N42 mn over
the 5 years, quarterly and in advance into Account No. 1; (c) IBRD would
replenish the Account No. 2 upon receiving confirmation at the time of
reimbursement that FMG's share of local funding was up to date; and (d) all
IBRD reimbursements, excepting those paid through Account No. 2, would be
credited to Account No. 1. A condition of effectiveness would require NLPD
to provide evidence satisfactory to IBRD that FMG's initial deposit of N4.0
mn had been paid into the project bank Account No. 1.



- 20 -
E. Procurement
3.29      Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Amounts and Method of Procurement a/
(US$/N million)
Total
Project Element                ICB        LIB        LCB       Other      NA       Cost
Civil Works                     4.0                   5.6                           9.6
(4.0)                (3.7)                         (7.7)
Vehicles, Plant,                14.4       2.0        1.8         1.0              19.2
Equipment & Spares          (14.4)      (2.0)      (1.0)       (0.8)            (18.2)
Farm Inputs-Crecfit b/                     1.3                            39.2    40.5
(1.3)                         (26.8)  (28.1)
Farm Inputs-Other               2.7                   1.3         2.4      1.1      7.5
(2.7)                (1.3)       (0.3)    ( - )   (4.3)
Consultants                     3.1                                                 3.1
(3.1)                                              (3.1)
Int'l Salaries, Training c/   10.3                                         1.0    11.3
(10.3)                                     (1.0)  (11.3)
Local Salaries                                                            22.4    22.4
C-)   (-)
Op. Costs and General Services                        8.5         5.9              14.4
(4.3)      (4.0)             (8.3)
Total                     34.5        3.3      17.2         9.3      63.7   128.0
IBRD                     (34.5)      (3.3)    (10.3)       (5.1)   (27.8)  (81.0)
a/   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
b/   Includes N1.3 mn for N'Dama cattle procured internationally by NLPD and supplied
to farmers on credit.
c/   Includes US$2.5 mn of pre-project expenditure.
3.30      Civil works building contracts, with the exception of those
buildings to be constructed at Kaduna, are expected to be unattractive to
international contractors due to the scattered nature of the works.
Consequently, they would be procured utilizing LCB procedures acceptable to
IBRD (Annex 3-10), in which foreign bidders would be eligible to
participate. Buildings concentrated at Kaduna amounting in value to about
N4 mn, comprising mainly staff housing, would be procured by ICB.  Other
minor civil works would be undertaken on force account. Vehicles, plant,
equipment, furniture, farm inputs, vehicle/plane operating costs (excluding
fuel and lubricants) and general services would be grouped, wherever
possible, into contracts valued at US$300,000 or more and would be procured
by ICB.  A margin of preference equal to 15% of the CIF bid price of
imported goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is
less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Allowance has been made



- 21 -
for some limited international bidding for items where the amounts
concerned are small and where there are a limited number of suppliers of
particular goods and services (e.g. procurement of N'Dama cattle).
Contracts for fuel and lubricants and other contracts below US$300,000 in
value would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IBRD in which
foreign bidders would be eligible to participate. Contracts valued at less
than US$60,000 would be procured by local and international competitive
shopping with at least three price quotations. Technical assistance
(international salaries) consultant services and pre-project expenditure
(mainly international salaries) would be supplied by consultants engaged in
accordance with IBRD guidelines for the use of consultants.
3.31      IBRD financed civil works contracts in Kaduna, amounting to about
US$ 4 mn (42% of civil works value) would be subject to prior review; other
smaller civil works contracts in the remaining states would be subject to
selective post award review. All vehicle, plant, equipment and furniture
contracts over US$300,000 would be subject to prior review, which would
cover about 85% of equipment value. Other contracts would be subject to
selective post award review. Farm input supply Lontracts over US$300,000
would be subject to prior review which would cover about 55% of their
value. Contracts for supplying vehicle, plant operating, and general
service costs over US$300,000, which would be subject to prior review are
not expected to exceed about 202 in value. Contracts valued below
US$300,000 would be subject to selective post award review. If credit for
locally procured farm inputs (US$39.2 mn) and local salaries (US$22.4 mn),
which do not lend themselves to procurement procedures, are excluded from
project costs, the total value of items subject to prior review would
amount to 60% of remaining project costs, and approximately 50% of the
total Bank loan.
3.32      The Federal competitive bidding procedures have been reviewed and
found generally acceptable. Some changes and/or additions are recommended
(Annex 3-10) which were agreed at negotiations for application during
project implementation.
F. Disbursement
3.33      The IBRD loan of US$81.0 mn would be disbursed over a 7.5 year
period from the second semester FY 1987 to FY 1994 as shown in Annex 3-11
and 3-12. There is no IBRD disbursement profile for West African livestock
or credit projects. The IBRD all region disbursement profile for livestock
projects indicates bank loans are generally disbursed over 7.5 years. The
East African based livestock (without credit components) disbursement
profile indicates IDA Credits are normally disbursed over 10 years. The
reasons for not adopting the East African profile are as follows:



- 22 -
(a) start-up delays, usually associated with a new project, should be
minimized in this second phase project as most of the senior local and
internationally-recuited staff are already in place and have gained
considerable experience under the first livestock project (para 3.22); (b)
total expenditure for civil works, vehicles, plant and equipmuent, 90% of
which is financed by the Bank, amounts to some US$28.8 mn of which US$23 mn
(80%) would be incurred in the project's first three years.   NLPD staff
would prepare appropriate international and local bidding documents before
start-up, to ensure rapid implementation after effectiveness; (c) of the
international salaries and consultant costs amounting to US$14.4 mn,
US$11.1 mn (76%) would be incurred in the first three years and there
should be no delays in disbursing the balance of US$3.3 mn in years four
and fiv' ; (d) credit to farmers to buy farm inputs is expected to be
disbursed in a timely manner over the project period in view of: (i)
previous experience of IBRD projects involving credit components, which
have 90% of the loan disbursed over six years, and (ii) and preparation
work for the credit component being considerably advanced.
3.34      The proposed allocation of loan proceeds and the disbursement
percentages are given below:
Summary Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Amount of      Z of Expenditure
Category                       Loan Allocated to be Financed
1.    Civil Works                    7.0       100% of foreign and 75Z
of local expenditure.
2.    Plant, Vehicles, Equipmt.    16.4        100% of foreign and 852
urniture and Spares                      of local expenditure
3.    (a)  Farm Inputs, Credit                 100% of amounts disbursed
by NACB.
Mi) Model 2               14.9
(ii) Models 1,4,5(c),6    9.3
(b)  Farm Inputs, Imported    1.1       100% of foreign expenditure
N'Dama Cattle
(c)  rarm Inputs, Other        3.8      100% of foreign and 85%
of local expenditure
4.    Inter'l Salaries, Consul-    13.0        100Z
tants and Training
5.    Veh. & Plant Operating Cost   7.5       58%
& Gen'l Svcs, (excl. spares)
6.    Project Preparation
Facility (PO85-UNI)           1.1      100%
7.    Unallocated                    6.9
81.0



- 23 -
All expenditure would be appropriately documented and disbursements would
be made either against either full documentation or certified statements of
expenditure (SOEs) which would be checked during the course of supervision
missions. SOEs would be allowed for (a) contracts of less than US$60,000
equivalent for civil works and less than US$20,000 equivalent for other
categories; (b) force account civil works; (c) operating and general
service costs; (d) subloans by NACB; and (e) local training programs.
Disbursement into Account No. 2 (The Special Account) would be made in
accordance with procedures discussed in Annex 3-9. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that all supporting documents for SOEs would be
made available upon request for inspection by the Bank. In addition to the
US$1.0 mn provided through a project preparation facility to be utilized
for internationally recruited technical assistance January-September 1985 -
US$940,000, and training US$60,000, provision has been made to finance up
to US$2.5 mn of pre-project expenditure as follows: (a) retroactive finance
for internationally recruited technical assistance - US$1.74 million; (b)
US$0.1 mn for headquarters improvement; (c) US$0.5 mn for vehicle and plant
spares and furniture; (d) US$0.1 mn for computer equipment and training;
and (e) US$0.06 mn for short-term training. The disbursement of funds
under loan category 3(a) above, would not include items financed under
categories 3(b) and 3(c), and disbursement conditions associated with the
credit component are outlined in paragraphs 3.26 and 3.39.
G. Credit Arrangements
3.35      The credit program, totalling US $40.5 mn 4/ would be
implemented nationally by NACB using State lending agencies (SLA). NACB is
in a good financial position. Net profits increased from N1.3 mn in 1980
to N3.7 mn in 1983 and, during the same period, reserves increased from
N8.4 mn to N18.5 mn. Past and projected summarized Profit and Loss
Statements and Balance Sheets are shown in Annexes 3-13 and 3-14. At the
state level, NACB would establish state credit committees which would
include representatives from NLPD and NACB. This was agreed at
negotiations. The committees would prepare annual lending programs for the
states and for individual participating SLAs, and would monitor progress of
the credit programs at state level. NACB would lend through the SLAs. The
type of SLA selected would vary from state to state according to
performance but would be drawn from cooperative societies, state financing
institutions, IBRD-assisted Agricultural Development Projects, and River
Basin Rural Development Authorities. NACB is already lending through some
of these institutions and, although performances vary, NACB's experience is
generally satisfactory. Financial details of SLA are not available as the
final selection has not yet been made, but only the stronger institutions
which meet agreed eligibility described below, would be invited by NACB to
participate. Preliminary survey by the NACB/NLPD credit committee (see
below) indicate between one and three suitable SLAs are available per
state. Coordination of credit, input supply, and marketing would be
4/        US $1L3 mn for N'dama cattle to be imported by NLPD and US $39.2
mn in other farm inputs to be provided locally.



- 24 -
ensured through the already established joint NLPD/NACB credit committee,
which is operating under terms of reference satisfactory to IBRD.
3.36      Eligibility criteria, which include, inter alia, recovery
performance, organization and management, and area coverage, for SLAs to
participate in the project have been agreed between NLPD and NACB and are
acceptable to IBRD. The eligibility criteria are discussed in more detail
in Working Paper 6 and would be included in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be entered into between FMG and NACB (para 3.37). Signing of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness.
3.37      Short-term credit (US $20.6 mn) and medium-term credit (US $19.9
mn) would be available to farmers for the purchase of inputs, such as
cattle, fencing, and feed, and for working capital in the case of poultry
farmers. The inputs are described in Annex 3-3 and Working Paper 3.
Farmers in areas covered by selected SLAs, would apply for loans which, if
accepted, would be approved in accordance with lending terms and conditions
detailed in Annex 3-15 and in Working Paper 6. Funds for the credit
program would be transferred to NACB as a Government loan which would be
repayable in accordance with an amortization schedule in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between FMG and NACB (para 3.36). Agreement on this was
reached at negotiations, in addition to FMG assuming the foreign exchange
risk.
3.38      NACB would establish a new Revolving Credit Fund (RCF) from the
proceeds of loan capital repayments, which would be used to make additional
loans (Annex 3-16). The balance of the RCF would reduce annually in
relation to NACB's repayments to FMG (para 6.07). A similar RCF was
established under Livestock I, but was administered by NLPD. It was agreed
at negotiations that the balance of that account, about N3 mn, would
continue to be operated by NLPD for one year after loan effectiveness after
which it would be handed over to NACB. This is to avoid disrupting the
ongoing lending program where a number of loan applications would be at
various stages of processing.
3.39      To ensure that start-up of the credit component would not be
delayed, NACB's Livestock Credit Unit (para 3.19) has started preparatory
work, such as selection of SLAs and establishing operating procedures.
Disbursement would be made to a SLA once a loan agreement has been signed
between ITACB and the SLA, and it would be a condition of disbursement of
the credit component that agreement had been signed by not less than 15
SLAs. This was agreed at negotiations.
3.40      In order to determine the effectiveness of the credit system
proposed for the project, agreement was reached at negotiations that NACB
would carry out a full review of the project credit operations for
discussions with IBRD by not later than twelve months after loan
effectiveness and, thereafter, as at October 31 annually. This would
precede the annual agricultural credit interest rate review (para 3.43).



- 25 -
3.41      Commercial banks provided parallel financing through NLPD under
Livestock I, totalling about N1.0 mn.  For this second project, the banks
have confirmed their willingness to continue their support.  A N2.0 mn
ceiling would be maintained on commercial bank lending through NLPD, until
FMG and IBRD are satisfied that additiona'L funds, beyond the project's
lending program, could be absorbed without detriment to project activities.
Agreement on this was reached at negotiations.
3.42      Countrywide, credit and input supply institutions and the
linkages between them are not well developed. These problems are being
addressed through a National Agricultural Credit Study currently being
carried out by the Central Bank of Nigeria, with IBRD assistance. The
study is extensive and covers issues such as institutional responsibilities
(Central Bank, NACB and financing institutions), interest rate policies,
subsidies, input supply, etc., the findings of which would be pertinent to
this project. Therefore, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that
Government would review the study with IBRD by not later than June 30,
1986, and that a program for implementing agreed study recommendations
would be finalized by December 31, 1986, and thereafter implemented in
accordance with the terms of the implementing program.
3.43      Interest Rates.  Farmers would be charged interest in accordance
with Central Bank of Nigeria's guidelines, currently 9% for both short and
medium-term loans. In addition, because the margins for SLAs would be low
(1Z), they would add a minimum of 2% per annum administrative charge to
cover costs. Annex 3-15 further details the project's lending terms and
conditions. Although the 9% includes a recent 2X increase in interest
rates, this is still below the current commercial rate of 13% and the
domestic inflation rate, estimated at 152 in 1985. Government would,
therefore, review interest rates annually and exchange views with the Bank
each year during project implementation. The objectives of the reviews
would be to eventually: (a) bring the cost of borrowing more into line with
inflation; (b) reduce the differential between agriculture and other
sectors; (c) ensure adequate margins to lending institutions; and (d)
reduce FHG subsidies on funds for credit on-lent to NACB. Interest rates
would be adjusted progressively so that by 1st January 1988 the difference
between prevailing interest rates for agriculture and com'nercial lending
would be not more than 3%, by 1st January 1989 not more than 2% and the
difference further reduced substantially by 1st January 1992. Agreement on
interest rates and administrative charges for the first year (92 and 2%
respectively), and on the revisions, was reached at negotiations.
Increasing interest rates from 9% to prevailing commercial rates would not
affect the financial viability of the livestock development models as they
were all calculated at 15%. As mentioned earlier (para 3.24),
unrertainties continue regarding future macroeconomic policies in Nigeria,
namely the timing and extent of a reform program, and the general level of
interest rates. With current inflation rates not expected to drop below
15% at present, real interest rates are negative. Discussions on this
issue were carried out during negotiations. FMG stated it is committed to
the principle of real interest rates, and would take measures to achieve



- 26 -
this goal as soon as possible and thereafter endeavor to maintain interest
rates at positive levels in real terms.
H. Accounting, Budgeting and Reporting Requirements
3.44      NLPD, NACB and participating SLAs would keep accounting records
in accordance with generally accepted international accounting standards
and would prepare timely quarterly management reports and annual financial
statements to reflect their operations and financial positions. NACB and
participating SLA's would establish and maintain separate project related
accounts.
3.45      NLPD's annual financial statements, in addition to a balance
sheet and operating expenditure statement, would include an analysis of
expenditure by operating division so as to facilitate measurement of
progress and comparison with appraisal estimates. NLPD's and NACB's annual
financial statements, and NLPD's Account No. 2 and Statements of Expendi-
ture would be audited annually by firms of external auditors acceptable to
the Bank. The auditors' reports would include statements as to whether or
not in their opinion, Bank funds had been used fully for their intended
purpose, and would be submitted together with the annual financial
statements to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
3.46      NLPD would prepare an annual budget and work program based on
appraisal estimates, amended where necessary to reflect changes in costs
and project development policies. NLPD would also prepare an annual
procurement program for civil works, and goods and services giving items
and quantities required, sources of funds, timing and procurement methods.
This program would be submitted with the annual budget to FMG for approval
and to the Bank for information by August 31 each year. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations. NLPD would prepare quarterly cash
flow projections for both non-incremental and incremental costs which would
be submitted to FMG and the Bank, and would operate on the basis of the
approved budget and procurement program, and thereafter would release the
necessary funds to NLPD quarterly and in advance.
3.47      As in Livestock I, NLPD would submit timely quarterly management
reports to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the Federal Livestock
Department, and the Bank, showing by component, actual and budgeted
expenditure to date, explanations for significant variances against the
plan, proposed corrective actions, statements of progress achieved, and
objectives for the forthcoming quarter. Additionally, at project
completion, NLPD would prepare a Project Completion Report analyzing the
implementation of the project and its impact in relation to its objectives
and would submit this report to the Bank within six months of the closing
date. Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations.



- 27 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Coordination and Management
4.01      The 1981 livestock sector report and experiences from Livestock I
have demonstrated that there are essentially three elements which must be
made available to the livestock producer to stimulate increased production:
technical and veterinary assistance, credit, and inputs. As not one
existing institution is capable of providing all these services, the
project, through the National Livestock Projects Department (NLPD), would
use a number of existing organizations to provide the services. This would
meet the Federal Military Government's (FMG) and the Bank's objective of
containing expenditures. Generally, linkages between institutions which
provide these services are weak; for this reason it is envisaged that NLPD
would have a critical role in directing, coordinating and supervising
project activities, leaving actual implementation to the specialist
institutions. The principal organizational difference with Livestock I
would be that NLPD would no longer handle credit. Their on-going credit
activities would be handed over to NACB (para 3.38), and the Livestock II
credit program would in its entirety be handled by specialist credit
institutions.
4.02      State Ministries of Agriculture would provide animal health and
production extension staff who would be attached to, directed and
supervised by NLPD. The Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd.
(NACB), the country's main agricultural financing institution, which
participated in Livestock I, would have responsibility for implementing the
credit component. It would operate through state lending agencies (SLA)
which would maintain individual farmer loan accounts. Input supply would
be provided by private traders, multi-purpose cooperative societies, and
agricultural development projects. A NACB/NLPD Joint Credit Committee has
already been established to ensure timely liaison between NACB and NLPD on
credit, input supply and marketing.   Annex 4-1 and 4-2  provide graphic
representations of the coordination and implementation of project
activities.
4.03      The proposed organization and sequence of events to promote the
development of the six livestock development enterprises/models described
in paras 3.09-3.14 is as follows:
(1) selection of SLAs and input supply agencies: by NACB and NLPD;
(2) selection of area for project credit activities: from area
covered by SLAs and input supply agents or organizations;
(3) promotion and selection of participants: NLPD/state extension
staff promote ecologically appropriate model(s) at village level;
local SLA/village heads select most appropriate participants from
interested farmers;



- 28 -
(4)  state and national credit program: NLPt/state staff assist
selected participants with SLA credit application; all
applications aggregated at state, then national levels. Total
annual credit requirements communicated to NACB;
(5) distribution of credit and inputs: NACB passes credit funds to
SLAs who pass part on to participant to purchase animals. The
rest is paid by SLA directly to input supplier after delivery of
inputs to participant;
(6) technical and veterinary assistance: provided by NLPD/state
extension staff;
(7) loan recovery: by SLAs.
The institutions and their roles in project implementation are further
detailed below.
4.04      Project Coordination and Technical Assistance.  L.-der the
project, NLPD will have overall responsibility for implementing the project
and coordinating the activities of participating institutions. NLPD's
specific functions were described in para 3.03. Its weaknesses identified
in the Livestock I PCR would be addressed (paras 3.17, 3.21). The
additional staff required for promoting and supervising the project's
livestock development program would come from state livestock departments
(para 3.18). NLPD's proposed organization for the project (Annex 4-3) has
been agreed with Government, and most of the reorganization has already
taken place. Some departments have been eliminated and others added to
accommodate the new project.
4.05      Credit.  NACB would be responsible for implementing project
credit activities. NACB would use SLAs to on-lend to project participants.
Full details of credit arrangements are in paras 3.35-3.42.
4.06      Input Supply.  Under Livestock I, part of the required farm
inputs were procured and distributed by private traders chosen by NLPD
through local competitive bidding. As most inputs, except N'dama cattle to
be imported into eastern Nigeria and some veterinary supplies (to be
procured by NLPD), are available in the country, the project would expand
this form of input procurement and distribution to producers. However, in
areas where this system has not been fully established, NLPD would have the
responsibility for input procurement to support the project. In the longer
run, development of these input supply channels (many of which already
exist), could lead to an increase in the demand for livestock production
inputs outside the project which would also be met by these private
traders. Where this arrangement is not practical, multi-purpose
cooperative societies, World Bank assisted Agricultural Development
Projects and River Basin Rural Development Authorities could be used by
NLPD to distribute inputs through their farm service centers network.



- 29 -
B. Research
4.07      The project-related research program begun under Livestock I, and
implemented by the National Animal Production Research Institute (NAPRI),
and the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) headquartered in
Ethiopia, would be continued and strengthened, and one new area of research
introduced (para 3.15). NAPRI, located at Zaria, would cover the semi-arid
ecological zone research, and ILCA, located at Kaduna and Ibadan, would,
respectively, cover the sub-humid and humid zone research. Scientists from
these institutions would provide technical back-up to the field teams which
would carry out the actual research. A Livestock Systems Research
Committee, headed by NLPD, would be set up to review both research
proposals and research progress. The Committee would include
representatives from NAPRI and ILCA (Working Paper 5). It is expected that
ILCA would progressively hand over its research program to NAPRI, the local
research institute.
C. Post-Project Development
4.08      The development of the livestock sector requires a
well-coordinated system made up of a number of institutions to provide the
services and inputs the producer needs to increase production. Livestock
II would bring together these institutions and services. As the project
scope would be expanded nationwide under this project, a minimum
infrastructure (e.g. field offices) is required by NLPD to cover all the
states. This expanded network, once completed, would allow for a
considerably larger development program than is proposed under Livestock
II. Nonetheless, the number of participants has been kept modest in this
project so that this new system would not be overloaded. Thus the
administrative to development cost ratio is relatively high--1.4 or about
N53 mn to N39 mn respectively.  However, once the system is functioning,
Nigeria would have a framework which could handle a far greater number of
participants with only marginally higher incremental costs, thus reversing
the ratio in favor of development rather than administrative costs. This
could therefore potentially benefit a large number of rural families. In
addition, it appears the demand for more project activities exists: under
Livestock I, the project had to turn away credit applicants because funds
were unavailable (para 2.16).  As the project would work through existing,
indigenous institutions, it is expected there would not be an institutional
or managerial vacuum once Bank support is completed, thereby improving the
chances of post-project sustainability.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
5.01      The project would produce significant quantities of additional
beef, goat meat and milk and smaller quantities of sheep meat, poultry meat



- 30 -
and eg3s. In addition, increased cattle and goat numbers, especially
breeding stock, would contribute to an expansion of the national cattle
herd and goat flock. Additional benefits to crop cultivation would accrue
from the project, including extra land cultivated through the use of draft
oxen, increased crop production from improved soil fertility in areas where
fodder has been planted, and the use of manure. These additional benefits
to crop cultivation have not been included in total quantified project
benefits.
5.02      At full development (PY 10) incremental production due to the
project would total about 2,200 tons of beef, 900 tons of goat meat, 120
tons of sheep meat, 1,000 tons of milk, 25 tons of poultry meat and 300,000
dozen eggs. The incremental production for all models except the
smallhulder fattener, is from additional breeding or slaughter stock, milk
and eggs. In the case of the smallholder fattener, incremental production
is the weight added during the four months of fattening plus weight which
the cattle would have lost during the dry season (without project
situation) when the cattle is fattened (Annex 3-2). With this yearly loss
in weight during the dry season, it takes animals 3 to 4 years longer to
reach slaughter age. Smallholder fattening loans are revolved but at a
decreasing rate of 15% in each succeeding year due to overdues and
defaults. For the quantification of benefits, it has been assumed that
recoveries from other loans do not revolve, although in reality it is
probable NACB would continue to use the recovered funds for these models.
The projected incremental project production through PY20 is shown in Annex
5-1. The value of this production from year 10 in 1985 base prices is
estimated at N12 mn in financial prices and N8.0 mn in economic prices
(Working Paper 12).
B. Demand and Marketing
5.03      Prospects for the growth of the livestock sector are good as
there is a large unmet demand for animal products in Nigeria and the gap ii
widening (paras 2.02). Recent import restrictions on poultry feed and
frozen meat have decreased supply. As a consequence, prices of animal
products are rising, (para 5.04), yielding attractive returns to farmers
(para 6.03). As far as project production is concerned, there should be no
danger of oversupplying the market with incremental project production
which is estimated at less than 1% of national production for each product.
Marketing is considered to be competitively and cost-effectively handled by
the private sector. No need is foreseen for project intervention in the
existing marketing system, which coincides with Government efforts to
divest itself of parallel processing and marketing facilities (paras 2.19).
C. Prices
5.04      Financial Prices.  Animal product prices fluctuated widely in the
last three years (1982-84). The fluctuations were due to import
restrictions on animal products and feed (para 2.02), and the rinderpest



- 31 -
epidemic of 1982 through 1984 which is estimated to have killed close to
one million head of cattle. Recent import restrictions on poultry feed
have severely reduced poultry meat and egg production, driving the prices
for these two items abnormally high. To offset this, the project's
financial analysis was based on poultry and egg prices 202 below current
local market prices. The effect of the rinderpest epidemic on cattle prices
has passed and prices have decreased; no adjustment is therefore considered
necessary. There are also price fluctuations of up to 702 between seasons.
With the exception of the smallholder fattening scheme, the lowest prices
in the year have been used for project financial analysis. The higher
prices for the fattening scheme were used because the benefits accruing to
the farmer are due both to weight gain and to selling the animal at the end
of the dry season--a period of reduced supply. This also benefits the
consumer through supply increases at this time of the year. Over time, but
not because of this project alone, this could help smooth out seasonal
price variations.
5.05      Economic prices.  Deriving an economic price for beef presents a
number of difficulties. Beef is imported into Nigeria in two different
forms and through different borders, yielding therefore distinct C.I.F.
prices. The first product, frozen sides and quarters of in-bone beef, was
imported through the southern ports, mostly Lagos. At present, import
re3trictions have cut these imports, but it can be assumed that
restrictions could be lifted over the project's 20-year economic analysis
period. The second form of beef is imported as on-hoof cattle brought in
through the northern borders, with virtually no import restrictions. This
cattle moves freely between West African countries and thus its price is
considered both competitively set and internationally traded. Animal
products from on-hoof cattle represented 2.5 times that from frozen sides
and quarters in years of limited or no import restrictions. At present,
the two products are not directly comparable for the following three
reasons: (a) the frozen product cannot be sold in most towns and villages
because of limited electricity distribution and refrigeration facilities;
(b) there is a considerable preference for the fresh product. In 1978, a
year of relatively free trade before import restrictions were imposed, a 14
to 62% preference for fresh meat was recorded in large southern cities.
Preference in the north is higher: attempts to sell frozen beef in the
north have been largely unsuccessful with commercial firms having to return
most of the frozen meat to the south for sale; and (c) the frozen product
does not contain offals, or what is classified as "inedible offals" in some
countries, but which is eaten in Nigeria, including the hide. Thus,
on-hoof cattle have a higher overall value. Over time, however, the first
two reasons for non-comparability of the two products could change, as
refrigeration facilities increase and preferences change. Thus, because
both on-hoof cattle and frozen beef are internationally traded commodities,
and because over the project's 20 year economic analysis period the two
products could become more comparable, an economic comparison of the two
products is justified.
5.06      An economic comparison was carried out assuming a 20% preference
for fresh meat, although this is clearly low for the north where most



- 32 -
project production would be consumed. A cost comparison between the price
to the consumer of frozen beef and fresh meat with the 20Z preference was
carried out. This was done to determine if the importation of either of
the two products was a non-viable operation, either financially or
economically, or alternatively, if a market delineation for each product
existed based on local transport and marketing costs. The comparison
showed that financially, it is cheaper to import on-hoof cattle throughout
the country. This explains why even in years of unrestricted imports, most
imported beef came from on-hoof cattle. In economic terms, however, it is
less costly or more competitive to import frozen beef to the southern
cities, but on-hoof cattle to the north. Annex 5-2 details these market
comparisons. As all project output is measured in liveweight rather than
in slaughtered and butchered cuts, the exercise described above was carried
out to determine which product would yield the lowest economic liveweight
farmgate price for cattle. The two products yielded similar prices;
however, the on-hoof cattle price was chosen because it is the lowest and
because the data is the most reliable. Details are in Annex 5-3. All
other project production were treated as non-tradeable including the cattle
edible and non-edible offals, goat meat, milk, poultry and eggs. While
milk and poultry meat are traded items, they were treated as non-tradeables
because milk is sold as a fermented product or in a mixture with grain, and
poultry meat would only be produced In small amounts by the project's pilot
component. Projected prices were held constant as bank estimates forecast
only a marginal increase in prices by 1995. Financial and economic prices
for all project production are in Annex 5-4.
VI. FINANCIAL IHPACT
A. Livesto:k Producern
6.01.          The six illustrative livestock development models (paras
3.09-3.14), which represent enterprises already being carried out by
pastoralists or mixed farmers, were designed using conservative production
increases considered achievable by traditional producers. Investments were
also designed to be modest, using mostly locally available inputs and
materials. The net effect of the above is to create a low input-output
system which modern/commercial producers would find unrewarding, but which
yield attractive returns to traditional producers.
6.02      The chart below shows total per capita farm income, from both
livestock and crop enterprises (for mixed farmers), with and without the
project, and compares it with various national income levels.



- 33 -
PER CAPITA FARM DNCOME FROM
CROP AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTDON ENTERPRISES
WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
CNAM5
V - MM    D  'T
vo - urnur er
2B-
MODEL t mAOROPASTOAL33T   DM  4 - VEXTER4 N'DAMA 3REDl
usEL 2 - UNALLHOLDER FATfElM      3WEL S - EASTERN HPAK D EEEP
MODEL 3 - MAT DREERtMDL6-PUTYPDtM
It will be noted in the above table that the increase in totai ferm income
is generally considerable, but modest for two enterprises: Model 2 -
Smallholder Fattener and Model 3 - Goat Breeder. This is becaus.e these are
relatively small activities compared to the farmers' cropping activities.
Nonetheless, the enterprises are attractive to farmers becauEse of their
quick return (e.g., 4 mon-ths for Model 2), and increased income from the
enterprise: in Model 2, livestock income rises from nil to N430, and in
Model 3, it more than doubles from N115 to N1260 (Annex 6).
6.03      In the without project situation, farmers' livestock incomes are
assumed to remain constant because inputs required to increase productivity
are not normally -available to farmers. Mixed farmers' (models 3, 4 and 5)
livestock incomes range from 7-19% of farm income without the project. With
the project it is estimated they would rise to 9-56%. By adopting the



- 34 -
improved livestock practices, total farm incomes increase on average by
over 60Z, with a range from 3-82%. The estimated financial rates of return
both to the overall investment, as well as to the farmer, are high, ranging
from 212 to greater than 50% (Annex 6). The high returns are not uncommon
in investments which directly decrease mortality rates at relatively low
costs, which the project veterinary and nutrition interventions are
designed to do. In addition, market prices are quite high in Nigeria due
to decreased supply of animal products (para 5.03). The illustrative
models for each enterprise, showing detailed investments, sales, operating
expense projections and cash flows are in Working Paper 3. No increase in
crop incomes is assumed with the project, although it is probable it would
increase due to the use of manure and leguminous forages.
6.04      Impact on poverty levels.  Comparison of these farm income data
with income data based on national accounts must be interpreted with
caution due to the unreliability of national demographic and financial
data. Over 90% of project participants have incomes below the relative or
absolute poverty levels without the project. With the project it is
estimated that project participants per capita income would rise above
either the relative or absolute rural poverty levels C1983 Bank estimates:
N207 and N341, respectively), and three are above the GNP per capita income
of N770. Participation in the project would bring all six types of
participants above the relative poverty level, leaving only the goat
breeder and the smallholder fattener below the absolute poverty level.
Without the income from livestock enterprises, one of the participants
would remain below the relative poverty level and two below the absolute
poverty level.
B. Credit Institutions
6.05      The project would have a greater financial impact on NACB than on
the individual SLAs because of the small number of loans each SLA would
handle. NACB's net income from the project is estimated to increase from
about N50,000 in the first project year, to about N800,000 in the fifth
project year (about 1% and 22% respectively of NACB's projected total net
income). NACB's incremental expenditure would be small as it would
maintain only one account for each SLA - for a maximum of only about 30
accounts. The risk of bad debts would be low because (a) only the
institutions with the best lending records would be invited to participate,
and (b) in addition to the normal security taken by SLAs most of the SLA
loans would be covered by State guarantees, as are the majority of ongoing
NACB/SLA operations. NACB's margin of 2X between the cost of borrowing
from FMG (6%) and the lending rate to SLAs (8%) is therefore, considered
adequate. With regard to SLAs financed by NACB, it is expected that a
large number would operate through affiliated institutions; e.g., apex
cooperative societies would use primary societies. About 28,500 farm
loans, which includes revolved funds, would be issued over the five year
period. Assuming that about 30 SLAs participate, each with a minimum of
five affiliated financing institutions, the average number of accounts to
be maintained by each financing institution would be about 190 spread over



- 35 -
five years. Administration of project loans would, therefore, be spread
over a large number of financing institutions starting slowly in the first
project year and increasing gradually over the project period. On this
basis, it is expected that project loans would be handled by existing
staff. Experience with Livestock I has shown that the risk of bad debts
would not be great: by project completion there were 15% overdues of which
it is expected a significant portion will be collected. In addition, in
many instances, State Government guarantees would be available as with
on-going transactions between NACB and SLAs. The minimum proposed 3%
margins for the SLAs, which includes a 2% administration fee (para 3.43)
would be adequate to cover costs because of NLPD field support and the fact
no additional SLA staff or other administrative cost would be required to
handle the additional project loans.
C. Government
6.06      There are no formal cesses or taxes on farmers' produce.  Some
indirect public revenue generation can be expected as project beneficiaries
would spend part of their increased incomes on consumer goods and services
offered by the private sector, some of which will carry a tax element,
mostly in the form of import duties. As such, increased tax revenue would
accrue mainly to FMG. Although precise quantification is difficult,
assuming that 50% of incremental benefits enter the cash economy, and are
spent on goods carrying an average tax rate of 10%, then additional public
revenue would be about N600,000 per annum in 1985 constant base terms at
full development (year 10). Small amounts of additional revenue would be
generated at state or local government level through increased market or
trucking fees.
6.07      Financial costs to the Federal Military Government (FMG) from the
project, totalling about N73 mn over the five years, or on average N14.7 mn
per year, would be divided into two categories: (a) FMG's share of project
costs, in current terms amounting to about N31.6 mn over the five year
period. Incremental expenditure after project completion is estimated at
N6.3 mn in current prices.  FMG's contribution to project costs would
gradually increase (Annex 3-7) over the project period to reach N8.5 mn by
the project's last year, thus avoiding the need for a sudden increase in
FMG funding to support the project after IBRD funding is completed; and (b)
FMG's responsibility for NLPD's non-incremental costs (salaries, vehicle
and plant operating and general expenses) estimated at N41.7 mn over the
five-year period (or N5.5 mn per annum in constant terms). FMG's total
budgetary allocation would be partially offset by surplus revenue generated
from NLPD's sale of veterinary supplies outside the credit program,
estimated to average about NO.4 mn per annum. This income would accrue
from cost recovery practices to be used for the sale of veterinary supplies
(para 6.09). Where NLPD provides water sources to settled pastoralists,
costs would also be recovered and utilized to cover the operating costs of
the water development unit in NLPD. In the post-project period FMG's
annual expenditure directly related to NLPD would amount to about N16.7 mn
per annum (1992 prices) comprising ongoing incremental expenditure of N6.3



- 36 -
mn and non-incremental expenditure of N10.4 mn.  In addition, FMG would be
responsible for servicing and repaying the US$81 mn loan from IBRD.
Offsetting these payments would be NACE repaying FMG for funds borrowed for
the credit program, totalling N28.1 mn.  NACB would repay the loan to FMG
over a maximum period of 20 years, including a maximum 5 years period of
grace.
6.08      State Governments would continue to pay non-incremental costs of
salaries of veterinarians, extension agents and vaccinators attached to
NLPD state offices. The total cost to State Governments is estimated at
N21.3 mn over the five years, divided among 18 states.
D. Cost Recovery for Farm Inputs
6.09      Private distributors would carry out most farm input distri-
bution, thus the prices they charge would reflect unsubsidized market
prices with the exception of fertilizer (a minor input) which is subsidized
by Government. NLPD would invite bids from distributors to ensure that the
most competitive prices are made available to farmers (para 4.06). In the
case of veterinary drugs, NLPD would administer them directly and farmers
would be charged about double the cost of the drug itself (in 1985 prices,
about N1.2 per vaccination) to cove: overheads.  The funds recovered (on
average N0.4 mn/year) would be revolved so that NLPD could continue to
provide veterinary health services to project participants. Costs would
also be recovered for water sources supplied to settled pastoralists (para
6.07).
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Project Benefits
7.01      The project would benefit some 30,000 smallholder families (about
200,000 persons) through increased livestock production and hence incomes.
Over 90% of project participants would have had incomes below the relative
and absolute poverty levels, but with the project, it is projected all
would rise above the relative poverty level. The project would also
reinforce Government's new commitment to supporting the traditional small
scale private producer as the principle means to increase production in the
livestock sector. Once the credit and technical assistance systems and
channels are set up nationwide by this project, NLPD and NACB could reach a
substantially larger number of participants than is targeted for Livestock
II. Thus, one of the principal benefits of the project would be achieved
in the medium term, when a significantly larger number of participants
could be reached.
7.02      The 30,000 families involved in the project could expect both
their incomes and consumption of animal products to inc"ease in the short
term. In addition, consumers at large would benefit from a greater supply



- 37 -
of animal products, as well as a more even supply throughout the year. The
technology the mixed farmers would adopt is simple; it has been tried on
farm and found acceptable financially and culturally. The credit program
would encourage greater cattle ownership and the use of draft oxen. To the
extent the proposed mixed farming systems are adopted, in particular the
use of the fodder plots in models 1, 4 and 5, they would yield the
project's most important benefits, since the separation of crop and
livestock development is one of the greatest bottlenecks to the development
of agriculture in Sub-Saharan Africa. There would be direct benefits to
cropping such as increased soil fertility from manure and planting of
leguminous forage crops, and increased cultivated land from the use of
draft oxen. These benefits have not been included in quantified project
benefits. The benefits to the economy of relying on traditional mixed
farming systems rather than modern high input-output systems, which depend
on distorted price regimes and/or imported inputs to increase livestock
production, have been previously described (para 2.05).
7.03      The project supports a change in Government's policy towards the
sector. In the past, FMG devoted most of its resources to its directly
owned and operated schemes which proved unsuccessful, so that the small
traditional livestock producer farmer was neglected. In contrast, this
project would rely on the private, traditional sector to provide production
increases and to increasingly take over support services. By giving up
direct production schemes, Government would be able to make available
additional resources and focus its efforts on increasing the effectiveness
of existing support institutions. In addition, the project would provide
the Federal Government with an improved planning capability which would
evaluate the above strategies and generally allow for a better orientati
of both public and private sector investment in the livestock sector.
7.04      As was previously discussed (para 4.08), it is recognized that
administrative/recurrent costs of the project are high compared to
development costs, although project benefits are sufficient to yield a
satisfactory economic rate of return (para 7.05). The administrative costs
include the minimum overheads necessary to expand the project scope
nationwide. Once this is set up (by PY2 or 3), the system would be capable
of handling a much larger number of loans than is proposed under the
project. However, a reduced number of loans has been used because this new
system, which would be expanded significantly, and would include
additional institutions, must be tried out gradually and not overloaded.
Once the system is in operation, the number of loans can be increased at a
small incremental cost. The demand for additional loans appears to exist
as Livestock I had to turn away applicants due to lack of credit funds.
This system will use existing indigenous institutions which should improve
the possibility of post-project sustainability.



- 38 -
B. Economic Analysis
7.05      The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is about 19%
(Annex 7), and its net present value, discounted at 10%, as a proxy for the
opportunity cost of capital in Nigeria, is about N17 million. The ERR was
calculated on the basis of incremental costs and outputs or benefits.
Without project benefits are assumed to remain constant as the necessary
inputs to raise production are not normally available to farmers. The only
exception to this is the smallholder fattener whose cattle in the without
project situation would lose weight during the dry season. Project life
was assumed to be 20 years, including a five-year investment period during
which development activities would be substantially completed. For the
calculation of project costs, farm inputs and veterinary supplies were
costed at full, unsubsidized economic cests. The standard conversion
factor (0.45) was applied to all incremental project-related local costs
including on-farm labor which was financially costed at N5.90 per day. The
conversion factor adjustment allows for distortions to local costs
resulting from import duties, quotas and similar factors and translates
domestic prices into border prices. During the project period, NLPD and
NACB would continue to carry out lending from funds still remaining from
the Livestock I Revolving Credit Fund (para 3.37). This non-project
lending makes up a considerable portion of the total lending program: in
PY1, 60% of the lending program would use Livestock I funds. Since
benefits from these revolving funds are not included in the economic
analysis, the overheads attributable to the Livestock II credit component
were reduced in the following manner: 33% in PY1, 20% in PY2 and 10% in
PY3-5. Project benefits (para 5.02) comprise the value of incremental
production of animal products, priced at border farmgate prices derived
from import parity for internationally traded goods, and from domestic
prices for non-traded outputs, multiplied by the standard conversion factor
(0.45). Economic prices were discussed in paras 5.05-5.06. Working Paper
12 details further assumptions used in the economic analysis.
C. Risks and Sensitivity
/.06      The main project risks perceived are of two types: those within,
and those outside the control of project design and implementation. For
those factors outside project control which can be measured, sensitivity of
the ERR to changes in cost or benefit streams was tested. Switching values
were also calculated, i.e. the percentage change in a stream or streams,
other factors constant, that would reduce the ERR to its minimum acceptable
value of 10%, or equivalently reduce the NPV at 10% to zero.
7.07      A number of unforeseen factors, such as production or price
declines due to disease, delays or lower adoption rates, oversupply of the
market. etc. could affect the project's ERR. The effect of the most likely
problems to be encountered during project implementation, have been applied
to the economic analysis. Total project benefits would have to drop by
34%, or total project costs increase by 52% to bring the ERR to the minimum



- 39 -
acceptable 10%. Incremental benefits from cattle production represent
about 60% of project benefits. Cattle liveweight prices could drop up to
40Z and still yield a 10X ERR due to, say, a localized oversupply caused by
the project in a particular village, although this is not expected to
happen nationally (para 5.03), or a national oversupply caused by a greater
influx of imported cattle, or frozen beef if import restrictions are
lifted. If the poultry component was not implemented due to unfavorable
input-output prices (para 3.14), the ERR would drop to 18Z. If ,:^e
adoption of all models is delayed by three years, the ERR 's st ll' 12Z.
Post-project benefits (YR 6-20) could drop 45Z due to say, opening up of
import reotrictions or less effective management, and still yield a 10%
ERR.
7.08      Seve-ral project design issues within the control of project
design and implemenation were seen as potential or actual risks.
Technology appropriateness in Sub-Saharan African livestock projects and
local funding are often seen as potential project risks. However, the
appropriateness of the improved technologies proposed in the project does
not appear to be a major risk since all are currently being implemented by
traditional livestock producers. Socio-anthropological studies were
carried out to further refiie the models to make them socio-economically
acceptable to the potential participants. Local funding has been the major
constraint for ongoing agricultural projects since the drop in oil revenues
in 1982. As much of the local funding problem has been due to lack of
funds required by Government to prefinance expenditures which the Bank
would later reimburse, the setting up the prefinancing Special Account No.
2 would reduce this problem and maintain a more constant project cash flow
(para 3.28).
7.09      Two project design risks remain:  project organization and
adequate field supervision of the participants. Under Livestock I, all
aspects of the project's organization were controlled by the project
management unit. Under Livestock II, NLPD would serve more of a catalytic
and coordinative role and would rely increasingly on other institutions to
carry out project activities. Organizational risks have been reduced by
placing NLPD staff at all critical levels of project implementation so that
they can monitor the institutions to which they are providing financing.
This financing and monitoring role would enable NLPD to keep close control
of project activities.
7.10      While the adoption of project activities is relatively simple, it
would require NLPD to organize follow-up technical supervision visits.
This risk of inadequate supervision has been reduced by drawing up staffing
requirements for the promotion of each development model based on a careful
assessment of the on-farm experience to date with each model. In addition,
Government has agreed to improve field supervision by setting up 4 zonal
supervision offices rather than depend on the logistically more difficult
supervision visits from headquarters.
7.11      The type of project risks and the sensitivity analysis indicates
that while the project can tolerate a certain amount of latitude in actual



- 40 -
values from those projected, it is important that major divergencies in
costs, production or timing be avoided (divergencies in economic prices are
regarded as outside project control). Crucial to success will be: (a)
sound management and field supervision; (b) regular and timely financing;
and (c) efficient and dependable procurement and distribution of farm
inputs. Failure in any of these areas could have serious implications, and
safeguards to be sought in each area were taken into account in project
design (paras 3.06. 3.28, 7.08).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations for the proposed loan, the following
principal issues were discussed and agreement reached with FMG and NACB,
and specified in the Loan and Project Agreements:
(a) FMG and NACB would recruit experienced technical staff with
qualifications, experience, terms, conditions and job
descriptions satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.22);
(b) the Special Bank Account, designated Project Bank Account No. 2,
would be operated on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para 3.28 and 3.34);
(c) FHG would maintain non-incremental expenditures at current
levels, estimated to cost N41.7 mn over the 5-year implementation
period of the project, and would also pay the balance of its
annual contribution to project cost, totalling N31.6 in,
quarterly and in advance into the project's main bank account
(para 3.28);
(d) FMG would agree to the additional conditions required to give
adequate control over local procurement procedures (para 3.32);
(e) NACB would establish state credit conmittees which would include
representatives of NLPD and NACB, to monitor the progress of the
credit programs (para 3.35);
(f) loans to farmers would be made on terms and conditions
substantially similar to those set forth in Annex 3.13. FMC
would bear the foreign exchange risk for the portion of the loan
onlent to NACB (para 3.37);
(g) NLPD would transfer the administration of the Revolving Credit
Fund established under Livestock I to NACB within one year after
effectiveness (para 3.38);
(h)  a N2.0 mm ceiling on commercial bank parallel financing of the
credit comporent, handled through NLPD, would be maintained until



- 41 -
FMG and IBRD are satisfied that further borrowings can be
absorbed without detriment to project activities (para 3.41);
(i) NACB would complete a full review of project credit activities
and agricultural credit interest rates, for discussion with IBRD,
by not later than twelve months after loan effectiveness, and,
thereafter, by October 31 annually (paras 3.40 and 3.43);
(j) FMG would review the National Agricultural Credit Study with the
Bank by not later than June 30, 1986; agree on a program for
implementing agreed study recommendations by not later than
December 31, 1986; and thereafter implement the agreed program
(para 3.42).
(k) Farmers would be charged interest at the rate of not less than 9%
per annum, plus an administration charge of not less than 2Z per
annum during the first year of the project. Interest rates would
be adjusted progressively so that by 1st January 1988, the
difference between prevailing interest rates for agriculture and
commercial lending would not be more than 3Z; by 1st January 1989
not more than 2%, and there would be a further substantial
reduction by 1st January 1992.
8.02      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) at least five project-supported grazing reserves had been
gazetted (para 3.09);
(b) appointment of financial controller, technical controller, head
of training and four zonal supervisors with qualifications,
experience terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para
3.22);
Cc)  FMG had deposited N4 mn into the project bank account (para
3.28); and
(d) FMG had entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with NACB,
satisfactory to IBRD (para 3.36).
8.03      The following would be a condition of disbursement:
(a) For credit to smallholder cattle fattening: that NACB shall have
lent N4 mn of its own funds (para 3.26);
(b) For the whole credit component: at least 15 lending agreements
had been signed between NACB and selected SLA's (para 3.39).
8.04      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$81.0 mn to the Federal Republic of
Nigeria on terms given in the loan and project agreements.
WAPAB
April 1986



-   42   -
-uy Features of the Agricultural Sector
Unit         1974-76 AV.         19J4
1. Poulation if
Total (growth rats)                  Million         74.9 (2.5)        93.6 (3.3)
Rural a. Z Total                        I             81.8               76
Rural FailL. *sO                                     10.211            12 16J
2   Economic Oveview
CDP/Head of Total Population             6             521               767
Agric. GDP/seod of Rural population    8               173               233
Agricultural GOP as I of Total          S               24                30
3. Land Use a/
Land Area -l                         sq. km.         910.770           910.770
Forest                               '000 he          16.357            14.000
Perenial Crops                        000 be           2.497             2.535
Annal Crops                          '000 ha          27.503            27.900
Of Which:  Area Irrigated at       '000 ha              18                32
4.  Outputo                          69-71 A. - 100
1. Root Crops                                            104                90
2. Sorgbum                                               100                63
3. Millet                                                II1               107
4. Groundnut (in shall)                                   23                32
Livestock
Cattle                                                100               106
SHep/lOats                                            109               125
Poultry                                               107               187
Pigs                                                  1 13              163
Cereal Production/Usad of Total
Populatlon                           -                 90                80
Cr al/Read of Rural Population                            92                83
5. Inputs
Fertilizer                           '000 tone           124               60o
Pesticides                           '000 liters         n.-e              n.a.
Tractors */                            units           7.500             9.500
6. Trade *
Total Eports                           S u             9,312            11.314
Of Which:
Agricultural Products                S                  5               4
Of Wbich:
1. Cocoa end Producta              2                 68             74
2. Rubber                          X                  6               6
3.  Pal. Produce (kernils. oil)   2                  14              10
Total Imports j/                       5 a             5670            13.437
Of Which:
Agricultural Products                S                  8              13
1. Cereals end Preparation         :                 38             42
2. Suge and Honey                  2                 23              23
3. Dairy Products and Eggs         2                 19               9
Agricultural Inputs                  2                  2               6
7. Covernment Expenditures bh
Total Recurrent Budget                 S a             2.040             8.562
Of Which: Agriculture                   2                  I               I
Total Capital Budget                   S a             5.332             3.024
Of Which: Agriculture                   2                  2              13
I/  ja fir 1983 only
Remining land area is under permanent pasture and other land use.
Data Sources: (1) FAo Production. Fertilizer and Trade Yearbooksa (i) Yigeria
Country Economie Iao (Dec. 1985); (iII) Nigeria Agricultural Pricing Policy PePort
WAPAB                 (Oct. 1984); (iv) Review of Public Expenditure Progra ln Nigeria (Oct. 1985); (v)
January  1986         EPD Data Bank; and (vi) VAIDA's Key Indlcator Table of 1186.



NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
Phasing of Credit and Non-Credit Investment Program
(Number of Participants)
I.  CREDIT PROGRAM                                                                         Project Year
1     2      3       4      5   Total
A.   PASTORALIST/MIXED FARMER - Model 1                               With
- 1,850 New Loans (925 with water and 925 without Water)   Water:    38    75    150    250    412    925
- Main States in Lending Program - Anambra, Bauchi,
Bendel, Benue, Borno, Gongola, Imo, Kaduna, Kano,          Without
Kwara, Niger, Ondo, Oyo, Plateau, Sokoto                     Water:    37    75    150    250    413    925
Subtotal:    75   150    300    500    825   1850
B.   SMALLHOLDER FATTENING - Model 2
- 5,000 New Loans (600-1000-1000-1200-1200) + 6390                       600   510    430    370    310   2220
repeat loans financed from Revolving Credit Fund (RCF)                      1000    850    720    610   3180
- 151 Annual Deduction from RCF to allow for Bad Debts,
Late Payments, etc.                                                                 1000    850    720   2570
- Main States in Lending Program - Bauchi, Benue, Borno,                                     1200   1020   2220
Gongola, Kaduna, Kano, Kwara, Niger, Plateau, Sokoto                                               1200   1200
Subtotal:   600  1510   2280   3140   3860  11390          a
C.   WEST'RN N'DAMA - Model 4                                                  30    70      80       -      -    180       W
- 180 New Loans
- Main States in Lending Program - Ogun, Ondo, Oyo
D.   EASTERN N'DAMA - Model 5                                                   -   100    100    100    200    500
- 500 New Loans
- Main States in Lending Program - Anambra, Benue, Imo,
Cross Rivers
E.   POULTRY - Model 6                                                          -    10      20      30     40    100
- 100 New Loans
- All States
Total participants - Credit Program:   705  1840   2780   3770   4925  14020
II.  NON-CREDIT PROGRAM
GOATBREEDER - Model 3                                                    200  1000   3000   5000   6000  15200
- 15,200 participants
- Main participating states - Oyo, Ogun, Ondo, Bendel,
Anambra, Imo, Benue
To-l participants, Credit 6 Non Credit Program:   905  2840   5780   8770  10925  29220
WAPAB
July 1985



- 44 -
AXNIE 3-2
NIGCUA
SECOND LrVESTOCK PRODCON  DEMLOPFlT PROJECT
Livestock Production Program
Technical Coefficients of Models 1/
Model I
Agro-          Model 2         Yodel 3    Modul 4       Modal 5  Nodel 6
pa"toralist 2,    Cattle      Sheep       Coats   W. N'Daa   E. N'D_am   Poultry
1. Year of Model's Full Develop_nt           15   4 mnthe  4 months           3           11           9         1
2. Fertility Rate (Z) - w/o project          45          -         -         155          40          40         -
- with project        55          -          -        10          55          55
3. Mortallty Rate (Z)
Adults - w/o project          5           -         -         20           8            S
- with project         4           1         5         10           4           4
< 1 year - vio project         20           -         -         20 3/       20           20         -
- with project        10          -          -         10          15           15        17
4. Offtak  Rate (Z)   - W/o project        8.7           -         -         38          6.6         6.3         -
- with project      10.8          -          -         53        14.7           14
5. Kg Livewight Sold - w/o project        1,296 4/  1.064 5/   945 6/        32 7/        72 8/      615 9/      -
- with project.    2,058       1,339 -   1,112         o9 -       432       2.938 9      300 10/
- 2 increase          59         26         18        178         500         378          -
6. Liveweight Gain/Day (kg)
- with project         -        0.6 11/ 0.12 12/        -           -           -          -
7. Liters/Cow         - v/o project         112          -         -
- with project       160
-I increae            43
S. Egg/U.n/Yr         - w/o project           -          -         -          -            -           -       10
- with projact         -          -          -          -           -           -        210
-l2 incre              -          -          -          -           -           -         17
I/   With project is at models' year of full development
2/  Model without water supply
3/  0-6 months - 20 to 10 mortality; 6-12 months - 10 to 52
S/  Without project - 4 head herd (32 animal units). Inrease in production due to increased offt-ak
not anima weight gain wich remain  constant at 260 kg/heifer or cull cow and 400 kg for mal  > 3 years.
With project - 58 head herd, 41 aimal units.
5/   266 kg/head x 4 - 1,064 kg purchasd welght, and sold at 338 kg/head x 4 - 1,352 x 12 mortality - 1,339 kg.
Incremental gain - 72 kgthead + 0.36 kg loss/day foregone in dry season-x 100 days - 108 kg x 12 mortality
6/  45 kgrhead x 21 - 945 kg purchased weight, and sold at                                              - 107 kg/head.
55.7 kg/head x 21 - 1,170 x 5 mortality   1.112 kg.
7/  Flock without project - 6, with project - 7.7 head, see Working Paper 3, Table 3-2 for details.
Herd size almost doubles from 3.2 to 6.1 head (by purchase of animls) and average weigbt
of animal sold increas   from 180 kg to 230 kg because of cross breading.
9/   Herd size without project - 32 head, with project - 58 head.
10/ 200 cull hans x 1.5 kg each
11/ 72 kg. 120 days - 0.6 kg x 12 mortality - 0.594 rounded to 0.6 kg
12/ 10.7 kg livewaight gain + 85 days - 0.126 kg x 52 mortallty - 0.12 kg
VAPAB
July 1985



macuta
SEWCD  LIVhhT0=   W91L02U2V   1902
SATIStAL LIVIS.O    PROJCTS CSPARtT2fU
LIVE8T=   PIinICh2     MIWIANINfl  tQIRIfguT                   A/
Detailed Cost Table
(lairs  1000)                                                                                          l*Jflun of TaRt fat. CS
iattlt                                                     law   utftl   ab                                           ata                      . 
Uni         a                                                 ra :  ta td t tJaO          a       a                                 .      s        .               IIta    F    LL       ms P  l aw.   figd
A. FMtiWil
nra tx  1I i                                                 an       3 a.-we                  0        :.Isa      la'     it".  r6.o   in1.o   691.' a.s.u  2-1m3.'    ai.i          .    .oa.s  a,1.1.  2.915.0  0,196.4    201.16       lk- 20.   2 4.8 1a.M.
715717 gals * L IN 26299. 2/              20C                    to      240      0       62        21       MIS0             a.a    314      4.1     i.6    21.1         -    2.       4.4    '.2.    25.1    24..1       Ij.7          LI1       2.2   24.2
WM                                              2            220      40?4 ON 76    200    .1365        tM06      6."       ..'    31.6  LI         1.3    I2.7    13.7      11.9    6.4      2.6          12.  22.   U.si        539         22.2     2.4    6.61
0221.01                                          10 51                29      54       06      .54      2.4)4     4.012      5.:    I!      2.      I.:      2.0     4.8      1.1    3.a      1.:      1.      312     5'1        4.3          2       4.1      5.9
bi-s1315Sm1/                                       5          .72    19        .1      .5    2.4        3.27       tS       2IN.2  1316   64576.     3.1  2.59.2  2542.3    197.2  1C.?   6A3.  2.IN12.' 2.40.   s.e.-          2.50.6I    I2.4    34.4  5417A.4
013K m                                          InDitT        l 2 3   66A    683   1.164   tot11    41,597        1.196   134.1  26.51  374.2      151.9   0.t 3.954.1    i17.1  En.'   M1.4' ..    .31414                   29 I.MS lgt WA 35.  .O1    134.6  4.A.
rumrKu         1fV2f41                          fM           .-        2*      17       6    I. 60        28       Us 0.5          24II.2  211.6    '2.9    57.2    0.      1-.  2r.    A1.          173.0 424    9.0   2.0   2.1             534 14&4 21. 4   264
?11t1  Fm      VSro     Flow                    fin                    47      94      202     IN         470     5.121            42.6   12.9   L25.9   187.9   41g.'              -_-.    120       3.     Wa.:   sal..       02.9         234      31.7    Lil
eiENA  BLe   *Wi flo2      w                 it 29a Ku     2.414   1.0   4.leSS   11*21       t703     3,75       5.89     If.'   26.3    6.5      11.5    8.0   262.2        L.6    re6    53.9    Ci.   1.21        =J.        31'         7.       1.
61624 KM1   . 7isu  uSM                      iON  63 111     645   2.075   4e352   1195   24.271    29,510        6.9       .j   23. 4 6.3    7231   13.'    .63.             6.6    =.4    54.3   20.12111.3   311.!           179.          "A.    195   3111.51
81,1feTai USD                                                                                                                149.2  912.2 I'.&92   2.4425  2.73.1  7,254.2    311.61 hiN1  2,031.11 1N.46    4.4.  2,2.7-a?.                  2417.    09.  NOW8-
I.F"l ilmf
27245123  MD                                    IN             5    22.3    19,4    35.2        02      20.4    24.41    91.6  211.1  174.3    3.1   3116.6  l.0.9           71.6    ni1   67.6    S1.9    MAo  Mir=           1'.".4        MAs   "Me   rmJ
8232      ~       t  1123 11011 ill 92Wm        no            62      247     24       325     in       I'M9      9.29    22.9   12.9   44.0    3.7        T94    24L        ILI   53.9    as-    Vc1   asz    aI               hsa.          PA.    PO.     3.1
simuwE         m       rAit    75 =              M6                   42      210      411     716      5.494     0.25        -   2.,    9.e       u.s   126.5    M.:                14.5    *2.   in%a     MA.     042         194.2       tiLt      ma    cia
IS-f  Ia      Wm MI                                                                                                           113.i  2V6.9   32.2   363.6      I 54 .62971.6    92.81  384    041       M 7   14.5  taNGO 1110.  2.0.4         134    241   2M.54
4.6102517 639.1f
rAtUttE   S     rVS  F2501 WO                              1.66    4,11 203    3210 49,14   UMm       27,611      1.6      22.8    5.4   69.5   276.0   111.5   631.9        24.2   444    219.1   3L7    301.   911.           51.          SIj    44.    u.
1A67L2  52  LO                                  to         2,46    6.51   9.229  122.8    254411   0.188          6.61      7.2   21.9   27.       17.2    647   21141.9      7.9   3.1      WI9   14.2    15.0   a924          2144          641      941   20
16711 plgSit  SI a    .    F lagin   1,         LO           INU        1.30 16.1   6.lm     7.96      3,641      0.0:2    29.2   42.4   25.8    42.7    93.6  3I.2          52,8   3.4    26.5   :29.2   2491.    0.2-         31.1         26;    36    0.I
aW    i-i f    ~        I v"    10                          .216   ?.M8    3.20    LL3M   91.M5    11811,06       0.5       2.3   17.1   59.2   23.7    NJAU    02.1          3.2   3.?    19.4   111.5    30.5   IVA            40.2        r.&      3.9   61.6
NM   i9/                                         MO                   10       20       a1      6         2t      062o             0.0                      0.5      0.2        -    0.4 0.9          0.2      6.8     0.2 0.2                6.00-  0.0 0.1  .  2
Wta-fta  03L S   6912                                                                                                         11.6  224.5  29.0   04.    62.6  1,495.4    11.2   219.5         IW 5 110118  2,08.7  2.13.        2.5.4         S"          *.9b"
5.6m
167226 am  IV                                    ao          M6       93    iSm        30      5A       2.51      0711   211.2  05.1  144.2   371.6    0.3  .16.20.         6.6  1191.4    MO2.    sLO    uSIL   Ze-a    :,111               094    203.1  2.64.
SWt is,                                          aM          in    2.36    2,54i   32.1?    0.3        22.90      0.132    3.9  1279.6    9.3   VI.9    MA  216.5L            7.1-  121.9   5L4    54.8    75.5  2,9113.1    1.36.J          46.      950  2.915
"amt  271115                                   WA3.                        4,5111  7.M0    084I    24.151        0.21     1.0118.0    i0.1 10 2  1.6    14.2                         4.2     9.2    24.9    22.7      Wi         W4          0.7      2.5     Ci
ta6-ft.t 6151.                                                                                                             2,4.87.  4,256.4 8049.8  701,41    9,336.23.1,61.'  a.3.2 3IMS.    5e44942.632,9L  26111.30. 61,.71I  MICA.    20.32J  2.64.4 6.51.7
,"U  2.6,1   SIClll  VS~                       57           ,490  526,60   .42,4    12.6    540    228,145        0.I6    80-   25.2  321.13 .  1A .4  2,VM.                 28L6   209.?   34.t   461.2    36.7  is.'.    232               "UL      6.5  30.s
NAs  1i.o1s  rim   fix=                        5?              -   2.304   1.83   I0,3    21320        6.56"      0.66             112.1    0.2    56.2   221.    564                26U.2    18.2   23.6    SLi    61.!        V4           2IC.      .4    41I.:
an   a  r5   95mm                              51          2.        ,le   15.5101  35,501   31.511    76,.W      9.66      5.9   29.6   61.#    26.421.4 t77        6 MA      .8    3.1A    225.:2    .      2.?   0.2         51.7         26714    S"      M.;
5*0-fatltim  LA3 IxU                                                                                                           4.0  100.   31.o   313.3    37.6  1.511.2        12.2  243.9     6.4   311.4  1.351  2.119.0    1.39.           134    36.  209
aMs  i,,*.i5.6    IEi 63122925                  18        19.3160  2hOeS  451.14      . 54,114.4"  2.61,235       0.4I2   20-9  561.   452.6   541.1    79.2 2,1250.4    122.0   UL.2   631.0   196.' 1.22.0  2.671            2.51.2        7.9    2464.  2.21P
6011 1 . Vu  F1L"  1                                       334 215    aile11  195,5   25,06   2711.51   93,5      0.141    23.8    1.4  296.2   Wl71   392.6   66.1.         242.2 4        a.        Ml   04.9  1.WI.   2412.               5.1    '2.5  2.06.9
fw10-ft41afIS S   i                                                                                                          221.5   W.:  196.2    n.e   2.222.S  114.9    228-A  W9.?   M9.2' 2.211J  2.110.1  i.r.a    34t.9                2.4I.    21.4 0.CA2
095U16,2.4.2.1 . Will F9250                     15        54.646  212,9.0  203.9.0  63.976  6.661  iA.M.=          0.6     61.2  ISM.   267.6   63.1   4169 .1 2.            25.3   My5    WA.   668    34.  RA.mA    2.XL                   M".    P2.9 20.110
MRS  2I VS  F150                                LtN        a.'14    9.5    27.51   6.       54.511   ibM.         .0.3      2.2    5.3   17.2    65.3    14.4   IVJ?          2.0   U.S      31.2      .41    MA    MO.          161.4        31.3    20.1    MO
3,0-7.9.  697219  CSIlSEMIf                                                                                                 "2U    282.   2744    30.5   10.2  2.091.4          14J3  199    310.    345.51   Wi  2.0.3    3.06.3L                      "9.3    2 411.W.2
kb-ftaul riS  239m                                                                                                            .475.' 6.01.6 9.9%9.1 M2IMI1.027, 01.06.72   Is.73.2.51.02327IIJ UaOIIJ 1,3.836RAW                   6.151.9     314=.   N2.3.30
fatal tISITM   071                                                                                                               7,471.' 6,CI.39,9291.2 23.93.931.       41,96.4.2  2.3.27,U5 41&42.33 N1.912J1.310V,11 .2 6A,51M.9               27.42-  2.S.1 3.06.
. ...... . . . ......e,..e..t.et                                                                                        .flf             -      aew       -                .                ,a     nf                      -     e-a 
:' Include. inputs (of Credit ,re5haa (IgaluadIa areolved 166dm), oam-rodig pfupm. sopd larnmere rtcurrast Iospat
jaly 3965



- 46 -                         ANNEX 3-3
Footnotes
1/  Includes 20 rolls barbed wire at N30/200 m roll   - N600
250 metal strainers at N2                   - N500
4 metal corner posts at N10               - N 40
Tying wire                              - N 40
2/  Includes for poultry-rearing - lamps and brooding houses
for laying           - battery cages (or nest boxes)
3/  Brewers grain is put here as an example of feed given for the
smallholder fattening scheme. In fact, a bran and molasses mix
(3:1) is very commonly utilized. In addition, cotton seed, ground-
nut or palm kernel cake are also added to the mix in a roughly
3:1:0.5 weight mix.
4/ Includes chick, growers and layers mash.
5/ Includes rinderpest, CBPP and Clostridia vaccines for cattle.
6/ Includes ranide and thiobenzole for cattle.
71 Includes Semarin or Berenil (3 doses/annum), rinderpest and CBPP
vaccinations, anthelminitic and acaricide.
8/ Includes TCRV, dipping and drenching for goats.
9/ Includes fowl pox, fowl typhoid and newcastle disease vaccinations.
10/ Cows imported from other West African countries.
11/ Milk containers, syringes (Model 1), tags, transport, feed and water
trough (Model 2), dip drum, feed and water trough (Model 3), syringes
(Model 5), kerosene (Model 6).



NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
Project Components by Year
(US$/N'OOO)
Base Coats                                        Total
1              2              3               4              5            (US$'000)
......  ......  ......                        ...~~-S...
National Livestock Project Department
Admin. A Central Services - Directors Office                        273.0           234.7           146.3          !31.5           131.5            917.0
Admin. & Central Services - Internal Audit                           195.2          149.4           82.3            75.0           89.1             591.1
Admin. & Central Services - Admin. & Transport                      620.6           560.6          542.1           420.7          433.5           2,577.5
Admin. 6 Central Services - HQ Training Unit                        652.5           604.1          457.9           370.7          389.5           2,474.6
Admin. 6 Central Services - Kachia Training Unit                    606.5           300.9          290.1           245.9          262.6           1,706.1
Admin. & Central Services - Technical Control & Research            290.5           214.0          202.9           132.2          176.6           1,016.2
Admin. 6 central Service.s - Accounting & Procurement               474.4           411.6          318.6           271.2          246.6           1,722.4
Admin. & Ci. tral Services - Technical Assistance                 4,394.2         1,751.9        1,748.3         1,142.5        1,170.6          10,207.7
Field Services - Assistant Directors Office                         314.3           264.4          427.0           518.7          784.6           2,309.0
Field Services - Eastern N'Dama-Adada Ranch                         261.4            95.4           72.9            72.9           72.9             575.6
Field Services - Grazing Reserves                                 1,123.3           408.2          371.2           345.8          543.6           2,792.0  ^
Field Services - Zonal Offices                                    1,171.1           319.0          319.0           491.1          550.7           2,850.8   -
Field Services - State and District Offices                       6,088.3        5,242.3         3,679.4        2,959.5         3,847.7          21,817.2
Fld. Svcs. - Attached State Vet. & Animal Husbandry Ext.          1,632.9         2,506.2        3,921.7         4,794.8        6,252.1          19,107.7
Development Planning - Assistant Directors Office                   268.6            75.8           131.6           68.4           98.7             643.1
Development Planning - Monitoring and Evaluation                    786.9           571.9          541.5           376.5          350.9           2,627.6
Development Planning - Land Use Planning                            214.6           267.6          270.4           162.0           162.0          1,076.6
Development Planning - Development Credit                           298.5           329.7          243.8           181.8          179.7           1,233.4
Engineering Services - Workshops North                            1,122.1           500.5          328.8           342.1          366.2           2,659.7
Engineering Services - Cravler Unit                                 945.1           717.0          430.7           365.6          486.3           2,942.7
Engineering Services - Dam Unit                                   1,778.4           707.3          676.0           583.0          701.7           4,446.4
Engineering Services - Water Development                            547.4           977.9          891.0           655.2          547.4           3,618.9
Engineering Services - Workshops South                               90.3            90.3          147.5           125.1           90.3             543.4
Fed. Lvak. Dept. - Support to Livestock Sect. Plan. Unit    1,548.9                 506.7          447.6           113.0           53.9           2,670.1
Weetern Livestock Company - Upper Ogun Ranch                        813.0           341.6          280.2           287.4           287.7          2,009.9
NACB - Livestock Credit Unit                                        533.6           314.8          314.8           297.3          400.4           1,860.8
NIA   - Livestock Production Program - Credit Program             2,546.8         4,849.8        5,845.0         6,765.3        8,869.1          28,876.0
NLPD Livestock Production Program - Non-Credit Program                22.4          123.3          371.9           633.0          780.5           1,931.2
NAPRI and ILCA - Livestock Systems Research                       1,228.0         1,754.9        1,277.1         1,276.0        1,609.7           7,145.7
Non-Incremental Cost - Negative                                  -7,240.2       -7,905.9        -8,759.5       -9,257.3       -10,258.4         -43,421.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             23,602.6        17,286.0       16,018.1        14,946.7       19,675.6          91,529.0
Physical Contingencies                                              847.9           456.0          282.9           119.5          225.5           1,931.8
Price Contingencies                                               2,720.3        4,317.0         6,153.9         7,990.3       13,369.5          34,551.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              27,170.8       22,059.0        22,454.9       23,056.5        33,270.6         128,011.8   1
Taxes                                                             1,194.9           947.5          866.5           768.1        1,210.7           4,987.6   w
Foreign Exchange                                                 16,798.7        12,128.9       11,822.7        11,495.9       17,429.4          69,675.6   Al
WAPAB
July 1985



NIGERIA
SEC0ND LIVESTOCK DIMVOPeCI PARECT
Detailed Coat EaCteates by Nature and Purase of Expenditure
CUSS or Nlrs  OOes)
Vehicles                                  Other                                Vehicle and    General         Total      Physical     Price
Civil    Plant                         Credit       Farm       Intermtl.    Local        Plant Oper-   Operating        Uase      Contic-      Contin-       Project
Works    Equigeent    Consultants      Program     Inouta      Salaries     Salariea    atina Coat      Cost            Cost      aanciea       gnciea       Cost
Livestock Production Pronram
Credit Program                                                         28,876.0                                                                        25,876.0                 11,602.1      0,4D18.1
Non-Credit Progrm                                                                   1,931.2                                                             1,931.2                  1,069.4      3,020.6      1
NDne Ranches                      310.9       407.3                                   889.5                      491.6         213.4         192.3      2,585.5        79.2        921.6      3,S86.3      ,
Crazing Reserves                  388.7       661.0          56.5                                              1,020.8         369.8         295.2      2,792.0       105.2      1,138.9      4,036.1
Livestock Systems Research         42.2       812.4                                   941.7        342.4       2.274.7         534.5      2,197.7       7.145.6       181.3      3.380.3     10.707.2
Subtotal                     741.8     1,660.7          56.5      26,876.0    3,762.4         342.4      3,787.1        1,197.7      2,685.7     43,330.3        365.7    18,132.3      61,628.3
ProJect Manaeent and
SugOort Services
Nat'l Livestock Projects Dept.:
Admin. & Central Services       3,152.7     6,279.4         315.0                                9,102.8       7,961.9       5,898.1      8,294.5      41,004.4     1,339.0    14,141.7      56,485.1
Field Services                  3.203.4     6.043.7                                 1.360.4         _        25.5.4          3.5e0.4      6,352.2      46U064.5     1.119.2    24.132.1      71.335.8
TOTAL NLPU                 6,356.1    12,323.1         315.0                   1,360.4      9,102.8     33,504.3        9,478.5     14,646.7      87,068.9     2,45e.2    3e,273.6    1271820.9
NAGS Livestock Credit Unit                      321.5                                                              870.4          54.0         614.5      1,660.7        49.5        30.2       2,7900.4
Fad. Livestock Dept. Sectoral
Planning                                       64,4       2,336,3                               36.3                                         233.4      2.670.4     1_ .7          477.9      3.165.0
Subtotal                   6,336.1    12,709.3       2,651.3                   1,360.4      9,102.8     34,376.7        9,5068      15,494.6      91,620.0     2,524.4    39,631.9   133,7Th.3
Deduct lon-lncremrntl Coat                                                                                     (24,255.5)      (9,282.2)    (9,883.6)   (43,421.3)      (954.3)  (23,213.2) (67,592.8)
(67,592.8)
TOTAL PROJEC2 COST                7,097.9    14,590.0       2,707.8      28,876.0    5,122.8       9,445.2      13,908.3       1,464.3      8,296.7      91,529.0     1,931.5    34,551.0   1U,021.8          a
VAPAN
January 1986



NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs by Financing Category
(Naira '0OOs)
PY1         PY2          PY3          PY4          PY5         TOTAL
Civil Works                                4,961.5      2,723.8      1,930.0            -            -      9,615.3
Vehicles, Plant Equipment, Furniture       7,704.9      3,956.8      1,868.4      1,108.7     4,590.9      19,229.7
Farm Inputs - NACB                         2,829.2      5,894.7      7,777.2      9,859.9    14,117.0      40,478.0
Farm Inputs - Other                          524.6        871.5      1,236.7      2,019.1     2,864.9       7.516.8
International Salaries - Consultants       5,947.0      2,503.0      2,619.3      1,641.9     1,661.9      14,373.1
and Training
Local Staff Salaries                       2,282.2      3,281.6      4,266.0      5,708.5     6,880.7      22,419.0
Vehicles Plant Operating                      184.0       373.2        459.2        534.9        717.3      2,268.6
General Expenses                           2,737.4      2,454.4      2,298.1      2,183.5     2,437.9      12,111.3
Total                                 27,170.8    22,059.0    22,454.9    23,056.5    33,270.6    128,011.8
WAPAB
July 9, 1985
0'



- 50 -                                       ANNEX 3-7
NIGCRIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PROWECT
Detailed Project Financing Plan
(Naira million)
Bank Loan
Per Disbursement
P1I     PY2      W 3     PY4      PY5    TOTAL    US$ nM              Schedule
Civil Works
IBRD                         4.0     2.2      1.5        -       -      7.7       7.7                7.0
FMC                          1.0       .5      .4        -       -      1.9
5.0     2.7      1.9                       9.6
Vehicles Plant Equipment
Furniture and Spares
TBRD                         7.3     3.8      1.8      1.0     4.3    18.2       18.2               16.4
FMC                           .4       .2      .1       .1       .2     1.0
7.7     4.0      1 9      11     4.5    19.2
Credit for Farm Inputs
IBRD                         0.5     2.6      6.2      7.8    11.0    28.1       28.1               25.3   a)
NACB                         1.8     2.2        -        -       -      4.0
Farmers                      0.5      1.0     1.6      2.1     3.2      8.4
2.8     5.8      7.8       .9 9  14.2    40.5
Far. Inputs Other
IBRD                          .3       5       .7      1.1     1.7      4.3      4.3               3.8
FHG                            -        -       -       .1       .1      .2
Farmers                       .2       .4      .5       .8     1.1      3.0
.5      .9      1.2     2.0      2.9     7.5
International Sa.laries
Consultants and Trainins
IBRD                         6.0     2.5      2.6      1.6     1.7    14.4       14.4               13.0
Local Salaries
FMG                       2.3     3.3      4.2     5.7      6.9    22.4        -                   -
Plant Vehicle Operating
IBRD                          .1      .2       .3       .3      .4      1.3       1.3
FG                            .1      .2       .2       .2      .3      1.0                          7.5
.2      .4       .5      .5       .7     2.3
General Operating
IBRD                         1.6     1.4      1.3      1.3     1.4      7.0      7.0
FMG                          1.1     1.1      1.0       .9     1.0      5.1  Project Preparation
Facility              1.1
2.7     2.5      2.3     2.2      2.4    12.1
Unallocated           6.9
Total Incremental Project Cost
27.2    22.1    22.4    23.0    33.3    128.0    81.0                   81.0
Project Cost Financing Suimary
IBRD                        19.8    13.2    14.4    13.1    20.5        81.0
FMG                          4.9     5.3      5.9     7.0      8.5      31.6
NACB                         1.8     2.2        -        -       -       4.0
Farmers                      0.7     1.4      2.1     2.9      4.3      11.4
27.2    22.1    22.4    23.0    33.3    128.0
Note:  a) includes N1.3mn for N'Dam" Cattle
WAPAB
December 1985



- 51 -
NIGERIA                             ANNEX 3-8
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Program Financing Plan
(Naira millions)
PYI       PY2        PY3       PY4        PY5        TOTAL
Non-Incremental Costs
FMG
NLPD Salaries               2.6        3.0       3.4        3.8       4.4        17.2
NLPD Gen'l Operating        1.8        2.0       2.3        2.6       2.9        11.6
NLPD Veh. Plant Op.         2.1        2.3       2.6        2.8       3.1        12.9
Total FMG                 6.5        7.3       8.3        9.2      10.4        41.7
State Attached Staff Sals  1.3         2.4       4.0        5.4       8.2        21.3
NAPRI Salaries/Overhead      .1         .1         .1        .1         .2         .6
ILCA Overhead                .5         .5        .6         .7         .7        3.0
WLC Salaries/Overhead        .2         .2         .2        .2         .2        1.0
Total All Non-Incremental  8.6        10.5      13.2       15.6       19.7       67.6
Program Cost Financing
FMG
Project Costs             4.9       5.3        5.9        7.0       8.5        31.6
Non-Incremental Costs    6.5        7.3        8.3        9.2      10.4        41.7
11.4      12.6       14.2      16.2       18.9       73.3
IBRD
Project Costs            19.8       13.2      14.4       13.1      20.5        81.0
NACB
Project Costs             1.8       2.2         -          -         -          4.0
State Governments
Non-Incremental Costs    1.3        2.4        4.0        5.4       8.2        21.3
Farmers
Project Costs             0.7        1.4       2.1        2.9       4.3        11.4
NAPRI
Non-Incremental Costs      .1         .1        .1         .1        .2          .6
ILCA
Non-Incremental Costs      .5         .5        .6         .7        .7         3.0
WLC
Non-Incremental Costs      .2         .2        .2         .2         .2        1.0
Total Program Cost            35.8       32.6      35.6       38.6       53.0      195.6
WAPAB
December 1985



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-9
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Special Account No. 2
An amount of up to US$5 mn financed as an advance from the Bank
loan would be deposited in a separate Special Bank Account designated
Project Bank Account No. 2, 1/ situated at the Kaduna branch of a Nigerian
commercial bank. The fund could be utilized to cover eligible expenditures
against all categories. Initially, while project expenditures are
occurring at a slower pace, the amount to be advanced would be US$3 mn.
Account No. 2 would be used to finance incremental expenditures eligible
for reimbursement, and would be replenished against certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOE's) for those items eligible for disbursement on that basis
(para 3.14). The disbursement application requesting replenishment would
be supportd:.y ,a) a certificate signed by the senior project engineer
certifying the rsmbursement of civil works completed; (b) a statement of
transactions on the Account No. 2 certified by the commercial bank; (c) a
reconciliation of withdrawals and deposits with statements of permitted
expenditures and IBRD disbursements certified by the Project Director and
Financial Controller and that IBRD procurement guidelines and procedures
had been complied with; (d) statements disclosing the timely quarterly
contributions made by FMG for non-incremental and incremental project costs
credited tc Account No. 1. Should any disbursement be made from this
account which is not acceptable to IBRD, FMG would refund the corresponding
amount prior tq sAxfission of any further replenishment applications.
*k-A-p_cified in the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, the Govern-
ment's initkd -request for advance to the Special Account will be re-
stricted to US$3.0 in. Withdrawal of the remaining US$2.0 mn would depend
on the provision by the Government of adequate justification of the need
for additional funds as well as the experience with the use of the initial
deposit of US$3.0 mn.
1/        Project Account No. 1 would be the project's main bank account.
WAPAB
August 1985



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-10
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Competitive Procurement Procedures
The Federal Governments's general local competitive bidding
procedures have been reviewed and found generally acceptable with some
exceptions. Bid documents for local competitive bidding under the project
should specify:
(a) The criteria for evaluating bids should be clearly set out in the
bid documents and should specify that award will be made to the
lowest evaluated bidder;
(b) bids should be accompanied by a bid security, or bid bond;
(c) all bids should be opened in public and bidders' representatives
allowed to attend;
(d) successful bidders should be required to submit a performance
security on release of their bid security, or bid bond.
WAPAB
August 1985



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-11
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
(US$ million
Cumulative Amount
Disbursed
IBED Fiscal Year    Quarter   Amount Disbursed         z        Amount
1986                      4            0a/              0           0
1987                      1            0                0            0
2         1.6 b/             2          1.6
3         1.6                4          3.2
4         1.7                6          4.9
1988                      1          1.6                8         6.5
2         4.0               13         10.5
3         4.1               18         14.6
4         4.0               23         18.6
1989                      1          4.1               28        22.7
2         4.0               33         26.7
3         4.9               39         31.6
4         4.0               44         35.6
1990                      1          4.1               49        39.7
2         4.0               54         43.7
3         3.3               58         47.0
4         4.0               63         51.0
1991                      1          3.3               67        54.3
2         2.4               70         56.7
3         1.6               72         58.3
4         3.3               76         61.6
1992                      1          2.4               79        64.0
2         3.2               83         67.2
3         3.3               87         70.5
4         2.4               90         72.9
1993                      1          1.6               92        74.5
2         1.6               94         76.1
3         1.7               96         77.8
4         0.8               97         78.6
1994                      1         0.8                98        79.4
2         1.6              100         81.0
a/  Estimated Board Presentation, June 1986.
b/  Estimated Loan Effectiveness, December 1986.
WAPAB
January 1986



NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DISBURSMENT PROFILE
tNQ110
xt       100-       LIVESTOCK II DISBURSMENT PROFILE
- BRD-ALL REGION LVSTK PROFILE
U,        90 .      Z---IBRD-ALL REGION AGRIC. CREDIT PROFILE
70-
jee
VI.
0        I        Z        3        4        S        a         7
YEARS
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0  1  2  3      4        5        0        7         8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
YEARS~~~~~~~~



- 56 -
Eml                                       ANNEX 3-13
ani uws ROUTST PUllET
- -      a~ ~ ~~~-           -
1990     191       1992      I3                 51        l9            19  297                  1999      I90
INTEREST ON LOANS                4239     7619    16         193                3550    22          244       26950    29500      2450    35700
INTEREST N S.. DPSITS           2591      5511     4924      460                50        3          0        6        6500      6         650
HISCELLANEDS INCONE               130       191      229       171                 200      200       20        200       200      200       200
MFIT SALE FIXED ASSETS             10        16        12       32                  0        5         60        70        90        90      100
IA) TOTAL OPERATING IINCOE           6959    13327    22049    239                   2533     27950    30M0    33           36210    32        4250
DIRECTORS FEES                     20        31       39        31                  35       0         45        50        55       60        65
ADINm. & OTHER EXPENSES          2790      6001     970      130                 17300    59900    21O    240           26490    2910      32050
PENSION FID                       297       630      99       19                  1M       10        170       1910      2100     2310      2540
AUDIT FEES                         20         7         7        7                   0         I        R         9         9         9       10
PROVISINS:
DOUBTFUL DEBTS                   2250      4000     5350      *00                 11      2050      2200      2450      2650     2950      3250
DEPRECIATION                      330       591      894      1216                1000     160       1450      1300      1200     1050       950
(01  TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES        5697    11260    16977    20201                       3 2517       2         297      32504    35519    39965
NET OPERATING
PROFIT(A-BI                      1262      2067     5072      3705               37        27        3327      3821      3776     3721      363
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES              167       209      222       222                   -        -         -         -         -        -         -
AN RELATING TO PREVIOUS YR          -         -         -      127                   -         -        -         -         -        -         -
REPLACET RESERVE                  100       100       100      100                1t         100      100       100       200       100      100
TRANSFER TO GEIERAL RESERVE       995      1758     4750      3256               499       02        4%7       5631     5776      5931      6075
(C) TOTAL:                       1262     2067      5072      3705               509       452       5067      5731     5876      601       6175
WAPAB
August 1985



- 57 -
MINEX 3-14
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVISS1   DEVfoPWTl PROJ-
SUMMIARY OF NACfl BALANCE SHEETS
(N '000)
ACTUAL                                          MRJECTED
AST                             190       1981      1912     19B3                194    1995       19       1997       119       19m     .1990
LUans Current                94005   152337   214190   216622               238300   262150   299400   317250   349950   313900   422250
Lous Arrears                 39371    49743    62411    89711                97550   107300   1L9OOO   129100   142900   157050   172900
Sb-total:                   133376   202090   276601   305333              335950   369650   40640    447050   491750   5409O   595050
Les Provision for
Bad Dkpts                   5250      9250    14600    10600               20150    22200    24400    26950    29500    32450    35700
subtotal:         129126   192930   262001   296733               315700   347250   382000   420200   462250   S500   559350
Fixed Assetsuffter
Depreriatimn           4169      4919     6929    11390               13000    15050    17300    19903    20900    21950    23050
Equity Investmnt               1000     1000      1000     1000                1000     1000      1000     1000      1000      1000     1000
Stocks I Debtors               1790     2255      4058     460                5100      5600      6N0      6900      7450      B200     9000
Prepaid & preliminary
expenses                    1236      1346      1292     1061               1200      1300      1450     1600      1750     1900      2100
Cash in hind & it Bank       105401   102779    70653    96755               93338    9290    94537    91895    00434    79655    76950
Total:           241721   305129   345932   401535               429339   4540    492497   531398   573704   620205   671450
Shareholders Fonds
Capital                   150000   150000   150000   150000               150000   150       150000   150000   150000   150000   150O00
Revenue Reserve              250       350       450      550                650       750       950      950      1050     1150      1250
Gneral Reserve              9197      9955    14706    17961               21589    25630    30437    35998    41594    47305    53150
Liabilities
FEN Loans                   79346   106346   130946   149221               164150   180550   198600   219500   240350   264350   290900
Building Fund                2554      2554     2554      2554               2900      3100     3400      3750      4100     4500      5000
IIRD Loans                   1673      1976     3300      5614               6950      6950     8500    11450    14900    19850    23950
Creditors                     701      1941     4276    12568               13900    15200    16750    19400    20250    22300    24500
CM3  Loans                    -       32000    39900    63067               69400    76300    83950    92350   101550   111750   122900
TOTAL:                     241721   305129   345932   401535               429339   459480   492497   531399   573784   620205   671-450
WAPAB
August 1985



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   Federal Government of Nigeria to NACB
(1)  Rate of Interest          Not less than 6% per annum on the
principal amount of loan outstanding
from time-to-time.
(2)  Repayment (capital        In accordance with the Amortization
and payment of            Schedule attached to the Subsidiary
interest)                 Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Federal Government of
Nigeria and NACB.
2.   NACB to On-Lending Institutions
a.   Short-term loans
(purchase of livestock,
feed, and transport)
(1)  Rate of interest  : Not less than 2% per annum above FMG
lending rate to NACB.
(2)  Period             : 4-12 months
(3)  Repayment (capital  To coincide with repayments from
and payment of       ultimate borrowers, but not
interest)          : exceeding 12 months.
(4) Penalty for late
repayment          : Not less than an additional
5% per annum.
b.   Medium/long-:erm loans
(purchase of I'vestock,
feed, fencing, water
supply, and fodder
bank establishment)
(1) Rate of interest : Not less than 2% per annum above FMG
lending rate to NACB.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 2 of 4
(2)  Peried             : 3-7 years
(3)  Repayment (capital  To coincide with repayments from
and payment of      ultimate borrowers, but not
interest)          :exceeding 8 years).
(4) Penalty for late
repayment          : Not less than an additional
5% per annum.
3.   On-lending Institutions to
Participating Farmers
a.   Short-term loans
(1) Rate of interest : Not less than 1% per annum above
NACB lending rate to on-lending
institutions, plus not less than 2% per
annum administration fee
(2)  Period             : 4 months
(3) Penalty for late
repayment          : Not less than an additional
5% per annum.
b.   Medium-term loans
(1)  Rate of interest  : Not less than 1% per annum above
NACB lending rate to on-lending
institutions, plus not less than 2% per
annum administration fee.
(2)  Period             : 3-7 years.
(3) Penalty for late
repayment          : Not less than an additional
5% per annum.
4.   Revolving Credit Fund
NACB would establish and maintain a revolving fund into which the
proceeds of capital repayments of all project loans to NACB, from
participating financing institutions, would be credited. Withdrawals



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 3 of 4
from the revolving fund would be made by NACB for the following purposes:
a.   non-incremental loans direct to farmers, on-lending institutions
and NLPD for similar purposes (including input procurement), and
on similar lending terms and conditions as loans granted under
the Second Livestock Protect; and
b.   repayments of capital to the Federal Government of Nigeria in
accordance with the amortization schedule attached to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Federal Government of
Nigeria and NACB.
5.   General
a.   Federal Government of Nigeria would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
b.   NACB would establish eligibility criteria, satisfactory to IBRD,
for on-lending institutions to participate in the Project, and
would enter into separate financing agreements with each
participating on-lending institution.
c.   NACB and participating financing institutions would maintain
separate records for project loans.
d.   Security to be in accordance with the normal security
requirements of the financing institutions and, in the case of a
medium/long-term investment, to include a charge over the assets
purchased with the loan.
e.   Each loan applicant would agree to follow technical advice
provided by the Livestock Project Department.
f.   Lending institutions would charge loan applicants a loan
application fee of N5 plus an administration fee of not less than
2% per annum which would be in addition to the interest charge.
g.   Loans would not be granted to applicants who are in default with
current loans.
h.   Farmer contribution would be between 10% and 42% of individual
investment.
i.   NACB would review interest rates with the Bank as at 31st
October annually and, if necessary, revise the rates in agreement
with the Bank to reflect Central Bank of Nigeria guidelines and
the costs of administering the program.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 4 of 4
j.   KACB would carry out a full review of project credit
activites, for discussion with IBRD, by not later than twelve
months after credit effectiveness, and, thereafter, as at 30th
October annually.
k. These lending terms and conditions listed under 1-5 above may be
amended from time to tlme as agreed between IBRD, FMG, NACB, and
NLPD.
WAPAB
August 1985



NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NACB - Indicative Revolving Credit Fund Summary
(N '000)
PY 1         PY 2         PY 3         PY 4        PY 5
A. Cash Flow
Source of Funds
IBRD                                       2,075.1       4,276.6      5,427.9     6,850.4      9,436.2
NACB own Funds                               283.4         589.5        777.4        986.0     1,411.0
Repayment Development Loans                   41.7         156.7        421.4        871.8     1,589.5
Repayment New Short-Term Loans             1,794.0       3,280.0      3,590.0     4,716.0      5,148.0
Repayment Repeat Short-Term Loans                -       1,672.8      4,970.0      7,624.2    11,411.4
4,194.2      9,975.6    15,186.7    21,048.4    28,996.1
B. Use of Funds
Long-Term Development Loans                  564.5       1,586.1      2,615.3      3,120.4     5,699.2
New Short-Term Loans                       1,794.0       3,280.0      3,590.0     4,716.0      5,148.0
Repeat Short-Term Loans                           -      1,672.8      4,970.0     7,624.2    11,411.4
2,358.5      6,538.9    11,175.3    15,460.6    22,258.6
Balance available on Revolving
Loans Fund                                1,835.7       3,436.7      4,011.4     5,587.8      6,737.5
Cumulative                                       -       5,272.4      9,283.8    14,871.6    21,609.1
Cash Available on Revolving Loans Fund as at end PY 5:    21,609.1
Development Loans outstanding:    10,504.4
32,113.5
WAPAB
July 1985



NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance, Credit Funds and Input SupplV FRow Chart
TICENICAE ASSI5TANCE                        CRE1NI                                    OM SUPKY                        L1
IF0t/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
di  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FedarN GamnAsIimeg&                              'eehn5sl
Proiwfs D9pafI                            I
TUectvDePo  Euac               - . . 
(NE\D)              .     g                                 mmtelI
Fkt d AOpwaR Ce/C oum* (N,)- t                       d(   _Fg
--    Tn CtO'1t Fu,d Ou FI
| edtF,jn  -t #k  l l
Jul  1985 
- -   Teh{8kd ,4sista/Coorcretostat
. t c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot
NLDStt A  =bhd                                                      o  W&R
RORDA's~~~~~~~~Ate C-o ARf COOP SU   D  h
EWtoinAWPABcl                                                         GM eincmmL
July 1985~~~~~~~~~~C,



- 64 -
ANNEX 4-2
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
Pro*ct Implefenatlon Schedule
Pld %.          WoodPt PV                            PC2             PF3              P_                 Po
mal-         pay1              FM               -Y8                    -- 
M1   PaM VeO     1UtWa        _ 9WI"7              IMAM           _  l9U/19fl9          __ _9_!1o       19W0/191          19W 1W2 
Qua;         2   3   a   1   2   3    A    i   2   3   4    1  2          d   1   2   3d A 1   2   3   4   1   2   3 _
11 NaoFlblnq                             S 
1.3_ E      :s ,.                                                                                 ,                                                           t 
IACor,ial.llN Dt
2OEC lIDVtAI
A. ENETOOC pROD.CyToN pR2OGIt
21 kt.n _  t  gtt_  u_
LOM   I-Ad    pdx
1o 2- SomwisFaten_ r
2, I 4 - VI.em IN Ow1
LModal 5 - Eadter NOant
Moodl 6 - PauLby
2.2 NDwom kivot                                                le 
23 Gro&qi Rammru
-Goadisi of 5 Raseaw.
-Gan*tkg d 3 bin..v
of 3 NsmvR...wes
-Mhin#urceo d 8 Roeset.
K L1ft.ABJ18ff& SJtLF0G SERVKCE5
25 T_&vlW A=WW=o (TA)
- Short-Tint (5 podhiOis
- ROSd ReTA Fa--t---r tjg
- RaoeftrOotlenancdtm
26 RepoMtng
- mja Walk< Plgrn +jgg I&l  
Prwa                                       t Apo4,                           W        i        +           i       i 
- A.Noted PIMU
A10Un2h                            _                    _ _              _LFX__   
2.7 CvIl Waoft
- AStllSfMat atan AWXlctju
-                                    _wlev of WM"__ RctI a
Crit 1 5Acivte
- Waronay Sody
- Uwstaak C.nas
- R)0Mmmmcth.tui& & EvaWluton                                                                                                                      a
2.10 TralWtg
- SWcrwwv  ac  tIIgCne
WAPAB
August 1985



NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nationl LNsock Propch Department
Organization Chait
l              l-
LZ~~~~~~w aJ
9A-27"
WAPAB
July 1985



N16ERIA
SECOND LIVESTXCK XEKLOPFNT PROECT
Projected Incremental Project Production
NOXL
1. AGROPASiORkIST                        1          2      3        4        5        6        7        *        9        16       11        12       13       14       15       16       17       to       19        2t  2
FORAME 6ROWER
MILK   ODUCTION IHNT               25.4     77.9   14.0    403.0   737.9   851.5  1056.9   1159.1 15429.5   165.3    1734.9 SOf.6   1959.4  1959.4  2959.4   199.4  1959.4   199.4  599.4   19.9.4
NENT PRODCTION (Ktl                19.6    74.4    112.8   340.9   610.8    703.0   413.4   449.3    791.2  1007.5    11H.9    953.0   M95.5  1245.5  195.0   135T .4   140.0   1410.0  1410.0  637.1
2. SMALLaDER FATTENER  3/
NEAT PRODCTION INTl               ;59.2   652.1    995.0   1356.0  1668.0   1417.0   1205.0  .024.0   970.0    740.0    629.0   534.0   454.0   316.0    123.0    m.0   237.0   201.0   172.0    146.0
3.  GOAT BREEDER
EAT PRODUCTION ITl)                 3.0     21.5    G98.    239.2    49.6   7114.0   166.4   966.4   566.4   866.4           SM.4   64.4   866.         .4        64 .4   114.4    U6.4   166.4   1i6.4   1327.6 
4.  HESTERH I'DA4A
.._..........
NEAT PRODCTION  INT)           *            21.3     77.4    549.5   563.9    569.0   596.9    219.9   232.!   265.1    310.9   377.1   353.8    417.6    417.6    417.6    417.4    417.6    417.6  1497.6
5. EASTERN HNMAM
MEAT PRODUCTION  INT)              -         4.3     20.3    39.7      77.3   116.9    139.5   168.3   169.8   175.5          178.1   179.1   179.1   179.1    179.1   519.1   179.1   179.5    179.1    91.6
6. POULTRY BREEDER
NEAT PRODUCTION INT)               -                  2.7      9.1    12.2    27.0    27.0    27.0         27.0    27.0       27.0     27.0     27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    77.0    27.0    27.0
E66 PRODUCTiON 5000 DOZES)         -        11.1    53.8    121.3    234.3    316.7   3514.7    316.7   3516.7   315.7       315.7    316.7   314.7    316.7    316.7   351.7   3516.7    315.7   316.7    316.7
I/ NOTE - NEAT PRODLUCTION IS IN FORM OF METRIC TONS Of INCREMENTAL LIVE fEIENT BAIN
2/ RESIDUAL HERD VALUES ADDED TO MODELS 1,3,4,5
3/ ASSUNES A 152  ANBAL DEFAULT RATE IN LOAN RECOVERY
AUGUST 15, 5965



NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparison of Financial and Economic Prices for Beef Sides
Imported as Frozen Beef and Cattle on-Hoof, in two Markets
(kg)
Lagos Market (South)                Kaduna Market (North)
financial       economic 1/        financial         economic 11
CIF on-hoof cattle Northern Border 2/ (N)           1.99            1.99              1.99              1.99
Transport to Maiduguri   3/                         0.01            0.005            0.03               0.014
Marketing costs Maiduguri                           0.19            0.085             0.19              0.086
Transport to Lagos 4/                               0.30            0.135              -                 -
Marketing costs Lagos 5/                            0.55            0.248             0.35 7/           0.16
Subtotal                                         3.04            2.46             2.56               2.25
Conversion to in-bone sides 6/                      6.08            4.92              5.12              4.50
Deduct value of offals                             (0.8)           (0.36)            (0.8)             (0.36)
Price of sides in Lagos/Kaduna                   5.28            4.56             4.32               4.14
mm....amm                        moom               === a ..
CIF frozen beef Lagos (US$/N)                       2.2             2.2               2.2               2.2
Port handling and clearing                          0.04            0.018            0.04               0.018
Transport to Kaduna                                  -               -                2.3               0.18
Marketing costs in Lagos/Kaduna                     2.3             1.035             0.4               1.035
Subtotal                                        4.54             3.253            4.94                .3
Add 20Z preference                                  0.91            0.41             0.99               0.45
Price of sides in Lagos/Kaduna                   5.45            3.66             5.93               3.88
m...      .       .mmu           mum
1/  Local financial costs are multiplied by the standard conversion factor of 0.45
2/ N530/266 kg head
3/  Maiduguri - One of several border towns where imported cattle are sold for the Nigerian Market
4/ N80/head
5N N145/head includes slaughter, transport in Lagos, losses, mark-up.
6/ at 50% carcass veight
7/ N95/head
Annex 5-3 contains greater details of costings
WAPAB
August 1985



- 68 -
NIGERIA                                            ANNUX S-3
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Liveweight Fargate Price for Cattle
from Imported Frozen Beef and on-Hoof Cattle
(kg)
Frozen Beef                     On-loof Cattle
financlal     economlc 1/        financial         econooic
CIF Lagos, Northern Border (USS) 2/                   2.2            2.2               1.99               1.99
Naira equivalent (N)                                  2.2            2.2               1.99               1.99
Add port handling and clearance                       0.04           0.018              -                  -
Add local transport to reference market               0.4            0.18              0.02              0.009
Add marketing costs 3/                                2.34           1.05              0.19               0.086
Market Price Kaduna                                   4.98           3.45               -                  -
Add 201 preference                                    0.99           0.45               -                  -
Reference market price (Kaduna)                       5.97           3.90              2.21 8/           2.085
Conversion to liveweight 5/                           2.99           1.95               -                 -
Deduct slaughter 6/                                  (0.11)         (0.05)              -                 -
Deduct local transport (farm to Kaduna)              (0.074)        (0.033)           (0.01)             (0.005)
Add value of offals, inedible offals
and hide 7/                                        0.63           0.28               -                  -
Economic Liveweight Faragate Price for Cattle         3.44           2.14              2.21              2.09
--.-         ----             ---   rounded   2.10
1/ Local financial costs are multiplied by the standard conversion factor of 0.45 to arrive at economic
costs.
2/  Frozen bone-in quarters and sides imported from Brazil, US$2,200/ton; N530/266 kg on-hoof head of cattle,
northern border.
3/  10% losses (101 of 2.200)                                     (220)
refrigeration (1 month)                                        350
admin. overheads-25% of costs (2,200+40'400+220+350)           802
mark-up of 352 (3.210+802)                                   1,404
2,336-2,340
This data is from two large com_ercial firms in Nigeria which import or have imported frozen meat.
4/  The Mambilla SAR (Report 3777-UNI) shows that in 1978, a year of reasonably free trade before import
restrictions were imposed, a preference of between 14-62Z for fresh meat existed in the southern
urban markets. Attempts to sell frozen beef in the north have failed as the preference is even bigher.
In this report, a 20Z preference for fresh meat was utilized.
5/  at 50Z carcass welght
6/  slaughter- M35/340 kg head
7i  edible offals    N 95
inedible offals    93
hide                25
213 head
(taken from a study conducted by NLPD in conjunction with the University of Maiduguri, of 16 slaughtered
head of smallholder fattened cattle, weighing on average 341 kg).
8/ Cattle used by the smallholder fattening scheme will travel on hoof to village markets and then to
farms, rather than to major cities (e.g. Kaduna)
WAPAB
August 1985



- 69 -
ANNEX 5-4
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices for Commodities 1/
(1985 Prices, N)
Financial           Economic
Northern Zebu Cattle (kg)                             2.66                2.10
Western N'Dama (kg)                                   3.32                2.10
Eastern N'Dama/Muturu (kg)                            3.91                2.10
Goats (kg)                                            3.55                1.60
liens (kg)                                            7.70                3.47
Eggs (dozen)                                          2.84                1.28
Milk (liter)                                           1.18               0.53
11 For full details see Working Paper 12. All are liveweights, except eggs and
milk.
WAPAB
August 1985



SECOND LIVESTOK DEVELONT  PRECT
FA IN RENE MLYSIS 1ITH AND LITWT MJECT
MITT PROJECT                                           LITH PROECT
- - - - -- FlSt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IUKIAE Whf
LIVESTOCK   PR         CROP    PER   a  FARN  PER CAPITA            LIVESTOC     PER                PER   a/ FAR   PER CAPITA          INCRAE I            INCEAE U              TI    TI Lh1i
INCOME  CWITA       INCOME CAPITA    INCOME   lKNCE                 INE    CAPITA    INME  CAPITA   INOME   INCOME                   LIVESTOC  INWE  FAN  lES                     of5ISE iL
MO.L I                                 --- ---     -- _ _                     _ __ __ _                                                                    -
_  Itl            IDI                 ID
WASTORALIST
MITHUT VAMR                       5711    I7.L          -       0.0      5711       379                0        1354                   0     UOO       I4                   54                  54                 U
MITHUATER                         5711    Il.L          -       0.0      9711       179             .il         1195        -0               7765      1195                 36                  3                  23
MOEL 2
tHILLHOLOER FATIERER                 -       0.0      1326    204.0      1326       204                40         U       232&      204      1756       270                  -                 .32
IIOOL 3
MODEL 4
LESTEE E"M                         III    101.2       3351    171.1      41I6       595               5722       II6      35         479     902       1295                 04                 III                 31    i
MDOKL 5
ATERN I  DAAM                      270        36      1576       225     1146       264                1157      Its      157t       M       2723      1l0                  329                 41                 41
MCL '
PLTRV E6  PRODUCER                             0      3351       479     3351       479               2612       373      3351       479     5963        52                   -                 76                 50 t
YERAE IINCOE               1303       274      360       230      1400      501                3820      s52      27         230      2231       03                 112 S               59 7
a/  DATA TAIEN FRM UPDATED AOP SAR FIOURESi                                      bi  RTURN TO FARErS  IVESTE T IS OVER !50  FOR ALL
NOOL 2 CROP INCONE a NORTHERN SMALLHOLDER                                        NMLS ECEPT ARASTORXIITI UITH MATER MNICI 15 232.
NODELI I 5 CROP INCOME *5OUTIERN SHALLHOLOER
MODEL 4 1 6 CROP INOME - MEDIUM SIZED FARMER
uWEuT 1Y,118



NIGERIA
SECOND  LIVESTOC9 DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
-- --- -- - -- - -- --_____-_-_-_-_-_-___-_                                                                                  ______-_-_--- ------
1       2       3        4       5        6       7        9       9       1o      11       12      13      14       I5      16       17      18       19      20
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    -  ---------------------------------------_-_._ _                                     _ __---- - -- - 
BENEFITS
MODEL I AGROPASTORALIST-MILK              14      42      104     215      393     459      563     617      762     897     925      963    1044    1044    1044    1044    1044    1044    1044    1044
MODEL I AGROPASTORALIST-MEAT              41     156      363     716    1283    1476    1288    1406    1662    2116    2404    2001    2069    2616    2843    2916    2961    2961    2961   13770
MODEL 2-S,HOLDER FATTENER-MEAT           544    1369    2069    2848    3503    2976    2531    2150    1827    1554    1321    1121          953      811     6E9      586     498      422     361     307
MDEL 3 GOAT IREEDER-MEAT                   5      34      142     382      781    1142    1385    1385    1385    1385    1385    1385    1385    1385    1385    1385    1385    13            135    2121
MODEL 4 W. N DANA-MEAT                     -      45      163     314      344     353      392     462      488     557     653      792     906      877     877      877     877      I"      877    3145
MODEL 5 E. N DAM-MEAT                      -       9       43      93      162     245      291     354      357     368     374      376     376      376     376      376     376     376      376    1242
MODEL 6 POULTRY - HEAT                     -       -        9      n3       56      94       94      94       94      94      94       94      94       94      94       94      94       94      94      94
MODEL 6 POULTRY-EGGS                       -      14       69     164      300     405      405     405      405     405     405      405     405      405     405      405     405      405     405     405
TOTAL BENEFITS                           604    1670    2961    4750    6822    7148    6949    6972    6978    7366    7560    7137    7132    7607    7713    7683    7639    7564    7503   22128
TOTAL COSTS                             9170    6539    5999    4258    6750    3134    2405    1716    1248    1089         954      939     741      658     58a      528     477      433     39      365
NET BENEFITS                           -9566   -4970   -3027      492       72    4014    4543    5156    5730    6277    607    6298    6391    6949    7125    7155    7163    7131    7106   21763
::::::: =:::::: =ee:e:: :          :r:::s : w=z::z=       ::::e:: :====== =     ===r: gz::5sr   tee5:: rs:s : s:                _ e: S =:_  e e---=    1:-e Bse   _S
Economic  Rate  of Return  =  19%                                                                                                                                                                              |
W      --APA-
August  1985



N        I         G         E           R
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IN<.    , ., . ;         da
ENI N                                                                  K   A       DbsXH-e
j                                                                                                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lt
_<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4.4_ N ortiu 
/PTEA U
a~~~~, '   N0 0                                                               N  S f.
,SA                                N                                                             _,,,b.
AURE*.o.nA
ABEOEr                                                            .       A/EN                   E                                               /
O%AI                                                                               N    - u.
lkom           10~~~ Not,o.oI Cop.taI
* Stoic / Po.n.ce Caw.aks
&gh~~    /    8                    -      2~{L         I MO             I ~I E                         If     A.,ponts w.h sched.Ied se-nces
- Ao.. Roods
-- R.ne,s
-'   HARrOURT                                                        ilBo,dni
6;.i/tP  ofI   G c',,e o                                                                                              Inie,oi.ool Boi*.dones
B,gh,   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~*20 .0  0   6GA                   mit,l .;D



IBRD 15
SW                                  Sr                                  14'
R                                                                                                                NIGERIA
IBRD ASSISTED
A>)_ 4                       AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
_   _'- ~ _       {sz                                                     A_grsqlturol Development Progictsj
9- \_-_   /8 ;   \   -    (COMPLETED
-' C_   Nqi.ru                                                J       % \                           F uni:: l F oonl 1092 UNII
J   jEi    -                                 /         \                            C:w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~useu lloun 1099-UNI
Jf  .*                                /           /         \                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gam6p (Loup Ilt.A UN@I
X1 '    i  /   t   \        Ayongbo (LoonlA54-UNI)
{,  V             ~~~~~8 (,  R  N  0                                                          1XSlN
:ae       1                                            /I                                |          [llN
4rf .ib;L                                                                      -           IsA BoW loan 1667- UNI)
4..         x        oFliar,'.m II Loon 1668 -1UN1
Ora Natib Iloan 183h-WNI)
Lk it Akao (LoonigSAtUNII
:_hBu. State (loor 1981-UNII
Sokoto Stham  lloon 215-UNII
Kono Stole (Loan 1982 -UN I)
''A                                                 t                                                          sourHev <Kaduna Stale ILoon 21436 LjNI)
801N0 !                                    [         APPRAISED
4 U                                                        H I            t.                                     ,onumnrn boaro
L                                     N                                .; A j('   (b  -                               A7Z,S
__ _ e e FJ-B < <t% < _ _lae ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ararnbro Stafw   Ogunh Stat
l   _     6        < ~~~~~t HA fi (               Cross River State
? - -  ".<    |       ,                      \                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Technical Assistance:
T  r   ^  t,        \                          5;w\L  A )                                   \            t        Agricultural Technical Amlstance
T  EOLA                                                                                                         Project (Loan 2029-UNI)
IrEAU  _   -          1          _        YOL                                                V       Troaining _rqolQ
4TE                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agriculteurl and Rural
InFAU                            I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~angmn Training Iiifl
4F   _,                                                                                                       (Lookxn 1719-UNI)
Tree Crop Proiects
_  V I -   J                                                  CCMPLETED
Cocoo I Loon 764 UNI) ond
/     /)Cocoa 1 (Loon 1045- UNI)
_ ) . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CANCELLED
EN\'  (t  ,_/   n   8                                                      --     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Onclo 0-lPalrm (oon 1 92 - UNII
Bmndel 0O Palm (Loon 1183-UNI)
se".                                                                                EXISTING
otsne                                                                                                  -     -     irnimoOil PoJmnLoonIl9-UNIJ
_Riers Stote Oil Pakn (Loon 1591-UNIJ
N11        i    -                                                                                                Forestry (Loon 1679-UNI)
g r   w  >   ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rigcl garn 2ro,eCL
| '   5   w                                                                       f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o!ptEcTED
,       S                _    . _   ,, w.n.r  .-~.=n  *        R-ce (loan I OJ UNIN)
._zzz=zzzz..:                  z.___.7.-                    Fes) Livestock Development Project
A, Aipoors      scheduled                       r                     -cs        ..In  .               Western Ivesiatl t. Ionchfes
N+  Ati..l &iw-th Atheouled se-sc.s  1G' ~ t   ''-   rtlf5w   X North Eosiern Co Ranches
MRn Raods                               Ir      -           E R I                                 r - --     Sr
Qo.lAcdrs  )  NI^,  sr o  G E R                     GA Ir'az.ng Reserves Fulon. Ronches
- Rivers                                   yf                                                             -     
* -   -     :tor           HAflf 6-D                  Sartdle i .ivestorl, DeveloDment Protect
4iJecINA'td -   -              :.  . ifAr.         I Appraised) -
State Boundaries                        ..v,,1i      r -. r a           ' t,             0        N Dama Ranches Livestock I & ll
_-_  In,ernoiionoJl Bosundar len        (0*55/              ,?t  P rl  o   .i aI~ster..r....c^^  1 *  N'Dnma Ranches Livestack I
tOGOI  _    I                 } Ji-  r'1> _         _ ~ ~ > SX Grazing Reserves - Developod under Livestock I,
tz so  o rall wi irn 17C *ea nee            r.ia Edl Cjar<;-%-~ J/                           to be further used in Livestock IL
.                                                             G.0401 s                  I-rQ.sJ    Ne- Grazing Reserves
a    ma  a0   Oa   no  sA0
*'c                                                                   o  EjE         1 9 8 5
NtOVEMBER 1985



lEAD 191
G      R .  I A
N I G E R I A                             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                     CH-AD
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.._   N    -'-.....                     I      G        E      RI
. \         g                      '\         ,_ sN          59ohta    \*          --Ns                    -o.  CF Cha
! ~   ~ ~~                  Soot                          N      Ba                        BattN   ,                                 v
/                       TBa'      a         V0 ur  Fr DUN                                            14A    Ri   Fv   (t vs       b. O               .1
o Z                     BtAa        JB    A         KB/G ro                 /RAJ                      e NG  ; (> pi       R     NO               ,  K. A.   < N  H
SOKOrG                       I                              p ,; 7_                                                      B 
C-~~~~~~~~~~~~-
jK-                       r         X         zLdsar oEAFJ,    d-kb       rRADON  I   o/.
KACLIVA                ..Ji,>'                                        C  HIA/
d                                                 /l                 --    --&./                                        6         f I    i    0'oAZN
MAllo L I  NENIGER ?o K                                N        C                                                              C|             <CHAD
(                                                                Bf
z                                                                                               Pt A "   5fff,otJ i  lDATEA U
DM ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     1 CA'                                                                      N.N   1^ ,,,; slr  FIF  ''-
KWARA ~ ~ ~ ~ F               Pi A                                                          CNG!    -,C
tu('FRNC i       twB' .AO^<        sGEES.                                  f      V                                 o                    -.
A/an:   -  ;   j _              f                   q                                                                                                      JLLY IF
\B ~~~~~ ~~~r i                   laG ~~~~~~~~B /N \                  
4~~~)  ~~~  atga             K...,,, ot,                      IrrLIBFB~~~~~~~~~~~~LIEITOCKI      -
BNH    ANA.MB%    I          BAtE L         AMM               /I            *    -AHBJ.A. --STTNKK
LAGOS                          A~~~ .1                    J     9.-JIVRI
M      IOK L.,,                                         RVERB    @                      a    IVR               LIBESTOC. 1I
"C HI,D                   C.~~~~,   .)         1-~             CANS~,  -                    SR  fS.. l~
I                                                                 B/~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVR
CHAD        Vi ~RI ICR?                                                                         5 SBIBRSHS
GE,, A                                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p,,CSAM  NBE-BVSB.a
BS,ST,,,t "                                                   TSBSINEB 55UINE
95515  /  '-y'j                        --~~~EQ  GUINE20AK~QGUN                                             B-T-CTBr-cS
EOGBISCAflCZES1    B   B?  100150  050  atB    EQ. GUiNEA    KIIBtaSlSSS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jJL1198



