Daioneat of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLU USE ONLY
oe / I>3 '-OA
Report No. P-4338-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$E1 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985       April 1986
Currency Unit   =  Naira (N)           N
US$1            =  NO.894              N1.O
Ni              =  US$1.119            US$1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (ton)  =  2.205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)      =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)    =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)         =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 liter (1)         =  2.1 pints (pt)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP       -   Agricultural Development Project
CBN       -   Central Bank of Nigeria
FLD       -   Federal Livestock Department
FMAWRRD   -   Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources
and Rural Development
FMG       -   Federal Military Government
ILCA      -   International Livestock Center for Africa
LCU       -   Livestock Credit Unit (in NACB)
NACB      -   Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd.
NAPRI     -   National Animal Production Research Institute
NLPD      -   National Livestock Projects Department
RBRDA     -   River Basin and Rural Development Authority
RCF       -   Revolving Credit Fund
SLA       -   State Lending Agency
WLC       -   Western Livestock Company Ltd.



FOR OFFCIL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:      National Livestock Project Unit; Nigerian
Agricultural and Cooperative Bank; 18 State
Governments; Federal Livestock Department;
International Livestock Center for Africa;
National Animal Production Research Institute,
pastoralists and mixed farmers.
Loan Amount:        US$81 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at standard variable interest rates.
Relending Terms:    US$28.1 million of the loan would be onlent to the
Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd. at
an interest rate of 6 percent per annm with the
same grace period and maturity as the Bank loan.
The Federal Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project             This second phase project would use some of the
Description:         successful technologies developed under the First
Livestock Project (Loan 1091-UNI) and more recent
research findings. On a nationwide but selective
basis, the project would support the development
of cattle and goats and, to a small extent, sheep
and poultry. The main objective would be to
increase livestock production through improved
nutrition and animal health and thereby increase
farmers' incomes. The project would support the
Government's reoriented livestock development
program which emphasizes the smAll-scale private
producer. The project would include: (i) credit for
the purchase of farm inputs, including imported
trypano-tolerant N'Dama cattle; (ii) equipment for
participating institutions; (iii) settling of
pastoralists on grazing reserves; (iv) livestock
systems research; (v) a manpower development and
training program; (vi) technical assistance;
(vii) greater involvement of the private sector in
supporting services; (viii) establishment of a
livestock sectoral planning capacity for the Federal
Government; and (ix) funds for special studies of
veterinary services, livestock census, and project
monitoring and evaluation.
Thi doument ha a sticd ditnbuion and may be ued by repients only in dte pormnce
of ther officiadute It contents may not oterwie be dickoed whout Word Dank authorinzio



- li -
Estimated Costs:
US smn
Local     Foreign       Total
A.  LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
PROGRAM
1.  Credit Program                                7.5       21.4        28.9
2.  Non Credit Program                             .9         1.0        1.9
3.  N'dama Ranches                                1.0         1.0        2.0
4.  Grazing Reserves                               .8          .5        1.3
5.  Livestock Systems Research                    3.0         1.7        4.7
Sub-total:                        13.2       25.6        38.8
B.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND
SUPPORT SERVICES
1.  Nat'l Livestock Projects Dept (NLPD)
- Admnin. & Central
Services                                 8.2        18.9        27.1
-Field Services                             14.3        6.8        21.1
Sub-total NLPD:                      22.5        25.7       48.2
2. NACB Livestock Credit Unit                     1.3          .5        1.8
3. Fed. Livestock Dept.
Sectoral Planning Unit                       .2        2.5         2.7
Sub-total:                        24.0        28.7       52.7
Total Base Costs:                        37.2        54.3        91.5
Physical Contingencies                         .9        1.0         1.9
Price Contingencies                          20.2       14.4        34.6
Total Project Costs:                         58.3a/     69.7       128.0
a/ Of which US$5 million in duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:                                 Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD                                        11.3        69.7        81.0
NACB                                          4.0         -          4.0
Farmers                                      11.4         -         11.4
Federal Government                          31.6          -         31.6
Total                               58.3        69.7      128.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year          FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94
Annual                     4.9  13.7  17.0  15.4  10.6  11.3   5.7   2.4
Cumulative                 4.9  18.6  35.6  51.0  61.6  72.9  78.6  81.0



- iii -
Benefits and Risks:       The project would: (1) increase livestock pro-
duction and incomes of some 30,000 families or
about 200,000 people; (ii) reorient Government
livestock development strategy towards the
traditional smallholder and the private sector;
(iii) promote mixed crop and livestock farming;
and (iv) develop livestock sector planning
capacity. At full development, the expected
annual production would amount to about 3,000
tons of meat, 1,000 tons of milk and 300,000
dozen eggs. This project would devote
considerable effort to expand nationwide
systems and channels to deliver credit and
technical assistance to farmers. Once these
systems are successfully set up, it is
envisaged that a follow-on project could reach
substantially more beneficiaries than the
30,000 this project has targeted. Risks
include maintaining control of this nationwide
project and providing adequate follow-up
supervision of project participants. Provision
has been built into the project to reduce these
two risks.
Economic Rate of Return: Approximately 19 percent
Staff ADpraisal Report:  No. 5795-UNI, dated May 7, 1986
Map:                      IBRD 19129



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$81 million
to help finance a Second Livestock Development Project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. The Federal Government would on-lend US$28.1 million to the
Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd. at an interest rate of 6
percent per annum with the same grace period and maturity as the Bank loan.
The Federal Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The assessment of the Nigerian economic situation in this report
is based on the findings of economic missions that visited Nigeria in
November 1984 and in March/April 1985 for economic updating and policy
dialogue, supplemented by reviews of the 1986 budget and of other recent
policy initiatives of the Federal Government. Annex I presents selected
social and economic indicators for Nigeria.
Macroeconomic Developments
3.        Structural Legacy of the Oil Boom (1973-80).  The buoyant oil
market over the 1973-80 period dramatically altered Nigeria's resource
position. During this time the main objective of the Government was to
translate the large oil revenues into investments in social, economic and
physical infrastructure. While there were successes -- a large functional
network of interstate roads was established, power generating capacity
tripled, primary school enrollment ratio doubled - the political and
administrative systems at federal and state levels were not adequately
equipped to handle the new-found wealth. Uneconomic investments were
prevalent, while the policies pursued led to structural changes which left
the economy with substantial price and other distortions and with great
vulnerability to external shocks.
4.        The economy became almost completely dependent on the oil sector:
by the beginning of the 1980s, oil earnings accounted for 96 percent of
exports and over 80 percent of Federal Government revenues. The economy
soon began to exhibit the usual features of the "oil syndrome": booming
1/ This section is unchanged from Part I of President's Report No.
P-4135-UNI dated June 5. 1986, for the Transport Parastatals Project.



-2-
oil revenues, an appreciating currency, and domestic inflation, with the
consequent shift in the structure of production away from non-oil traded
goods, the increased dependence on imports, and growth of the public
sector. The impact on the agricultural sector - the major source of GDP
and exports before the oil boom - was particularly severe: by 1980 its
share of non-oil GDP had fallen to 30 percent, from around 50 percent in
the early 1970s. Exports of palm products and groundnuts (of which Nigeria
was the world's largest exporter) had virtually disappeared. In addition,
the overvalued exchange rate, combined with the structure of trade taxes
and controls, encouraged the growth of import-based light consumer goods
industries which contributed little to value added. Thus, by 1980 imports
had reached a level of 24 percent of GDP, nearly double the percentage
prevailing in the immediate pre-boom years.
5.        The public sector grew in size and importance.  Nigeria entered
the 1980s with around half of its GDP and two-thirds of its modern sector
employment accounted for by the public sector.  Goverment recurrent
expenditures had risen to 11 percent and public investment to 15 percent of
GDP, the latter accounting for over half of total investment. A large part
of the recurrent expenditures supported a much increased civil service.
Many of the public investment projects were undertaken without sufficient
attention to their viability, the appropriateness of their design and the
implementation capacity of the Government agencies. By the beginning of
the 1980s, there were around 70 non-commercial and 110 commercial federal
public enterprises, many of which require extensive financial support to
cover operating losses.
6.        The Economic Crisis (1981-85).  Nigeria was ill-equipped
politically, administratively and structurally to deal with the abrupt end
of the oil boom in 1981. Partly because of expectations that the downturn
would be short-lived, the Federal and State Governments reacted only slowly
to the falling oil revenues: measures aimed at curbing and redirecting
expenditures were insufficient. Consequently, sizeable external and fiscal
imbalances emerged; external reserves fell and at the same time there was a
large-scale accumulation of arrears on top of substantial public borrowings
to finance the investment programs.
7.        Through the predominant use of demand management policies,
involving large expenditure cuts and the application of import controls,
the two successive military Governments 1/ reduced the budget deficit to
GDP ratio from 10 percent in 1983 to 5 percent in 1985 and the external
account deficit to GDP ratio from 5 percent to a slight surplus. However,
no significant steps were taken to reduce the misalignment of relative
prices, the administrative controls and the public sector inefficiencies.
The naira continued to appreciate in 1984 (although there was some real
1/  The military government which took over in August 1985 replaced one
which had come to power at the end of 1983.



-3-
depreciation in 1985). Sectoral ceilings for credit allocations-by banks
were enforced and interest rates were at levels resulting in negative real
yields (although this has been reversed in the past year). While actions
were taken to improve the system of trade taxes, continued price and other
trade interventions served to reinforce distoited signals. Moreover,
fiscal austerity was characterized by expenditure constraints without
sufficient regard to necessary expenditure reallocations: public -
investment cutbacks proceeded across the board without adequate cognizance
of priorities and stage of completion. Outlays on supplies, spare parts
and routine maintenance were eroded. Significant sums were set aside to
support operating deficits of inefficient parastatals and to provide heavy
subsidies.
8.        In essence, the structure of the economy inherited from the oil
boom remained largely intact and this, combined with the sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade, resulted in poor economic performance
over the 1981-85 period. Production and employment in all sectors -
except agricultural production for the domestic market - remained
depressed, with real GDP in 1985 being some 15 percent lower than at the
beginning of the 1980s, even after allowing for the slight upturn estimated
for 1985 as a result of increased oil production and improved harvests.
Construction and other service sectors were hard hit by the diminished
public expenditures and declined at a faster rate than GDP. The much
reduced supplies of raw materials and spare parts to the import-dependent
industrial sector led to widespread plant closures, a substantial drop in
capacity utilization (to about 25 to 35 percent) and extensive layoffs of
the workforce. Severe shortages of goods boosted the inflation rate --
peaking at around 40 percent in 1984 but receding substantially thereafter
- with scarcity rents of up to 400 percent for many essential goods
accruing to traders who, unlike manufacturers, were not subject to price
controls. The population growth rate of an estimated 3.3 percent per annum
led to significant declines in per capita real income and consumption; in
1985 these were well below the levels recorded in the pre-oil boom 1970s.
9.        National savings halved in real terms due to the decline in both
GDP and terms of trade, with the savings ratio in 1985 being around
17 percent of GDP. As a result, the reduction in investment expenditures
was substantial: investment fell to under 14 percent of GDP in 1985, half
the peak level of 1981. The across-the-board public expenditure cutbacks
meant further delays in completing viable projects, thus escalating their
costs and depriving the economy of their benefits. Private investment
shrank at twice the rate of public investment and by 1985 constituted only
a quarter of the total.
10.      Meanwhile, external debt service requirements increased to
40 percent of exports and continue to accelerate. The external debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1985 of US$19.4 billion included an
estimated US$11.9 billion of medium and long-term public debt and trade
arrears of between US$5 and US$6 billion, of wbich US$1.3 billion has so
far been rescheduled. Paris and London Club creditors each account for
around one-third. There are also short-term external debts estimated at



-4 -
around US$1 billion and private external debts of a further estimated
US$1 billion. The severity of Nigeria's debt situation relates not so much
to the total stock of debt (which in 1985 amounted to around 140 percent of
annual exports compared with the 255 percent average of all middle-income
heavily indebted countries) but to the "hump" of debt repayments becoming
due in the period 1986-89, combined with the poor short-term outlook for
the oil market.
Adjustment Policy Issues and Recent Initiatives
11.       The Nigerian economy, already beset by financial imbalances and
structural weaknesses, was dealt another blow by the further sharp decline
in oil prices in the first quarter of 1986. Given the inadequate policies
of the past, this shock cannot be absorbed in a single year, nor by Nigeria
alone, at least during the next few years when the "hump" of debt
repayments becomes due. However, even though financial support from the
international community is needed to ease the burden imposed by the
unfavorable debt repayment profile, it is imperative that appropriate
policies be adopted now in order to improve the ability of the economy to
cope with such external shocks, as well as with the effect of declining oil
reserves in the medium term. Such policies should shift the structure of
production towards efficient non-oil traded goods sectors, reduce the
import dependence of the economy and widen its resource base, and lessen
the dominance of the public sector and enhance the role of the private
sector.
12.       Recent Initiatives.  The previous military government had
committed itself to rectifying Nigeria's economic problems through
austerity alone, but the new government, which came into power in August
1985, declared its intent to move from austerity alone to austerity with
structural adjustment. Thus, even though there were in 1985 some positive
effects of the improved fiscal policies (e.g. the decline in the inflation
rate), the major improvement in policies geared towards further
stabilization as well as structural adjustment came with the 1986 budget
statements, and in subsequent initiatives. These make significant progress
in energy pricing and a good start on exchange rate, public expenditure and
parastatal reforms. The key reforms which have now been implemented
include: the introduction of an across-the-board temporary import
surcharge of 30 percent, to serve as an implicit devaluation on the import
side; the reactivation of the customs tariff drawback scheme to boost
further non-oil exports, and the raising of the foreign exchange retention
allowance of non-oil exporters from 10 to 25 pe_cent; the removal of the
financial subsidy on energy products, which increased the prices of petrol
about 100 percent, diesel 170 percent, and fuel oil 250 percent (kerosene
prices were left unchanged); and a commitment to phase out the fertilizer
subsidy by 1989. The credit allocation system was simplified by reducing
the number of sectors with ceilings on bank lending. Finally, substantial
reductions were made in the salaries and fringe benefits of civil servants
and the freeze on hiring staff in a wide range of positions continued.



- 5 -
13.       In addition, the Government has announced that it intends to open
up a second-tier market for foreign exchange; this could be the first step
in moving towards an appropriate exchange rate. It has also announced its
intention to adopt further measures in the area of public resource
management policies: transfers to commercial parastatals are to be cut to
50 percent of their 1985 levels and the Government intends to divest itself
of public holdings in commercially-oriented enterprises and to entrust to
the private sector the procurement and distribution of fertilizers and
other agricultural inputs. The budget incorporated additional measures for
financial stabilization (based on oil prices of US$25 per barrel) which, if
carried out in full, would bring the federal budget deficit down to only
2 percent of GDP in 1986; however, given the fall in oil prices, the budget
will have to be adjusted for the deficit to be contained at that level.
14.       Many of the above measures are in line with recommendations made
earlier by the Bank in discussions with Nigerian officials. However, they
still fall short of the requirements for a viable structural adjustment
effort, with the lack of significant direct action on the exchange rate and
on import liberalization being the major shortcomings. The priorities for
further policy reforms would be: (i) correcting relative prices through
exchange rate adjustment, import liberalization and dismantling price
controls; (ii) overcoming the considerable public sector inefficiencies
through improved public expenditure programs and the speedy rationalization
of the parastatal sector; and (iii) reducing the severe imperfections in
the financial system, and maintaining appropriate interest rates. Tight
discipline on monetary expansion would have to be maintained with the
Government continuing to place strict constraints on the budget deficit.
While improved revenue measures should be pursued, these should not be seen
as a substitute for a slimmer bureaucracy and the privatization of public
commercial activities. In addition, special focus should be placed on the
removal of technological and supply constraints discouraging private
initiative and inhibiting efficient responses to favorable market
conditions. While the basic exchange rate, trade, incentive and financial
policy reforms will be crucial in this regard, constraints may exist at the
sectcral level (e.g. specific infrastructural deficiencies, lack of
particular skills) on which action must be taken to ensure the desirable
responses to the improved price signals.
15.       Prospects and Financing of Development.  As noted above, the
severity of Nigeria's debt situation, which has been made considerably
worse by the sharp fall in oil prices in the first quarter of 1986, relates
not so much to the size of the debt overhang, but to the unfavorable
payments profile and poor immediate outlook for oil: the "hump" of debt
repayments becoming due in the period 1986-89 coincides with the drop in
oil prices. The projected improvement in both factors in the early 1990s
will mean a sharp improvement in debt-service ratios. For 1986, however,
the debt-service ratio (on current estimates of debt) has shot up to an
unsustainable level of 64 percent, assuming oil prices remain at about
US$15/barrel for the rest of the year. While the ceuntry could easily
cover the interest payments on the debt (which constitute 17 percent of
exports), it is clear that, even if the oil market recovers, Nigeria will



-6-
need a very substantial reform and refinancing package to tide it over the
difficult years ahead. In the absence of such policy reforms Nigeria's
creditworthiness would be limited, and it would thus be necessary to
re-examine the level of Bank lending, constraining it to the sectors of
longer-term impact which are relatively immune to the system of price
incentives.
16.       However, the Government realizes the4urgency of the situation and
has asked the Bank to assist it in putting together a medium-term policy
reform and financing package which would be submitted to its financial
partners for their support during the very difficult adjustment period.
This package would aim at a fundamental restructuring of the economy,
together with an orderly reduction of' debt-service ratios. This would
smooth out the payments profile between the late 1980s and early 1990s and
allow a modest increase in imports from their drastically low current
level, while at the same time building in mechanisms to cope with
uncertainties in oil revenues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1986, amounted to
US$2,760.2 million (net of cancellations). 2/ The amount of loans and
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1986 was US$1,710.4 million, leaving an
unLisbursed balance of US$1,049.8 million.  Agriculture accounts for about
43 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply
together for about 35 percent; and education, industry, urban, health, and
the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining 22 percent. There have
been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, totalling US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. 1FC has made six loans to borrowers totalling US$25
million, and six equity investments totalling US$4.5 million. Of these
amounts, US$6.3 million have been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or sold.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments.
18.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings irom oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run
into serious counterpart funding problems. The Bank, the Federal
Government, and the relevant state governments are making concerted efforts
to alleviate the situation. To speed up disbursements, the Bank
reallocated the proceeds of se"-e-al loans and increased disbursement
1/  This section is unchanged from Part II of the President's Report No.
P-4135-UNI dated June 5, 1986 for the Transport Parastatals Project.
2/   Including US$5.0 million loan for an Industry Technical Assistance
Project which has not yet been signed.



-7-
percentages. Working within very severe and continuing resource
constraints, the Federal Government has made adequate budgetary provisions
for 1986 on the basis of updated estimates of funding requirements. The
state governments are instilling a greater degree of discipline in their
budgeting process and cutting back on new capital expenditure in order to
fund existing obligations. As a result, the prospects for counterpart
funding for Bank-assisted projects are expected to improve.
19.       A number of important policy changes were announced in the 1986
Budget Speech. Provided these and other appropriate policy changes are
undertaken, the Bank's lending program would aim primarily at the urgent
diversification of Nigeria's economy to reduce its excessive dependence on
petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same
time, the Bank would continue to support efforts to raise the productivity
of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute
poverty in Nigeria. As in recent years, the Bank would continue to provide
support for agriculture and rural development with emphasis on
institution-building and transfer of technology, in order to raise the
standard of living of its population, particularly the rural poor. The
Bank would similarly support efforts to stimulate trade liberalization
including a well-balanced and integrated development of Nigeria's
industrial sector focussing on import substitution and/or, in the longer
run, non-oil exports.  This approach would entail a combination of
intensive sector work and policy dialogue with the Government, as well as
Bank assistance for industrial projects in crucial sub-sectors.
20.       Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two
to three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will
also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure.
There are good opportunities for the Bank to make a significant
contribution in energy development and highway maintenance, particularly
once the Government announced its decision in January 1986 to substantially
increase petroleum product prices. Similarly, there is a strong case for
continued lending to education. In this context, vocational, technical,
and teacher training would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank
would support the Federal and State Governments' efforts to spread the
benefits of growth to the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the
pressing problems of rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed
through a number of urban development projects focussed on the needs of the
urban poor and resource mobilization for urban areas. The Bank is also
assisting the Government in tackling the country's health problems with a
project aimed at both federal and state (Sokoto) levels, and is continuing
a dialogue with the Government on population issues, perhaps leading to
lending in this area.
21.       Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million
in FY78 to nearly US$199 million in FY85, Nigeria's disbursement
performance has lagged behind that of other countries in the region. The
undisbursed balance now stands at 38 percent of the US$2.8 billion in loans
and credits approved. One of the reasons for this development is the rapid



-8-
expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that
the closing dates for a number of large loans, mainly for agricultural
projects, with relatively large planned disbursements during the early
years, were extended during this period. In many cases, however,
disbursements have been slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and
institutional and management problems. Recently, the inadequate
counterpart funding of projects by federal and state governments, resulting
from lower oil revenues, has further slowed disbursements. The Federal
Government, with the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now
carefully monitoring loan disbursements with a view to identifying problems
early and taking corrective action. Also, the Bank has taken a series of
measures aimed at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new
projects (para. 18). These efforts are showing results.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
The Agriculture Sector
22.       Agriculture continues to be the leading non-oil sector in
Nigeria, directly supporting about 60 percent of the population, providing
26 percent of GDP, 5 percent of total exports and 98 percent of non-oil
exports. Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of
smallholders, using tr-.ditioual, manual technology. During the period
1973-81, agriculture was depressed due to disincentives created by the oil
boom. Real wages probably rose mainly due to rapidly increasing demand for
labor and skills in the construction and service sectors. At the same
time, oil revenues were utilized to finance large increases in food
imports. Cheap imports due to the overvaluation of the naira depressed
prices received by farmers. Although firm estimates of production and
production trends are difficult to make because of a poor data base, it
seems that food production has stagnated, or at best kept pace with
population growth of around 2.7 percent during the period 1970-82. Overall
demand for staple foods is estimated to have grown faster at an average of
about 2.9 percent annually and part of this demand was met by imports
encouraged by import and fiscal policies. Between 1970 and 1982 food
imports rose from US$174 million to US$2 billion and agricultural exports
declined to negligible values.
23.       Since 1982, real wages have begun to decline while food prices
have risen as imports have been curtailed: food imports fell from US$2.8
billion in 1982 to US$1.5 billion in 1984. The improvement in the terms of
trade for farmers, combined with good weather, has increased production.
FMG's aim is to prepare the economy for the post-oil era by developing a
viable agricultural sector and reducing the dependence on the oil sector.
The present administration has thus given high priority to the agricultural
sector and has recently committed itself to increase the share of the
Federal capital budget for agriculture.



-9-
Livestock Sector
24.       Within the agricultural sector, the livestock sub-sector makes a
substantial contribution to the economy. It accounted for about 7 percent
of GDP in 1984, or about N3.8 billion. Livestock provides a source of
employment and income for a large segment of the rural population, gives
them the means to accumulate capital and savings which can be liquidated
easily when cash is needed, and is an important source of protein in the
local diet.
25.       The sharp rise in oil revenues in 1976 increased the demand for
animal products, but supply, growing at 1.8 percent per annum did not keep
pace with the average annual increase in demand estimated at about 5
percent during the period 1970-82. The growing gap between supply and
demand was largely met by imports. In 1981, about 25 percent of animal
protein consumption in Nigeria was met by imports totalling about US$400
million. Since 1983, the Goverment has cut imports of most animal
products and feeds due to foreign exchange scarcity. This has resulted in
higher domestic prices, in spite of the decline in incomes since 1983, and
has thus provided a strong incentive to increase local production.
26.       Nigeria has the largest animal population in West Africa with an
estimated 9 million cattle and 30 million goats and sheep. About 97
percent of the cattle are owned by pastoralists. A small proportion of
farmers practice both cropping and animal husbandry mainly for subsistence
using minimal hired labor and purchased inputs. In the semi-arid north
some farmers keep a few head of cattle as draught animals or fatten them
with crop residues for sale during the dry season when supplies are low and
prices high. The humid zone crop farmer keeps trypano-tolerant cattle
ranging from up to six head per farmer in the east to an average of 30 head
in the west. Most of the goats and sheep are kept as part of the
pastoralist herds in the north while farmers in the south keep a few goats
in the farming compound. The bulk of the poultry is owned by farmers in
traditional village scavenging flocks; the remainder is owned by commercial
producers. Commercial operations yield significantly higher productivity
but rely on imports of cheap maize feed. Impqrt restrictions imposed by
the Government, followed more recently by a ban on miize imports, has
resulted in the closure of many commercial ventures due to the lack of
inexpensive feed.
Development Constraints
27.       Technology. Animal diseases and poor nutrition are key
constraints to increasing animal production in Nigeria. Veterinary
coverage, which is the responsibility of state and Federal Governuent
agencies, has decreased markedly due to lack of funds to purchase
veterinary drugs and to mobilize staff in the field. Recent findings of
research carried out under the Bank-financed First Livestock Project by the
National Animal Production Research Institute (NAPRI) and the International
Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) on traditional animal production systems
have indicated that nutritional problems for cattle, sheep and goats are



- 10 -
concentrated in the latter part of the dry season in the arid north and
during the planting season in the humid south when animals are penned.
Animal health could be improved by mobilizing resources through cost
recovery for veterinary drugs and thereby increasing their availability,
and/or privatization of veterinary services. Nutrition could be improved
by drawing on the recent research findings and stepping up the extension
effort to introduce the new fodder varieties which have been identified.
The proposed project includes measures to improve animal health and
nutrition. Government's pest approach to increasing production has been to
introduce modern commercial livestock operations rather than to help
develop the traditional sector. Generally, these have not been successful.
28.       Credit.  The Government's agricultural credit strategy has been
to encourage agricultural development by: establishing the National
Agricultural & Cooperative Bank Ltd. (NACB), providing subsidized interest
rates to farmers, establishing an agricultural credit guarantee scheme for
commercial banks, and directing commercial banks to allocate a percentage -
now 15 percent - of their loans to the agricultural sector.
29.       Despite the credit resources available, agricultural credit as a
whole is weak and has done little to stimulate the sector, particularly for
smallholders. Financing institutions, especially cooperatives, are affect-
ed by overdues ranging from about 10-50 percent depending on the
institution's strength. Overdues result mainly from inadequate lending
procedures, adverse climatic conditions and Government intervention. The
overall situation is improving with better credit discipline and an
improved overdue recovery rate. Interest rates for agricultural development
are generally below deposit and commercial lending rates and do not provide
commercial banks with any incentive to increase agricultural lending. The
Government increased agricultural interest rates by 2 percent in 1985.
Provisions for further increases in order to substantially reduce the
differential between agricultural and prevailing commercial rates are
included in the proposed project.
30.       Land Tenure.  The 1978 Land Tenure Decree vested ownership of all
land to State Governors. An official land title can be obtained through
this Decree, but the process is lengthy, costly and out of the reach of
most farmers and pastoralists. Despite the Decree, traditional land tenure
systems continue to operate in most areas. The community exercises the
right of ownership and individuals cannot possess absolute title to land.
Village heads allocate uncultivated land and usufructuary rights continue
as long as land is cultivated. The system favors crop farmers.
Pastoralists, over half of whom wish to settle, not being part of the
communities, cannot usually get permanent access to land.
The Bank's Role
31.       Agriculture has formed the core of the Bank's lending to Nigeria.
The main objective of Bank assistance for the sector is to increase food
production and raise rural incomes and standards of living. A major effort
is being made to develop the capabilities of federal and state agencies



- 11 -
responsible for managing the agriculture sector and preparing and imple-
menting development projects. Since 1971, 25 loans totalling more than
US$1.25 billion (net of cancellation) have been approved for agriculture.
There have, so far, been eight loans for the development of specific crops
and forestry, one loan for livestock development, and 13 loans for the
comprehensive agricultural development of target areas (ADPs). The Bank
has also made a loan for the establishment of an agricultural management
training institute; a loan for an agricultural technical assistance
project, under which the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit with
regional units was established to strengthen federal capability to prepare,
appraise and supervise projects; and a fertilizer import loan. The
implementation of ADPs, which were designed in a period of abundant
domestic resources suffered in the recent past because of acute counterpart
funding shortages. The Federal and state governments and the Bank are
working together to ensure timely and adequate funding for these projects.
Experience with Past Lending
32.       The First Livestock project was largely unsuccessful with the
large-scale state run schemes incurring losses over the project period.
This experience was similar to that of other livestock projects in
Sub-Saharan Africa. However, the Project Completion Report (PCR) confirmed
the success of the smallholder fattening scheme based on simple
improvements to an existing production system. Demand from smallholders
for such assistance encouraged the Government to extend the scheme
nationally in 1983.
33.       The PCR identified other successful aspects of the project
including the introduction of trypano-tolerant N'Dama cattle breeding stock
into the tsetse infested humid zone, the introduction of cost recovery for
inputs, and the development of an institutional framework to deliver
credit, input supply, and animal health and production assistance. With
assistance from the project, NAPRI and ILCA developed and replicated
nationally, new technologies to improve traditional mixed farming systems.
Institutional weaknesses, namely inadequate field supervision, project
monitoring and evaluation, and training are being addressed under the
proposed project.
Future Development Strategy
34.       Following the lessons learned from a sector survey of 1981, the
First Livestock Project and recent research, FMG has decided to reorient
its approach to livestock development as follows: (a) technically, by
encouraging simple proven improvements to traditional mixed farming
systems, and (b) financially, by using existing institutions more
effectively, giving the private sector a greater role in production,
credit, marketing and input supply, and instituting mechanisms to recover
costs of inputs.
35.       FMG is taking measures to privatize the National Livestock
Production Company -- a parastatal involved in animal production,



- 12 -
processing and marketing - and the vaccine production facility at Vom. It
has also recently raised agricultural interest rates to make lending for
agriculture more attractive to financing institutions and further increases
are planned under the project. The design of the proposed project is based
on the experience gained thus far and will be FMG's main livestock
production program in the Fifth Development Plan (1986-1990).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       FMG requested World Bank assistance for a Second Livestock
Development Project following the completion of the First Livestock
project. The identification report and preparation report proposed a
project totalling about US$620 million. A pre-appraisal mission
recommended a smaller project of about US$120 million concentrating on the
promotion of proven livestock development technologies on a scale which
would be within local managerial capability. The project was appraised in
February 1985, and negotiations were held with the Nigerian authorities in
Washington in December 1985.  The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5795-UNI) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary data
are provided in Annex III.
Objectives and Summary Description
37.       The project's objective is to increase livestock production and
farmers' incomes. In addition, it would encourage a variety of sectoral
reforms already endorsed by FMG, in particular through: (a) shifting
emphasis towards support of small traditional producers; (b) utilizing the
private sector as an instrument for production and input supply; (c)
introducing full cost recovery of farm inputs and veterinary supplies; and
(d) establishing a livestock sectoral planning capability.
38.       The proposed project would, over five years, help raise the pro-
ductivity of the small cattle herds and goat flocks of some 30,000
pastoralists and mixed farmers. Sheep and poultry production would be
assisted on a smaller scale. The project would cover selective areas
throughout the country.
Livestock Production Program
39.       The livestock production program would help about 11,000
smallholders to fatten cattle and sheep and some 2,500 agropastoralists and
mixed farmers to grow dry season fodder. It would assist about 15,000 goat
breeders to grow forage, manage a nucleus trypano-tolerant N'Dama cattle
breeding unit for distribution to about 180 small mixed farmers in the
western states, import a further 1,250 N'Dama cattle for distribution to
500 small mixed farmers in the eastern states, and assist 100 farmers in
poultry production. It would also settle pastoralists on eight grazing
reserves by providing infrastructure and land tenure rights, and carry out
research into various animal production systems. Agreement was reached



- 13 -
during negotiations that at least five grazing reserves would be a gazetted
as a condition of loan effectiveness.
40.       The technical packages are relatively simple and aim at improving
animal nutrition and health. Removing nutritional and health constraints
by providing dry season leguminous forage, other feeds, and veterinary
assistance, has been shown to increase livestock productivity as follows:
(a) the animal's growth rate is steady; and (b) the animal's reproductive
capacity and the ability of the offspring to survive are significantly
improved. This results in quicker herd or flock growth, animals reach
slaughter age earlier, and milk and egg production is increased. The
leguminous fodder crop would also yield an important benefit to farmers by
improving soil fertility.
41.       Research.  The project would continue support for four ongoing
systems research activities financed under the First Livestock Project and
would add a fifth. The new research activity would cover development
packages for small livestock. Ongoing research would focus on the use of
fodder in mixed farming systems, trypano-tolerant cattle in humid zones,
monogastric feeds and work oxen maintenance feeds. The research program
would be carried out by the National Animal Production Research Institute
(NAPRI) and the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA).
Management and Supporting Services
42.       This program would strengthen the National Livestock Projects
Department .(NLPD), the Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd.
(NACB), the capabilities of state veterinary and livestock production
staff, and of research institutions, by providing staff, technical
assistance, training, housing and equipment. In addition, it would arrange
for the delivery of farm inputs and veterinary supplies to project
participants and establish a livestock sectoral planning capability in the
Federal Livestock Department.
43.       State Ministries of Agriculture would provide extension staff for
animal health and production. They would be attached to, directed and
supervised by NLPD. NACB, the country's main agricultural financing
institution, would be responsible for implementing the credit component.
It would operate through selected lending institutions (SLAs) in each
state. Input supply would be through an expansion of ongoing private
trader activity, multi-purpose cooperative societies, and agricultural
development projects. A Joint NACB/NLPD Committee has already been estab-
lished to ensure coordination between NACB and NLPD on credit, input supply
and marketing.
44.       National Livestock Projects Department (NLPD).  The field
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and training activities of NLPD,
established under the First Livestock project, need to be strengthened.
Under the proposed project, FMG would set up three additional zonal offices
to strengthen technical supervision of state NLPD offices and improve
coordination between institutions participating in project implementation.



- 14 -
Training, monitoring and evaluation vould be strengthened and technical
assistance provided (paras. 48-50).
45.       Extension Services.  Extension workers would be drawn from
existing state staff to provide animal health and production extension
services under NLPD's direction and supervision. This small cadre of state
staff, reaching a maximum of 25 per state, would continue to have their
salaries paid by their respective state governments. To improve their
effectiveness, they would be provided with training, field allowances, and,
where necessary, vehicles (mainly motorcycles).
46.       Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank Ltd. (NACB).  NACB
would be the principal credit agency and would make loans to farmers
through one or more selected lending agencies in each state. NACB would
establish a Livestock Credit Unit with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank to be responsible for implementing, supervising, and monitoring
the progress of the credit component.
47.       Federal Livestock Department (FLD).  A Livestock Sectoral
Planning Unit would be established in FLD to provide the Federal Ministry
of Agriculture with the institutional capability to design and implement a
sector-wide planning, monitoring and evaluation program.
48.       Training.  A training unit would be set up in NLPD, and a
training and staff development program drawn up. A detailed skill gap
analysis was carried out to produce the project's first year training
program by identifying: (a) particular activities required to implement the
project; (b) skills required to carry out those activities; and (c) skills'
of existing staff.  A small training center would be set up for the field
staff training program. Management staff at headquarters and state level
would receive training both under the proposed project and through the
Bank-assisted Agriculture and Rural Management Training Institute (Loan
1719-UNI). Special attention would be given to providing extension workers
with communication skills needed for their interaction with pastoralists.
49.       Technical Assistance.  Under the proposed project, fifteen key
experts would be recruited to give mainly technical rather than managerial
assistance. Nigerians who have received on-the-job training during the
First Livestock project are adequately trained to assume most management
positions. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of the
experts would be satisfactory to the Bank. The appointment of the
financial controller, technical controller, head of training and four zonal
supervisors would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
50.       Studies.  The project would include three studies:  (a, a
national livestock census on which to base development plans; (b) an
evaluation of animal health services to help determine means to make tne
service more effective; and (c) a monitoring and evaluation program for
NLPD. FLD and NLPD would prepare detailed terms of reference for the
studies for review by the Bank prior to the recruitment of consultants.



- 15 -
Cost Estimates
51.       Total project costs are estimated at US$128 million (including
taxes and duties of US$5 million) of which US$69.7 million or 54 percent
would be foreign costs. A breakdown of costs by major category are
provided in the Loan and Project Suumary. Physical contingencies have been
calculated at 10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for vehicles,
equipment and recurrent costs except salaries. Price contingencies for
local costs are estimated at 14 percent annually, and for foreign costs as
follows: 1986: 7.5 percent; 1987-90: 8 percent; and 1991: 5 percent.
Total contingencies are estimated at 40 percent of base costs.
Project Financing
52.       The proposed Bank loan of US$81 million would finance 63 percent
of project costs or 66 percent of costs net of taxes and would cover the
full foreign exchange and 21 percent of local costs. FMG would provide
US$31.6 million. The remaining project cost would be financed by NACB
US$4.0 million (3 percent), and farmers US$11.4 million (9 percent). FMG
would onlend US$28.1 million to NACB at 6 percent per annum with the same
maturity as the Bank loan. FMG would carry the foreign exchange risk. The
execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
53.       FMG would open and maintain a special account in dollars in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for
advances out of the proceeds of the Bank loan. The authorized allocation
for this account would be US$5 million. It was agreed during negotiations
that: (a) FMG would provide for non-incremental staff and operating costs
at current levels in FMG's recurrent budget; (b) FMG would make an initial
deposit of N4.0 million into the Project Account as a condition of loan
effectiveness and would promptly thereafter pay the balance of its annual
contribution to project costs and its share of non-incremental expenditure
quarterly and in advance; and (c) the Bank would replenish the Special
Account upon receiving confirmation at the time of reimbursement that FMG's
share of local funding was up to date.
Cost Recovery
54.       Private distributors would distribute most farm I.-. La; the
prices charged would reflect unsubsidized market prices with the exception
of fertilizer (a minor input) which is subsidized by Government. NLPD
would administer veterinary drugs directly and farmers would be charged
about double the cost of the drug itself to cover overheads.  The cost of
providing water sources to pastoralists would also be recovered. The funds
recovered (on average NO.4 million/year) would be revolved to enable NLPD
to continue to provide veterinary health services to beneficiaries.



- 16 -
Procurement
55.       The procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Amounts and Method of Procurement a/
(US$ million)
Total
Project Element                ICB        LIB       LCB       Other      NA      Cost
Civil Works                     4.0                  5.6                          9.6
(4.0)                (3.7)                        (7.7)
Vehicles, Plant,               14.4        2.0       1.8         1.0              19.2
Equipment & Spares          (14.4)      (2.0)     (1.0)       (0.8)           (18.2)
Farm Inputs-Credit b/                      1.3                           39.2    40.5
(1.3)                         (26.8)  (28.1)
Farm Inputs-Other               2.7                  1.3         2.4      1.1     7.5
(2.7)                (1.3)      (0.3)    ( - )   (4.3)
Consultants                     3.1                                               3.1
(3.1)                                             (3.1)
Int'l Salaries, Training c/   10.3                                        1.0    11.3
'10.3)                                     (1.0)  (11.3)
Local Salaries                                                           22.4    22.4
(-_)    (-)
Op. Costs and General Services                       8.5         5.9              14.4
(4.3)      (4.0)             (8.3)
Total                     34.5       3.3       17.2        9.3      63.7   128.0
(34.5)     (3.3)    (10.3)       (5.1)   (27.8)  (81.0)
m     xx=_=   =%      _=              =i=  =
a/   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
h/   Includes N1.3 million for N'Dama cattle procured internationally by NLPD and
supplied to farmers on credit.
c/   Includes US$2.5 million of pre-project expenditure.
56.       Goods estimated to cost US$300,000 or more would be procured
through ICB. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the C.I.F. bid
price of imported goods or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower,
would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Provision has been made for
limited international bidding for procurement of N'Dama cattle and spares
needed urgently for existing equipment. Goods estimated to cost between
US$60,000 and US$300,000 would be procured through LCB procedures in which
foreign suppliers would be eligible to participate. Goods estimated to
cost less than US$60,000 may be procured on the basis of at least three
price quotations. Vehicle/plant operating and general services contracts
estimated to cost US$300,000 or more would be procured through LCB
procedures and contracts estimated to cost less than US$300,000 may be
procured on the basis of at least three price quotations. Contracts below
this level would be procured by local competitive shopping procedures with



- 17 -
at least three price quotations. Civil works contracts are expected to be
unattractive to international contractors due to the scattered nature of
the works. Consequently, they would be procured utilizing LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Small civil works estimated to cost less than
N100,000 may be carried out by force account.
Disbursements
57.       The Bank loan of US$81 million would be disbursed over a 7.5-year
period. This profile closely follows the Bank profile for all regions for
both livestock and credit projects. There are no disbursement profiles for
livestock projects in West Africa.
58.       Disbursements would be made as follows:  plant, vehicles,
equipment, furniture and spares: 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
85 percent of local expenditures; farm inputs: 100 percent of amounts
disbursed by NACB, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent
of local expenditures for other components; civil works: 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 75 percent of local expenditures; consultant
services and training: 100 percent; and plant and vehicle operating costs
and general services: 58 percent. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that NACB shall have made loans totalling N4 million to
smallholders out of its own resources as a condition of disbursement to
NACB out of the Bank loan. Provision has been made for retroactive
financing of up to US$2.5 million for expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1985. Withdrawals would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for: (a) contracts of less than US$60,000 equivalent for civil
works and less than US$20,000 equivalent for other categories; (b) force
account civil works; (c) operating and general service costs; (d) subloans
by MACB; and (e) local training programs. We estimated that about US$32
million would be covered by statements of expenditure.
Credit Arrangements
59.       The credit program, totalling US$40.5 million would be
implemented nationally by NACB through state lending agencies (SLAs). NACB
is in a good financial position. Net profits increased from N1.3 million
in 1980 to N3.7 million in 1983, and, during the same period, reserves
increased from N8.4 million to N18.5 million. At the state level, NACB
would establish state credit committees which would include representatives
from NLPD and NACB. SLAs would be selected in accordance with eligibility
criteria, including recovery performance, organization and management, and
area coverage, which have been agreed between NLPD and NACB and are
acceptable to the Bank. NACB is already lending through some of these
institutions and, although performances vary, NACB's experience is
generally satisfactory. Preliminary surveys indicate that between 1 and 3
SLAs per state would meet the eligibility criteria.
60.       Coordination of credit, input supply, and marketing would be
ensured through the already established joint NLPD/NACB credit committee,
which is operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. To



- 18 -
ensure that start-up of the credit component would not be delayed, NACB has
started preparatory work, such as the selection of SLAs and the
establishment of operating-procedures. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that, as a condition of disbursement against the credit
component, loan agreements between NACB and not less than 15 SLAs would
have been signed.
61.       Short-term credit (US$20.6 million) and medium-term credit
(US$19.9 million) would be available to farmers for the purchase of cattle,
fencing, feed, and other inputs and for working capital in the case of
poultry farmers. NACB would establish a new Revolving Credit Fund (RCF)
from the proceeds of loan capital repayments, which would be used to make
additional loans. A similar RCF established under the First Livestock
Project and currently administered by NLPD would be transferred to NACB
within one year after loan effectiveness.
62.       In order to determine the effectiveness of the credit system to
be established under the project, agreement was reached during negotiations
that NACB would carry out a full review of the project credit operations
for discussions with the Bank by not later than twelve months after loan
effectiveness and, thereafter, by October 31 annually. A National
Agricultural Credit Study is currently being carried out by the Central
Bank of Nigeria with Bank assistance. The study covers issues such as
institutional responsibilities, interest rate policies, subsidies, input
supply, etc. FMG is currently reviewing the conclusions of the study with
the Bank. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that FMG would
formulate an implementation program satisfactory to the Bank by
December 31, 1986, and implement the agreed program thereafter.
63.       Commercial banks have confirmed their interest in continuing
loans to farmers through NLPD as in the case of the First Livestock
Project. Agreement was reached during negotiations that a ceiling of
12 million would be maintained on the aggregate of such loans outstanding
until FMG and the Bank are satisfied that these operations could be managed
by NLPD without detriment to project activities.
64.       Interest Rates. Farmers are currently charged interest in
accordance with Central Bank of Nigeria's guidelines - 9 percent for both
short and medium-term loans. In addition, because the margins for SLAs
would be low (1 percent), they would add a minimum of 2 percent per annum
administrative charge to cover costs. The Government and NACB would review
interest rates with the Bank annually during the project implementation
period. The objectives of these reviews would be to eventually: (a) bring
the cost of borrowing more into line with inflation; (b) reduce the
differential in interest rates for loans between the agriculture and other
sectors; (c) ensure adequate margins for lending institutions; and
(d) reduce subsidies on loans by the Borrower to NACB for on-lending. The
question of interest rates (including the fact that currently, real
interest rates are negative) has been an important concern of both the IMF,
and the Bank, as part of their macro-economic dialogue. In these
discussions, the emphasis has been on raising real interest rates, and on



- 19 -
macro-economic policies which will, inter alia, bring down the rate of
inflation. Agreement was reached during negotiations that FMG would take
measures to ensure that the difference between prevailing interest rates
for agricultural and commercial lending would be: no more than 3 percent
by January 1, 1988; no more than 2 percent by January 1, 1989; and further
reduced substantially by January 1, 1992. Increasing interest rates from 9
percent to prevailing commercial rates would not affect the financial
viability of the livestock development models which were all calculated at
a rate of 15 percent.
Economic Benefits and Analysis
65.       The project would benefit some 30,000 smallholder families (about
200,000 persons) directly. Over 90 percent of project participants have
incomes below the absolute poverty level, but with the project, their
incomes are projected to rise above this level. The project would also
reinforce Government support for the traditional small scale producer as
the principal means to increase production in the livestock sector.
66.       The credit program would encourage greater cattle ownership and
the use of draft oxen. To the extent the proposed mixed farming systems
are adopted, in particular the use of fodder plots, they would yield the
project's most important benefits, since the separation of crop and
livestock development is one of the greatest bottlenecks to the development
of agriculture in Sub-Saharan Africa.
67.       The development of the livestock sector requires a well-
coordinated system made up of a number of institutions to provide the
services and inputs the producer needs to increase production. The
proposed project would bring together these institutions and services.
Once the nationwide system is established and functioning under the
proposed project, Nigeria would have a framework which could handle a far
greater number of participants with only marginAlly higher incremental
costs.
68.       The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is about 19 percent.
The ERR was calculated on the basis of incremental costs and benefits;
without project benefits were assumed to remain constant as the necessary
inputs to raise production are not normally available to farmers. For the
calculation of project costs, farm inputs and veterinary supplies were
costed at full, unsubsidized economic costs.
Risks and Sensitivity
69.       The main project risks perceived are of two types: those outside
and those within the control of project design and implementation.
70.       A number of unforeseen factors outside the control of project
design, such as production or price declines due to disease, delays or
lower adoption rates, or oversupply of the market, could affect the ERR.
Total project benefits would have to drop by 34 percent, or total project



- 20 -
costs incrosse by 52 percent to bring the ERR to the minimum acceptable 10
percent. Cattle liveweight prices could drop up to 40 percent and still
yield a 10 percent ERR. If the adoption of all models is delayed by three
years, the ERR would still be 12 percent. Post-project benefits (year
6-20) could drop 45 percent due to say, opening up of import restrictions
or less effective management, and still yield a 10 percent ERR.
71.       Three design aspects carry possible risks.  The first is tech-
nology appropriateness in livestock projects in Sub-Saharan Africa. This
does not appear to be a major risk since all technologies proposed are
currently being implemented by traditional livestock producers. Socio-
anthropological studies were carried out to refine the models to make them
acceptable to the potential participants. The second risk is the
effectiveness of the project organization. Under the First Livestock
Project, all aspects of project organization were controlled by the project
management unit. Under the proposed project, NLPD would have a more
catalytic and coordinating role and be so organized as to be able to rely
increasingly on other institutions to carry out project activities. The
third risk is providing adequate field supervision of the participants.
NLPD would organize follow-up technical supervision visits and draw up
staffing requirements for the promotion of each development model based on
a careful assessment of on-farm experience. In addition, FMC has agreed to
set up three additional zonal supervision offices to strengthen field
supervision.
72.       The risks and sensitivity analysis indicates that while the
project can tolerate a certain amount of latitude in actual values from
those projected, it is important that major divergencies in costs, produc-
tion or timing be avoided (divergencies in economic prices are regarded as
outside project control). Crucial to success will be: (a) sound management
and field supervision; (b) regular and timely financing; and (c) efficient
and dependable procurement and distribution of farm inputs. Failure in any
of these areas could have serious implications. Necessary safeguards in
each area were taken into account in project design.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend tnat the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 5, 1986
Washington. D.C.



-21-                                          ANNEX I
Page I of 6
NCUtRA                - SOCIAL _IUOCATfhS DATA RUrE
inagRIA                             hIFhRUC  CROWN (NilCff 3 AVENAGESI a
mT                      (MOMT RUCOIS ESTUIAT)
333              MINUS IC               MIDDL
inotk      anota.  IzsuTR&        AfICA s. or BANAA   N. ARCA * KID LAST
a    ucmin sq. 00
TOTAL                             9234        923.8      9234
RICWLTtEAL                        471.0       497.4      1f..4
M yM  CaOir  (0)                       ..          ..       770.0            103.J                   1134.9
CKILCRAIU Or aIL EQUIVALUT         20.0        35.0      143.0             581.5                    423.9
POUATO AD  EZL  SEMSM=l
FOWITI0ND.D-IM  (TOcUamDS)   51596.0         4182.0    93642.0
URBAN i0IATIN CE OP TOTAL)         13.1        16.4       22.0              32.0                     49.0
POULATIO  RalCUOul
FOPUATILON IN EL 2000 (CILL)                           162.7
STATIONARY POLATION (PULL)                             532.0
POPULATION IUMEI.II                                      2.0
POPULATION  ESITY
IPR SQ. RN.                      55.9       71.6       101.4              65.1                     37.8
E  SQ. M. JAGI. LAND            109.6      133.0       176.4             124.3                    670.1
POPULATION MGE STRUCTURE (I)
0-14 Us                         45.4       46.6        47.5              45.6                     43.5
15-4 IRS                         52.2       50.9        49.9              51.5                    53.0
65 AnD *109                       2.3        2.3         2.4               2.7                      3.3
POPULATION GROMl 3Amt CE)
TOTAL                             2.4        2.5         2.7               2.9                      2.8
DURAN                             4.7        4.7         4.9               5.1                      4.4
CD  Uu  mRA  CPru SHOUS)           51.5       50.9        49.5              47.0                     40.0
CRUDE - 6 13 RATE (M TRS)          25.0       21.1        16.7              15.0                     11.5
GROSS REPROUCTION RATE              3.4        3.4         3.4               3.2                      2.
FASILY PLAII
ACPTOS. MEUAL (TSUS)              ..         7.6
313  (Z or OF HUR0S WORES)        ..         ..          6.0               6.4                     21.4
zIND OF FOOD PROD. ru CarxT
(1969-71-100)                     100.0      102.0        82.0              62.9                     95.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES CZ or nQUImrDs)   .  86.0          81.0       94.0              93.5                    118.2
P        Gs (Ats Pu DAT)         48.0       4.0 4A.0                      55.4                     77.8
OP IEICHNIM  AMt POISE          10.0       11.0        11.0 /a           16.5                     17.8
COILD (MIrS 1-4) DEALT  AM         37.4       28.6        17.0              16.6                     12.8
LXi ZISCT. AT *XRi  (TZARS)       39.0       43.5        48.6              52.0                     57.8
iNFNr NORT. RT (PR sOUS)          163.5      140.5       113.0             108I                      96A
AccESS To SAPE wATR (ZPOP)
TOM.                              ..          ..         ..               42.4                     67.2
URDUA                             ..          ..         ..               67.5                     93.6
RUAL                              ..         ..          ..               35.8                    45.8
ACC5SS TO  CEETA DISPOSAL
CZ or raxuTam)
TOTAL                             ..          ..         ..               28.9                     45.9
URRAN                             ..          ..         ..               57.7                     63.0
RUAL                              ..         ..          ..               20.7                     28.6
POPULATION PER msIcI            73710.0    24670.0    12550.0 Id         11791.7                   4331.0
POP. P   USrS  PRSON             4                        1 5070.0 37     2459.8                   1845.0
POP. PER oSPrIAL RED
TOTAL                          302.0 If  2220.0       110.0 /d          9S1.1                    621.8
nu"B                            430.07    490.0        370.0A            3A                       545.0
fWAL                          25630.0 7; 18490.0      5490.0            4 6371.9                 2511.3
ASSIONS R   SPITAL BED              ..          ..         ..               27.2                     25.7
AWERMEZ SIll OF HOUSER30D
aou                               ..         ..          .                  ..
URBAN                             ..           .7 /b
RURAL                         '      ''
A DRA H0. Of PIrSONS/ROON
aOL                               ..          ..         .                  ..
117U1                             3.0        2.2 /h
aIU                               ..         ..          .                  ..
PERCUcE OF OWELLINGS WnM  ELECr.
aO^                               ..         ..          .                  ..
RURAL                             ..          ..



-22-                                          ANNMS I
Page 2 of 6
NIGIA                 - SOC*IL INDICATORS DATA PlES
NIGSRIA                              UFERcc  ROUPS (WEICOfED AVERAGES) 4j
MOSTs                   (NOSYT RECENT EITbATE){
RE CNTIOLS INlCOM                       NIOLE      r
196etk    197o01k EsTDMLTELk     AtlC  5. 0o SAIARA   N. AFRICA 4 HID EAT
ADJUSTED ENROLULMIT RATIOS
PRINARY:  TOTAL                  36.0       37.0       98.0 /d            95.7                    89.8
AULE                  *6.0        47.0        ..               100.0                   103.7
FALE                  27.0        27.0        ..               $3.2                     75.2
SECONAUt TOTAL                    4.0        4.0        16.0              17.3                    42.9
KALE                   6.0         6.0        ..               25.0                     50.9
FEMLE                   1.0        3.0        ..               14.8                     34.6
VOCATIONAL (I OF SECONDARY)         4.8        8.5        3.1 fj             5.9                    10.0
PUPIL-TEACER RATIO
PRIMART                          30.0       34.0        ..                41.1                    29.7
SECOISARY                        19.0       21.0        ..                25.5                    18.6
E_tIO
PASSENGER CARSUTNOdSmID FOP         0.6        0.9        1.4 AL            20.8                    17.5
RADIO lZCZIYERS/TMOUSAND POP        2.8       '9.3       72.9              107.8                   175.9
TV RECEI DSITNOUSAND FOP            0.0        1.1        5.0               20.8                    51.2
NEWSPAPER ("DATLY GENERAL
INTERZr) CIRuLATION
PER THOUAND POPULATION             5.5        4.8        5.6               18.4                    37.2
CD0A ARrIVAL ATTEDANCE/CAPTA        ..         ..         03 /d             0.4                      2.4
TOTAL LABOR FORGE (TIOUS)       21788.0    2592.0    33544.0
FEL (PERCNT)                     41.3       40.6       394                36.2                    11.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            7:.O       62.0       54.0 a             54.5                    42.4
INDUSTlY (PtRC)                  10.0       14.0       19.0               18.3                    27.9
PARTICIPATION RT (PRCENT) 
TOTAL                            42.2       39.3       35J                36J                     26.2
MALE                             50.3       47.3       44.0               47.1                    46.2
FENALE                           34.4       31.5       23.3               27.2                     5.6
ECONOttC DPEaNR  RATIO              1.1        1.2         1.4               1.3                     1.6
mnm  oi PRnAT DICOIIC
RE IVED BY
RICHST O   oF   HOLDS             ......I
RICHEST 20S or OF..               .....
LOVES? 20 OF HOUSEHL                         ..
LOGEiST  or OROFIOUShOLh          ..         ..
LEVEL  SS PER CAPI
URBN                              ..         ..       696.0              590.7                   226.3
RUIRAL                            ..         ..       341.0              275.3                   134.0
ESTIMATED ELLATIVE POVERTY'ICM
LEVEL (US PE CAPITA
URBAN                             ..         ..       621.0              545.6                   431.5
RURAL                             ..         ..       207.0              201.1                   326.0
ESTIKATED POP. BOW ABSOLUT
PW?ERT INCOME LEVEL (t)
URA                               ........
RURAL                             ..         ..         ..                 ..                     29
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLCABL
N OTES
/a  The group averas for ea  indicator are popelatia-veigbted ariletitc mama. Covrage of cmaeri"
mug the Indicator deps on    lsbilty of daet ad Is not uform.
lb  Unless otberwis noted, "Dta for 196  refer to any year beten 1959 an  1961; "Data for 1970" betwen
1969 and 1971; ad data for "NMst Reet grtuse" betee  1951 ed 1983.
/c  1977; /d 1979; Is 1962; if Iclua ex-North Csuroon under Britisb adolstratosm;  / 1976; lb 1972;
ft1978; .3  90
JUE. 1965



- 23 -                                     ANNEX I
Pagerof 6
UINlONS OF SOCIAL INECATOU
Now A_hogh th das m dawn lW. sonns grs*jnded thomas maboltative a1d eliable, k dh   aim be noed thea they my not be Inierstlonly
ampabe hanes oilfs Ink of 1 tandrl  dnilk md mumps sud by dilhan ceuatn in shaeelsc th dat. The dawn ane_nhulm. umfu to
du_k edIr of m_gultde, indi  nude iii ahsrnraw o  mer dJldl_rom beae ountries.
Ib abra  _an (1) Om mhe -ounsty gmrap oa dm ubject autiry sad (2) a cni" gpp wit aewat hier swwa   lam  then the asuary
pomp ofthemtjeosutry (esaopt far _011 hi e Oil Uportaro" gpsm "Mid leome North Allic end Middle Est" 'la_m beum oftanpr
e_odoeuwal atie). In th arm peep data ti aural. - populhao weIgtd Iameda_ muse for _m: lnditr *ad Sen only whe marity
ofatastbapop huidama farthat Irm.m Slo thde swamp oooutraamongthediatdnds on thavlbibity da  nd la smotufa*,
amii mum  erum  neing Weraps doe irdiesortomahar. Tlu awaps am moly meul In ompndng thew vahle aone Indicaor at a time among
th anuny ad -o p .L
AREA (thoma sq.knL)                                           Cre AhkW RAe (per lsesmd)-Number oflive births in the yar
rai-Tolarfc ame comprising land ae sad inland waten;          per thound of midyer population; 1960,1970. and 19S3 data.
1960,1970 ad 1993 data.                                       Crude Desk ARul (per _/kanad-Number or deaths in the year
Agu cel-Estinate of agrWicultural are ued temporarily or      per thousnnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pemnanetly for crops pastures. market and kilchen grden or to  Gra Repredwks Rat-Aveage number or daughtm a woman
le raow, 1960, 1970 ad 1932 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiens
present age-specific fertility rates; usually Ave-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (US)NP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
mnrket prics, calkulated by -m   conversion method as World
Ruit Ad  (191143 bairn): 1933 data.                           beror acceptors of birth-control device tnder ausopces of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual appaemnt                 family plnnning program.
consumption of commercil primary energy (coal and lignite,    FusiY PIeul-fsm (pea  worded wf meaj-The pen-
petroleum. naturl gs and hydro-. nuclear a  geodthermal elc-   age of married wvomen of child-bearing age who re practicing or
tricity) in kilogams of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontracption. women
1982 data.                                                    ofchild-bearing a  ar gceneraly wvomen aged 15-49. although for
some countries contracecptiv usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIICS                                 groupL
Tat Papslate, Mi-Yew (zb.madzJ-As of Jly I; I960 1970.        FOOD AND NUTRIION
and 1933 data.
04mm Pe  (pwcmrof wd) tio ofurban t total      andrxer of Fd Preducda Per Capi. (1919-n - IN0) -Index of per
Claim IbpuhSsu (percent of eersI)-Ratio of urban to totl   Icapita annual production of all food commodities. Production
populatio; diffemnt definitions of urban     may affc conpar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960, 1970. and 1933 data.   incude primary commodities (eg. sugarne instead of sugr)
_pslsio  h*rBem                                               which are ediblek a   contain nutrients (eg. coffee and te are
hpudao  hi yaw 2000-The projection of populaton for 2000.     exdcuied); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses oil seeds.
made for ech economy sparately. Starting with information on  vegetables fruits, nuts. sugrcne and sugr bets, livetck, and
total population by age ted sex. fertility rtes, wortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggrgte production orech country is based
intrnatiou.l mgration in the bw yer 19  tbese parafneters     on national averae producer price weights; 161-65. 1970. and
we  projected at rm-year interval on the basis of geerlized   1932 data.
assumption unl  the popuation became sttionary.              AP  Cqira SWp$y ofCderie (p-cel ofvenh'mnvr)-Comput-
Smway ypopAdadro-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ad from caloriecquivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-pecific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertilty rates have simultaeousy remained at repacetment kvel  tion, imports less exports. and chauges in stock. Net supplies
(net rproduction rate- 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  cldude animnl feed eeds for use in agriculture quantities usd in
constant and equal to the death rate the age structure is also  food processing and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant and the growth rate is mo. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size -  estimated on the basis of the projected chaacterstics of  and halth considering environmental tempeature. body weights.
the popuation in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertlity  age and sex distribution of population and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replcmnt klvd.                                        wasteat houehold level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Aopadon Moamaan-s the tendency for population growth to       Per Cptw  Spp  of hard. (gram per dsy)-Protein content of
continuebeyond the time that replcement-vel fertility bas been  percapita net supply offood perday. Net supply offood isdefined
achieved; that is. cven after tbe net reproduction rate has readd  as abovc Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum ofa population in the year  is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams or total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein of which 10 grams
the jar    - gvc the asmptio  that fertility remains at replce-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment lewd from year t onward, 1985 data.                      75 grams of totai protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
pfdaa Desity                                                  averag for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
hr sqkm.-Mid-yar popultion per square kilmeter (100 hec       Supply; 1961 1970 and 1932 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Pr Cmpta hereia Suppiy mfm Aniu and hire-Protein supply
hr sqJkn. ogriadtwal Iad-Conmputed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: ! 961-65.
lnd only. 1960 1970. aS 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Apum. Age Smaue (percer)-Children (0-14 years). work-         Chi (dae 1-4) Desk Rate (per skmadj-Number of deaths of
ingage (154 years). and retid (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
mAp    Growth Rare (pern)-utaI-Annual growth rates of         from life tables :960. 1970 and 1933 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-93.  HEAILIH
RyuIsi. Gowth Re (e           -' Annual growth rates          Lie Exprcmwy at in  (yersj-Number of years a newborn
Of urban population for 19560. 1960-70. and 197-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-24-                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time orof it birth were to ay the -  throuhout itw ar;  Aqtlp-;rw  Ratio - prnury, md swo udwj-Total students -
1960. 1970 and 39  data.                                      roled in primary md condary klve  divided by numbm  of
low MNanC  RXa  rpm tikusad)-Number of infatu who die    teacher in the coresondin levs.
bore mreching - yr of ae per thouand Ive bhi   in ha 
yer; 1960, 1970 and 18 data.                                   coNSUurnoN
Am  - So  Rimr (pwii  Vf _    it4n   w W                d      hmear Cwx (per herud p.pubnij-usenger can cm-
md-Number of people (total, urbn   d rurl) with reas ble       priw motor c-n sating kl  thn eight penons excludes ambul-
acorn to sae wate apply ( bncuds trated  urfae water or        anus bears  and mli lry vehces.
uoted but unconminated water such as that from potcted        R.oe Rweulwnr (er r_saidpepuslm)-All types of reeives
boreboles. snp   d sanitary wlls) as perceutgs of their re-    for radio broadcuts to gner pubic per thousnd of population;
tie population s  en urban -m a public fountun or stuadpot    exdudes un-licened receivm  in counties and in yeas when
locasednot more thn 200 me  firoma   se -m y be conida md  rt             of rdio wew wu in effect; dat for recent yearn my
being withd  reasonable acorn of that house In rural are      -O be ompable since most countri abolied licening.
reasoiable access uwid imply that the houswife or mentors of the
houselbold do not ave to spend a disrpopnionate Prt of the day  TVAhdurrs  nir hm                     receiverorbroadcust
in fetching the ramils water needs.                           to pger public per thouand populatio; exludes unlicensed TV
Am  re Elae DIspa_d (                { p                       receive. in cOuntrine   d in yea when reitration of TV ss -
ad real-Number of people (total. urban, ad rural) served by
exacri dispoul -  perentlags of their respective population.  A' ws r Ckrahr (er Se.sad,rI,Im m)-Sbows the aver-
Exsrow disposal my indude the collection a1d di     with or  *  ae circlation of "daily general innt  newspaper. defined ua a
witbout tnratnmet of humsn creta and waste-water by watr-      perxoic publation devoted primarily to recording genl newr
borne systems or them or pit prives and simau instiltionL      It is conided to be daily" iit appeas at lat four timesa week.
-pulei. pe Physihmo-Population divided by number or prac-      Claimd A _ad AnmdaCln per Ce  pir Yeu-Based on the
tising physicias qualified from a mnedial chool at university levd.  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admisions to
thdm  pmr NwJq   Plna-Fpubtion divided by number of            driver4n dnemas and mobile units.
practicing male ad female graduate nursasistnt nur.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliies.                        LUOR FORCE
AVvisl. pgm ffeyid Bnd-4snd, wA, ad v st            on    ~Teed Labk' Farc (thessmida-Ecouomically active persons, in-
(total urban,d rural) divided by thir  _rspetve number of      dudig armed force and unemployed but excluding housewives
hospital beds avble in public and pnvate, geneal and pecd     students e.. covering population of al ages. Definitions in
hospit   nd rehabilitation  nters  Hopita  re eablishmnents    varnous countnes ar not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 dataL
prmnently staffd by at eKt one physician. Establishments prov-  Femal (pwcari-Fonale labor force as pemnuge of totl labor
iding principy cusodl car re not included. Rurl hospitals.    force.
however. uiclde health and meidcl centr not permanently sdald  4nkicaen (psrowrj-Labor force in fannig, forstry, huntg
by'a physician (but by a medical asismta  nure midwife. et)   and fishing as pecent   or total labor fore; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-paient accomodaon ad provide a limited range    data.
of medical facUii                                              &&,ay (perrcsrI-Labor force in mining, consructo  manu-
AdAdm pm' lHea          EM-Total number of admions to or       facuring and eictricty, water and gs as percentae of total labor
discharge from hospitals divided by the number of bed          forc; 1960. 1970 and I980 data.
P'icslu Raw (persr i -nd, _dn, makd        -P    ction
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed stotaL, ma, d femal lebor forc
Amerqe Sie if M0iMEd (peas pm' ho.s"aI-nsard mns               as percentages   total, mae and female population of all age
-ahdrd-Ahousholdcoansofagroupofindividualswho share            respctively; 1960. 1970, and 193 data. These aue based on ILOs
living quarters and their mai meas. A boarder or lodger may or  participaton rates reflecting age-sx stmrtureof the populbtion, and
may not be included in the household for statistical pupos.    long time trend. A few estinates ae from national soures.
A.;  Nmh  of Pasonsr wRm-reed, whoa, ad rurLt-                 E_mo    Dnpeadewy  ri-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of perons per room in a  urban. and runl        65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwdllg. respetivey. Dwellings xcdude
non-permanent structures ad unoccupied prt.                   INCOME DISTRIDUTION
PaJmau_e of DwnNap wi Elc&kky -nan  swho, adrrd-               hrcaqe f Toed DiO4kb me (hark ha cal ad kid)-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in living quarters as percen-    Ahxruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
utp of total, urban, and rural dwellings respecively,          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGEr GROUPS
A4ned Lredmwn Eerai                                            The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pruy school - toara. mdk ad female-Gross total male ad         kvdse ad should be intpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolment of all aes at the prmary levd as perentges of  EsiusredAhehnre Ninny 1nas Lmnd (M jwr cqmra-rhen
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad turd-Absolute poverty income level is that income evel
coider primry school age to be 6-11 years othes do not. The    bdow which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essatial
differnces in country praices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rflected in the ratios given. For some countries with unv0al  Enimaed Rehc. Pieny lacee Lcd (Z per cyit -wo
education gross enrollment may exceed 100 permat since some    avd twd-Rural rdative poverty income level is onethird of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
S          school - oetal, mQk and fenua-Computed as abovw.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four yeas of approved pri-    Ean_ed hp.hn. enoEw Absabte hubsy Ine Level (pr-
nary instction provides-gnaal vocadonaL or teacher training    ceer-erhs ad rrmal- frcent or popuation (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor
ence courses   generaly cluded.
Vocarhmlt Fnr.lwkm    (permcr of seconadyj-Vocational nixu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical industrial or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departnents of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



-25 -                                ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOKC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984                    ANNUAL RAIE OF GRWITH (%, Constant Prices)
USS Mln      %             1975-80         1982           1983
GNP at Market Prices           73001     100.0             3.5           -2.3           -5.9
Gross Domestic Investment       9568      13.1             1.2          -23.9          -20.4
Gross National Saving          11384      15.6             1.2          -39.4           13.0
Current Account Balance         -321       - 
Exports of Goods and nfs       12341      16.9             5.5          -23.7           -7.3
Imports of Goods and nfh      10527      14.4              6.3          -15.9          -24.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1984
Value Added           Labor Force  a/    Value Added per Worker
USS Mln        %          Min         %        USS Mln     S
Agriculture              22702        31.4        21.0       58.3       1081       53.8
Industry and Mining      24510        33.9         7.1       19.7       3452      171.7
Services                 25178        34.7         7.8       21.7       3228      160.5
Total/Average           72390       100.0        36.0      100.0       2013.    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE b/
General Government (1983)         Central Government (1984)
N Mln          As S of CDP         N Mln       As % of GDP
1983         1953      1980-82     1984       1984   1980-82
Current Receipts                12328        25.3        29.1       7342      13.3      18.6
Current Expenditure             14840        30.5        19.7       7635      13.8      11.1
Current Surplus                 -2512        -5.2         9.4       -290      -0.5       7.5
Capital Expenditure             8246         16.9        26.5       2783       5.0      14.9
External Assistance (net)        2760         5.7         2.7        -16       -         0.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1977    1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
RTI--iioN-air-a-Mtst=i3ng End Per;TW
Money and Quasi Money                7050   7691  9849  14390  15541  16887 19369  21601
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  2068    3337   3439   3589  6607 10528 15825  18200
Bank Credit to Private Sector       3443    4723   5417   7193.  9654  11372  12354  12942
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as S GDP       21.7    22.0   24.0   29.8   31.9   33.0   39.8
General Price Index (1975-100)      143.0   166.7  186.3  204.9  247.5  266.5  328.4 458.4
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                15.4   16.6  11.8  10.0  20.8    7.7  23.2   39.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector      345.0   61.3    3.0   4.4  84.1  59.3  50.3  15.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector      42.8    37.2   14.7   32.8   34.3  17.8   8.6    4.8
- - Negligible.
Note: All conversions to US dollars are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
a/ Derived from planning documents and refers to the number of gainfully employed (based
on 1983 distribution).
b/ Based on the Government Budget estimates, INF data, and World Bank estimates.
May 1986



-26 -                                        I
Page 6 of 6
TRAE PAYM S AND CAPIL FLOWS
BALAU     OF PAYMENTS                                                   MECWIDISE moRIS (194)
1981   1982 a/  1983 b/ 1984 c/                                     Mt l In     9
- ~    YU.111OOe US  -}                Crude Oil                 12566        96.8
Cocoa Products              331         2.8
ExportsoOf Goode, uf            13894     12703      10890    12341      Pal. Products                 7
IMpOrts of Goods, Ofs           24190     18353     13865    10527      TSn                           NA          IU
Others                       4.2        0.39
Resource Cap (deficit   -)      -5296    -5650       -2975     1814                                 -  
Interest PaymOts (net)            262      -599      -970    -1302            Total                194B        100.0
Other Factor Paymnts (net)       -916       -709      -355    -501
EXTERNAL DEBT. DEEMW    31. 1985 d/
Net TrasferC                     -565      .430      -395      -332
BaOlace On Current Account      -6515     -7388      -4696    -321
Public Debt Including
Diec  Frep  nvst   -      -           -                          Undisbursed               16730
Direct FOrei8n Investment        S546       431        365      293      Ncr'Qlranteed
Private Debt
Net Ofisclre     Borrowing        813      304.0      3848      -64       Outstanding               1081
Disbursement                    1416      3677      4865      1911
Amortization                    -603      -637      -1017    -1975      TOtal Outstanding
and Disbursed            11.257
Other Capital (net)               156       3630      2016      192        DLB SrVIC   AO       1 57
Errors and OmiSsions               78     -1806      -1801        -
S
Overall Balance                 -4922     -2093       -268      100        b
Public Debt includfing
R-Serve  o    ns-                          -                   -          Undisbureed                           33.7
Reserve Movements (Inor.-)       4922      2093        268     -100      Non-Guaranteed
Reserve Level                    3895      1102       1534     1634       Private Debt                            2.8
Fuel nd Related Material                                                Total Outstanding
imports                                                                  and Disbursed                        -RR3
of uhich: Mineral Fuels         288       262        201      165
Exports                              =JRD/IDA LEND11C AS OF DznD=  31. 1985
of which: Petroleum           17401     12777      9857    11568
EXCEUNGE RA7E                                                                                       IBI          ID
Outstanding and
1978 : Nl.OO - USS1.57                                                    Disbursed                 1267        34.7
1979 :1.00   USS1.66                                                  Undisbursed                 1011         --
1980 :N1.00 - US$1.83
1981 :N1.00 - US$1.63
1982 :N1.00 - USS1.49                                                   Outstanding Including
1983 : N1.00 - US$1.38                                                    Undisbursed               2278        34.7
1984 :N3100 - USS1.31
1985 :1.00 - PSS1.12                                                     IBRD/IDA share of External DOD          9.1t
IBRD/IDA share of External Debt Service 2.99
- - Negligible.  NA   Not *available.
*/ Provisional. b/ Official Estimtes.
c/ World Bank Estimates. The 1985 BOP cannot yet be completed
as the level of lports and debt data are still being reconciled
(see footnote d/ below).
dl External Debt estimates refer to medium and long-term loans,
including $1306 million of the 1984-85 rescheduled uninsured trade
arrears   Ihe MLT data base is presently being updated by EPD. The
DOD figures at end 1985 are likely to be revised upwards. Estlmtes
of short-term debt range between S4.5-5.0 billion. It is expected
that between $3.5-4.0 blllion of this, in the form of trade arrears,
is likely to be reconciled and rescheduled as MLT by end 1986.
el Ratio of MIX debt service to exports of goods and non-factor
services.
Hay 1986



-27 -                                             ANU  II
A. wTaT Iolam::fm rlIm:aa
Leao or                                                                n    AU
Croft                                                                th
a   Let bun
my eght eemsa          two *gnts fully iiaorsod              742.7   25.3 
1191    3974    NIeria    B.C Butat O1 Polo                   39.0               3.6
1591    1978    Plaria    sw. Bt.  slhodr 01                 230.0              0.
1597    1971    313         Itiotral 3oo1to                  51.9               33. 2
1347    1979    Nigelo    gfe. Dow. - mum                    2.0                I.7
361     1979     Ntia    "at. hIn. ^ U rof                  27.0                3.7
1379    1979      ioSTIs   Pousony                           31.0                1.4
1711    1979     NgrIa    WurVo    u tply - Idms             92.0               52.2
1719      979    NlPri       Brl.    A Norma _t. KMt.          9.0               2.4
17"     am       NSA        Por Los                          30.0       ,        7.2
1747    3W       Nigria   ilbs flopmeot - Nouthi              17.6               4.7
1i31     lmo"    WiSOrle   la . hi. - O-Morch               21.0              17.4
1151     190    Niari  a  gric. Dow. - _li-Abshs              22.5             18.2
31l)     190     Niusr   s NeS                                73.0              17.4
1163     1931    fligTo      ariei. hi. - hcSu               132.0              23.3
1392     911    N14rla    aflc. hi. - Sn                    142.0              "4.
2029     1932    Nlgrla  Tloo.  osolocs - Duic.               47.0              24.5
2024     192     NIg1       Vote Supy -                       47.0              12.3
2065     12         A         oer - Dtrributist              360.0             2323
2165     1932    Nlsofla    dgfc. hi. -  loto                147.0              94.1
2299     1912    Wm          lfiotrial 1suol_om:             120.0             307.7
233      2934   IWAons    WortLiose. lopin                   2so.0              50.0
2370    1396     Mm          boll 1 Nadis Sash  leotry    41 .D                 40.
*029      312     I N C      Tleek. Aoot,   Coo URgAOOrAO      25.0              25.0
24U     I96      W1uis   Arie.  h. - madam                 122.0             121.7
2480     15    Nl3sri   Tlc. Loolotanc                       13.0               12.2
2e30     INS     Uploris      Stli' - Sokoto                  36.0              34.0
2528     1965    Nigels       oteor supply - Moo              72.0              72.0
2607     1965  IWAgn        Urban - Io                        53.0              53.0
*02413     1955    Niger"a   Indstry - Tech. Loot.               3.0               5.0
420      1935    WAgons   Urban - sgmo  Solid Vasto           72.0              72.0
Total                                             2 724.9    25.3  1.049.g
01 whIch boo boss rpopsid.                                     3.
Total ost tot es                                  2.3         2h
=- i Mld                      16.5
uat io                         14.3 W 
Of which boo boss *s           T0                     0.0
TM"  W  hol by Nook & INA                         2,205.0   29.3
Tonil woiisburoei                                                   1.069.6
N. STAIUIT aliv  ZNt3lIIdTS
ho of Mach 31. 1994)
isecal                                  Typo  et        _         1  3   Illi_
Ter -rt_ba "                                            _       tt        Tt 
194, 1397.   Areas Teotlas Ltd.    lentils Ng.   1.0             0.6       1.4
3970
l94             4oriS 1anotral          UV. Fin. Co.             1.4       1.1
Doolopoot tok Ltd.
1973            ants Cattososd         log. Oil        1.b                 1.l
CrW*oin  Ltd. Croain
1973. 1974    Nigorl  A *1fl     .      MAlms          1.0       0.3       1.3
Enxtuoin Ltd.            Pr oonsg
197&          Loii Sugar              Sugr                      0.1       0.3
1990         Ngm                       Texttls o        .:       0.7       4.9
191. 1935    1ihja Hotol              Tnriso         10.3       1.4     31.7
l1ot          Tgsr Battry             Dky-col         4.0        -        * 9
or ters*-s
Tota gross cm usto                   25.0       4.5      29.5
laos caeuallotiso. tosSes-
tlaos. ropsts and sales               4.7       3.1       1.3
Total Coeetmont n  hold by lC          20.3       2.9      23.2
Soiouroeeod                             1.0       0.2       1.2
-t ys eto fetlus.
N Sot yot olguod.
The sotsc    of the proj*cts lsted I' Port A iO doeribod Is  * _oratt
report o anl Botk/Do fisnesed projects la sacution. whlc  i
upotod nilee yearly ad circulotod to thi  Kucutivs Dirsetor  on
APrll 30 no October 31.
lb  Prior to _mchs   rats mjwascmonts.
/c Nonec co  sill to be reflected in ths tcab)..



- 28 -
Annex III
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sup|lementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: Federal Livestock Department
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: November 1982
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: October 1983
(e) Date of departure of the appraisal mission: February 1985
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: December 13, 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:  December 31, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
(a) PPF advance of US$1 million approved for bridge financing between
the First Livestock project and the proposed project to complete
preparation activities and short-term training of Nigerians who
have moved into management positions occupied by expatriates
under the First Livestock project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Gazetting of at least five grazing reserves (Condition of
Effectiveness para. 39).
(b) Appointment of the financial controller, technical controller,
head of training and four zonal supervisors (Condition of
Effectiveness para. 49).
(c) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between FMG and NACB
(Condition of Effectiveness para. 52).
(d) FMG to pay initial deposit of N4 million into the project account
(Condition of Effectiveness para. 53).
(e) NACB shall have made loans totalling N4 million from its own
resources to smallholders for cattle fattening (Condition of
Disbursement para. 58).
(f) Signing of 15 loan agreements between NACB and state lending
agencies (Condition of Disbursement para. 60).
(g) FMG to raise agricultural lending rates progressively to ensure
that, the difference between agricultural rates and prevailing
commercial rates would: (i) be no more than 3 percent by
January 1, 1988; (ii) no more than 2 percent by January 1, 1989;
and (iii) be further reduced by January 1, 1992 (para. 64).



e   d'   e          *                  Io      -                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 19129R
N I G ERIA                         _RHIAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -VLPETPROJECT                                                                                 g cHAD
--~~~~~ _       r    -_. ~~~~~~~~~N                   I      G       E      R            
>            f          50i~~~~~oeoo                   Oro B. '   .k0 R N' 01f0~ 
\ ( >breon KeEbr =ssUoto SJo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en ~~XIooo C-6.&t  S  ,  
-lwZ                           NI;;}vGF R                                           ;                                              /G 72t(<g_0,<CID
*u r G mmS3\ e <rv NVLnA 4>ZeXiv~~~~~~~~~~ GONGOI A                                                        C/(
[    ^osh=bt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --5.p .Ab ~~~~~~~~~~~ > ~~~~ILM @An  UdTIC ZONES:
t_ g 2 no w t VJ 1 f   /                           , tJS4Ri                     E f^~~>b
MAI      NGE    ]                                                      ^       a   !Vh ONuAssNOE
MALId    9 Ni                 ,A                          RI ,,E.GI.                0                      EQ U STaOCKmr Ad11~
Awsoene GRGN  <,,S~~~~~~~ I   ~ ~        c. b.,A                                          |I2                  1-I 
-__(;HAD         "5, s~~~~~~~~~~~~



