Report No. 1298b-EC                                                        FILE  COPY
Ecuador: Appraisal of the
Third Development Banking Project
December 9, 1976
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
iOR O W:hLA. USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
All currency amounts are quoted in
Sucres (SI) and US Dollars (US$)
US$1             -          SI 25.0
Sf 1                        US$0.04
S/ 1,000,000                US$40,000
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AID          -        Agency for International Development
BCE          -        Banco Central del Ecuador
BNF          -        Banco Nacional de Fomento
CAF          -        Corporacion Andina de Fomento
COFIEC       -        Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A. - Compania Financiera
CV-CFN       -        Comision de Valores - Corporacion Financiera Nacional
DFC          -        Development Finance Company
FNII         -        Fondo Nacional de Inversion Industrial
FONADE       -        Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
FONAPRE      -        Fondo Nacional de Pre-inversi6n
FOPEX        -        Fondo de Pron-ocion de Exportaciones
IDB          -        Interamerican Development Bank
IESS         -        Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguro Social
JUNAPLA      -        Junta Nacional de Planificaci6n
KfW          -        Kreditanstalt fflE Wiederaufbau
PEFCO        -        Private Export Funding Corporation
FISCAL YEKAR
January 1 to Decenber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA ON DFCs                                                       i
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................                ii-iv
I.    INTRODUCTION   .........................................                 I
The First and Second DFC Loans (721-EC and 930-EC)                 1
Objectives of the Proposed Loan ....             ..............    I
II.   THE ECONOMIC SETTING ..................................                   2
General Outlook ...................................                2
Industrial Sector ................................                 3
The Financial Sector .............................                 5
Country Economic Policies, Interest Rates and the
Availability of Industrial Credit ....            ..........     6
III.    CV-CFN - PAST PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS ....              ...........     9
Organization, Management and Staff ....            ...........     9
Policies and Procedures ..........................                 9
Operations and Performance .....            ..................    10
Prospects ...........         .............................       11
IV.    COFIEC - PAST PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS ....              ...........   12
Organization, Management and Staff ....             ...........   12
Policies and Procedures ..........................                12
Operations and Performance .......................                13
Prospects ........................................                14
V.   PROPOSED BANK LOAN ....................................                  15
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS ....              ............    18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. C.W. Ludvik, A. Cracco, T. Hutcheson and E. Jurgensen, of the DFC
Projects Division, LAC Regional Office, which visited Ecuador during April/
May and July 1976. The report was prepared by Messrs. Ludvik, Hutcheson and
Jurgensen.
This documwnt h a tatrkted ditubution and may be usWd by recipients only in the performAnce
of their official dute. It contents may not otheirwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
GENERAL
1. Interest and Rediscount Rates
2. Arrearages of Selected Banks and Financieras
3. The Financing of Gross Domestic Investment, 1970-1974
COMISION DE VALORES-CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
4. Past Performance and Prospects
5. List of Board Members and Alternates as of April 29, 1976
6. Declaration of Policies and Procedures
7. Organization Chart
8. Audited Balance Sheets, 1972-1975
9. Audited Statements of Income and Expenses, 1972-1975
10. Summary Breakdown of Loans Approved During the 1972-1975 Period
11. Summary of Subloans Approved under Loans 721-EC and 930-EC
12. Equity Portfolio as of December 31, 1975
13. List and Characteristics of Foreign Loans and Credit Lines -
December 31, 1975
14.  Operational Strategy and Financial Objectives for 1977-81
15. Projected Industrial Operations - 1976-80
16. Projected Balance Sheets 1976-1980, Compared with 1975
17. Projected Statements of Income and Expenses 1976-1980, Compared with 1975
18. Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1976-1980
19. Projected Gap in Foreign Exchange Resources, 1976-1980
20. Past and Projected Financial Ratios, 1972-1980
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
21. Past Performance and Prospects
22. List of Board Members and Alternates as of December 31, 1975
23. List of Major Shareholders as of December 31, 1975
24. Declaration of Policies and Operating Procedures
25. Organization Chart, March 31, 1976
26. Summary Breakdown of Loan Approvals During the 1972-75 Period
27. Summary Breakdown of Loan Approvals Under World Bank Loans 721-EC and
930-EC
28. Equity Portfolio 1972-75
29. Operational Strategy and Financial Objectives for 1976-80
30. Projected Operations 1976-1980, Compared to 1974 and 1975
31. Projected Balance Sheets 1976-80, Compared with Audited
Balance Sheets 1972-75
32. Projected Income Statements 1976-80, Compared with Audited
Income Statements 1972-75



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES (Continued)
33. Projected Sources and Applications of Funds
34. Projected Gap in Foreign Exchange Resources Over the Period 1976-1980
35. Past and Projected Financial Ratios, 1972-1980
THE PROPOSED LOAN
36. Possible Participants in the Proposed Loan
37. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan






- i -
ECUADOR: APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Basic Data on DFCs, as of December 1975
CV-CFN      COFIEC
Established                                              1964         1966
Number of Shareholders                                      I/         323
Net Worth (S/ million)                                    981.2        184.1
Shareholdings as % of Total Share Capital
1.  Private Ecuadorian Shareholders                        -          51.6
2.  Public Ecuadorian Shareholders                         -           6.0
3.  Foreign Controlled Ecuadorian Shareholders             -           4.5
4.  Foreign Shareholders                                   -          30.2
5.  IFC                                                    -           7.7
Assets (S/ million)
Total Assets & Guarantees                             3,184.2      1,745.5
Total Loans                                           1,934.9        838.4
Loans Maturing After 12 Months                        1,441.5        368.2
Equity Investments                                      585.5         28.8
Other Portfolio                                         473.6        732.7
Net Working Capital                                     391.6        279.0
Liabilities (SI million)
IBRD                                                    221.7        327.5
Other Foreign Sources                                   739.0         49.4
Bonds                                                   452.6         90.3
Equity
Total Debt/Equitv                                         2.2          7.0
Equity Portfolio as % of Net Worth                       59.7         15.6
Book Value as % of Par Value                            127.8        130.7
Total Income (S/ million)                                 255.3        131.2
Net Income (S/ million)                                     74.3        32.1
Net Income as % of Average
Net Worth                                                  7.9        19.3
Total Assets                                              2.6          2.1
General Expenses as % of Average Total Assets                2.5         2.0
Dividends                                                     -           -
1/ Government owned



- ii -
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This report appraises a third project to assist Comision de Valores -
Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CV-CFN), Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo, S.A. -
Compania Financiera (COFIEC), and newly established DFCs that meet criteria
for qualification, in providing long-term financing for the foreign exchange
costs of industrial projects. A loan of US$26 million to the Republic of
Ecuador is proposed. By making this loan the Bank would assist the parti-
cipating DFCs in providing long-term financing on reasonable terms, thereby
reducing industry's reliance on short-term credit, strengthen the DFCs' capa-
bilities to appraise and supervise projects, and enhance the financial system's
ability to mobilize medium- and long-term domestic resources. Furthermore,
the Bank would aid Ecuador in developing policies to promote its capital
market.
ii.       Before 1970, Ecuador was among the least developed countries in
Latin America. The discovery of oil in 1971 and the subsequent increase in
world oil prices opened up bright prospects for economic growth. High oil
revenue expectations triggered consumption patterns which soon proved to ex-
ceed the responsiveness of domestic supply and the country's foreign exchange
payment capacity to import. Furthermore, actual oil revenues declined after
July 1974 and estimated reserves were revised downward. The impact of these
developments and of international price movements was reflected in a sudden
increase in inflation to an annual rate of nearly 24% in 1974 and in a fall
in foreign exchange reserves.
iii.      In mid-1975, the Ecuadorian Government instituted restrictive mone-
tary measures, re-established prior import deposits, and curtailed public
expenditures. Legal reserve requirements and ceilings on credit expansion
restrained commercial bank credit. These measures and moderating interna-
tional inflation helped to reduce the rate of domestic inflation to less than
16% in 1975 and to perhaps 10% in 1976.
iv.       Industry accounts for about 17% of GDP and agroindustries make up
almost two-thirds of the sector's output. Exports are only 8% of industrial
production. The sector receives fairly high protection from tariffs and im-
port quotas and a number of major consumer goods are subject to price control.
Nevertheless, there are unmistakable signs of industrial vitality and the out-
look for the continued rapid growth of the sector is bright.
v.        The demand for industrial credit rose considerably as a result of
the oil boom which spurred a doubling of gross domestic investment between
1972 and 1974. While the DFCs provide only about 3% of the financing of
gross domestic investment, they have increased their participation in total
industrial credit from 14% in 1972 to 29% in 1974, CV-CFN's share rising from
5% to 17% and COFIEC's from 9% to 12%. The commercial banking system has
traditionally met the financing needs of industry with short-term credit.
Except for direct foreign credit, the industrial sector relies almost ex-
clusively on CV-CFN and COFIEC for their medium- and long-term credit needs.



- iii -
As the Central Bank (BCE) restricted commercial bank credit in 1975, industry
turned to alternative sources for its credit needs, predominantly foreign
short-term financial and suppliers' credits, often channeled through or
guaranteed by commercial banks and DFCs.
vi.       The ability of the DFCs to mobilize additional domestic medium-
and long-term resources, particularly in the case of private DFCs, had been
inhibited by the regulated interest rate and commission structure which
did not allow an adequate financial spread on the intermediation of domestic
long-term resources but rather favored intermediation of short-term external
resources. Industrial demand for working capital and the need to protect
its capital against erosion during a period of high inflation led COFIEC to
engage heavily in profitable commercial-type operations based on short-term
foreign resources. The viability of the private DFC system (COFIEC and the
new DFCs) as development banks depended on changes in the interest rate
structure which would make medium- and long-term lending at least as attract-
ive as short-term lending. Ecuadorian monetary authorities have recognized
this situation and, as a result, the Government raised the effective interest
rates for medium- and long-term credit.
vii.      Both COFIEC and CV-CFN concentrate their lending on industry,
yet there are many differences between them. CV-CFN, the government-owned
DFC, operates with a relatively large equity base and low leverage and its
projects are relatively large. Its total assets as of December 31, 1975
amounted to US$117 million equivalent. In recent years, CV-CFN has signifi-
cantly upgraded the quality of its staff, strengthened its project appraisal
capacity, increased the effectiveness of its supervision and improved its
operating procedures. It has been fairly active in promoting new projects and
in providing technical assistance to firms in its equity portfolio.
viii.      COFIEC, in contrast, is widely owned by private local and foreign
investors, IFC holding 7.7% of the shares. It has had difficulty at times in
maintaining its level of operations within the debt-to-equity limitation set
in agreement with the Bank, currently 7:1. COFIEC's operations, in addition
to those with the industrial sector, include livestock, construction, trans-
portation and commerce. It generally finances smaller firms and projects than
does CV-CFN. Its equity portfolio is small, 1.8% of the total portfolio, but
moderately profitable. The increasing emphasis on short-term operations and
the need to hold down costs strained the capacity of its staff and resulted
in some deterioration in its appraisal capacity and, in particular, in the
supervision of its portfolio.
ix.       The proposed loan of US$26.0 million would be channeled through
BCE, as the government fiscal agent, to be relent to CV-CFN, COFIEC and new
DFCs that qualify. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk
through its agent, BCE, who would pass to the participating DFCs a variable
fee of 1.75% p.a. or 2% p.a. for this coverage. Bank funds would be available
to industrial enterprises for the financing of foreign exchange costs of equip-
ment and permanent working capital, through either loans or equity investments.



- iv -
The proposed loan would be repayable within 15 years on a composite amortiza-
tion basis including 3 years of grace. Bank funds would be relent at effec-
tive interest rates ranging beween a minimum of 13% p.a. to a maximum of 16%
p.a., depending mainly on the term of the subloans.
x.        The proposed loan would be allocated as follows:  US$13 million
to CV-CFN, US$10 million to COFIEC, and US$3 million to the new DFCs that
qualify. Should no new DFC qualify under the proposed loan, the portion
assigned to them would become available to CV-CFN and COFIEC in equal amounts.
The loan would include provision for reimbursing COFIEC up to US$1 million
for approved disbursements made between January 1, 1977 and the date of the
loan agreement.
xi.       Provided the agreements listed in Chapter VI are reached, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$26 million on the terms and condi-
tions listed in Chapter V and supplemented in Chapters II, III and IV.



ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
The First and Second DFC Loans (721-EC and 930-EC)
1.01      Comision de Valores-Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CV-CFN), a
government-owned DFC, and Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo, S.A.-Compania Financiera
(COFIEC), a privately owned DFC (IFC owns 7.7%), participated in two previous
Bank DFC loans to the Government in 1970 and 1973 of US$8 million and US$20
million, respectively. Under the two Bank loans US$27.8 million had been
approved for subloans by June 30, 1976, for a wide variety of industrial
projects, over half being for industries based on agricultural and forestry
raw materials. 1/ The average economic rate of return on subprojects
submitted for approval was over 30%. The total project cost per job created
directly by Bank-financed subprojects was US$15.9 thousand. Furthermore, 49%
of the amount approved has been for subloans oriented mainly to substitute
imports and 34% has been for projects which have had both import substitution
and export characteristics. Taken together, the two DFCs have increased their
participation in total industrial credit from 14% in 1972 to 29% in 1974, of
which over two-thirds has been in the form of medium- and long-term credit.
The DFCs' capabilities to appraise and supervise industrial projects also were
strengthened significantly during the commitment of the two Bank loans,
although some backsliding has occurred recently in COFIEC (para. 4.03). Thus,
previous Bank loans have largely met two of their objectives: (i) to provide
long-term financing to industry on reasonable terms to cover foreign exchange
costs of efficient investment projects; and (ii) to strengthen COFIEC and
CV-CFN's appraisal and supervision capabilities, with particular emphasis on
assessment of the economic merit of projects. Progress toward meeting the
Bank's third objective--promoting a change in the structure of industrial
finance by substituting long-term funds for short-term credits--while
noticeable, was inhibited by constraints on the DFCs' ability to mobilize
long-term resources (para. 2.13).
Objectives of the Proposed Loan
1.02      The proposed loan of US$26 million would be relent by the Government
to CV-CFN, COFIEC, and other newly established DFCs (para. 2.15) which meet
the criteria for participation in the loan. CV-CFN would be allocated US$13
million of the proposed loan, COFIEC, US$10 million, and other qualifying
DFCs, US$3 million. The Bank would also help the Government in identifying,
selecting, and implementing policies conducive to the long-term development of
Ecuador's capital market. Thus, the Bank and the Government would exchange
views on the terms of reference and the qualifications of experts who would
1/   Food, beverages, tobacco, textiles, leather products, wood products, and
paper.



- 2 -
carry out capital market studies, offer comments on the research scope and
methodology, and give technical advice on the resulting regulatory proposals.
Hence, by making this loan, the Bank would accomplish the following:
(a) continue to provide long-term financing to industry on reason-
able terms to cover foreign exchange costs of efficient invest-
ment projects for the expansion of existing firms and the
establishment of new enterprises;
(b) strengthen further the capabilities of Ecuadorian DFCs to
appraise the financial and economic merits of industrial proj-
ects and to supervise projects they finance;
(c) promote a change in the structure of industrial finance by sub-
stituting long-term funds for short-term credits;
(d) enhance the ability of the Ecuadorian financial system to
mobilize resources for medium- and long-term lending through
discussion with the Government on (i) improving the term
structure of interest and commission rates; (ii) ensuring the
private DFCs a reasonably attractive effective spread between
the cost of their domestic borrowing and lending; and (iii)
limiting the involvement of DFCs in short-term operations;
(e) contribute to the development of Ecuador's capital market.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. C.W. Ludvik, A. Cracco, T. Hutcheson and E. Jurgensen, of the DFC
Projects Division, LAC Regional Office, which visited Ecuador during April/May
and July 1976. This report was prepared by Messrs. Ludvik, Hutcheson and
Jurgensen.
II. THE ECONOMIC SETTING
General Outlook
2.01      The economic situation and prospects of Ecuador have been modified
since 1972 by the emergence of oil as a major source of exports and of public
sector revenues. The subsequent increase in world oil prices boosted further
the prospects for economic growth and industrialization. On the basis of
current export prospects, moderate capital inflows, and an adequate policy to
channel oil revenues into industrial investment, Ecuador's economy may grow at
about 7% per annum through 1980. Oil exports are not expected to increase
rapidly after 1976 and the expansion of the economy will continue to require
additional net external borrowing through 1980 to help finance development
projects. Since oil revenues accrue entirely to the public sector, growth
prospects are ultimately dependent on how the Central Government and other
public agencies use their resources in expenditures and transfers to the
private sector.



2.02      The advent of oil has brightened prospects but it has also brought
to light the need for institutional adjustmenits without which the new revenues
would fail to impart a new dynamism to the economy. While in the past the
role of the public sector in the economy has been modest, the Government is
aware of the need to adapt the institutional structure to the new circum-
stances and is setting up the required framework for a rational allocation
of the new revenues. Among these, there is need to provide appropriate tax,
credit and price incentives to increase private investment and savings, and
to improve the institutional and financial framework within which these re-
sources-will be transferred to priority industries.
Industrial Sector
2.03      The Industrial Sector Report on Ecuador of June 1, 1976, (1186-EC),
indicates that industry has grown rapidly in the 1965-75 decade, averaging
9.4% per annum compared to 5.4% for GDP. Still, the sector accounted for only
17.2% of GDP in 1974 at current prices and for only 11.5% of total employment
in the country, reflecting its incipient development and the limited size of
the market. Recent rapid economic growth has stimulated investment in indus-
tries serving the local market, including consumer goods, construction mate-
rials, and some simple capital goods. The expansion in capacity, however,
does not yet appear to be reflected in changes in output due to problems that
include a shortage of skilled technical and managerial personnel. Present
production rates are mostly the result of a better utilization of previously
existing capacity.
2.04      The structure of industry is consistent with Ecuador's level of
development. It is concentrated in consumer goods (60% of total value added
is represented by food, beverages, tobacco, clothing, shoes, and furniture);
the manufacturing establishments are relatively small and family oriented
(only 74 manufacturing enterprises had a gross value of output exceeding US$2
million in 1973); domestic manufacturing linkages are limited to agricultural
and forest materials and non-metallic minerals; and it is highly dependent on
foreign raw materials and technology (49% of the sector's raw material require-
ment was imported in 1973). Manufactured exports represented only 8% of the
gross value of the sector's output in 1973 and are composed of such traditional
items as sugar and related products, and processed cacao. Of the total indus-
trial employment, 75% is in small and handicraft enterprises that generate
only 30% of the value added in the sector. In spite of these characteristics,
recent years have shown unequivocal signs of an emergent industrial vitality,
with growth particularly marked in branches supplying the construction indus-
tries (plywood, cement, glass, metal bars, etc.) and some simple mechanical
engineering industries. The expansion of the industrial sector between 1973
and 1975 (11% p.a.) has been higher than the growth target set in the 1973-
1977 Development Plan. In the context of Ecuador's favorable position within
the Andean Common Market, the industrial sector expanded its exports of manu-
factured products including some advanced ones such as domestic appliances and
metal products. Ecuadorian exports to Andean Pact countries of 37 selected
industrial products increased from US$5 million in 1970 to US$17.4 million in
1974.



- 4 -
2.05      Comprehensive industrial development laws have been in force since
the first law was enacted in 1957; modifications have been introduced period-
ically, and in 1973 a major revision was undertaken which emphasized regional
decentralization of new industry. Another feature of the 1973 investment law
was the expansion of a limited direct incentive system for non-traditional
exports which had been instituted in 1971. Under the new system, incentives
are given to manufactured exports in accordance with past performance up to
a maximum of 15% of the gross value; non-processed, non-traditional agricul-
tural exports receive a fixed subsidy of 4%.  Furthermore, the new incentives
virtually eliminated the restrictions on imports of raw materials and capital
goods, opened somewhat the policy towards foreign investment, and exonerated
small- and medium-sized industries and artisan activities from taxes and
tariffs. Imports were considerably liberalized in 1973 but the subsequent
re-emergence of the foreign exchange gap led, in mid-1975, to an increase in
tariffs, some prohibitions on imports of consumer goods and a selective tariff
surcharge of 30%, as well as an increase in prior deposits.
2.06      Existing tariff regulations, price controls, and incentive legisla-
tion may result in some distortions by stimulating investment in ineffecient
industries. Besides weakening the tax base and distorting the allocation
mechanism, these features tend to favor capital-intensive industries. Also,
a number of major consumer goods are subject to price ceilings and price
supports especially in the case of sugar, plywood, soybeans, vegetable oils
and related products. Scarcities and overproduction of the commodities
affected result from prices that are too low or too high. A dialogue between
the Bank and Ecuadorian public institutions that influence the industrial
sector has started on the basis of the findings put forward in the Industrial
Sector Report. Views have been exchanged on the diagnostic aspects of the
report and on the industrial implications of the existing schemes on tax in-
centives, tariff protections, price controls and export promotion. The Bank
will continue intensifying these discussions with a view to contributing to
positive revisions of these policies. In the context of the proposed loan,
the above analysis supports the need to calculate economic rates of return on
the larger investment projects in the sector (paras. 3.03 and 4.03).
2.07      The principal areas of potential growth are being examined in light
of Ecuador's need to develop industries that provide wide employment oppor-
tunities leading to an improvement of income distribution and to a reduction
of regional disparities. Attention should be focused on the agroindustrial
sector oriented to exportable products, on the small-scale and artisan industry
and, also, on the economically efficient import-substitution industries. Agro-
industries with particular expansion possibilities are sugar refining, fish
products, fruit and vegetable processing, forestry, as well as some non-food
agroindustrial products. Industries related with construction, such as cement,
glass, ceramics, structural steel and hardware, offer good possibilities to
substitute imports. On the basis of the past performance of the DFCs, it is
expected that the proposed loan will be largely used by agroindustries and
efficient import-substitution industries.



-5-
The Financial Sector
2.08      Four components can be identified in the financial system of Ecuador:
(a) The Monetary Board, the highest monetary authority, which
regulates the volume and distribution of money and credit.
(b) The banking system, which is made up of the Central Bank (BCE),
the commercial banks (18 national and 4 foreign), and the National
Development Bank (BNF), a public institution primarily oriented
toward agriculture and small enterprises. BCE, with assets in 1974
almost equal to the sum of the commercial banks combined, adminis-
ters eight financial funds that provide rediscounting facilities to
commercial and development banks and keeps the accounts of the
National Investment Fund (FONADE). The latter fund receives a
portion of the Government's tax receipts in oil exports, and its
resources are allocated by an interministerial commission to
developmental projects of top priority.
(c) Other financial intermediaries, which include the DFCs, savings
and loan associations, cooperative banks, insurance companies
and the Ecuadorian Social Security Institute (IESS).
(d) Ancillary organizations such as stock exchanges, special funds,
and the unsupervised market. Both Quito and Guayaquil have had
stock exchanges since 1970 but they are still in their infancy.
Special funds include the Export Promotion Fund (FOPEX), admin-
istered by CV-CFN, and the National Preinvestment Fund (FONAPRE),
set up to finance feasibility studies. The unsupervised market
is small, in the opinion of public officials and bank represen-
tatives.
2.09      The most striking change in the financing of gross domestic invest-
ment (GDI) between 1970 and 1974 is the increase in the participation of the
Central Government from less than 1% to 28% (Annex 3), due largely to oil
revenues. Little of this amount has been directly channeled to the non-
petroleum industrial sector. In addition, BNF's share in the financing of
GDI rose from 1% in 1970 to 10% in 1974, with nearly all of the increase
channeled to the agricultural sector. The share of GDI financing provided
by commercial banks and DFCs increased from 9% to 16% in the same period (a
seven-fold increase in absolute terms). This change in financial flows is
largely explained by GDI increasing much faster than corporate financing
out of internal cash generation and, also, by the decline in direct foreign
investment levels since 1970-71, when the bulk of investment for oil exploit-
ation took place.
2.10      The commercial banking system has traditionally met the financing
needs of industry with short-term credit while CV-CFN and COFIEC, within their
resource constraints, have provided term loans to medium- and large-sized com-
panies. Except for direct foreign credit, the industrial sector relies almost
exclusively on the two DFCs for their medium- and long-term credit needs.



-6 -
While the DFCs finance an average of only about 3% of GDI, they have
increased their participation in total industrial credit from 14% in 1972
to 29% in 1974, CV-CFN's share rising from 5% to 17% and COFIEC's from 9%
to 12%. 1/
Country Economic Policies, Interest Rates and the Availability of Industrial
Credit
2.11      High oil revenue expectations triggered consumption patterns which
soon proved to exceed the responsiveness of domestic supply and the country's
capacity to import. Furthermore, actual oil revenues declined after July 1974
and estimates of reserves were revised downwards. The impact of these devel-
opments and the rapid increase in import prices was reflected in an accelera-
tion in inflation to an annual rate of 23.4% in 1974, in a difficult fiscal
situation, and in a drastic fall in foreign exchange reserves.
2.12      To counteract these developments, in mid-1975 the Ecuadorian Govern-
ment instituted restrictive monetary measures to contain aggregate demand,
reduced oil taxation, increased prior deposits on imports, and reduced public
expenditures. Commercial bank credit was curtailed by higher legal reserve
requirements and ceilings on credit expansion. These measures and a modera-
ting rate of increase in import prices helped reduce the rate of inflation to
15.7% in 1975 and perhaps 10% for 1976, but at the same time they aggravated
distortions in industrial financing.
2.13      Prior to the recent modification of the interest rate structure in
the country (para. 2.16), prevailing interest rates inhibited the ability of
private DFCs 2/ to mobilize domestic medium- and long-term resources. The
official maximum lending rate affecting all credit operations in the country
was 12% irrespective of maturities (Annex 1). Higher effective interest rates
could be obtained by commercial banks through devices such as compensating
balances, discounting, and advance interest payments, making their short-term
credit carry an effective interest rate of 14% to 16%. On credit from external
sources, which industry has used extensively in recent years, the financial
intermediary can pass on the actual cost to the borrower and charge a commis-
sion of up to 4% on short-term financial instruments such as letters of credit
with refinancing, acceptances, and guarantees. In contrast, long-term credit
financed by private DFCs (COFIEC) with domestic bonds provided only a 2% in-
terest rate spread through allowable commissions.
2.14      Given the past interest rate and commission structure, a private DFC
such as COFIEC, which must maintain an attractive real return on its equity,
1/   Banking statistics show credit extended rather than credit outstanding
to each sector, thus overstating the relative importance of shorter term
commercial bank operations.
2/   CV-CFN can issue tax-free domestic bonds, therefore its cost of raising
funds is lower than the cost to private DFCs.



had little alternative but to base its operations on the type of short-term
external resources on which a high commission could be charged (letters of
credit, acceptances, guarantees). This was possible since DFCs were exempt
from the credit restrictions imposed on commercial banks. Thus, the interest
structure, the restrictive credit measures on commercial banks, the exemption
of DFCs from credit restrictions and the profitability of commercially oriented
activities together caused COFIEC to turn to short-term operations. Under
the interest and commission structure existing before November 1976, a private
DFC could not realistically be expected to fulfill its developmental purpose,
except to the extent that it had access to long-term resources such as the
Bank loan. CV-CFN did not have to face this dilemma because of its access
to subsidized resources. However, due to the smaller likelihood of getting
new capital contributions of the same magnitude as in the past (para. 3.11),
it also would have been adversely affected by the previously existing inte-
rest rate regulations (para. 3.13).
2.15      Several new DFCs are in operation or in the process of being estab-
lished (Annex 36), partially in response to the Government's emphasis on re-
gional decentralization and to tax and other incentives, but also in response
to the credit restrictions on commercial banks. While the creation of new DFCs
may have positive institutional effects within the financial system in Ecuador,
these institutions should be directed at mobilizing resources for long-term
industrial financing rather than expanding commercial operations.
2.16      The future viability of the private DFC system (COFIEC and the new
DFCs) and the effectiveness of CV-CFN depended on changes in the interest rate
structure which would make medium- and long-term lending at least as attractive
as short-term lending. Ecuadorian monetary authorities have recognized this
situation and on November 9, 1976 the Monetary Board issued Resolution No.
927-76 which introduced a graduated structure of allowable commission charges
on medium- and long-term lending. According to the new regulations both the
banking system and DFCs are allowed to charge, in addition to the (unchanged)
12% interest rate, the following maximum commissions on new contracts:
Commission on:
Loans financed       Loans financed with
Original final maturity        with bonds           other resources
More than 3 years and up to 5 years        2.5%                   2.0%
More than 5 years and up to 8 years        3.5%                   3.0%
More than 8 years                          4.5%                   4.0%
The new interest and commission structure provides both the public and private
DFCs with a reasonable effective interest rate spread. Given the current
11.9% market rate on bonds issued by private DFCs, the average of the maximum
allowable spreads on term lending financed with these instruments is 3.6 per-
centage points. An additional attractive feature of the new structure of
interest rates is its adequate term differentiation between medium- and long-
term operations. It also reduces the interest rate differential between



- 8 -
short- and long-term lending and between types of operations. In particular,
the effective spread on term lending financed with bonds will range between
3.7% and 4.2% given the current 12% market rate for these instruments
(Annex 1).
2.17      While the new rate structure does not provide financial inter-
mediaries with a clear premium for medium- and long-term lending compared to
short-term operations, it does represent a major step toward equalization of
the financial return on the two types of operations. The Government agreed
with the Bank's view that without a premium for medium- and long-term lending,
it is necessary to restrict the short-term operations of DFCs to insure that
the primary emphasis of their operations will be in medium- and long-term
lending. So long as no adequate regulations prevent DFCs from assuming an
overly commercial orientation, short- and medium-term operations, i.e. all
portfolio operations with original final maturities of less than 5 years, of
the DFCs participating under the proposed loan would be limited to four times
their equity. An agreement to this effect was reached with CV-CFN, COFIEC and
the Government regarding new DFCs during negotiations.
2.18      Although the new commissions and the proposed restriction on the
short-term operations of DFCs are essential first steps in the Government's
efforts to foster the capital market, Ecuadorian monetary authorities also
agreed with the Bank that these actions have to be complemented with more
extensive research and, possibly, with other institutional modifications.
Consistent with this view, the Bank and the Government agreed during nego-
tiations that the latter would carry out such specialized studies to provide a
technical basis to identify, select and implement capital market policies
conducive to channeling a substantially large share of domestic savings into
long-term industrial financing. Specifically, the Government intends to (i)
review and update past studies on the Ecuadorian capital market, (ii) conduct
new studies as necessary, and (iii) prepare selective legislative and regu-
latory proposals. New regulations on DFC operations, further studies on
the interest rate structure, as well as research on new and improved financial
instruments, on private savings and its intermediation, on a wider distribu-
tion of ownership of firms, and on a better functioning of the secondary
markets, are considered priority topics.
2.19      For the purpose of carrying out the capital market studies,
a capital market office would be created by the Government in the near future.
This office would be headed by a coordinator who would prepare a work program
and seek the manpower necessary to ensure an adequate implementation of such
program. An agreement on this setup was reached with the Government during
negotiations. Accordingly, the Government would afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and terms of reference of the
experts who would carry out the studies, and on the resulting regulatory
proposals before their enactment. 1/
1/   In response to requests from Ecuadorian authorities in the past, IFC has
contributed to the analytical groundwork related to the development of
the Ecuadorian securities market. For the purpose of commenting on the
recommendations resulting from the technical studies, the Bank would seek
the counsel and cooperation of IFC.



- 9 -
III. CV-CFN - PAST PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS 1/
Organization, Management and Staff
3.01      CV-CFN is a wholly government-owned DFC that, although oriented
toward the private sector of the economy, broadly reflects the social and
economic objectives of the Government. Seven of the nine members of the
Board are ministers of state and the Chairman is appointed by the President
of Ecuador. The Corporation's top managers are talented and professionally
inspired and the staff is well qualified and motivated.
Policies and Procedures
3.02      CV-CFN has conducted its operations according to its Declaration of
Policies and Procedures. However, in view of the Corporation's larger role
in promoting Ecuadorian exports and of the fund for this purpose set up
outside of but associated with CV-CFN (FOPEX), an agreement was reached during
negotiations to specifically incorporate this activity in the Declaration of
Policies and Procedures, with due regard to the fund's autonomy, before
disbursement for subprojects submitted by CV-CFN.
3.03      CV-CFN has adequate methods to appraise projects.  However, in order
to detect investment in inefficient industries, the economic rate of return
would be calculated on all projects involving a total investment above
US$500,000 equivalent, whether or not financed with Bank funds. This under-
taking, which in the previous loan was limited to Bank-financed projects only,
was confirmed during negotiations. The project supervision procedures and
reports are also adequate but a supervision manual would facilitate this
function. Along this same line, a manual for disbursement procedures would
facilitate the application of the Corporation's strict disbursement rules and
conditions. An agreement that both of these manuals would be submitted to the
Bank for approval within six months of loan signing was reached during
negotiations. With regard to procurement, CV-CFN's engineers satisfy them-
selves of the technical adequacy of the equipment financed. In the case of
large imports of used equipment, management requests the opinion of an inde-
pendent technical authority. The project and control departments of the
Corporation review the reasonableness of the prices of the goods and services
procured.
Operations and Performance
3.04      The operations have expanded rapidly, with 1975 loan approvals reach-
ing S/ 1.4 billion. Increasingly, a large proportion of the loans has been
for sizable and long-term operations, but also for working capital. Due
to the relatively large size of CV-CFN's past subloans, it was agreed to limit
sublending of Bank funds to individual firms to a maximum of US$3 million
equivalent. Although four-fifths of its lending is still concentrated in the
1/   This chapter is a summary of issues discussed in Annex 4.



- 10 -
two major economic poles of the country, the industrial diversification of the
portfolio is considerable. Industries processing agricultural raw materials
accounted for 38% of total loans. Equity investments constitute an important
part of CV-CFN's activities, largely as a result of its own promotional effort.
A considerable proportion of these investments, however, is concentrated in a
few firms. CV-CFN also administers five special public funds but their
combined resources represent less than 5% of the Corporation's assets.
3.05      Foreign loans constituted an important source of funds of the company
between 1972 and 1975, but most of the Corporation's expansion was financed
with bonds and domestic credits. Bank resources were used to finance 30.3% of
an aggregate project value of US$44.6 million equivalent.
3.06      Portfolio quality and audit.  As of March 31, 1976, 3.1% of the
portfolio was in arrears above three months (up from 2.3% at the end of 1974),
representing 10.5% of the clients. Even though these percentages reveal
a slight deterioration of CV-CFN's portfolio compared to previous years, there
are strong indications that this change is of a temporary nature related to a
general lack of liquidity throughout the economy. Furthermore, management
is aggressive in pursuing accounts in arrears. Although estimated losses
are covered by provisions, the safety margin for future eventualities is
smaller than in the past. Therefore, an understanding was reached during
negotiations that provisions as a percentage of portfolio would be increased
from 1% to at least 1.5% by the end of 1978. CV-CFN's accounts are satis-
factorily audited annually by Price Waterhouse and Co.
3.07      Profitability and financial condition.  In 1975, 71% of total reve-
nues came from loans, and the average return on assets was 9.1%. Net income
was 2.6% of assets, which was also the average for the last five years.
CV-CFN's annual return on equity averaged 6.1% between 1968 and 1975. In real
terms, however, the profitability has been negative. Three main factors have
led to CV-CFN's negative real return on equity. First, the company has allo-
cated more resources to low-yielding assets than it has borrowed on a subsi-
dized basis. Second, the debt-to-equity ratio has been relatively low (1.5
on the average and 2.2 at year end 1975). Third, inflation has been excep-
tionally high during this period. The erosion of CV-CFN's capital base was
offset by an infusion of fresh capital in 1974.
3.08      Even though the Corporation's liquidity has declined, its position
is still adequate considering the predictability of its financial flows,
its access to rediscounting facilities at BCE, and the favorable relation
between the maturities of its loans and borrowings. An improved budgetary
mechanism, however, should ensure against occasional liquidity constraints.
An understanding concerning the implementation of such a system was reached
during negotiations. Because CV-CFN carries the exchange risk on its foreign
borrowings other than the Bank loans (US$29.6 million equivalent in 1975), and
has sustained losses (Annex 4, para. 23), an agreement was reached with the
Government, as in the case of the Second DFC Loan, on protecting CV-CFN's
capital from possible exchange losses that exceed CV-CFN's net profits and



- 11 -
free reserves. In addition, it was agreed with CV-CFN during negotiations
that foreign exchange losses (profits) would be treated as an expense (income)
in the year in which foreign currency rates change. This accounting practice
departs from the current one which treats foreign exchange losses (profits) as
assets (liabilities) subject to gradual amortizations.
Prospects
3.09      Operations and resources.  The Corporation's forecast operations are
reasonable, consistent with its strategy, and well within its handling capa-
city. The volume of loan disbursements is expected to grow at 12% p.a. be-
tween 1977 and 1980. The project pipeline submitted to the Bank in February
1976 contained 80 loans amounting to almost S/ 700 million; three-quarters
of this amount would go to existing firms and the balance to new enterprises.
3.10      Equity investments are expected to more than triple by 1980, with
more than one-third of the expansion going for companies promoted by the
Corporation. CV-CFN also plans to take more active steps in developing the
capital market in Ecuador. Possible plans include setting up one or more
equity funds with its own portfolio, assisting new DFCs, issuing financial
instruments with new features, and also increasing somewhat their current very
small short-term portfolio, which is well below the maximum agreed with CV-CFN
and the other participating DFCs (para. 2.17). Some of CV-CFN's envisaged
roles would eventually require changes in its Declaration of Policies and
Procedures. Therefore, it was agreed that any change in the Declaration would
have to be acceptable to the Bank.
3.11      Planned operations for 1976-80 call for S/ 13.6 billion of indus-
trial financing. While most of the required resources would be generated
internally (retained earnings and loan amortizations), one-fourth would come
from foreign sources (US$137 million). CV-CFN has already arranged credits
in the amount of US$59 million, leaving a foreign exchange gap of US$78 mil-
lion through 1980 (Annex 4, para. 28). The proposed loan would cover 17% of
this gap. The Corporation's projections include systematic equity additions
from the Government of S/ 300 million starting in 1977. Although management
still considers these capital increases as resource targets, their amounts are
subject to reductions.
3.12      Financial projections.  The Corporation's operating plan, if
realized, would more than triple assets by 1980 and satisfactory financial
positions would parallel this expansion. To cope with a possible equity
restriction, it was agreed at negotiations to raise the overall debt-to-equity
limit from 4:1 to a still reasonable 6:1 ratio. This change would be incor-
porated in the Corporation's Declaration of Policies and Procedures as a
condition of disbursement for CV-CFN financed projects.
3.13      CV-CFN projects a contraction in net income as a percentage of
assets from 2.3% average in the past to 1.5% in the next five years. This



- 12 -
fall is largely explained by an increase in financial expenses. However,
the new minimum commissions agreed with "he Bank (para. 5.05), which are
expected to be applied also to loans `lanced from non-Bank sources, would
eventually increase CV-CFN's financial   ;-ead by 1.6 percentage point, raising
the expected average return on equitv' ro'l 6.4% to 12.6%. A slightly higher
leverage would increase the profitaib,ity further. In contrast with the
negative returns in the past, the projected real return on equity would rise
to 5.2%.
IV. COFIEC - PAST PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS 1/
Organization, Management and Staff
4.01      COFIEC is widely owned by some 300 private institutions and indivi-
duals, CV-CFN, and IFC. The President is responsible to the Executive Com-
mittee of the Board of Directors for management of the Company. Some con-
flicts exist between central administrative functions and the Quito regional
functions, but management is delineating responsibilities by introducing
changes in the organization, departmentalization, and job descriptions of the
Company. These changes were reviewed at negotiations and an understanding
was reached on putting them into effect within six months of loan signing.
Policies and Procedures
4.02      COFIEC has generally conducted its business within the framework of
its Policy Statement. In view of its need to mobilize long-term resources for
long-term lending, COFIEC would remove from the Statement the 4:1 limitation
on its long-term debt-to-equity ratio, but the Company would remain subject to
an overall debt-to-equity limit (para. 4.09 and 4.14). It would likewise
introduce a limitation on short- and medium-term operations (para. 4.12), and
any further change would have to be acceptable to the Bank. These changes
were agreed upon during negotiations.
4.03      The Company's ability to appraise projects has shown continuing
improvement during the commitment of the Second DFC Loan, although there has
been some backsliding recently. COFIEC's follow-up on loans has been uneven,
although in important cases it has been very good.  More clearly defined
responsibilities should improve supervision.  Aware of the need to strengthen
both appraisal and supervision, management has been taking steps to these
ends. An understanding concerning their full implementation within six months
of loan signing was reached during negotiations (Annex 20, para. 5).
Appraisal capacity will need to be strengthened as well, in order to extend
the calculation of the economic rate of return to a larger number of projects.
1/   A more detailed discussion of COFIEC's part performance and prospects is
set out in Annex 21.



- 13 -
Under the proposed loan, this calculation would be made for all projects
involving an investment in excess of US$500,000 equivalent or more than
US$250,000 equivalent for Bank-financed projects. Agreement on this point
was also reached at negotiations.
4.04      COFIEC's disbursement procedures are adequate.  To satisfy itself
that items procured are competitive in price, it requires evidence that its
clients have canvassed alternatives and it ensures the suitability of the
items procured.
Operations and Performance
4.05      Operations.  In spite of inflation COFIEC has been able to almost
double the real value of its portfolio since 1972, with the term structure of
its operations mirroring that of its resources. Disbursements for letters of
credit and guarantees make up 63%; loans 36%; and equity investment only 1%
of total disbursements. The sectoral distribution of COFIEC's lending is well
diversified, with industries processing agricultural and forestry raw materials
receiving almost half of its industrial credit.
4.06      Resources.  COFIEC's medium- and long-term resource availability
has been about as forecast. The principal sources have been Bank DFC loans,
equity increases, bond issues, and loans from IESS and AID. To maintain
profitability the Company had to mobilize a greater volume of short-term
resources than expected, mainly by drawing on foreign bank lines of credit to
finance letters of credit and guarantees.
4.07      Financial conditions.  COFIEC's financial statements are satisfac-
torily audited by Price Waterhouse & Co. and the audits now include an assess-
ment of the provisions for portfolio losses.  While still considered adequate,
provisions have fallen as a percentage of portfolio and currently barely exceed
estimated losses. COFIEC's arrears have increased to 5.2% of portfolio, from
3.6% in 1974, as a result, among other things, of tight credit throughout the
economy stemming from Central Bank restrictions (para. 2.12). In light of
these circumstances COFIEC's management has undertaken a program for increasing
provisions for bad debts, and a timetable for putting it into effect was agreed
upon during negotiations (Annex 21, para. 16).
4.08      Maintaining adequate liquidity has been a continuing problem for
COFIEC, notwithstanding its practice of matching loan repayments by its clients
with payments to its creditors. The Company has recently centralized the
management of its lines of credit in a new resources department and this
should aid in liquidity management.
4.09      COFIEC has had difficulty in maintaining its level of operations
within the debt-to-equity limitation set in agreement with the Bank. In
addition, there had been discrepancies with COFIEC as to the inclusion of
refinanced letters of credit in the definition of debt. Under the proposed
loan the outstanding amount corresponding to such transactions would be



- 14 -
included in the debt-to-equity calculation and an agreement was reached
with COFIEC during negotiations on a full accounting disclosure of these
transactions. To avoid forcing a reduction in COFIEC's operations, however,
an increase in the debt-to-equity limitation from 7:1 to 8:1 was agreed
upon at negotiations, representing de facto only a slight increase in
leverage.
4.10      Profitability.  Inflation has had a debilitating effect on COFIEC's
profitability. In 1973-75 the average real return on equity was negative.
To deal with this, the Company was under pressure to increase short-term
operations, its most profitable lines, and to cut costs. In so doing, the
gross spread was maintained in the range of 4.4% to 4.9% of assets, while
administrative expenses and provisions were reduced, perhaps too rapidly, to
2.3% of assets. The flexibility of COFIEC's management prevented a more pre-
cipitous fall in real profits at the expense of downplaying COFIEC's role as a
development bank.
Prospects
4.11      The following is based on projections made by COFIEC; they are
somewhat conservative since they do not fully reflect the new possibilities
that are opened to the Company by the new commission structure (para. 2.16)
and the agreements reached on COFIEC's financial policy during negotiations.
The projections are consistent with COFIEC's newly prepared Strategy Paper
(Annex 29).
4.12      The rapid growth of the Ecuadorian economy is creating new demands
for COFIEC's services. Through 1978, total disbursements are projected to rise
at almost 9% p.a. in real terms and the Company expects long-term lending to
grow faster than any other type. These projected operations, while represent-
ing an improvement over recent years, would nevertheless result in COFIEC
having only about one-third of its portfolio in long-term operations by 1978.
But in view of the new commissions the Company believes that it can increase
its long-term activity still more (to 50% of its portfolio in 1978) and reduce
its short- and medium-term operations to no more than four times equity by the
end of 1978. An agreement on this limitation was reached during negotiations
and the end of 1978 was set as a deadline for achieving it.
4.13      Resource requirements.  To meet its clients' needs for short- and
medium-term financing, COFIEC will continue to rely on foreign lines of
credit, BCE discounts and acceptances, and loans from IESS and AID. It will
supplement them by issuing medium-term financial certificates. Together,
additional short- and medium-term resources would make up about half of the
total resources needed through 1978. Long-term resources would come from
much larger bond sales, equity increases (mainly from retained earnings), and
the proposed loan. Total foreign exchange needs during 1976-80 come to US$46
million but the Company has identified new resources of US$8 million, leaving
a gap of US$38 million. The US$10 million portion of the proposed Bank loan
allocated to COFIEC would fill only 26% of the projected foreign exchange



- 15 -
gap and the remainder would be filled mainly by using bond sales to purchase
foreign exchange and by other foreign borrowings. Thus, any substantial
shortfall from COFIEC's ambitious resource mobilization program would result
in curtailed lending.
4.14      Financial projections.  According to its projections, COFIEC's
assets will grow at 10% p.a. in real terms through 1978 and, allowing for
revisions to reflect the limit on short- and medium-term operations, long-term
operations would comprise over one-half of the total portfolio in 1978 as
against 28% in 1975. After 1978, growth would slow down in line with slower
growth in equity. To avoid forcing COFIEC to hold back its mobilization of
long-term resources, the 8:1 debt-to-equity limit could be raised in steps to
10:1 after periodic reviews which should satisfy the Bank that: (a) short-
and medium-term operations do not exceed four times equity; (b) portfolio
quality is satisfactory; (c) liquidity management, appraisal capacity, and
supervision have improved to the satisfaction of the Bank; (d) most of the
additional resources will be mobilized domestically by issuing bonds, finan-
cial certificates, or similar instruments. Agreement on the application of
these criteria was reached during negotiations.
4.15      The gross spread is projected to remain around 4.4% of assets and
administrative expenses would rise as more resources are devoted to appraisal
and supervision, but the new commission structure should allow the spread to
increase to around 5%. Profitability nevertheless would remain modest. The
nominal return on equity would be in line with the recent past but COFIEC
would be making a sizable contribution to the long-term financial needs of
Ecuadorian industry. Due to lower projected inflation, the real return on
equity would average around 11% p.a. compared to negative returns of the last
three years.
V. PROPOSED BANK LOAN
5.01      The project.  The proposed loan of US$26 million to be granted to
the Republic of Ecuador would be channeled through BCE as the government
fiscal agent 1/ to be relent to CV-CFN, COFIEC and new DFCs which meet
the qualification criteria (para. 5.02). Bank funds would be available to
qualifying industrial enterprises whether privately or publicly owned, for
the financing of foreign exchange costs of equipment and permanent working
capital, through either loans or equity investments. The proposed loan would
be repayable within 15 years on a composite amortization basis including 3
years of grace. The terminal date for submission of subprojects would be June
30, 1979, the closing date for disbursements, June 30, 1981. (Annex 37).
1/   BCE's function is to act as the Government's financial agent with res-
ponsibility limited to handling disbursements and repayments of subloans.



- 16 -
5.02      Participation of new DFCs.  The Bank will determine which of the new
DFCs meet the requirements for participation in the proposed loan through a
review of qualifying DFCs in the second semester after loan signing. In order
to qualify for review, new DFCs would have to meet the following conditions:
(a)  minimum paid-in equity of S/ 20 million (US$800,000);
(b)  total debt-to-equity ratio not greater than 4:1;
(c)  a loan portfolio that includes at least five development
lending operations having original maturities greater than
5 years; and
(d)  short- and medium-term operations would be limited to four
times equity.
The Bank's review of the qualifying DFCs would focus on (i) the adequacy of
management and administrative procedures, (ii) the overall financial and
economic soundness of the institution, (iii) the capability to prepare,
evaluate, and supervise investment, and (iv) the size and characteristics of
the project pipeline. Two or three new DFCs may be expected to qualify for
review. All subloans made by new DFCs would be subject to approval by the Bank.
New DFCs would enter into a Project Agreement with the Bank substantially along
the lines of those signed with CV-CFN and COFIEC.
5.03      Allocation of loan.  In line with the expected volume of operations
of each DFC, the proposed loan of US$26 million would be allocated as follows:
US$13 million to CV-CFN, US$10 million to COFIEC, and US$3 million to the new
DFCs that meet the requirements for participation. The allocation of the US$3
million to the new participating DFCs would be determined, after exchanging
views with the Government, by the Bank on the basis of its reviews of these
DFCs to take place not later than March 31, 1978. Any portion not assigned to
the new DFCs would become available to CV-CFN and COFIEC in equal amounts.
Any amounts uncommitted by the DFCs six months before the end of the commit-
ment period could be reallocated among them by the Bank after consultation
with the Government.
5.04      Free limits.  The following free limits and aggregate free limits
would assure Bank review of a reasonable portion of the financing undertaken
with Bank funds by each institution.
CV-CFN        COFIEC      New DFCs
- - - -      -u $ -   - - - --US$
Free-limit                  1,000,000       750,000
Aggregate free-limit        8,000,000    5,000,000



- 17 -
5.05      Interest rates.  Commissions at a rate ranging between the maxima
allowed under Resolution No. 927-76 and one percentage point below those
maxima (para. 2.16) would be added to the 12% interest rate. Thus, depending
on the term, and on each DFC's policy, Bank funds from the proposed loan would
be available to the ultimate users at effective costs ranging between 13% p.a.
and 16% p.a.  During negotiations, an agreement was reached with the Government
that neither the interest rate nor the schedule of commission charges would be
altered without the Bank's concurrence prior to the closing date of the
proposed loan. At the present and expected annual inflation rates, these
interest rates would be substantially positive in real terms. Subloans with
original final maturity of 5 to 8 years would provide the DFCs with effective
spreads on Bank funds ranging from 3.55% to 4.30%.
5.06      Fiscal agent and guarantee fee.  BCE would continue as fiscal agent
for the entire proposed loan. As the Government's agent, the BCE would charge
a fee for foreign exchange coverage and minimal administrative costs of 2%.
However, this fee would be reduced to 1.75% in the case of subloans on which
the DFCs charge the minimum commission for that type of loan as agreed with
the Bank (para. 5.05).
5.07      Subloan conditions.  The DFCs will set subloan terms and grace
periods in accordance with the subprojects' financial requirements but, in
any event, final repayment would be made within 15 years of the signing of
the proposed loan, including grace periods not exceeding 3 years.
5.08      Disbursement and procurement.  Disbursement and procurement pro-
cedures would be according to the standard practice for DFC lending used in
previous loans to Ecuador. Disbursements channeled to the DFCs through BCE
would be made for 100% of the foreign expenditure component of the sub-
projects. As requested by COFIEC, the loan would include provision for
reimbursing COFIEC up to US$1 million equivalent for approved expenditures
made between January 1, 1977 and the date of the loan agreement. As agreed
with COFIEC during negotiations, retroactive financing would probably be
limited to only two subprojects.
5.09      Project benefits and risks.  A principal benefit of this project is
the creation of an appropriate term differentiation in the interest rates on
medium- and long-term lending with Bank funds. These rates are likely to
serve as a benchmark and to be widely used in medium- and long-term lending
in Educador. It is understood that CV-CFN will apply the rates agreed to with
the Bank on all its lending, and it can be assumed that the private DFCs will
not charge less than CV-CFN. In light of the term structure of the DFCs'
lending portfolio, the average of the minimum spreads under the new interst
rate structure would be about 3% p.a. This interest rate structure should
remove a major obstacle to the mobilization of long-term resources for industry.
The program of capital market studies would build on this change to introduce
eventually further institutional improvements in the intermediation of private
sector savings into productive investment.



- 18 -
5.10      The economic benefits of subprojects financed under the proposed
loan are expected to be similar to those of the first two DFC operations
as summarized in para. 1.01. That is, (i) an average internal economic rate
of return of about 30% is expected for projects benefiting from the loan, (ii)
about one-half of the Bank resources would be for industries with backward
linkages in the agricultural and forestry sectors, and (iii) some 80% of the
subloans would be oriented to substitute imports and/or expand exports. Also,
no significant change in the wide subsector distribution of subloans is
expected. Based on the experience of the two previous DFC operations, the
direct employment generated by the subprojects is expected to be modest, but
the indirect employment effect is expected to be substantial due to their
extensive linkage with highly labor-intensive sectors. In implementing the
proposed project, the Bank would encourage DFCs to place more emphasis on the
domestic material component and the employment creation of their subprojects.
Subloan terms are expected to be similar to those under the two previous
loans, ranging between 7 and 12 years, with an average life of 9 years.
In connection with the proposed loan the reporting requirements of the parti-
cipating DFCs to the Bank would be strengthened in order to obtain information
useful to determine the economic impact of subloans and of the operations
of the DFCs in general, and to have a better basis for financial and indus-
trial policy discussions with the Government in the future.
5.11      The proposed project would assist in further institutional upgrading
of CV-CFN and COFIEC and help in the early phase of establishing a country-
wide system of development banks. The project, as designed, does not involve
any special risks.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with:
(a)  The Government of Ecuador on:
(i)  carrying out capital market studies (paras. 2.18 and
2.19);
(ii) protecting CV-CFN's capital against future foreign
exchange losses that exceed its net profits and free
reserves (para. 3.08).
(iii)  conditions for the new DFCs to participate in the
proposed project and to use Bank funds (paras. 2.17,
5.02, 5.03 and 5.04);
(iv) maintenance of the interest rates and commissions on
DFC lending (para. 5.05); and



- 19 -
(v) the fee to be charged by the Central Bank for the
foreign exchange risk and administrative costs
(para. 5.06).
(b) CV-CFN on:
(i)  limitation of short- and medium-term operations
(para. 2.17) and increase in the debt-to-equity limit
to 6:1 (para. 3.12);
(ii)  changes in the Declaration of Policies and Procedures
to specifically incorporate the activities of FOPEX
(para. 3.02), and the need for any further changes to be
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.10);
(iii) calculation of the financial and economic rates of
return on all subprojects involving an investment in
excess of US$500,000 (para. 3.03), and limitation of
sublending of Bank funds (para. 3.04);
(iv)  submission of satisfactory supervision and disburse-
ment manuals within six months of loan signing
(para. 3.03), and implementation of an improved cash
budgeting system (para. 3.08);
(v)  increased provisions for doubtful accounts as a percent-
age of total portfolio (para. 3.06), and accounting
treatment of foreign exchange losses and gains
(para. 3.08); and
(vi) free limits (para. 5.04) and relending terms (paras. 5.05
and 5.07).
(c) COFIEC on:
(i)  implementation of the plan of reorganization (para. 4.01),
and completion of the plan to strengthen the appraisal
and supervision staff (para 4.03);
(ii)  changes in the Declaration of Policies and Procedures to
remove the limit on long-term borrowing, and the need for
any further changes to be acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.02);
(iii) calculation of the financial and economic rates of return
on subprojects involving an investment in excess of
US$500,000 for non-Bank-financed subprojects or US$250,000
for Bank-financed ones (para. 4.03);



- 20 -
(iv) a program to increase provisions for bad debts (para. 4.07),
and limitation on short- amd medium-term operations
(para. 4.12);
(v) full accounting disclosure of refinanced letters of
credit, increase in the debt-to-equity limit to 8:1
(para. 4.09), and criteria for subsequent increases
in the debt-to-equity limit (para. 4.14); and
(vi) free limits (para. 5.04), retroactive financing (para.
5.08), and relending terms (paras. 5.05 and 5.07).
6.02      The introduction of the changes in CV-CFN's and COFIEC's Declara-
tions of Policies and Procedures agreed upon during negotiations (paras. 3.02,
3.12 and 4.02) would be a condition of disbursement for the subprojects sub-
mitted by each institution.
6.03      With the above agreements, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan to Ecuador of US$26 million equivalent on the
terms and conditions listed in Chapter V and supplemented in Chapters II, III
and IV.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
INTEREST AND REDISCOUNT RATES
(nominal annual rates in percent)
Before   Before    Since
Jan. 75  Aug.'76   Aug.'76
I. CREDIT RATES
A. Central Bank
1. To Commercial Banks
a.  Discount rate                                             8       8         8
b. Agricultural, fisheries and artisan
credits (redisc.)                                     8        6         6
c.  Industrial credits (redisc.)                              8        7        7
d.  Commercial credits (redisc.)                              8      10        10
e.  Special advances                                          5        7        7
f.  Advances to cover reserve requirements                   10       12       12
2. To National Development Bank (BNF) and Cooperative
Banks for Rediscounts and advances
a.  Agricultural, fisherie? and artisan credits1/             4        3        3
b.  Small-scale industry32                                    7        3        3
c.  Commercial credits                                        8       10       10
3. To Public Sector Finance Corporation
a.  Industrial rediscounts and advances                       -        7        7
b.  Rediscounts FOPEX                                         _        4        4
4. To Private Sector Finance Corporation
a.  Rediscounts and advances                                  9        8        8
5. To Financial Institutions through Fondos Financieros
a.  General rediscounts                                       -3                 3
b.  Rediscounts under Livestock Development Program -         -        7         7
6. To Private Individuals
a.  Direct credits and discounts                             12       12       12
1/ Including rediscounts of credits to Empresa Nacional de Almacenamiento
y Comercialization (ENAC).
2/ Regulation 755 of January 1975 set this rate at 4%; however, regulation
781 of July 1975 set it at 3% and extended it to Commercial Banks.
j Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones.
Including private Financieras.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Before  Befot~e    Since
Jan. '75 Aug.'76   Aiag.'76
7.  To Private Individuals through Fondos Financieros
a.  Agricultural, fisheries, artisans                        -       7          7
b. Industry for purchase of agricultural raw
materials                                             _       7         7
c.  Other industrial credit                                  -       8          8
d.  Advances for future exports                              6       6          6
e.  Reliquidation after export failure                      12      12         12
8.  To Public Sector
a.  Central Government                                       3       3          3
b.  Others                                                   5       5          5
B.  Commercial Banks
1. Ordinary loans                                               12      12         12
2. World Bank DFC loans                                         13      13         13
3.  Bond financial loans j                                      14      14         14
4. Overdue loans                                                14      14         14
5.  CV-CFN through FOPEX                                                 8          8
6.  CV-CFN on rediscount of credits to small-scale and
artisan industries:
Commercial Banks                                          -       5         5
BNF                                                       -       3         3
7. Letters of credit and guarantee of foreign loans
(commission)                                              4       4         4
C.  National Development Bank and Cooperative Banks
1. Agricultural credit (max.)                                    8       9          9
2.  Small-scale and artisan industries (max.)                   10       9          9
3.  Commercial credits (max.)                                   12      12         12
4. ENAC                                                          -       4          4
D. Fondos Financieros 4/
1.  Credits under Livestock Development Program 5-                      12         12
2.  Other lending operations                                     -       9          9
1/ Including private Financieras.
2/ Including 1% inspection commission.
3/ Including 2% commission on bond issue.
:/ Commercial and Development Banks have access to this mechanism.
:/ For credits of more than S/ . 625,000 (222-EC).



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Before   Before    Since
Jan.'75  Aug.'76   Aug.'76
E. Commissions
1.  On foreign guarantees and letters of credit                    4       4         4
2. On Loans (on balance outstanding for the
indicated period)
(a)  Less than 3 years                                        -        -         0
(b)  More than 3 years but less than 5 years                  -        -         2
(c)  More than 5 years but less than 8 years                  -        -         3
(d)  More than 8 years                                        -        -         4
II. DEPOSIT RATES
A. Pass book savings
1.  Commercial Banks                                               6        6         6
2.  Savings and Mortgage Banks
B. Deposits with Commercial Banks
1.  31-180 days, maximum interest                                  7        7         7
2.  181-360 days, maximum interest                                 8        8         8
3.  Over 360 days, maximum interest'                               9        9         9
C. Deposits with Savings and Mortgage Banks
1.  31-180 days, maximum interest                                  8        8         8
2.  181-360 days, maximum interest                                 9        9         9
3.  Over 360 days, maximum interest                               10       10        10
B. Government Bonds, Cedulas Hipotecarias, and
securities issued by stock companies 1/                           12       12        12
Source: Monetary Board Resolutions.
1/ May be sold at discount for higher effective yield.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Maximum Effective Interest Rates, Resulting from
New Commissions
Loan maturity,           Loans financed             Loans financed with
Years               with bonds  1/             other resources
1                      12.5                        12.0
2                      12.5                        12.0
3                      12.5                        12.0
4                      14.5                        14.0
5                      14.5                        14.0
6                      15.5                        15.0
7                      15.5                        15.0
8                      15.5                        15.0
9                      16.5                        16.0
10                      16.5                        16.0
11                      16.5                        16.0
12                      16.5                        16.0
13                      16.5                        16.0
1/ No bonds of less than 5 years have been issued.
LCPDF
October, 1976



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Arrearages of Selected Banks and Financieras
Portfolio                             Arrears                               Arrears as %
Millions of SI             %          Millions of SI              %           of Portfolio
Increase                                Increase
1974           1975                       1974          1975                     1974        1975
BNF                       4,344.2        5,990.5          37.8         524.3         920.9         75.6       12.1        15.4
Previsora                 2,334.2        3,307.0           4.6         285.8         322.9         12.9       12.2         9.8
Pichincha                 1,762.7        2,067.5          17.2          68.3          68.7          0.5        3.9         3.3
Descuento                 1,032.0        1,392.5          34.9         135.4         141.0          4.1       13.1        10.1
Filantr6pico              1,330.7        1,333.5           0.2         185.3         257.2         38.8       13.9        19.3
Guayaquil                    959.9       1,273.3          32.4          73.4          96.8         31.8        7.6         7.6
COFIEC                    1,084.0        1,291.1          43.8          38.8          66.9         72.4        3.6         5.2
Paclfico                     527.5       1,079.5         104.6          17.9          44.6        149.1        3.4         4.1
America                      577.1          813.7         40.9           9.3          19.8        112.9        1.6         2.4
Territorial                  262.4          406.6         54.9          11.9          17.1         43.6        4.5         4.2
Azuay                        292.9          402.4         37.3          21.9          13.5        -38.4        7.5         3.3
Cooperativas                  97.7          130.5         33.5           3.7           9.3        151.3        3.8         7.0
SGC                         106.4          126.2         18.6           17.6           8.4        -52.3       16.5         6.7
Total           14,711.7       19,614.3         33.3       1,393.6       1,986.5          48.9        9.4        10.1
LCPDF
nctober, 1976                                                                                                                   z



ANNEX 3
ECUADOR:  APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
The Financing of Cross Domestic Investment, 1970-1974 1/
(S/million)
1970              1971               1972              1973               1974
Amount    %       Amount    %        Amount    %        Amount    %        Amount    %
Direct Financing
Depreciation                              2,354   .34       2,804   .26         3,185   .30      3,790    .26        4,434   .18
Retained Earnings                           300-/ .04          400-/ .04          5041/ .05      1,662-/  .11        1,800-/ .08
Households (Equity to new                      4/                 4/                 3&4/              3&4/                2&4
enterprises)                              189-  .03         148-  .01          110-.01           568- .04            750 -.'03
Direct foreign investment                 2,215   .32      4i,05    .37        5,107   .48       1,357    .09        1,925   .08
Subtotals                      5,058   .73        7,404   .68        8,906   .84       7,377     .50       8,909   .37
Intermediation
Banking System (Net)
Central Bank                              269   .04           60   .01        - 98  -.01            1     -          349   .01
Commercial Banks                          378-/ .05          601   .05         971   .09       1,527     .10       2,405   .10
BNF                                       1002/ .01         200   .02          241   .02         797    .05        2,430   .10
DFCs
CV-CFN-/                                   39   .01         294   .03            15    -         279    .02        1,150   .05
COFIEC-/                                 178   .03          -67  -.01          242   .02         218    .01          349   .01
Subtotals                         964   .14       1,088   .10        1,371   .13       2,822      .18      6,683   .27
Central Government Saving 6/                     2   .00           63   .01          643   .06       1,712     .12       6,701-/ .28
8/
Others-                                  __9212  -_13      _2914n.  22           -326  -.03       2,883    ,20        1,974   .08
Total equal Gross Domestic
Investment                   6,936   1.00    10,995   1.00    10,594   1.00   14,794    1.00    24,267   1.00
1/  Source (when not otherwise mentioned):  Boletin del Banco Central del Ecuador, January-April 1975.
2/  Estimated by mission on the basis of past growth rates.
3/  Source:  Carta Economica. CEDE, May 1975, P.2.
4/  Source:  Sintesis 1964-1974, Superintendencia de Companias, 1974.
5/  Source:  Industrial Sector Report No. 1186-EC.
6/  Source:  Economic Memorandum Report No. 1033-EC and IMF's Consultation Paper, October 1974, for 1970 data.
7/  Government savings are net of CV-CFN's equity increase (S/250 million) and of oil resource transfer to BNF
through FONADE (S/502 million).
8/  Residual item.
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMIENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONIAL
Past Performance and Prospects
Organization, Management and Staff
1.        Comision de Valores - Corporacion Financiera Nacional, CV-CFN, is a
wholly government owned DFC, the first such financial institution in the
country. It is oriented toward the private sector of the economy broadly
reflecting the social and economic development objectives of the Government.
Nevertheless, CV-CFN has operated in the past with a large degree of autonomy
from the public sector.
2.        The Board of Directors is composed of nine members, seven of whom are
ministers of state and the other two are non-voting members representing the
private sector (Annex 5). The Chairman of the Board is appointed by the
President of Ecuador. An Executive Committee formed by two board members and
the General Manager of the Corporation is the operational authority of the
Board.
3.        As a result of its growth and scope of operations, CV-CFN instituted
in 1974 and 1975 a reorganization program leading to a more effective integra-
tion and decentralization of activities. Even though the reorganization was
paralleled by considerable personnel changes at the second and third manage-
ment levels, the first results of an internal evaluation study on the new
organization are very satisfactory. Job descriptions clearly define the lines
of responsibility and authority for most positions and they are compatible with
the internal decision processes and information available for each major
operation.
4.        CV-CFN is headed by a general manager who (ieleg.ates considerable
administrative authority to the assistant general manager. The organization
is centered on the finance and promotion departments (Annex 7). The finan-
cial manager is in charge of accounting, budgets, treasury and control, as well
as of resource management and project supervision. The promotion manager is
responsible for project evaluations, economic studies, project promotion and
export promotion. The sections of administrative services, human resources,
organization and methods, and data processing constitute another department
that reports directly to the assistant general manager. The general manager
can approve operations up to S/ 5 millions.
5.        The staff has been growing steadily since 1972 (139 employees)
reaching a total of 206 at the end of 1975 and the proportion of professionals
has increased from 41% to 48% over this period. In spite of the influx of
relatively young and inexperienced technicians, the new staff has been effec-
tively integrated into the operations and their identification with the company



ANNEX 4
Page 2
is strong. This may be explained by the competitive salary scale, parti-
cularly for low and medium-level positions, as well as by the good in-house
training program for the junior staff. Most of the staff is located in the
Quito headquarters but the three branches in Guayaquil (17 employees), Cuenca
(8 employees) and Manta (4 employees) have also increased their staff since
1972.
Policies and Procedures
6.        CV-CFN has conducted its operations according to its Declaration
of Policies and Procedures (Annex 6). However, in view of the Corporation's
larger role in promoting Ecuadorian exports and of the fund for this purpose
set up outside but associated with CV-CFN (FOPEX), an agreement was reached
during negotiations to specifically incorporate this activity in the
Declaration of Policies and Procedures before disbursement for subprojects
submitted by CV-CFN.
7.        Appraisal.  With a total staff of 17 professionals (10 economists and
7 engineers) in the project evaluation department, C\-CFN handled satisfac-
torily its 103 lending operations in 1975. The methods used to evaluate the
technical, marketing, financial and social dimensions of projects are adequate.
However, in order to prevent investment in inefficient industries (para. 2.06)
the economic rate of return would be calculated on all projects involving a
total investment above US$500,000 equivalent. This undertaking, confirmed
during negotiations, would strain somewhat the capacity of the current eva-
luation team but it is expected that CV-CFN will have staff throughly prepared
to carry out this task.
8.        Supervision.  Project supervision procedures are adequate and the
follow-up activities cover a wide range of clients and situations. There are
15 persons carrying out these activities in the department of portfolio
control who completed 293 visits in 1975, almost as many visits as the number
of clients; 120 of these visits were to clients in arrears. The supervision
reports to management are adequate but they could be improved if the informa-
tion flow from borrowers were more timely and if a supervision manual were
available. The Corporation is now preparing a supervision manual which should
be completed within six months of loan signing. An understanding to this
effect was reached during negotiations.
9.        Disbursement and procurement.  CV-CFN is strict in defining and en-
forcing conditions for disbursements. A manual for disbursement procedures
would, however, facilitate applying these rules and would speed up operations.
An understanding that CV-CFN will submit such a manual within six months of
loan signing was reached during negotiations. On procurement, CV-CFN does
not require international competitive bidding but engineers on its staff
satisfy themselves of the technical adequacy of the equipment and machinery
financed. In the case of large imports of used equipment and industrial
plants, management requests the opinion of an independent technical authority
on the prices and the technical conditions of the equipment. The project and



ANNEX 4
Page 3
control departments of the Corporation also review the reasonableness of the
prices of the goods and services procured.
Operations and Performance
10.       Resources.  Foreign loans have constituted a major source of funds
of the company between June 1972 and December 1975; 30.4% of the increase in
assets was financed with funds from the Bank, Interamerican Development Bank
(IDB), Andean Development Corporation (CAF), USAID, and Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) (Annex 13). The domestic capital market was used to
finance 21.4% of the Corporation's expansion through the issue of bonds, 20.8%
of the new resources were other domestic term borrowing and 15.2% came from
a new government contribution to equity; profits retained during the period
(9%) and miscellaneous credits (3.2%) made up the balance.
11.       CV-CFN has had access to three Bank loans.  After a slow start in
utilizing resources under the fisheries loan (555-EC), the Corporation committed
and disbursed US$1.7 by the end of 1975. On July 1, 1976, CV-CFN requested the
Bank to cancel the balance of its share under this loan (US$.3 million). Its
share of US$4.0 million under the first DFC loan to Ecuador (721-EC) was fully
committed and disbursed before the loan's closing date of March 31, 1976.
Commitments under loan 930-EC reached US$9.4 million of which USS5.1 was
disbursed as of June 30, 1976. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by mid-1977.
12.       Loans and operations.  CV-CFN has continued expanding rapidly.  In
1975, the volume of loans approved (S/ 1.4 billion) was equal to the total
amount approved during its first twelve years of operations as a DFC from
1964 through 1972. Increasingly, a large proportion of the loans has been
for sizable and long-term operations. Of the loan volume approved in 1975,
64% was for loans of S/ 25 million or more and 73% had terms of 5 years or
longer (Annex 10). In spite of this trend, CV-CFN has also lent more for
working capital purposes. In fact, between 1972 and 1975, 20.9% of the
amount approved was for working capital financing while this percentage had
been only 13.7% until 1972. Lending is still concentrated in the two major
economic poles around Quito and Guayaquil, which acounted for 80.5% of the
amount approved in the 1972-75 period. The portfolio is considerably
diversified across industries with cement, ceramics, glass and other non-
metallic-mineral products accounting for 30% of the loans approved since
1972 (Annex 10). industries processing agricultural raw materials such as
food, beverage, tobacco, textiles, leather products, wood products and paper
accounted for 38.4% of total loans.
13.       Bank resources were used to finance 30.3% of an aggregate project
value of US$44.6 million equivalent. The industrial sectors benefitting
from Bank loans were primarily the textile, garment, leather and hotel in-
dustries, which used 71% of the proceeds. The average size of these subloans
was US$1.0 million. More than 80% of the firms that used Bank funds had



ANNEX 4
Page 4
more than US$2 million in total assets although 41% of Bank money was used to
finance new enterprises. The average maturity of the subloans was 8.9 years
(Annex 11). Due to the relatively large size of CV-CFN's past subloans,
it was agreed to limit sublending of Bank funds to individual firms to a
maximum of US$3 million equivalent.
14.       About one-fifth of CV-CFN's 1975 assets represented equity invest-
ments after an almost six-fold expansion since 1972 (Annex 8). More than 60%
of these investments is in two cement companies and one sugar company
(Annex 12). The balance is largely made up by equity participations in CAF
and in fertilizer, tuna, tea, steel and hotel firms. Also, the company has
important equity interests in three private finance companies and it is the
major stockholder in the Guayaquil and Quito stock exchanges. Of the 37
companies in which the Corporation has an equity participation, 11 reported
profits in 1975, 6 reported losses, and the other 20 were still in the pre-
operating stage. Due to the extensive Ecuadorian practice of not paying cash
dividends and to the fact that no divestments have taken place, cash returns
on CV-CFN's investments have been rare.
15.       A third category of operating activities carried out by CV-CFN is
related to the administration of special funds set up by law, mostly with the
contribution of public funds in order to provide resources for specific pur-
poses (para. 22 of Annex 6). There are five funds with aggregate resources
amounting to almost S/ 150 million. Two funds, FOPEX and the Counterpart for
Basic Investment, have their accounting separate from CV-CFN.
l6.       Since inception, CV-CFN has had a fiduciary role in the placement
of government and municipal bonds, and certain mortgage bonds issued by
commercial banks, whereby CV-CFN buys the bonds at a discount and sells them
to third parties at par with the obligation to repurchase them on sight for
the same price. As of December 31, 1975, the Corporation held S/ 155.6
million of these securities in its portfolio. CV-CFN does not expect to
perform this underwriting role in the future.
17.       A final group of lending activities carried out by CV-CFN consists
of extending letters of credit and guarantees on loans given to its clients
by other financial institutions. At the end of 1975, CV-CFN had S/ 267.9
million in guarantees outstanding.
18.       Audit.  CV-CFN's accounts are satisfactorily audited annually by
Price Waterhouse and Company. The long-form report includes a judgement on
the adequacy of provisions for expected portfolio losses and a statement on
CV-CFN's exposure to foreign exchange risk.
19.       Portfolio quality.  As of March 31, 1976, total arrears amounted
S/ 105.0 million or 4.3% of the lending portfolio. 1/ The proportion of the
portfolio in arrears above three months was 3.1% (up from 2.3% at the end of
1/   Lending portfolio is defined her as Loans (net) + Small Industry
Rediscounting + Guarantees.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
1974), representing 10.5% of the clients. Only six clients accounted for 59%
of the arrears and total rescheduling and refinancing during 1975 represented
5.0% of the average portfolio. Even though these percentages reveal a slight
deterioration of CV-CFN's portfolio compared to previous years, there are
strong indications that this change is of a temporary nature rulated to a
general lack of liquidity throughout the economy (para. 2.12). An analysis of
the borrowers experiencing difficulties and a review of the guarantees backing
up the exposed loans, the quality of the supervision, and the actions taken by
management (33% of the amount in arrears is in judiciary process) indicate that
possible losses are to be covered by provisions (S/ 19.6 million). Because
the safety margin for future eventualities is smaller than in the past,
however, it was agreed to increase provisions as a percentage of portfolio
from the current level of 1% to not less than 1.5% by the end of 1978.
20.       Profitability.  In 1975, 71% of total revenues came from loans
(Annex 9) which yielded 10.6% on the average amount outstanding.  The profit-
ability of marketable securities (bonds and financial certificates) was 8.6%,
commissions on guarantees and other operations were 2.9% of the amount out-
standing and equity investments yielded 10.5% (an unusually good year for
these assets). The average return on assets was 9.1%, and net income over
assets was 2.6%, which was also the average for the last five years (Annex 20).
21.       CV-CFN's return on equity between 1968 and 1975 has averaged 6.1%.
In real terms, profits have been consistently negative, inflicting a cumula-
tive erosion on the Corporation's equity base of 26.3% during the last five
years. This has occurred in spite of the Corporation's tax exemption, 1/ its
rather satisfactory level of administrative expenses given the extent of its
developmental and public activities (2.4% of average total assets during the
last five years), and the adequate productivity of its personnel in key func-
tions. Three main factors have determined CV-CFN's negative real return on
equity since 1971. First, the Corporation has allocated to assets of low finan-
cial profitability (equity investments, equity investment projects, export
promotion fund, rediscounts of credits to small-scale and artisan industries)
more resources than it has borrowed on a subsidized basis. Second, the debt-
to-equity ratio (average of 1.5) has been relatively low. Third, inflation
has been exceptionally high during this period. The erosion of CV-CFN's
capital base has been offset by an infusion of fresh capital in 1974 (para.
10).
22.       Financial condition.  Even though the Corporation shows a past
decline of its liquidity position in terms of its current ratio (2.0 at the
end of 1975) (Annex 20), its position is still adequate considering the pre-
dictability of its financial flows and its access to rediscounting facilities
at the Central Bank. However, occasional liquidity constraints could be
1/   CV-CFN does not pay taxes on its income, it is exempted from all state
and municipal taxes on its transactions, and the interest paid on bonds
issued by the Corporation is also tax-free to the bond holders.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
avoided with an improved budgetary mechanism. An understanding concerning the
implementation of such a system was reached during negotiations. CV-CFN
has amply met the legal requirements of maintaining in cash and other liquid
assets at least 5% of the outstanding bonds (government bonds, municipal bonds
and own bonds) and mortgage bonds issued under an automatic repurchase agree-
ment. At the end of 1975, a total of S/ 737 million was exposed to this
agreement. As to the relationship between lending and borrowing terms, CV-CFN
has obtained on the average almost one year more in maturity from its creditors
than it has given to its clients.
23.       With respect to financial risk, past returns have shown little
variability (Annex 20). Likewise, the risk implicit in an unexpected dete-
rioration of its portfolio seems to be well within the limits of financial
soundness (para. 19). However, because CV-CFN carries the exchange risk
on its foreign borrowings (with the exception of Bank loans) this risk
constitutes a potential source of loss. As of December 1975, liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies and exposed to exchange risks amounted to
US$29.6 million (US$31.8 millon in 1974) and the losses due to exchange rate
fluctuations were S/ 20.4 million (SI 31.6 million in 1974). Under current
accounting practices, foreign exchange losses on the outstanding long-term
loans are treated as an asset subject to gradual amortizations. In view of
the nature and the dimension of this risk, agreement was reached with CV-CFN
during negotiations on treating foreign exchange losses (profits) as an
expense (income) in the year when they occur. Furthermore, as in the case
of the second DFC Loan to Ecuador, an agreement was reached with the Govern-
ment on restoring CV-CFN's capital to the level existing prior to exchange
losses that exceed CV-CFN's net profits and reserves.
Prospects
24.       Forecast of operations.  The Corporation's forecast operations
are reasonable, consistent with its strategy, and well within its handling
capacity. 1/ The amount of industrial loans approved is expected to reach
S/ 1,764 million, an almost 27% increase with respect to 1975. The project
pipeline submitted to the Bank in February 1976 contained 80 loans amounting
to S/ 698 million, of which S/ 356 million was for projects intended to
increase exports and to substitute imports. Of the total pipeline, 24% was
requested by new enterprises, 75% was to increase the capacity of existing
firms, and 1% was for modernizing plants and other purposes.
25.       Equity investments are expected to more than triple by 1980 (at
cost). Of the SI 1,298 million total equity addition, 35% will be for new
companies promoted by the Corporation (15 of these are already identified),
1/   Company forecasts are based on the interest rate structure prevailing
in Ecuador at the time of the appraisal mission. The projected
profitability is expected to improve (para. 31) with the application
of the new commission charges (paras. 2.16 and 5.05) but the compo-
sition and level of operations will remain essentially unaffected.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
5% will be for new companies in which CV-CFN does not plan to be promotion-
ally involved and the balance (60%) represents capital expansions.
26.       According to the strategy document submitted to the Bank (Annex 14),
CV-CFN foresces a wider role in developing, evaluating, financing and giving
technical assistance to large publicly sponsored projects and companies.
CV-CFN has already started with this developmental function in the cement and
the sugar industries but more sizeable projects are envisaged in other sectors
of the economy. The current Declaration of Policies and Procedures, however,
contains reasonable safeguards against developments in these activities
that may unbalance CV-CFN's use of resources, operations, productivity and
profitability in a way that may be detrimental to the soundness of the insti-
tution as a financial intermediary. Since some of the Corporation's eventual
roles would require changes in its Declaration of Policies and Procedures, it
was agreed during negotiations that any such change would have to be made with
the Bank's concurrence.
27.       CV-CFN also plans to take more active steps in developing the
capital market in Ecuador. Specific possible plans include setting up one
or more equity funds within CV-CFN which would be based on the Corporation's
portfolio, participate in the creation of--and provide assistance to--the new
DFCs, issue more bonds, introduce instruments with variable returns, elimi-
nate the repurchase agreements, issue securities in the Eurobond market, and
engage more heavily in short-term operations. The volume of the short-term
operations, however, would be well below the maximum that would be agreed with
CV-CFN and the other participating DFC's (para. 2.17).
28.       Resource requirements.  Planned operations for 1976-1980 call for
S/ 13.6 billion of industrial financing (Annex 15). Projections indicate
that internally generated funds (retained earnings and loan amortizations)
constitute increasingly the major financing source (Annex 18), representing
an average of 39% of the amount needed during the period (50% in 1980). The
balance is expected to be obtained from direct loans of domestic institutions
(16%), domestic bond issues (11%), fresh capital increases (9%), and foreign
credits (25%). About 43% of the foreign exchange need (US$137 million) is
covered by undisbursed funds of loans already available (US$58.8 million),
leaving a foreign exchange gap of US$78 million through 1980 (Annex 19). The
proposed Bank loan would cover 17% of the foreign exchange gap and the balance
is expected to come from a loan from IDB and an eventual bond issue in foreign
markets in 1980.
29.       Of the domestic resources to be tapped, two need new tax legislation
or special by-laws to be issued by the Central Bank. First, a National Fund
for Industrial Investment (FNII) would be formed with contributions by non-
institutional investors who would get tax benefits for their contributions.
Second, new mechanisms for bank acceptances and rediscount operations are
also expected to be used extensively by CV-CFN in the future. The Corpora-
tion's projections include systematic equity additions from the Government



ANNEX 4
Page 8
of S/ 300 million per year starting 1977. 1/ Although management still
considers these capital increases as part of the Corporation's resource
targets, their amount and timing are tentative and subject to reductions.
Debt instruments could be used to offset possible shortfalls in new capital,
leaving the institution's lending program unaffected.
30.       Financial projections.  The Corporation's operating plan, if
realized, would increase assets more than three times by 1980 and satisfac-
tory financial positions would parallel this expansion. Thus, the current
ratio will remain at around 2.0 although dipping somewhat during the fast
expansion of 1976 and 1977, and the maturity ratio between loans and credits
will be even more favorable than in the past. Furthermore, the debt-to-
equity ratio is expected to vary between 2.9 and 3.8 during the projected
period. To cope with a possible equity restriction, CV-CFN requested, and the
Bank agreed, that the current overall debt-to-equity limit be raised to 6:1.
This increase is reasonable and it would not result in a deterioration of the
Corporation's financial condition.
31.       CV-CFN projects a deterioration in net income over assets from 2.3%
average for the last four years to 1.5% in the next five years (Annexes 17
and 20). This reduction is largely explained by an increase in financial
expenses. However, the new commissions (para. 2.16), the structure of minimum
commissions (para. 5.05) which the Bank expects will be charged on all term
lending and a slightly higher leverage would improve the profit picture.
Firstly, based on the 1975 portfolio composition the new commissions would
eventually increase CV-CFN's financial spread by 1.6 percentage points.
This change in rates would increase CV-CFN's expected average return on
equity from 6.4% to about 12.6%. Secondly, if the debt-to-equity ratio is
kept at its 1976 level (3.8 rather than 3.4), return on equity would increase
further to about 13.2%. Thirdly, since inflation is expected to decline, the
projected real return on equity would rise to 5.2% in contrast with the
negative returns in the past. 2/
1/   Authorized capital was increased from S/ 500 million to S/ 2,000 million in
May 1976.
2/   These projections assume that commissions are fully incorporated in the
loan portfolio. Given the term structure of CV-CFN's outstanding port-
folio and the projected approvals, the full impact of the commissions
would take place after 1980.



ANNEX 5
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
List of Board Members and Alternates as of April 29, 1976
Principal Directors                           Alternative Directors
Dr. Carlos Arizaga Vega
Chairman of the Board and President
President of AYMESA
Ing. Galo Montaho Perez                 Subsecretary of the Ministry of Industry,
Minister of Industry, Commerce             Commerce and Integration
and Integration
Econ. Ce'sar Robalino                   Subsecretary of the Ministry of Finance
Minister of Finance
Coronel Rene Vargas Passos              Subsecretary of the Ministry of National
Minister of Natural Resources           Resources
Coronel Oliverio Vasconez               Subsecretary of the Ministry of
Minister of Agriculture                 Agriculture
Econ. Danilo Carrera Drouet             Deputy General Manager of the Central
General Manager of the Central          Bank of Ecuador
Bank of Ecuador
Econ. Alfonso Arcos                     Technical Director of the National
President of the National Planning    Planning Board
Board
Ing. Pedro Pinto Rubianes
General Manager of Fabrica Textil
San Pedro
Dr. Alejandro Ponce Henriquez
Representative of the Chambers of
Industries of the "Costa"
LCPDF
October 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION-,,9VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Declaration of Policies and Procedures
(Approved on September 30, 1970 and amended on June 5, 1973)
The Board of Directors of the Comision de Valores - Corporacio'n
Financiera Nacional (the Corporation), by virtue of the powers conferred upon
it by its enabling legislation, establishes the following policies and pro-
cedures which will guide the financial activities and investments of the
Corporation.
I.  Objectives
(1) The fundamental objective of the Corporation will be to assist in
the economic development of the country by providing financial
assistance to productive enterprises of the private sector and by
supporting economic infrastructure projects of the public sector.
In addition, the Corporation will stimulate the development of
the capital market as an instrument for channeling private
savings into productive activities.
II. Investment Policies
(2) The Corporation will base its investment decisions on sound
economic and financial criteria and will finance only technically
viable enterprises with good prospect of economic and financial
return.
(3) Although its operations will be oriented principally to the
financing of the manufacturing sector, the company may also
finance fisheries, tourism and agro-industrial projects.
In no case will the company finance commercial activities or
real estate operations.
(4) The Corporation will finance the establishment or expansion of
enterprises when these are, or can reasonably be expected to
be, adequately organized and managed.
(5) In selecting projects, the Corporation will take into account
the general economic development plans and policies of the
country. Consequently, priority will be given to projects
which have some of the following features: use of national
raw materials; significant use of manpower; savings of
foreign exchange through import substitution; production



ANNEX 6
Page 2
of goods to meet national or foreign demand; participation of
a significant number of shareholders; possibilities for training
personnel in technical and management matters; or the possibility
of development of related industries. In harmony with the fore-
going, the Corporation will avoid financing enterprises which
depend on excessive governmental protection for their profit-
ability resulting in a negative economic benefit for the country
and consequently leading to an uneconomic utilization of national
resources.
(6) When a project conforms to the technical, economic and financial
criteria for an investment by the Corporation and is of parti-
cular importance for the economic development of the country, but
does not arouse sufficient interest in the private sector, the
Corporation may undertake it, even if it involves 100% financing
by the Corporation. However, the aim of the Corporation, as in
the case of normal investments, will be to sell its participation
when the project has reached an adequate development and when
circumstances permit it to do so on satisfactory terms.
(7) In the case of projects which require large investments, the
Corporation will seek financial cooperation from other entities,
whether national, international or foreign.
III. Type of Financing
(8) The Corporation will provide the following types of financing:
(a) medium and long-term loans;
(b) investment in share capital by direct participation, purchase
options, underwritings, etc.;
(c) guarantees and avals related to the purchase of machinery
and/or equipment;
(d) rediscounting of loans granted by private banks, the National
Development Bank and private financial corporations to small
industries in amounts up to S/ 200,000; and
(e) other financial operations which are in accordance with the
objectives and policies of the Corporation.
(9) The Corporation's loans will be principally for the purchase or
construction of fixed assets. Notwithstanding, the Corporation
may also finance technical assistance and permanent working
capital and, exceptionally, seasonal working capital.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(10) With its special resources for this purpose, the Corporation
shall finance pre-investment studies of projects of the public
or private sectors, or of those which can be carried out by
the Corporation itself.
IV. Diversification of Investments
(11)  With the purpose of maintaining a reasonable level of risk, the
Corporation will diversify its investments.
(12)  The Corporation normally will not grant to the same enterprise
loans for an amount greater than SI 20 million. For exceptional
projects, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the
Corporation may grant loans for larger amounts; but in no case
will the total financing to one enterprise, in whatever form,
including loans, participation in share capital, guarantees
or avals, or a combination thereof, exceed an amount equivalent
to 15% of the Corporation's paid-in capital and free reserves.
On the other hand, the Corporation will not provide financial
assistance for amounts smaller than S/ 200,000 except in the
case of the rediscounts mentioned in sub-paragraph (d) of
Section 8, or in the case of pre-investment studies.
(13)  The Corporation will limit its investment in the share capital
of a single enterprise to an amount equivalent to 10% of the
Corporation's paid-in capital and its free reserves. The
Corporation will also limit the total amount of its investments
in the share capital of enterprises to the amount of its own
paid-in capital and free reserves.
V.   Turnover of Investments
(14)  As the projects in which the Corporation holds shares reach an
adequate state of development, and with the double purpose of
freeing resources for new financing and of stimulating wide-
spread ownership of securities, the Corporation will sell its
shareholdings, when it can do so on satisfactory terms. In the
sales of its investments, the Corporation will not only take
into account its own interests but also those of the other
shareholders and of the enterprises themselves.
VI. Relations with Enterprises Financed
(15)  The Corporation does not intend to acquire control of the enter-
prises it finances. Consequently, the Corporation normally will
not take up more than 25% of the share capital of the enterprise
financed, except in the case of projects undertaken by the
Corporation in accordance with the stipulations of point 6 of
this Declaration, or as a result of an underwriting undertaken



ANNEX 6
Page 4
with the expectation that the shares remaining for its account
will not exceed the said limit. Notwithstanding, in cases of
jeopardy, the Corporation may take whatever measures it deems
necessary to protect its interests.
(16)  In accordance with usual banking practice, the Corporation will
require its borrowers to provide and to maintain adequate security
in its favor; to keep accounting records which reflect their
financial situation in accordance with generally accepted account-
ing principles; and to supply the Corporation with whatever in-
formation it may reasonably require to establish the status of
their operations and financial situation. The Corporation will
take the right to inspect the enterprises it finances as well as
their accounting records.
(17) All information furnished to the Corporation by applicants or
clients will be treated by it as strictly confidential.
VII. Financial Practices
(18)  The Corporation will conduct its operations in such a manner as
to assure the maintenance of the value of its capital and of
adequate liquidity. The Corporation will charge interest, fees
and commissions for its financing and services in such a way
that they yield an adequate return on the capital employed.
(19)  The Corporation will maintain reserves in accordance with sound
financial practice. These reserves will be sufficient to cover
the risk of loss associated with the size of its portfolio and
the status of the projects financed.
(20)  The Corporation will maintain a reasonable level of administra-
tive expenses, consistent with the scope and volume of its
operations.
(21)  The Corporation considers that the total of its liabilities,
including guarantees and avals, in whatever form should maintain
an adequate relationship with its own capital and free reserves.
Consequently, the ratio of liabilities to capital and reserves
will not exceed 4:1.
VIII. Procedures
(22) The Corporation shall maintain the following funds, each with
separate accounting and independent resources:
(a) Fund for Industrial Investments;



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(b) Fund for Small Industry; and
(c) Fund for Pre-investment.
(23)  In accordance with its investment policies and to protect its
resources, the Corporation, prior to any financing, shall
evaluate projects in relation to the market, technical and
financial feasibility and the economic benefit for the country.
(24)  The Corporation will not limit itself to evaluating projects
which are presented for its consideration. The Corporation,
by itself or with the help of consultants when circumstances
require it, will identify, study and promote industrial, agro-
industrial, fishery and tourism projects of significant benefit
for the economy of the country.
(25)  Procedurally, with respect to matters involving its Directors,
officials and employees, the Corporation will abide by the
stipulations of Article 50 of its Enabling Law.
(26)  The Corporation will maintain accounting and statistical records
which accurately reflect its operations and financial status in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
practices. The Corporation will employ the services of a firm
of independent auditors of recognized technical and professional
competence, who will examine annually the accounts of the Cor-
poration and give an opinion on the financial statements of the
institution.
(27)  The Corporation will maintain a balanced technical and management
organization, with high level personnel which will enable it to
carry out market, technical, economic and financial evaluations
of the projects it finances, as well as to follow up its invest-
ments.
(28)  As part of its follow-up operations, the Corporation, when it
deems it necessary and when personnel availability permits it,
will provide technical assistance to borrowing enterprises
through the preparation of problem identification and guidance
reports, so that these enterprises may contract the specialized
technical assistance that may be necessary.
LCPDF
October 1976



ECUADOR-APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
ORGANIZATION CHART
|-E-TRAL A-GT..                                                   D- T
Li                               -~~~~~~~LTV C. .. IT
..                                                                       I~~~~~D
MANAET                                                                                                                                                                               MA.AS
| Eco T,Ao Es.up.Sn |A|DEco AlE.T 
SDCSFTAD                                                                                                                                                                                     S ECGNTAIC
ASSIATANT           ASSISTANT                                                   ASSISTA~~~~~~W NT                                                        AZMTAN
SANASET  RANACERMANG-D                                                                                                                           ER
LOA                                           t    1                                                       W  :N:1  A
DEPT  DEP  D-T  T                 DSERVICES DEPT                                                        E            &  T            DN                                EALATA                          A                         DRA N   A|FT
Februal V. ]97f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INi                                                                                        zrS  A   NMALISSAN SS       E   WA   CT     AIDNSU|ANC
FAD,UDT IOTA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPNENT BANKING PROJECT         ANNEX 8
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACluNAL
Audited Balance Sheets, 1972-1975
(in S/ million)
1972         1973          1974          1975
June 30   ___Dec._31       Dec.31       Dec.31
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and bank deposits                   50.5           30.7         28.9          65.8
Marketable securities                   238.8          202.2         160.1        155.6
Loans (Net)                             167.1          210.5        322.8         493.4
Interest and other receivables           16.0           16.7          65.7         64.4
Prepaid expenses                          1.5            2.0           2.5          6.1
Total Current Assets                      473.9          462.1         583.5        781.7
Long-term Assets:
Loans maturing after 12 months          558.1          729.3       1,149.6      1,441.5
Equity investments (Net)                101.5          138.1        443.3         585.5
Fixed assets and equipment (Net)          6.2           24.6          32.3         36.2
Equity investment projects               11.8           24.4          35.1         30.1
Export promotion fund                                   20.0          20.0         20.0
Other assets                                             5.9           4.7          4.0
Deferred charges                            .1          26.6          33.2         17.3
Total Long-term Assets                    667.7          968.9       1,718.2      2,134.6
Total Assets                                  16431.0                2,301.7      2,916.3
ITABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Central Bank                               8.0          38.3          93.2          29.1
Current maturity of long-term credit    11.7            40.2          78.4         147.6
Bonds and short-term obligations          18.0          20.7          26.2         40.0
Counterpart fund for basic investments  27.7             1.7          71.6          24.2
Export promotion fund                       -            5.5          28.3          57.0
Other liabilities                         33.3          42.7          57.3          92.2
Total Current Liabilities                   98.7         149.1         355.0         390.1
Long-term Liabilities:
Credits maturing after 12 months         439.2         654.3         915.7       1,132.4
Bonds and other obligations               58.7          26.7         141.0         412.6
Total Long-term Liabilities                497.9         681.0       1,056.7       1,545.0
Equity
Paid-in capital                          500.0         500.0         747.5         767.7
Retained earnings                         55.0          100.9        142.5         213.5
Net worth                                  555.0          6oo.         890.0         951.2
Total liabilities and equity             j,151.6        1,431.0      2,301.7       2,916.3
Guarantees                                   20.5          21.4         155.9         267.9
1,172.1       1,452.4       2,457.6      3,184.2
LCPDF
October, 1976



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMSION DE VALOIRES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NA-CIO-NAL
Audited Statements of Income and Expenses, 1972 - 1975
FY72     FY73       FY74      FY75
IN COME                                                                         (15 months)
Interests                                                              63.8      125.1     120.4      181.4
Dividends in equity investments                                          -          -        2.7       54.1
Profits from other securities                                          20.5       24.4      12.6       1G.6
Discount on bonds                                                       5.6        5.5      11.6        3.0
Commissions and other                                                   4.0        3.2       3.3        6.2
Total                                                              93.9      158.2     150.6      255.3
EXPENSES
Interests and commissions                                              31.L       64.5      68.2       99.3
Administrative and general                                             28.4       49.3      37.6       70.3
Depreciation                                                              .9       1.8        1.2       1.4
Provision for possible losses                                           2.0        3.0       2.0       10.0
Net income before foreign exchange adjustments                         31.2       39.6      41.6       74.3
Foreign exchange adjustments                                           (9.0)-      6. _3   __
Net income                                                             22.2       45.9      41.6       74.3
Retained earnings at beginning of period                                 30.3       55.0     100.9      142.5
Adjustment or devaluation loss accounted for in FY 1971                   2.5
Adjustment for stock dividends considered as income in previous years                                    (4.3)
Adjustment for previous depreciation over charge                                                           .9
Retained earnings at end of period                                       55.0      100.9     142.5      213.5
1/ Extraordinary loss due to revaluation of debt expressed in European currencies  rn, SwF,I.it)
2/ Extraordinary profit due to revaluation of debt expressed in US dollars (S/1.0 million) and excess
liabilitty adjustment in F11972 (S/5.3 million).
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 10
EC'JADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMhENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACTION FINANCIERA NACIOHAL
Sume ry Breakdown of Loans Approved During the 1972-75 Period
(8/ nillion.)
1972          -                     1973                                   1974                                      1975
BY AMON! _ _                      No. r           Amount      %       No.        %     Amount         7      No.         %       Aoo.nt         %       RN.        %      Anount t
Under to S/ 1.0 mill.                       22      33.3    11.9       3.9      13       16.7        9.9       2.8      17      14.8          12.1       1.1      12       11.6         9.5      0.7
S/ 1.0 million to S/ 2.0 million            14      21.2    18.8       6.2      23       29.5       33.9       9.7      15      13.0          21.6       1.9      14       13.6        24.0       1.7
s/ 2.0 milli-o to s/ 4.0 million            10      15.2    31.8    10.5        18       23.1       50.9      14.6      24      20.9          76.2       6.9      19       18.4        63.2      4.6
S/ 4.5 million  to s/ 6.0 million            7      10.6    30.3    10.1         2        2.6        9.2       2.6      19      16.5         83.7        7.5      14       13.6        73.3      5.3
SI 6.0 million to S/ 10.0 million            4       6.1    29.9       9.9       7        9.0       54.0      15.5      10       8.7         70.0       6.3       17       16.5       143.8    10.3
S0  10.0 million to S/ 14.0 million          1        1.5    12.5      4.2       9       11.5       97.0      27.8       6        5.2         34.6       3.1       6        5.8        57.3      4.1
S/ 14.0 million to S/ 18.0 million           4       6.1    51.2    17.0         3        3.8       33.0       9.5       5       4.3          67.5       6.1        5       4.9        62.0      4.5
SI 18.0 nillio- to S/25.0 million            1        1.5    20.0      6.6       3        3.8       61.0      17.5       4        3.5         90.0       8.1        5      .4.9        71.5      5.1
O0or S/ 25.0 million                         3       4.5    95.3    31.6         -          ------15                            13.1        654.7       59.0      11       10.7       885.7    63.7
T 0 T A L                           66      100.0   301.7   100.0       78      100.0      348.9    100.0    115        100.0      1.110.4    100.0       103      100.0    1,390.3   100.0
BY DURATION          _
Under to I year                              2        3.0     3.1      1.0      -         -          -        -         12      10.4          85.5       8.0      19       18.4        73.6      5.3
From I to 2 years                            4        6.1     2.3      0.8       2        2.6        2.8       0.8     15       13.1         71.7        6.4      14       13.6        36.7      2.6
From 2 to 5 years                           23      38.8    27.1       9.0      32       41.0      142.3      40.6      36      31.3         190.1     17.1       24       23.3       270.2    19.4
From 5 to 7 years                           13      19.7    34.4    11.4        19       24.4       45.8      13.1      19      16.5         119.7     10.8       18       17.5       259.7    18.7
From 7 to 9 years                           10       15.2    63.2    20.9       16       20.5       61.5      17.6      22      19.1         299.9      27.0      16       15.5       392.3    28.2
From 9 to 11 years                          14      21.2   171.6    56.9         9       11.5       97.7      27.9      11       9.6        340.5      30.7       12       11.7       357.8    25.8
Fron 11 to 13 yearn                          -         -       -        -        -         -          -         -        -        -             -         -         -        -           -        -
Over    13   years                           -                          -        -                                       -------                                                                  -
Te  0 T A L                        66      100.0   301.7   100.0       78      100.0      350.1    100.0    113        100.0      1.110.4    100.0       103      100.0    1,390.3   100.0
BY PROJECT LOCATION
Sierra                                      44      66.7   187.6    62.2        45       57.7      166.8      47.8     74       64.3        691.3      62.2       69       67.0       468.6    33.7
Picbi-nha                             34       51.5    97.7    32.4       36       46.1      122.7      35.2      58       50.4        625.6      56.3       51       49.5       348.3    25.1
A..ay                                  2        3.0    14.5       4.8       1       1.3         0.8       0.2      7        6.1         20.1       1.8        7        6.8        23.8      1.7
Others                                 8       12.2    75.4    25.0        8       10.3       43.3      12.4       9        7.8         45.6       4.1       11       10.7        96.5      6.9
Costa                                       21       31.8   108.8    36.1       31       39.7      177.9      51.0      40      34.8         413.8     37.3        34      33.0       921.7    66.3
Cnayas                                14       21.2    57.9    19.2       21       26.9      144.0      41.3      33       28.7        380.3      34.2       32       31.1       761.7    54.8
Manabi                                 2        3.0      7.5      2.5       8      10.2       30.4       8.7       4        3.5          6.1       0.6        -         -           -
Others                                 5        7.6    43.4    14.4        2        2.6        3.5       1.0       3        2.6         27.4       2.5        2        1.9       160.0    11.5
Oriente                                      1        1.5     5.2      1.7       2        2.6        4.2       1.2       1       0.9           5.4      0.5       _           -        _          -
T O T A L                       - 66       100.0   301.7   100.0       78      100.0      348.9    100.0    115       100.0       1,110.5    100.0       103     100.0    1,390.3   100.0
FINAL USE 1  _-)
M-chi-ery end Equipoent                     43      48.3   234.0    77.6        46       45.1      190.8      54.7     56       38.9         573.5     51.6       56       47.5       963.2    69.4
Buildinss                                  22       24.7    35.2    11.7        27       26.5       38.7      11.1     34       23.6        205.2      18.5       23       19.5       215.2    15.5
Others Fined Assets                         4        4.5      6.6      2.2       2        1.9        8.7       2.5       3       2.1          18.7       1.7        1       0.8         1.0      0.1
Working Capital                             20      22.5    25.9       8.6      27       26.5      110.7      31.7      51      35.4         313.0      28.2       38      32.2       208.9    15.0
T 0 T A L                         89      100.0   301.7   100.0    102         100.0      348.9    100.0    144       100.0      1.110.4    100.0       118      100.0    1390.3   100.0
1) Numbnr of Credits
BY TYPE OF ACTIVITY 1)
130  Fishing                                1        1.5      1.7      0.6       2        2.6        4.4       1.2      2        1.7          5.4       0.5
311  Food                                  16       24.3    34.1    11.3        10       12.8      61.5       17.6     15       13.1         37.6       3.4       19       18.5       104.6      7.5
312  Minoellaneo.S Food                      5       7.6    10.4       3.4       5        6.4        9.9       2.8      4        3.5         27.3       2.5        3        3.0        76.0      5.5
313  BRveragas                               -         -       -        -        -         -          -         -       1        0.9         27.0       2.4        1        1.0         4.5      0.3
314  Tob...o                                 -         -       -        -        2        2.6        2.5      0.7       1        0.9          0.7       0.1        -         -           -        -
321  Tentilue                               9       13.6    16.5       5.5      10      12.8       56.8      16.3      19       16.5        183.2      16.5       16       15.5       101.7      7.3
322  Ga=oent Industry                        -         -       -        -        1        1.3        1.9       0.5      2        1.7          0.7       0.1        -         -           -
323  Leather Products                        1       1.5      0.3      0.1       1        1.3        1.5       0.4      2        1.7         10.3       0.9        3        3.0         6.3      0.4
324  Shoes                                   -        -        -        -        -         -          -         -       -         -            -         -         I        1.0         2.8     0.2
331  Lueber and Cork                         5       7.6    65.8    21.8         4        5.1       17.0      4.9       3        2.6         51.0       4.6        4        3.9       130.4      9.4
332  Fornitore Induntry                      -         -       -        -        1        1.3        0.8       0.2      3        2.6         12.1       1.1        3        3.0        11.3     0.8
341  Paper and Paper Prod-cts                2       3.0    29.5       9.8       2        2.6       13.3      3.8       3        2.6         32.2       2.9        5        4.9        68.0     4.9
342  Printing                                -         -       -        -        -         -          -         -       5        4.4         52.1       4.7        5        4.9        15.3      1.1
351  Indostriel Chenielo                     I        1.5     1.8      0.6       2        2.6        3.8       1.1      -         -            -         -         4        3.9        37.1     2.7
352  Other Chenical Products                 6       9.1    15.9       5.3       4       5.1         5.5       1.6      9        7.8         72.0 .    6.5         2        2.0        11.6     0.8
355  Robber Prodocts                         1       1.5    12.5       4.1       5       6.4         7.9       2.3      1        0.9          0.6        -         -         -           -
356  Plastic Products                        6       9.1    27.5       9.1       2        2.6       26.0       7.5      4        3.5         10.6       0.9        5        4.9        31.5     2.3
361  Ceramic & Porcelain Prodocts            1       1.5      2.0      0.7       -         -          -       -         2        1.7         31.4       2.8        3        3.0        34.0     2.4
362  Glaes and Glaes Pr-d-cts                -         -       -        -        -         -          -         -       3        2.6         29.5       2.7        1        1.0         9.5     0.7
369  Other b on-Metelir Minereln             1       1.5      3.4      1.1       4        5.1       25.0       7.2      7        6.1        249.7      22.5        8        7.8       562.5    40 5
371  BRsin non-Steel Industry                1       1.5    27.2       9.0       1        1.3       11.0      3.2       4        3.5         17.5       1.6        2        2.0        15.0     1.1
381  Metal Products                          5       7.6    36.4    12.1        10      12.8       50.7      14.5       6        5.2         24.3       2.2        6        5.8        37.5     2.7
382  Machinery                              -         -        -        -        -         -          -        -        1        0.9          0.2        -         2        2.0        19.3     1.4
383  Electric Prod-cts                       1       1.5      3.0       -        3       3.8         5.0       1.4      7        6.1         65.2       5.9        4        3.9        68.9     5.0
384  Transport Eqaipoent                     -        -        -        -        1        1.3       10.0      2.9       2        1.7         15.0       1.3        1        1.0         4.0     0.3
390  Mis.ellae.nos M.n.factoring             1       1.5      4.9      1.6       3       3.8         8.8       2.5      3        2.6         11.0       1.0        2       2.0         12.0     8.9
610  Whnlesale BRsiness                      -        -        -        -        1        1.3        3.0      0.9       -         -            -         -         -         -           -       -
632  Hotels                                  3       4.6      8.8      2.9       4        5.1      22.7       6.5       6        5.2        142.8      12.9        3       3.0         26.5     1.9
T 0 T A L                         66     100.0   301.7   100.0        78      180.0     348.9    100.8    115        108.0       L    ll O.A    100.0  I03 1.Q,i         13290.3   100.0
1) According with CIIU
LCPOF
October 1976



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Summary of Subloans Approved under Loans 721-EC and 930-EC
(S/ million)
No.        7.    Amount          %                                                           No.       7.      Amount          ah
BY AMOUNT                                                                              BY TOTAL PROJECT COST
Under S/ 1.0 million                          -          -          -          -         Under S/ 6.0 million                              2       15.4          8.5          .8
S/ 1.0 million to S/ 2.0 million              1         7.7        1.8         .5        From S/ 6.0 to S/ 10.0 million                    2       15.4         19.9        1.8
SI 2.0 million to S/ 4.0 million              2        15.4        6.4        1.9       From S/ 10.0 to S/ 20.0 million                    1        7.7         10.7          .9
S/ 4.0 million to S/ 6.0 million              2        15.4       10.5        3.1       From S/ 20.0 to S/ 35.0 million                    1        7.7         24.2        2.2
S/ 6.0 million to S/ 10.0 million             -          -          -          -        From S/ 35.0 to S/ 55.0 million                    1        7.7         51.5        4.6
S/ 10.0 million to S/ 14.0 million            1         7.7       12.0        3.6       From S/ 55.0 to S/ 75.0 million                    2       15.4        120.2       10.8
S/ 14.0 million to SI 18.0 million            1         7.7       18.0        5.3        Over S/ 75.0 million                              4       30.7        878.8       78.9
S/ 18.0 million to S/ 25.0 million            -          -          -         -
Over                                          6        46.1      288.4       85.6
T O T A L                     13       100.0      337.1      100.0                      T O T A L                          13      100.0      1,113.8      100.0
BY MATURITY                                                                                BY SOURCE
Under 3 years                                 -          -          -          -         CV-CFN's own funds                                                     98.7        8.8
From 3 to 5 years                             1         7.7       12.0        3.6        IBRD Loan                                                             337.1       30.3
From 5 to 7 years                             3        23.1        8.1        2.4        COFIEC                                                                 50.0        4.5
From 7 to 9 years                             4        30.8      127.5       37.8        Other financial institutions                                          145.0       13.0
From 9 to 11 years                            5        38.4      189.5       56.2        Subborrower                                                           424.0       38.1
From 11 to 13 years                           -          -          -          -         Suppliers' credit                                                      42.0         3.8
Over 13 years                                 -          -          -                    Other sources                                                          17.0         1.5
T O T A L                     13       100.0      337.1      100.0                      T O T A L                                             1,113.8      100.0
BY SIZE OF FIRM (Total Assets)                                                           BY CV-CFN PROJECT PARTICIPATION
Under S/ 5.0 million                          -          -          -          -         Under 207.                                        8       61.5         60.3       61.1
From S/ 5.0 to S/ 10.0 million                2        15.4       19.6        2.5        From 20%h and 30th                                4       30.8         32.2        33.6
From S/ 10.0 to SI 15.0 million               1         7.7       12.2        1.5        From 307 and 40%                                  -         -             -          -
From S/ 15.0 to S/ 20.0 million               1         7.7       18.0        2.3        From 40%. and 50a                                 1        7.7          5.2         5.3
From S/ 20.0 to S/ 30.0 million               -          -          -          -         Over 50%                                          -         -             -          -
From S/ 30.0 to S/ 50.0 million               2        15.4       78.6        9.9                      T 0 T A L                          13      100.0         98.7      100.0
Over S/ 50.0 million                          7        53.8      663.1       83.8
T 0 T A L                     13       1oo.0      791.5      100.0               BY INDUSTRY
BY NATURE OF FIRM                                                                   Textile, garment, and leather                      5       38.4        147.3       43.7
Basic chemicals and chemical products
New enterprise                                4        30.8      139.7       41.4          derived from oil and coal                       2       15.4         20.4         6.1
Existing enterpriseS                          9        69.2      197.4      58.6         Non-metallic mineral products other
T 0 T A L                     13       100.0      337.1      100.0          than oil and coal                               1        7.7         26.4        7.8
Metal products, machinery and equipment           3       23.1         45.5        13.5
BY PURPOSE OF PROJECT                                                               Other manufacturing                                1        7.7          5.7        1.7
Restaurants and hotels                            1        7.7         91.8        27.2
Mainly import substitution                    7        53.9      136.5       40.5                      T 0 T A L                          13      100.0        337.1      100.0
Mainly export orienited                       -          -          -          -
Import substitution and exports               5        38.4      108.8       32.3                BY LOCATION
Other (Tourism)                               1         7.7       91.8       27.2
T 0 T A L                     13       100.0      337.1      100.0        Sierra                                            8       61.5        271.2       80.4
Costa                                             5       38.5         65.9       19.6
T 0 T A L                          13      100.O        337.1      100.0
LCPDF
October 1976



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORAC1ON FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Equity Portfolio as of December 31, 1975
(in S/ thousand)
Total Paid-in                                                                                                     Dividends
Capital of          7.       Number of       Investment    Earnings (Losses) per Share         7. Return on      Received       Nominal Value
Company                                ___Company O_wned             Shares Held        at Cost        (Sucresl                         Inveatment         in 1975         of Share
(197C7                             (1975)
Companies Reporting Proftts in 1975
Bolsa de Valores de Guayaquil                       2,500        77.8           19,452           1,945          46,7              42.1             46.7                              100
Bolsa de Valores de Quito                           5,000        32.2           16,086          1,609           56,9              45i2             56.9             -                100
Corporacion Andina de Fomento                     625,000          5101-                       37,200                          3,100--
COFIEC                                            140,924          6.0           85,293          8,529           22.7              15.9            22.7             -                 100
Desarrollo Agropecuario, S.A.                      32,943         25.1           12,350         8,274           21,0               12.8             3.1             -                670
Ecuatoriana de Atu'n, S.A.                         48,057         51.0         245,106          24,511           10.5               4.0            10.5             -                 100
Cemento Chimborazo, S.A.                           50,000           .9           4,497             450           14.0              (8.0)           14.0             -                100
Fertilizantes Ecuatorianos, S.A.                   90,000        27.8           25,000         25,000          241.6             220.4             24.2             -              1,000
Cemento Nacional C.E.M.                           368,795         51.0       1,880,854        188,085            14.1              15.6            14.1           20,526             100
Hotel Colon Internacional                          96,235         15.0                 -        14,437         957,4             203.7             33.2             -                   -
Semillas Certificadas C.E.M.                        6,941        28.8           20,000          2.000            18.93/                            18.9             -                100
Companies Reporting Losses in 1975
Alambres Galvanizados Ecuatorianos S.A.            45,000         20.0            9,000         9,000         (161,8)              (3.8)          (16.2)                           1,000
Azucarera Tropical Americana, S.A.                135,000        81.7          146,990        129,490         (444.4)          1,123,7            (59.2)          33,210             750
Banharina C.E.M.                                    8,203        48.4           39,690          3,969          (22.6)            (14.5)4/         (22.6)                             100
Relojera Andino Suiza, S.A.                         8,000          8.0              640            640        (263.9)                             (26.4)                           1,000
Industria Acero Cotopaxi, S.A.                     36,000        43.0           15,4646/       15,464         (213.1)           (161.4)5/         (21.3)                           1,000
Te Zulay S,A.C.                                    36,523        51.7                  -       18,870         (116.8)            (95.8)           (11.7)                                -
Companies Under Construction
Tabla Rey                                          53,615         9.3               500         5,000                                                                             10,000
Cementos Selva Alegre                              75,140        45.9           34,471         34,471                                                                              1,000
CItricos Bolfvar, S A.-/                           16,000        55.1            8,816          8,816                                                                              1,000
Cronos del Ecuadorl'                               10,000         15.0            1,500          1,500                                                                             1,000
Ecuatoriana de Sanitar,os, S.A.                    22,482        13.3            3,000          3,000                                                                              1,000
Financiera del AustroZ                             50,000        20.0          100,000         10,000                                                                                100
Financiera de Guayaquil7/                          50,000         6.0           30,000          3,000                                                                                100
Ganaderfas Ecuatorianas, S.A.                       3,851        26.0            1,000          1,000                                                                              1,000
Industrial Forestal Cayapas                        13,097        22.9            3,000          3,000                                                                              1,000
ISKRA-Herramientas Electromecanicas-               15,000        51.0            7,650          7,650                                                                              1,000
Lotizacion Industrial Los Pascuales                10,000        50.0            5,000          5,000              .1                                                              1,000
Onapress del Ecuador  S.A.                         11,100        33.3            3,661          3,661                                                                              1,000
Optimus Andina, S.A.-/ .1                          10,000        32.5            3,245          3,245                                                                              1,000
Poliqufmicos del Ecuador, S.A.-                    15,000        10.0            1,500          1,500                                                                              1,000
Colombo Ecuatoriana                                 1,690        10.0            1,500          1,500                                                                              1,000
Procesadora del Caucho, S.A.7/                     13,860        75.5           10,460         10,460                                                                              1,000
Parque Industrial de Cuenca7/                     31,470         15.9              500          5,000                            (4.5)                                            10,000
Uniwald Andina, S.A.                                6,963        14.4            1,000          1,000                                                                              1,000
Cementos Cotopaxi                                   3,800        25.0              950            950                                                                              1,000
Cementos Manabf                                       875        22.9              200            200                                                                              1,000
/  One type "A" share at US$1,000,000 and 100 type B shares at US$5,000 each.  EPS correspond to type B stock.
2   501 shares at nominal value of S/5,000 and 23,864 shares at nominal value of S/500.  Per share information is based on the number of shares at S/500.
3/ Fiscal year 1975.
4/ Operations started in March 1974.
5/ Operations started in April 1974.
6/  Three type of shares at nominal values of S/50,000, S/10,000, and S/1,000.  Per share information is based on the number of shares at S/1,000.
7/ Information is based on subscribed capital.
LCPDF
October 1976



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT RANKING PROJECT
CONISION DR VALORES - CORPOR4GION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
List and Characteristics of Foreign Loans and Credit Lines - December 31 1975
(in thousand of indicated currency)
Grace                                                                             Audited
Total     Amount        Available for      Term     Period      Interest     Cocoitmeot Fee       Service Fee        Amount        Amount Dutstsodicg
Date       Currency    Amount    Disbursed       Disbursement       Years     Years                    -   %                   %            Outstanding      (US$ thousand)
Loans
AID    518/L-014                          7/20/62       us$          4,650      4,650           -               40        9 1/2        .75             -                                 4.345                4,355
IDB    133/SF-EC                          7/11/67       US$          2,500      2,500           -               15        3 1/2       3.25             -                   751-          1,458
IDB    143/OC-EC                          7/11/67       US$          2,500       2,500          -               15         3 1/2      6.50             -                  -              1,458
IDB    188/OC-EC                          4/14/70       US$          2,700      2,700           -               15        3           8.00             -                  -              2,332
Lit       500,000    500,000            -              15         3           8.00            -                    5OS'   Lit 431,818       ?        16833
DUl         3,660       3,660           -              15         3          8.00                                  50!-   DM    3,163       |
IDB    235/SF-EC                          4/14/70       US$          1,500       1,500          -               20         5          3.25             -                   751'            3382/    |
IDB    233/oC-EC                          9/29/72       US$         10,000      10,000          -               15         3          8.00            1.25                               9,301- 
IDB    1183/SF-EC                        12/15/72       us$             90          90          -               16        3           2.00             -                  -                 72
IBRD   555-EC                             9/5/68        us$          2,3103/    2,310           -               20         6          6.25             .75                -4             1,563
721-BC                            2/5/71         US$         4,00%-3     4,000           -               13        1           7.25             .75                .5Oj/         3,283                8,867
930-EC                            9/14/73        US$          9,400-     4,021          5,379            12        3           7.25             .75               1.75-           4,021
Suisse Banks                              6/8/67        gvF            912         912          -               10         1 1/2   Floating6/          -                   -               201                   201
CAF    Nomina dal 50                      5/26/72       US$             42          42           -               6         -          6.00
CAF    Te Zulay                           5/26/72       US$            250         250           -              10         -          8.50
CAF    Salve Alegre                       5/26/72       us$            200         200           -               6         _          6.00                                                         J
CAF   FANAVISA                            5/26/72       US$            800         800           -              10         -          8.50
CAF    SALCO                              5/26/72       US$            120         120                           6         -          8.50
CAF    Papeles                            11/5/73       US$             25          25                           6 1/2    2           6.00            1.00                                          )          2,371
CAF    Ind-co No. 1                       2111174       us$            3WO         300          -8                         2           8,50                31             1.00 
CAF    Indaco No. 2                       9120/74       US$            258         258           -               8         2          8.00                 /              1.80/
CAF    FORESA                             8/21/74       US$            708         708           -               8 1/2    2           8 00            I 001
CAF    Cemeoto "A"                        8/26/75       US$          5,658        -             5,658            8         2 1/2   Floating?          1'00 o!
CAF    Cemento  B'.                       8/26/75       us$          5,342        -            5,342             7         2 1/2       8.00           1 00-'/
CAF    Dentex                            12/10/75       us$            168                        168            7         2          8.00
KfW                                       10/9/69       DM           8,000       8,000           -              20         61/2        5.509/           - q
KfW                                      12/21/72       DM          10,000       7,431           -              30        10 1/2       6.00             -                                         J            5,800
Swiss Bank Corporation                    11/8/72       US$          3,000       3,000           -               4                  1.5+LIBOR
Chase Manhattan Bank                                    uS$          5,070        -            5,070             4                 1 1/8+LIBOR
Private Export Funding Corporation        8/29/75       US$          3,380        -             3,380             6                    9.50
EXIMBANK                               J                US$          5,070        -            5,070             8                     8.00             -
Credit Lines
IESS   Loans 413 - 420             (Between 9/26/73  Sucres        150.000    150,000           -                4         1          8.00            1.00                             119,547
and 4/25/74)
Los.s 429 & 435                  10/28/74      Sucres       100,000    100,000           -                4         1          9.00             -                               100,000                12,782
Loen 443                          8/1/75       Sucree       100,000    100,000                            5         -         10.00                                              92,050
CAF                                       7/31/75       US$          6,000        -             6,000             2                5X,S%92% 1,00_/
FONAPRE                                  21/28/75     Starer         1,000                      1,000             8 1/2    2           3.50            1.00                                -
1/  Payable on undisbursed portion of total conitments.
2/ The equivalent of US$4,337 of this liability is expressed in six other foreign currencies.
_/  Amount of total IBRD loan allocated to CV-CFN.
4  A one-time fee to cover foreign exchange risk; payable to the government.
5/ Fee to cover foreign exchange risk; payeble to the government.
6/ .75+(discount rate of Swiss National Bank); minimoum rate - 6.75%.
7/  .5 +(CAF's own cost of borrowing).
8/ Charged only when actual disbursaemnts and plann-d diebursements differ.
9/  4.00% interest is cumulative until an undefined date.
LCPDF
October 1976



ANNEX 14
Page 1
ECUADOR
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANYKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Operational Strategy and Financial Objectives for 1977-81
(May 1976)
GUIDELINES ON INSTITUTIONAL POLICY FOR 1977-81
1.   OUTLOOK FOR INDUSTRY IN THE ECUADORIAN ECONOMYTY
1.1       The economic policy of the Ecuadorian State will, in the medium
term, seek to control the causes of domestic inflation (affecting the mass of
the people) and will tend to make more selective use of the resources gene-
rated by the petroleum sector in order to prevent the channeling of these
into speculation and luxury consumer goods. Parallel efforts will be made to
strengthen the activities of the National Development Fund (FONADE) through
the financing of major projects having a priority bearing on economic and
social development, giving preference to the infrastructure of the agricul-
tural sector and to physical infrastructure, education and health programs.
1.2       The implementation of the industrial programming resulting from the
integration process in which Ecuador is participating will have a positive
impact on the establishment of a number of basic industries that can con-
tribute to the development of the country's scientific and technological
infrastructure, such as:  engineering; petrochemical; automotive; iron and
steel, pulp and paper, electronics and telecommunications, shipbuilding,
pharmaceuticals and chemical (pigments, pesticides, glass and industrial
chemicals).
1.3       The formation of new development centers that will facilitate the
expansion of the domestic market, permit higher incomes and improvements in
income distribution and open up potential additional sources of employment
and prospects of a more efficient use of human, natural and capital resources,
will have an especially important role to play through the programming of
the establishment of new industrial complexes in various provinces, e.g.,
petrochemicals in Esmeraldas, automotive in Manabi, precision engineering in
Azuay, glass in El Oro, electronics in Cotopaxi, Chimborazo and Tungurahua,
etc.
1.4       Similarly, the formulation of an integrated development policy
for exports of non-traditional products in which the Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Integration is currently engaged, with a view to expanding and
diversifying the market for our goods and maximizing the efficient use of



ANNEX 14
Page 2
our productive resources through better economies of scale, will be the
driving force behind an increase in production in terms of both quality
and skill, the extension and rational integration of many industrial plants,
the generation of foreign exchange and the strengthening of the balance of
payments and the net international monetary reserve.
1.5       In the same way, so far as the country's economic situation will
allow, continuing importance will be attached to the import substitution
model, although this has now been reoriented to the processing of agricul-
tural raw materials and minerals and such basic industrial products as
paper, chemical products, etc., in which a high content of domestic inputs
can be included so as to enable the country to make optimum use of its own
resources and generate substantial and real savings in foreign exchange.
1.6       The future industrial development of the country will require, over
the next five years, a significant injection of resources to meet the needs
of this sector in addition to the estimated level of investment of US$2
billion envisaged in the COFIEC document entitled "A View of Ecuadorian
Industry" (Vision sobre la Industria Ecuatoriana), together with technology,
managerial skills and technical assistance in specific fields.
2.   ROLE OF THE NATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION IN THE FUTURE OF INDUSTRY
2.1       The role of CV-CFN, as industrial development bank and State invest-
ment agency, will continue to be to give unqualified support to the country's
socio-economic development through financial assistance to productive enter-
prises in the private and public sector, the strengthening and expansion of
the domestic capital market, the promotion of economic infrastructure projects
in the public sector and the provision of advisory and intermediary services
in the area of external credits. To achieve these objectives the institution:
2.2       Will cooperate with the Government in the execution of priority
productive investment programs for industry that are to strengthen and
develop the national economy by means of the effective provision of all
those services for which it is responsible in its capacity as financing
agent.
2.3       Will participate on behalf of the Government in the promotion, for-
mation and capitalization of such State and mixed enterprises as have priority
status in the development of the industrial infrastructure and also in such
projects resulting from the integration process as are similar in character
to the above.
2.4       In this context major importance will be attached to agro-industrial
projects, in view of their impact in terms of increases in consumer goods,
price stability and the generation of forward and backward linkages.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
2.5       Will operate the machinery for the identification, selection and
classification of investments with a view to the start-up of those projects
vital to manufacturing development in each industrial branch, placing the
emphasis on the establishment of industrial estates and the introduction of
new production structures (rationalization, integration, supplementation,
etc.), technology, incentives for industrial development, the administration
of selective interest rates and coordination with regional development
programs.
2.6       Will strengthen the development of the national capital market
through the presentation in draft form of proposals for legal reforms to the
public authorities; the issue and systematic placement of a series of securi-
ties under its own name, both in the domestic and external markets, in order
to channel public savings into the operation and expansion of manufacturing
activities; the promotion of underwriting procedures; and collaboration in the
establishment of a number of regional or specialized financing intermediaries
to perform specific economnic functions.
2.7       Will negotiate with the proper authorities with a view to the intro-
duction of a series of reforms, whose primary purpose will be the reformula-
tion of laws on the monetary and exchange system, general banking laws,
company law, the commercial code, the civil code, income tax, etc. with a
view to creating new financial roles and laying down guidelines for general
production development policies.
2.8       will continue to give positive support, both in terms of its finan-
cial resources and its technical personnel, to the training of corporate offi-
cials at the managerial level through various bodies and programs operated
by the Business Craduate School of the Pontifical Catholic University of
Ecuador, the Ecuadorian Development Foundation (FEDESARROLLO), the Business
Training Center (CEFE) and the Guayaquil Center for Executives.
2.9       11ill continue to implement the Regional Development Plan in the less
developed provinces of the country through research, promotional activities,
technical assistance and a selective financing policy for new projects.
3.   PROJECTIONS OF THE INSTITUTION'S FINANCING OPERATIONS
3.1       The financial assistance provided by the Corporation through its
various mechanisms corresponding to end-use, term, interest-rate and
guarantees, will assume the following form:
3.2       Industrial credits will continue to represent the most important
category due to their annual average growth rate, their high proportion of
the volume of financing and the socio-economic benefits they bring to the
country. Expecially important here are projects contributing to the inte-
gration process and such others as make the maximum contribution to the
Ecuadorian economy.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
3.3       FOPEX, in addition to performing its current services, will tend
to bring other new mechanisms into being and to further the introduction of
export insurance. The Corporation, with support from the Government, hopes
that by 1982 it will be financing 30% of the total volume of the country's
non-traditional exports.
3.4       Pre-investment and project promotion will seek to take positive
advantage of the productive initiatives associated with petroleum develop-
ment, the decisions of the Cartagena Agreement and the machinery for the
identification, selection and classification of investments and regional
development.
3.5       The Corporation, in its equity participation in companies, will
tend to concentrate on participation in the state and mixed corporations of
vital importance to the country's development that can assure an adequate
economic return on the investment. In addition, as the Corporation is re-
quired to participate in companies with social objectives, the Government
will be predisposed to establish a special fund for this purpose as well as
to obtain funds from established companies of recognized financial solvency.
3.6       Lastly, efforts will be made to strengthen the Rediscount Fund for
Small and Craft Industries in order to increase the specific limits to which
loans are subject, cover new ground and expand its activities to those
provinces with the lowest level of industrial development.
3.7       The role of the Corporation, in view of its prestige and financial
standing abroad, will be to:
-    Negotiate and obtain credits from public and private institu-
tions in order to meet the installation and expansion needs
especially of the country's major industrial projects;
-    Channel external savings into investments of national importance
in the form of major specific projects;
-    Introduce new forms of technology;
-    Expand markets to meet the growing needs of the
industrial sector;
-    Replace suppliers' credits and the technological strings
attached to these.
3.8       Underwriting operations will be promoted and effected as a contri-
bution to the development of the capital market and to the improvement of
financial and accounting practices in beneficiary firms.
3.9       The machinery of guarantees and bonds will be extended so as to make
available to entrepreneurs guarantees of performance and reliability and all
forms of bank guarantee.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
3.10      In order to ensure efficient and speedy financial operations,
methods of evaluation, procedures and decision making will be kept under
continuous review so as to maintain these systems best suited to the inter-
ests of users and to the objectives of the institution. Here, a major role
will be played by the branches of CV-CFN at the regional level.
4.   RAISING OF FUNDS
4.1       To facilitate the financing of Ecuadorian industry, the Corporation,
under the provisions of its Organic Law, will:
4.2       Issue fixed- and variable-income securities for placement on both
the domestic and international markets on the basis of its standing as a
financial institution.
4.3       Making use of its extensive investment portfolio in fisheries,
agro-industrial, timber, fertilizer and electrically-operated machine tool
enterprises, hotels, financial services, etc., proceed to establish and
manage various investment funds (open-ended, closed-ended, fixed-income
or fixed- and variable-income), in order to channel its resources into the
financing of new projects.
4.4       Expand its capital to S/ 2 billion through the capitalization of
its net annual earnings and of grants to be sought for this purpose from
the Government.
4.5       Issue letters of foreign credit through the establishment of agencies
in financial institutions of international standing.
4.6       Enter into negotiations with the Central Bank for utilizing the
machinery of bank acceptances.
4.7       Obtain further loans on favorable terms from domestic and inter-
national institutions with a view to replacing the use of suppliers' credits
in the industrial sector and compensating for the limitations on the forma-
tion of domestic savings.
4.8       In this connection action will also be taken to promote the channel-
ing of funds from the Andean Development Corporation (CAF) into the implemen-
tation of specific and integration projects.
5.   ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCIAL CONTROL
5.1       To make sure that investment decisions are invariably based on
sound economic, social and financial principles the Corporation will seek to
ensure that:



ANNEX 14
Page 6
5.2       The short, medium and long term investment portfolio is diversi-
fied; guarantees and bonds are provided; rediscount loans are made to small
manufacturers; loans are made for the promotion of exports of non-traditional
products with a view to keeping risks at a reasonable level.
5.3       Provision is made for the maintenance of the value of its capital
assets and for an adequate degree of capital liquidity through the timely
collection of maturities, supervision of the progress of borrowing firms and
the auditing of accounts. At the same time it will continue to maintain
reserves to cover exchange risks and portfolio losses.
5.4       An adequate ratio is ensured between its total liabilities (including
guarantees and sureties of all kinds) and its capital assets in accordance
with the provision of Ecuadorian law.
5.5       An adequate return is ensured on its financial operations through the
periodic analysis and programming of its operating and administrative costs,
for which purpose the Corporation will negotiate with international agencies
and with the Ecuadorian Monetary Board, the grant of preferential interest-
rates that will enable it to establish reserve funds to cover monetary fluc-
tuations, protect its portfolio from the impact of inflation and impose
spread levels that are consistent with the economic development sought by
the Corporation.
6.   INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION
6.1       To ensure an effective and timely response to the needs generated
by the buoyancy of the Ecuadorian economy, CV-CFN, as an industrial develop-
ment bank and financial agent for the State, will take the following basic
measures to ensure that the organizational, functional and operational capa-
city needed is available:
6.2       See that its institutional growth is flexible, harmonious, balanced
and sound.
6.3       Formulate and design manuals, guidelines and procedures for the
operation of the institution that will guarantee the necessary flexibility
and security.
6.4       Create the conditions needed to provide the personnel of the
institution with professional standards, promnote their interests and furnish
opportunities for their personal and social development.
6.5       Encourage and promote working conditions that make for a broad
interdisciplinary participation in and contribution to the conduct of
business in the institution.



ANNEX 14
Page 7
6.6       Encourage the introduction of mechanized systems and, in general,
of those modern administrative procedures that can best serve the Corpora-
tion's operational needs.
6.7       Develop the management information system needed for effective
decision making.
LCPDF
October 1976



ANNEX 15
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES-CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Projected Industrial Operations 1976-80
(in SI million)
1976       1977       1978        1979      1980
APPROVALS
Industrial loans      1,764.o    1,986.0    2,231.0    2,506.0    2,814.0
Equity investments      181.7       188.8      370.1        19.8      124.9
Total Approvals     1,945.7    2,174.8    2,601.1    2,525.8    2,938.9
COMITMETITS
Industrial loans      1,508.0    1,700.0    1,912.0    2,148.0    2,414.0
Equity investments      154.5       187.8      342.9        72.4      109.2
Total Commitments   1,662.5    1,887.8    2,254.9    2,220.4    2,523.2
DISBURSEMENTS
Industrial loans      1,839.4    1,387.0    1,553.0    1,739.0    1,948.0
Equity investments      115.9       179.5      304.2       140.0      100.0
Total Disbursements 1,955.3    1,566.5    1,857.2    1,879.0    2,048.0
LCPDF
October, 1976



A '1EX 16
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE TH:RD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Projected Balance Sheets 1976-1980. Compared with 1975
unau d   1976        1977          1978       1979         1980
ASSETS                        (unaued
Current Assets:
Cash and bank deposits          65.8      98.4       129.0          162.5     187.3        209.5
Marketable securities          162.8    104.1          65.7          41.5       26.2         16.6
Loans (current maturity)
Industrial                  502,1    474.5         782.9       1,128.9   1,335.8       1,545.8
Small industry                24.1     25.2         26.1           27.5      28.4         29.0
Govermnent and other           5.6       3.2         2.8            3.0       4.1           1,5
Accounts receivable             23.2       3.8          1.9           1.9        1.9          1.9
Total Current Assets             783.6    709.2      1,008.4       1,365,3   1,583.7       1,804.3
Long-term Assets:
Loans with non-current maturity
Industrial                1,385.9  2,852.4       3,587.4       4,213.0   4,807.5       5,372.0
Small industry                29.3     34.2         38.1          40.5       42.1         43.2
Government and other          14.6      11.4         8.6            5.6       1.5          -
Equity investments             590.9    732.9        964.9       1,348.9   1,638.9       1,888.9
Projects under study and
promotion                     28.7     21.6         48.1           75.3      48.3         36,3
Export promotion fund           20.0      20.0        20.0           20.0      20.0         20.0
Other Assets                    58.7      58.7         58.7          58.7      58.7         58,7
Fixed assets (net)              35.6      65.3       175.1          314.6     376.8        375.7
Total long-term assets       2,163.7  3,796.5      4,900.9       6,076.6   6,993.8       7,794.8
Provision for doubtful loans
and investments (less)       (24.6)   (40.6)       (53.3)         (66.9)    (77.8)       (88.1)
lotal Assets                   2,922.7  4,465.1      5,856.0       7,375.0   8,499.7       9,511.0
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Domestic credit                116.7    103.2        125.9          170,4     282.1        323.7
Foreign credit                  60.3    180.4        252.1          282.4     335.1        358.2
Bonds                           40.0      60.0        65.0           70.0      72.0         40.0
Short-term obligations         154.3    136.4        120.5          106.5      94.1         83.1
Other liabilities               25.4      22.9         20.7          18.7      16.9         15.2
Total current liabilities  396.8    502.9          584.2         647.9      800.2        820.2
Long-term liabilities
Domestic credit                232.0    585.3      1,102.0       1,902.0   2,208.4       2,439.2
Foreign credit                 900.1  1,654.6      1,923.5       2,224.1   2,541.0       2,912.9
Bonds                          412.6    687.0        822.0          752.0     680.0        640.0
Total Long-term  Liabilities 1,544.7  2,927.0        3,847.5       4,878.2   5,429.4       5,992.1
Equity
Paid-in capital                767.7    767.7      1,067.7       1,367.7   1,667.7       1,967.7
Retained earnings              213.5    267.5        356.6         481.3      602.4        731.0
Net worth                      981.2  1.035.2      1,424.3       1.849.0   2,270.1       2,698.7
Total Liabilities and Equity 2.922.7  4.465.1        5,856.0       7.375.0   8.499.7       9.511.0
Guarantees                       267.9    501.8        672.2         764.7      816.2        886.7
Total Portfolio (Net)l/        2,815.8  4,615.0      6,049.7       7,485.2   8,616.7       9,699.0
Total Assets and Guarantees  3,190.6  4,966.9        6,528.2       8.139.7   9,315.9    10,397.7
1'  Includes all loans, equity investments, export promotion fund, and guarantees.
ICPDF
October 1976



ANNEX 17
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Projected Statements of Income and Expenses 1976 - 1980, Compared with 1975
1975
INCOME               (actual)    1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
Interests             189.8      323.2    466.0       593.3      693.-     785.7
Dividends              54.1       15.4      20.0       25.0       30.0       32.0
Commissions             -          7.8      11.9       14.6       15.8       17.0
Other                  11.3        9.4      12.9       16.1       18.7       21.0
Total            255.2      355.8    510.8      649.0      758.1      855.7
EXPENSES
Administrative
and General           60.7       95.3    125.0       155.0      180.0     200.0
Interest on:
Domestic credit       34.6       32.0      57.1      100.4      160.8     197.3
Foreign credit        53.7      110.3    158.4       184.8      212.5     243.0
Bonds                 11.0       40.4      62.1       62.8       59.4      56.1
Depreciation
and other             10.9        7.7       6.4        7.4       13.4      20.3
Total            170.9      285.7    409.0      510.4      626.1      716.7
Operating Income       84.3       70.1    101.8       138.6      132.6     139.0
Provision for
Doubtful Accounts
and Investments       10.0       16.0      12.7       13.6      10.9       10.2
NET INCOME              74.3      54.1      89.1      125.0      121.7     128.8
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 18
EC'jADOR - APPRAISAL OF TIE THIRD DEVELOPMJ.NT BA':JING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NtACIONAL
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1976-1980
(in S/ million)
1976         1977       1978        1979      1980
Beginning Working Capital                              386.8       206.3      424.4       717.4       783.5
SOURCES
Net Income                                            54.0       89.1       124.7      121.1        128.6
Depreciation                                           3.4        4.1         4.5        9.8         16.1
Provisions for Doubtful Loans and Investments         16.0       12.7        13.6       10.9         10.2
Total Funds from Operations                             73.4      105.9       142.8      141.8        154.9
Equity increases                                         -        300.0       300.0      300.0        300.0
D)omestic credits
Credit from TESS                                     200.0     200.0       100.0          -            -
National Fund for Industrial Investments              16.5      52.6         70.4     138.5         154.5
Bank acceptances                                     100.0     100.0       200.0          -            -
Rediscounts                                          140.0      240.0       300.0     100.0        100.0O
Subtotal                             456.5      592.6       670.4      238.5        254.5
Bond issues                                            349.8     250.0        300.0     350.0        300.0
Foreign credits
Credits available (Annex 13 )                        938.4     241.1       225.0       62.5            -
New credits
Deutsch Sudamerikanische Bank                         -      125.0         8.0      117.0            -
Suisse Banks                                          -      154.9          -       125.0           -
IDB                                                   -         -           -       297.5        202.5
IBRD                                                  -         -        300.0       25.0           -
Bond issues                                           -                     -          -         527.5
Other                                                 -         _         50.0       25.0            -
Subtotal                             938.4      521.0       583.0      652.0        730.0
Equity sales                                            -          -           -          -            -
Amortization of loans                                  401.1      681.0       957.8   1,177.1       1,414.0
Sale of fixed assets                                    - =_-                   _         -         _
Total Sources of Funds                               2,219.2   2,450.5    2,954.0   2,859.4        3,153.4
USES
Loan disbursements                                1,869.4   1,417.0    1,583.0   1,769.0         1,978.0
Equity investments and new projects                  134.9      258.5       411.2      263.0        238.0
Amortization of credits                              287.0      378.0       452.8      617.3        681.8
Bond redemptions                                      75.4       65.0        70.0       72.0         40.0
Fixed asset purchases                                 33.1      113.9       144.0       72.0         15.0
Total Uses of Funds                                  2,399,7   2,232.4    2,661.0   2,793.3         2,952.8
Net Change in Working Capital                         (180.5)    218,1        293.0       66.1        200.9
Ending Working Capital                                 206.3      424.4       717.4      783.5        984.4
LCPDF
October 1976



ANNEX 19
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - COXPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Projected Gap in Foreign Exchange Resources, 1976-,98o
(in S/ millian; 1US$ = S/25)
1976    1977    1978    1979   1980
Funds Available for Disbursements
IBRD                                82.5    30.0      -        -
IDB                                 80.0   150.0   15o.o    62.5
KfW                                 25.0      -       -        -
AID                                   -       -       -
CAF                                237.5    62.5    75.0       -
Deutsch Sudamerikanische Bank      125.0      -       -        -
Chase Manhattan Bank               127.5      -       -        -
PEFCO                               85.0      -       -         -
EXIMBANK                           127.5      -       -        -
Subtotal                           940.0   242.5   225.0    62.5
Projected Disbursements            940.0   520.0   582.5   650.0   730.0
Gap in Foreign Exchange Resources  -       277.5   357.5   587.5   730.0
LCPDF
October. 1976



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
COM2ISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Past and Projected Financial Ratios, 1972-1980
1972          1973   1/        1974            1975             1976             1977           1978              1979             1980
June 30    December 31    December 31    December 31    December 31    December 31    December 31    December 31    December 31
Income Statement as a % of Average Total Assets
Income                                                          8.1          12.1              7.7            9.1              8.7              8.9             8.8              U.7               8.7
Financial expenses                                              2.7           4.9              3.5            3.5              4.5              4.8              4.7              5.0               5.0
Spread                                                          5.4           7.2              4.2            5.6              4.2              4.1              4.1              3.7              3.7
Administrative expenses                                         2.5           3.9              2.0            2.5              2.5              2.3              2.2              2.2               2.2
Prov is ions                                                     .2             22/             .1              .4              .4               .2               .2               .1                 1
Net income                                                      273.0-                         2.1             2.6             1.3              1.6              1.7              1.4               1.3
Other Financial Ratios
Growth of total assets (,) 3/                                   1.3          23.9             69.2           29.6             56.0             31.4             24.7             14.5              11.6
Growth of total assets (real %)                                -6.1           9.7             37.1           12.0             43.1             21.7             16.5              7.0               4.3
Total debt/equity                                               1.1           1.4              1.8             2.2             3.8              3.6              3.4              3.1               2.9
Ca,s. and marketable securities/current liabilities             2.9           1.6              0.5              .6              .4               .3               .3               .3                .3
Current assets/current liabiliti'                               4.8           3.1              1.6             2.0             1.4              1.7              2.1              2.0               2.2
Short-and medium-term operations- equity                         .4            .5               .6              .8             1.4              1.4              1.2              1.1               1.1
Total loans/loans due within one year                           4.3           4.5              4.6             3.9             6.8              5.5              4.7              4.5               4.4
Total liabilities/current liabilities                           6.02/         5.62/            4.0             5.0             6.8              7.6              8.5              7.8               8.3
Earnings before interest, depreciation and                      2.0-          1.7-             1.6             1.9             1.4              1.4              1.4              1.3               1.3
provisions/financial charges                                    2/
Net income/total income (/%)                                   33.2-         25.0-a'          27.6           29.1             15.2             17.4             19.3             16.0              15.0
Break-even assets/total assets -/                              50.1          57.7             49.5           52.3             68.8             61.8             58.5             62.8              64.2
Elasticity of return on equity 6/                               4.2           3'4              3.6            3.4              6.6              5.7              5.2              6.2               6.6
Return on equity (.)                                            5'72/         6 82/            5.6             7.9             5.4              7.3              7.6              5.9               5.2
Return on equity (real 7,)                                     -2.0?'        -5.4-           -14.4           -6.7             -4.2             - .6               .6             -1.0              -1.7
Inflation 7/(%)                                                 7.9          12.9             23.4           15.7             10.0              8.0              7.0              7.0               7.0
1/ The period ending 1973 covers 18 months
2/ Before foreign exchange adjustments
3/ Assets include guarantees
4/ Loans and guarantees with original maturities of less than five years, Letters of Credit, and Acceptances; short-and medium-term loans were estimated using the past average
proportion of loans in this category (28.7% for 1972-1975).
5/ Administrative expenses, depreciation, provisions/spread
6/ Percentage change of return-on-equity/percentage change of return-on-assets
7/ Inflation rates for years 1976-1980 were estimated by the mission.
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 21
Page 1
ECUADOR: APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
Past Performance and Prospects
Organization
1.        Ownership and Board of Directors.  COFIEC shares are widely held by
some 300 institutions and individuals (Annex 23). Its 15 member Board of
Directors represents local and foreign private shareholders, CV-CFN, and
IFC. IFC's director takes an active part in Board discussions. The Board
has the exclusive prerogative to set policy, to approve loans greater than
SI 18 million, and to authorize investing in shares, emitting bonds, and
writing off bad debts. Seven directors and COFIEC's President make up the
Executive Committee, which authorizes loans greater than S/ 10 million, up to
S/ 18 million, makes Deriodic reviews of COFIEC's portfolio, and recommends
Board actions (Annex 22).
2.        MIanagement and staff.  The President of COFIEC is responsible for its
management. COFIEC's operations are divided between its Quito and Guayaquil
regional offices, each headed by a regional manager. The juxtaposition of
personnel responsible for central administration with those responsible for
Quito regional office operations has resulted in some confusion of these
functions as reflected in the organization chart (Annex 25). COFIEC's manage-
ment recognizes this problem and is introducing changes in the Company's
organization, departmentalization, and job descriptions in order to delineate
responsibilities. These improvements were reviewed during negotiations
and an understanding was reached on putting them into effect within six
months of loan signing.
3.        Since 1972 COFIEC's staff has increased at an average rate of 9% p.a.,
reaching 71 in March 1976. National headquarters and the Quito regional office
employ 20 professionals, and the Guayaquil regional office employs 15 profes-
sionals. The Guayaquil staff are mostly new and, while quite capable, they
lack experience in term lending. COFIEC's management is taking steps to cor-
rect this weakness (para. 5).
Policies and Procedures
4.        Policy Statement.  COFIEC conducts business within the framework of
the Declaration of Policies and Operating Procedures shown as Annex 24. In
view of its projected increase in long-term lending, COFIEC has agreed to
eliminate Article 17 of the Declaration, which limits the amount of long-term
debt it may assume to 4 times its equity, but the Company would remain subject
to an overall debt-to-equity limit (para. 21). A new Article 17 would limit
operations with an original maturity cf less than 5 years to no more than 4
times equity. These changes were agreed upon at negotiations.



ANNEX 21
Page 2
5.        Appraisal.  Subprojects submitted to the Bank under the second
loan have shown a continuing improvement and project appraisal is becoming
a tool of management's decision making in Bank-financed subprojects. However,
appraisal capacity has deteriorated somewhat recently, as appraisal staff
have been drawn into short-term operations (para. 10). This deterioration
would have to be reversed for COFIEC to carry out its program of long-term
lending (para. 25). To strengthen COFIEC's appraisal capacity, management
is preparing a plan whose principal elements are as follows: (a) hiring
additional staff for appraisal and supervision; (b) having a senior project
analyst participate in the EDI development banking course; (c) holding a short
course in project appraisal for the Guayaquil staff; and (d) continuing
on-the-job training by interchanging staff members between the Quito and
Guayaquil regional offices. The carrying out of the plan was well under way by
negotiations and an understanding concerning its completion was reached then.
6.        Supervision.  COFIEC's follow-up on loans is uneven.  Supervision
plans are often not carried out due to other demands. In many cases super-
vision is limited to checking guarantees securing loans. When COFIEC's expo-
sure in a firm is large or where problems have come to light, however, super-
vision is very good. This uneveness shows that COFIEC has not devoted suffi-
cient resources to supervision rather than that it lacks understanding of
adequate project follow-up procedures. Additional staff (para. 5) and more
clearly defined responsibilities (para. 2) can be expected to improve super-
vision substantially.
7.        Economic rate of return.  Because of existing distortions in domestic
prices, COFIEC calculates the economic as well as financial rate of return on
projects receiving Bank-financing of more than US$200,000. Under the proposed
project the Company would extend this calculation to all projects involving an
investment in excess of US$500,000 equivalent or more than US$250,000 equiva-
lent for Bank-financed projects. Agreement on this point was confirmed at
negotiations.
8.        Disbursement and procurement.  COFIEC's disbursement procedures and
control of investment expenditures are adequate. In regard to procurement,
COFIEC does not generally require competitive bidding for projects it finances.
By requiring evidence that the client has canvassed alternatives, the Company
satisfies itself that the machinery and equipment to be bought meet the tech-
nical requirements of the project and are competitive in price. The company
reviews its clients' judgements on technical aspects to ensure the suitability
of the items procured for the subprojects.
Operations and Performance
9.        Resources.  COFIEC's medium and long-term resource availability has
been about as expected at the time of the second DFC project. As of June 30,
COFIEC had committed the US$8.0 million allocated to it under the second DFC
project and US$2.5 million of the US$4.0 million available to either COFIEC or
CV-CFN on a first-come first-served basis. Of the total committed, US$9.6
million had been disbursed with the remainder expected to be disbursed by the



ANNEX 21
Page 3
end of 1976. Use of the Bank's livestock loans reached S/ 38 million.
COFIEC has been able to sell more of its 5 to 10 year bonds than expected
and their amount outstanding stood at S/ 90 million in December 1975.
IESS has made three 4-year loans   totaling S/ 150 million and the company
continues to have the use of the roll-over of a 20-year loan from USAID (1975
balance: S/ 49 million). Finally, stockholders' equity has more than doubled
since 1972, and amounted to S/ 184 million in December 1975.
10.       In order to maintain profitability (para. 17) and to satisfy demands
for working capital finance growing out of the industrial boom, COFIEC had
to mobilize a much greater volume of short-term resources than had been
expected. COFIEC obtained short-term financing from the Central Bank through
rediscounts and acceptances amounting to S/ 114 million by 1975, where vir-
tually none had been contemplated in 1972. Short-term loans from foreign
banks rose to over S/ 45 million, but in 1975 they were reduced to S/ 34
million. Drawings on foreign bank lines of credit to finance letters of
credit and guarantees have risen rapidly to S/ 732 million in 1975 from
only S/ 338 million in 1972.
11.       Operations.  In spite of inflation, 1/ COFIEC has been able to
increase the real value of its portfolio by 41.8% since 1972. The term
structure of operations mirrors that of the resources available. In 1975,
after virtual full commitment of the second DFC loan, approvals of loans
fell to S/ 529 million from S/ 697 million in 1974, although disbursements
continued rising from S/ 405 million to S/ 460 million. In 1975 loan dis-
bursements, including short-term loans, made up only 36% of total disburse-
ments, letters of credit and guarantees 63%, and equity investments the
remaining 1% (Annexes 26 and 27).
12.       The sectoral distribution of COFIEC's lending is well diversified
and has remained relatively stable between 1972 and 1975, with manufacturing
claiming about 60% of total credit extended. Within manufacturing, industries
processing agricultural raw materials 2/ have received 47% of total financ-
ing in the last 3 years. The average size of loan approval in 1975 was S/ 1.1
million. The provinces in which Quito and Guayaquil are located received 89%
of total financing.
13.       As of December 31, 1975, the equity portfolio came to S/ 29 million,
about 1.8% of total portfolio. In light of the difficulty in achieving profit-
ability in its equity portfolio (para. 18), COFIEC is being cautious in new
stock purchases (Annex 28).
14.       Audit.  COFIEC's financial statements are audited annually by Price
Waterhouse and Company. No report in recent years has had any qualification.
1/   Totaling 61.2% in 1972-75.
2/   Food, beverages, tobacco, textiles, leather products, wood products and
paper.



ANNEX 21
Page 4
The scope of these audits has improved and is satisfactory. The audits now
include an assessment of the adequacy of the provision for expected port-
folio losses and a statement of COFIEC's exposure to foreign exchange risk.
15.       Portfolio quality.  Loan principal in arrears in December 1975
was S/ 67 million, 5.2% of portfolio, an increase from 3.6% in 1974. The
proportion of clients in arrears above three months was 12.6%. Two factors
largely explain this increase. First, the Central Bank's tighter control of
credit (para. 2.12) resulted in many firms finding difficulty in paying their
banks. In a sample of 13 of the largest banks, arrears increased from 9.4% of
aggregate portfolio in 1974 to 10.1% in 1975 (Annex 2). Second, COFIEC's new
manager in its Guayaquil regional office has taken a much tougher stand
against refinancing loans in arrears, thereby flushing into the open addi-
tional delinquent accounts. This new policy, an easing of credit in 1976, and
improved supervision (para. 6) should allow COFIEC to reduce arrears to a more
comfortable level.
16.       At year-end 1975, COFIEC estimated probable portfolio losses at
S/ 24.9 million, almost as much as the provision for bad debts, S/ 28.8 mil-
lion. Although considered adequate by COFIEC's auditors, provisions as a
proportion of total portfolio (including guarantees) have fallen since 1971,
and in 1975 stood at only 1.8%. In light of these circumstances, COFIEC's
management has taken the following steps to strengthen the portfolio: (a) in-
creased the monthly allocation to the provisions account from S/ 350,000 to
S/ 450,000, as an interim measure; (b) set as a goal the maintenance of the
provisions account, net of currently estimated losses not written off
(S/ 25.7 million), to 0.8% of loan and guarantee portfolio by 1978 and to 1%
by 1979; (c) begun a program of writing off recognized portfolio losses; and
(d) decided to increase the monthly allocation to the provisions account to
S/ 600,000 starting Janaury 1977.   An agreement on these measures was reached
at negotiations.
17.       Profitability.  Inflation in Ecuador in 1973-75 had a highly
debilitating effect on COFIEC's profitability. In 1973-75 the real return
averaged -0.7% despite being higher in nominal terms than expected (Annex 35).
To prevent a more precipitous shortfall in real profits, COFIEC was under
pressure to concentrate on its most profitable operations and to cut its
costs. To do this, the company increased considerably its guarantee and letter
of credit operations on which commissions of up to 4% could be charged.
These operations constituted its only readily available resources.
18.       Interest and commissions made up 92.2% of total income in 1972-75.
(Miscellaneous income and earnings on fixed income securities accounted for
4.0% and equity investments for 3.8%). Although the rate of return on the
equity portfolio has been improving in nominal terms, it has not yet equaled
the return on COFIEC's own equity. The gross spread has remained in the
4.4 - 4.9 range. Administrative expenses and provision for losses have been
reduced, perhaps too rapidly, from 2.9% of average total assets in 1972 to
2.3% in 1975. The flexibility and imagination of COFIEC's management during



ANNEX 21
Page 5
this difficult period permitted COFIEC to raise its rate of return on equity,
in nominal terms, to 19.3% in 1975 compared with an average of 14.4% in the
three preceding years, but at the expense of being fully able to play its
unique role as a development bank.
19.       Financial condition.  Maintaining adequate liquidity has been a
constant problem for COFIEC. The problem became particularly acute in 1971
and 1974, and COFIEC is not yet able to maintain desired levels of compensat-
ing balances with correspondent banks. The acid test (cash and marketable
securities/current liabilities) was below projected levels in 1973-75,
averaging 8.4%. In long-term lending COFIEC manages liquidity by matching
loan repayments by its clients with payments to its creditors. As provided
in its Policy Statement, COFIEC does not bear any foreign exchange risk in its
lending.
20.       To improve liquidity management COFIEC has recently centralized the
management of its lines of credit in a newly created resources department
(previously each regional office managed its own lines). These efforts and
the prospect of higher earnings (para. 31) should permit an increase in the
Company's degree of liquidity.
21.       Leverage.  Under the Second DFC Project, COFIEC at times had dif-
ficulty in maintaining its level of operations within the Bank-imposed 7:1
debt-to-equity limit. Letters of credit converted into debt were not
considered in calculating the debt-to-equity limit. Under the proposed loan,
letters of credit, when used and refinanced by drawings on a foreign bank
line of credit, would be considered as debt. However, to avoid forcing a
reduction in COFIEC's operations, the debt-to-equity ratio would be raised
from 7:1 to 8:1. This change, agreed upon at negotiations, represents
de facto only a slight increase in leverage. Furthermore, COFIEC agreed
during negotiations to record the refinanced letters of credit in a separate
balance sheet account. In the future, an increase in leverage to 10:1 will
probably become feasible (para. 30).
Prospects
22.       The following section is based on projections made by COFIEC before
and during the appraisal mission in April/May 1976. While reasonable in their
own terms, they do not reflect the new possibilities that have been opened to
the Company by the recent change in the interest rate and commission structure
(para. 2.16), nor do they reflect agreements reached during negotiations to
increase the level of provisions for bad debts and to limit short- and medium-
term operations. The projected balance sheets and income statements shown in
Annexes 31 and 32 are the Company's projections.
23.       Strategy.  COFIEC's future operations will be guided by its "Opera-
tional Strategy and Financial Objectives" (Annex 29). It sets out several
important goals as follows: (a) to seek diversified resources so as to avoid
undue dependance on any one source and, in particular, on the Bank; (b) to



ANNEX 21
Page 6
maintain the current emphasis on industrial lending (around 60% of port-
folio); (c) to define within the industrial sector the most advisable sub-
sectors for lending; (d) to increase its equity portfolio; and (e) to empha-
size provision of financial services such as cash management, collections, and
technical assistance. The efforts COFIEC is making to improve its organiza-
tion, staff, supervision and appraisal capacity and the Government's new
interest and commission rate policy should enable the Company to successfully
carry out this strategy.
24.       Operations forecast.  Ecuador's current rapid growth in GDP is
creating rising demand for COFIEC's services. During 1976-78, when the bulk
of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed, COFIEC has projected total
disbursements rising at 17.4% p.a.--8.7% p.a. in real terms, 1/ a level
of demand that seems reasonable (Annex 30). Since early 1975 COFIEC has
received 48 requests for term loans whose foreign exchange component alone
exceeds SI 500 million. Although loans would not result in every case, the
requests indicate a strong demand for term financing. Consequently, COFIEC
expects disbursements for long-term loans (5 years or longer) to rise faster
than any other type of operation, totalling S/ 870 million in the 3-year
period. Short- and medium-term loans and acceptances would grow slowly, but
from a large base, and total S/ 905 million. The guarantee portfolio would
continue to grow moderately. Disbursements for equity investments would
remain at about the 1975 level.
25.       These projected operations would result in an improvement over the
last several years but they would, nevertheless, result in COFIEC having only
about one-third of its portfolio in long-term loans and investments by 1978.
At the time they were made, these projections represented, in COFIEC's view,
the maximum feasible amount of long-term operations consistent with even
modest profitability. But in view of the need of COFIEC's clients for long-
term finance and of the new interest rate and commission structure, the Company
believes that it can increase its long term activity to 50% of its portfolio
by 1978. In line with this shift in its operations, a limit on short- and
medium-term operations of no more than 4 times equity to be achieved by the
end of 1978 was agreed upon at negotiations.
26.       Resource requirements.  To meet the projected demands of its clients
for short-term financing through 1978, COFIEC would rely mainly on foreign
private banks' lines of credit for guarantees and letters of credit whose
amount outstanding would rise modestly to S/ 1,145 million in 1978. Adding
Central Bank rediscounts and acceptances of S/ 140 million in 1978, short-term
resources would account for 47% of the total. Medium-term resources from
AID, IESS and the issue of financial certificates would reach S/ 161 million,
6% of resources. The principal source of long-term finance would be the
issue of bonds, followed by Bank DFC loans and drawings on the Bank's live-
stock loans. The Company would also increase its equity from SI 184 million
to S/ 345 million. Long-term resources and equity in 1978 would thus come
to S/ 1,290 million, 47% of the total.
1/   Assuming that inflation remains at around 8% p.a. through 1978.



ANNEX 21
Page 7
27.       The new interest rate structure should make it feasible for COFIEC
to issue the domestic bonds required for its projected volume of long-term
lending. Nevertheless the challenge of selling approximately S/ 465 million
in bonds (cumulative, gross of amortizations) during 1976-78 should not be
underestimated. To the extent the Company is less successful in mobilizing
long-term resources, lending would have to be curtailed. To meet the
limitation on short- and medium-term operations, COFIEC, in addition to
mobilizing term resources, would have to use its own internally generated
resources almost exclusively for term lending and might need to lend some
medium-term resources at long-term.
28.       The cumulative foreign exchange needs for long-term financing during
1976-80 comes to US$46 million but the company has identified new resources
of US$8 million, leaving a foreign exchange gap of US$38 million. The
US$10.0 million portion of the proposed Bank loan allocated to COFIEC would
fill only a part of the gap and the remainder would be met by using other
long-term resources, mainly from bond issues to purchase foreign exchange in
the open market and by other foreign borrowing.
29.       Financial projections.  According to its projections, COFIEC's opera-
tions would produce a growth in assets from S/ 1,746 million in 1975 to
S/ 2,922 million in 1978, an average 10% p.a. in real terms.  By the end
of 1978 short- and medium-term operations would not exceed S/ 1,381 million,
4 times equity, compared to S/ 1,153 million in 1975; while long-term loans
outstanding would rise from S/ 418 million to S/ 1,035 million. Investments
in shares would reach S/ 53 million but would still make up only 1.8% of total
portfolio, the same percentage as in 1975. Thus, long-term portfolio would
be 40.7% of total portfolio in 1978, against only 27.9% in 1975. However, in
light of the new interest rate structure and the agreed-upon limit on short-
and medium-term operations, the Company would be able to increase this pro-
portion to over one-half provided it leverages itself to the maximum extent
permitted.
30.       After 1978, projected growth in assets would slow down to under
6% in real terms in line with a slower real growth in equity. To avoid
forcing COFIEC to hold back its mobilization of long-term resources for
long-term lending, it would become desirable to relax the 8:1 debt-to-equity
ratio limitation. The Bank would carefully monitor COFIEC's organization,
operations, resource mobilization and financial condition and, if it meets the
Bank's criteria, the debt-to-equity limitation would be allowed to rise in
steps up to 10:1. A relaxation of this ratio would be conditioned on COFIEC
meeting the following criteria: (a) short- and medium-term operations do not
exceed four times equity; (b) portfolio quality is satisfactory and net
provisions for bad debts have reached the targets agreed to with the Bank
(para. 16); (c) liquidity management, appraisal capacity, and supervision have
improved substantially; (d) an equivalent increase in lending can not be
achieved by capital subscriptions; (e) most of the additional resources will
be mobilized domestically by issuing bonds, financial certificates, or similar
instruments. Agreement on these criteria was reached during negotiations.



ANNEX 21
Page 8
31.       In the period 1976-78 COFIEC projects the gross spread to remain
around 4.4% of assets. Administrative expenses would rise as more resources
are devoted to supervision and appraisal and net income would, therefore,
fall from the 1975 level, 2.1% of assets, to around 1.8%. However, the new
commission structure will begin contributing to income in 1977 and the gross
spread could rise to around 5%. Profitability, nevertheless, would be modest.
The nominal return on equity would be about in line with the recent past but,
because of lower expected inflation, the real return on equity would improve,
to about 11% compared to -0.7% in 1973-75 (Annex 35).



ANNEX 22
Page 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
List of Board Members and Alternates as of December 31, 1975
Principal Directors -/                        Alternate Directors -
Dr. Jose Antonio Correa 2/                   'r. Marcel J. Laniado de Wind
(President)                                  Manager
Banco del Pacifico
Mr. Gustavo Arango Bernal                     (Guayaquil)
Representative
Wells Fargo Bank                              Mr. Gonzalo Ayora
(Bogota, Colombia)                            (Quito)
Dr. Luis Ayora                                Lic. Jose Iturralde Arteaga
(Quito)                                      Secretary
Br                     Comision de Valores -
Lic. Guillermo Boria                            Corporacion Financiera Nacional
Manager                                       (Quito)
Sub-America, Compania de Seguros
(Quito)                                      Econ. Colon Valarezo Pineda
3/                     Director
Dr. Alberto Di Capua -                        Department of Evaluation of Projects
President                                     Comision de Valores -
Ecuatoriana de Artefactos S.A.                  Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(Quito)                                       (Quito)
Mr. Cesar Duran Ballen                        Ing. Galo Villamar
General Manager                              Manager
Banco de Guayaquil                            Farmacias y Boticas Ecuatorianas C.A.
(Guayaquil)                                   (Quito)
Dr. Justo Garcia Rayneri                      Econ. Jaime Aspiazu Seminario
(Miami, Florida)                             Manager
Banco de Guayaquil
Mr. Gerhard Kappelhoff-Wulff                  (Guayaquil)
Representative
Bankhaus Hermann Lampe                       Mr. Fernando Lebed Segal
(Buenos Aires, Argentina)                    Manager
Guayaquil Plywood S.A.
Dr. Rafael Montejo                            (Guayaquil)
Representative
Adela, Compania de Inversiones                Dr. Edgar Teran Teran
(Bogota, Colombia)                            (Quito)
Dr. Ernesto Ribadenieira -                   Mr. Jaime Zaldumbide
General Manager                              Vice President
F'abrica Textil La Internacional              Fabrica Textil La Internacional
(Quito)                                      (Quito)



ANNEX 22
Page 2
Principal Directors                           Alternate Directors-/
Econ. Enrique Salas-/                        Mr. Alonso Salgado
General Manager                               Manager
Ecuatoriano-Suiza de Seguros                 Laboratorios H. G.
(Guayaquil)                                   (Guayaquil)
Mr. Eduardo Sosa -/                           Ing. Leopoldo Arteta
President                                    Manager
Cerveceria y Malterlia La Victoria           Fgbrica de Cigarrillos El Progreso
(Quito)                                       (Quito)
Mr. William Termyn                            Mr. Jaime Guarderas Alomia
Vice President                               Manager
Continental Illinois National Bank           Ecuatoriano-Suiza de Seguros
and Trust Company of Chicago                (Quito)
(Chicago, Illinois)
3/                   Mr. Patricio Alvares Drouet
Mr. Juan Jos'e Vilaseca -                    Manager
President                                     Industrias Alex C. A.
Industrial FADESA, IJESA                      (Quito)
(Guayaquil)
3/            Mr. Jaime Robalino
Mr. Clemente Yerovi Indaburu -               Manager
(Guayaquil)                                  Industria Maderera Robalino
(Quito)
Dr. Eduardo Larrea Stacey
(Quito)
Mr. Mario Ribadeneira
Manager
Moris'aena S. A. C.
(Quito)
Mr. Capitan Cesar Monge
President
Compaiiia de Cervezas Nacionales
(Guayaquil)
Mr. Gabriel Roldbs Garces
Commercial Manager
Empresa El'ectrica del Ecuador
(Guayaquil)
Dr. Carlos de la Torre Reyes -/
Director
Diario El Tiempo - Editorial La Union
(Quito)
1/ Elected by Shareholders
2/ Appcinted by Principal Directors
3/ Members of Executive Committee
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 23
Page 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
List of Major Shareholders as of December 31, 1975
Number of Shares    % of
(Par Value = S/100.0) Total
I. Ecuadorian Shareholders
a.  Private Ecuadorian Shareholders
Banco del Pichincha                                        76,758         5.45
Ingenieros Nacionales Constructores Asociados              66,669         4.73
Fabrica Textil La Internacional S.A.                      49,628          3.52
Inmobiliaria Italia S.A.                                   47,532         3.37
Banco Popular del Ecuador                                  19,350         1.37
Rafael Valdez Murillo                                      17,846         1.27
Banco de Guayaquil                                         16,369         1.16
Panamericana del Ecuador S.A.                              16,237         1.15
Fernando Lebed                                             15,375         1.09
Banco de los Andes                                         11,500         0.82
Durex S.A.                                                 11,299          0.80
Companlia de Seguros Ecuatoriano-Suiza S.A.                10,809         0.77
Ecuatoriana de Aviaci6n                                    10,765         0.76
Juan Jose Vilaseca                                         10,565         0.75
Ecuatoriana de Artefactos S.A. (ECASA)                      9,505         o.67
Laboratorios LIFE                                           9,343         o.66
Gonzalo Corres Escobar                                      7,638         0.54
Seguros Rocafuerte S.A.                                     7,387         0.52
C.A. El Comercio                                            6,498         o.46
Antonio Granda Centeno                                      6,450         o.46
Martin Klein                                                6,45o        o0.46
Andres Klein                                                6,450         o.46
Roberto Isaac Klein                                         6,163         o.44
Banco del Azuay                                             6,100         0.43
Compania Azucarera Valdez S.A.                              5,929         0.42
Guillermo Vasquez                                           5,720         0.41
R. T. Limitada                                              5,555         0.39
Continental Seguros Generales                               5,311         0.38
Fabrica de Cigarrillos El Progreso S.A.                     5,296         0.38
Jose Anton Diaz                                             5,136         0.36
Fosforera Ecuatoriana S.A.                                  5,108         0.36
Leopoldo Arteta                                             4,913         0.35
C. Vitral Ltda.                                             4,530         0.32
Industrias Ales C.A.                                        4,143         0.29
Sociedad Agricola e Industrial San Carlos                   3,956         0.28
Cerveceria y Malteria La Victoria S.A.                      3,898         0.28
Rodrigo Jacome Moscoso                                      3,765         0.27
C. A. El Universo                                           3,589         0.25
Esteban Quitola Figueroa                                    3,568         0.25



ANNEX 23
Page 2
Number of Shares       % of
(Par Value = S/100.0)    Total
Banco de Nachals                                          3,396           0.24
Corporaci'on Pesquera Ecuatorians COPESA)                 3,331           0.24
Francisco Amador Yceza                                    3,271           0.23
Farmacisa y Boticas Ecuatorianas C.A. (FYBECA)            3,184           0.23
Sociedad Hijas del Coraz6n de Maria                       3,127           0.22
Textiles San Antonio                                      3,018            0.21
Compaflia Ecuatoriana de Pavimentos S.A. (CEPA)           2,835            0.20
Prefectura Apostolica de Aguarico-Mision Capuchina        2,822            0.20
Alberto Aviles Capeda                                     2,580            0.18
Juan H. Kruger S.A.C.                                     2,480           0.18
Creditos Mercantiles del Ecuador C.A. (CREMER)            2,335            0.17
Rosa Pasternak de Zoldan                                  2,329            0.17
Oswaldo Tamayo Benalcazar                                 2,300           0.16
Hidalgo & Hidalgo Cia. Ltda.                              2,280            0.16
Leonor Rosales de Elizalde                                2,280           0.16
Maquinarias y Equipos Gamma S.A.                          2,280            0.16
Industrial de Gaseosas Cia. Ltda.                         2,280            0.16
Fincom Servicio C.A.                                      2,230           0.16
Litograffe e Imprente La Reforma                          2,203           0.16
Amazonas CompaPi An6nima de Seguros                       2,158           0.15
C. A. Balda Industrial Mercantil                          2,006           0.l1
Bolsa de Valores de Quito C.A.                            1,992           0.14
Esco S.A.                                                 1,899           0.13
Banco Sociedad General de Cr4dito                         1,813            0.13
Harry Klein                                               1,772            0.13
Astra C. A. de Comercio y Construcciones                  1,756           0.12
Jos; PePnafiel Escalante                                  1,750           0.12
Orfa Salgado de Penafiel                                  1,750           0.12
Agustin Febres Cordero Tyler, Herederos                   1,730           0.12
Erik Sonne                                                1,691           0.12
Francisco Piana Ratto, Herederos                          1,659           0.12
Predios Cia. Ltda.                                        i,605           0.11
Constructora Nacional de Carreteras S.A.                  1,603           0.11
Celopiast S. W. Civil e Industrial                        1,528           0.11
218 Shareholders with fewer than 1500 shares each        88,698           6.29
Subtotal:                                    727,389           51.62
b. Governmental Ecuadorian Shareholders
Comision de Valores-Corporacion Financiera Nacional    85,293             6.05
Subtotal:                                     85,293            6.o5
c. Foreign owned Ecuadorian Shareholders
Banco de Londres y America del Sud Ltdo.                 12,076           0.86
Bank of America                                          11,527           0.82
First National City Bank                                 10,989           0.78



ANNEX 23
Page 3
Number of Shares       % of
(Par Value = S/100.0)    Total
Molinos del Ecuador C. A.                                 6,840            0.49
Banco Internacional                                       5,300            0.38
Companlia Ecuatoriana de Balsa                            2,175           0.15
Sintofil S. A.                                            2,010           0.14
Grace y Cia.                                              1,678           0.12
12 shareholders with less than 1500 shares each          10,345           0.73
Subtotal:                                     62,940            4.46
II.  Foreign Shareholders
Adela Investment Company S. A.                              145,314           10.31
Continental International Finance Corp.                     138,068            9.80
International Finance Corporation                           108,301            7.69
Wells Fargo Bank Int. Corp.                                  47,256            3.35
Bankhaus Hermann Lampe                                       37,985            2.70
Banco Cafetero                                               34,286            2.43
Corporacion Financiera Nacional (Colombia)                   14,488            1.03
R N Y C  Securities Ltd.                                      6,290            0.45
3 shareholders with less than 1500 shares each                1,630            0.11
Subtotal:                                        533,618           37.87
GRAND TOTAL                                    1, 409,240         100.00
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 24
Page 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO, S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
Declaration of Policies and Operating Procedures
(Approved by the Board of Directors on November 27, 1968 and
Modified on May 30, 1973)
The Board of Directors of COFIEC declares that the following guide-
lines on policies and procedures will govern its operations and that modifi-
cations thereof or departures there from will only be adopted by the Board
after adequate opportunity has been given to all its members to review and
discuss the proposed changes or departures.
1.        COFIEC is a development finance company designed to assist in the
economic development of Ecuador, in particular the industrial sector of the
economy and such related fields as agriculture and cattle raising. To this
end, it will pursue an aggressive policy to promote, finance and otherwise
assist productive enterprises.
2.        COFIEC will make its investment decisions only on the basis of
sound investment criteria and standards.
3.        Subject to the criteria set forth in paragraph 2 and 9 hereof,
COFIEC will select projects on as broad a geographical basis as possible.
4.        COFIEC will, as appropriate, make use of the entire range of
forms of investment. It will give particular attention to its client's
needs for equity financing and will provide such equity to the extent
consistent with sound financial practice.
5.        COFIEC's principal objective is the supply of medium- and long-
term financing. Accordingly, COFIEC will increase progressively and as
rapidly as its circumstances permit, the proportion of its resources which
are devoted to such financing.
6.        COFIEC will diversify its financing (except for temporary invest-
ment of liquid funds in short-term securities) among different types of
industries and different types of financing.
(a) COFIEC will not normally commit to any single enterprise
in whatever form, including loans, share capital, guarantees,
or any combination thereof, an amount greater than 20% of
COFIEC's paid-in share capital, free reserves and unappro-
priated surplus.



ANNEX 24
Page 2
(b) COFIEC will not commit to any single enterprise in the
form of equity more than 15% of COFIEC's paid-in share
capital, free reserves and unappropriated surplus.
(c) The aggregate of COFIEC's equity investment will noL
exceed the sum of its paid-in share capital, free reserves
and unappropriated surplus.
Exceptions to rules (a) and (b) may be made only after special consideration
of each case by the Board, and will be confined to enterprises with parti-
cularly sound financial prospects.
7.        COFIEC will refrain from taking a controlling interest in an
enterprise or any other interest which would give it primary responsibility
for management of an enterprise, except that in the case of jeopardy the
Board of Directors may take such actions as may be necessary to protect
COFIEC's interests. COFIEC will not normally take up more than 25% of the
voting shares of any single enterprise, except as may be temporarily neces-
sary in connection with an underwriting commitment undertaken in the expec-
tation that the ultimate investment will be within the limit cited.
8.        COFIEC will conduct its operations in such manner as to assist in
the growth of a capital market in Ecuador and, to improve facilities for
marketing securities, will seek opportunities to underwrite securities, and
will revolve its own portfolio whenever it can do so on satisfactory terms.
In selling its investments, it will pay due regard not only to its own
interests but also those of the other participants in the investment and
to the interest of the enterprise whose shares are involved.
9.        COFIEC will finance only private and mixed ownership enterprises which
are soundly managed and which appear, on careful economic, financial and
engineering investigation, to be economically viable and technically feasible.
10.       COFIEC will not ordinarily make loan commitments to any one client
for an amount less than the Sucre equivalent of US$20,000 for existing enter-
prises and US$40,000 for new enterprises.
11.       COFIEC will not make loans to enterprises which are in arrears in
their tax payments or on payments of their social security contributions.
12.       COFIEC will build up a technically competent staff, capable of
carrying out the responsibilities which COFIEC's objectives imply (including
staff skilled in engineering, financial and economic analysis) and able to
provide services to clients which those objectives call for. COFIEC will
develop and maintain adequate systems of project appraisal and follow-up
and end-use supervision of its investments. Specific and periodic reports
prepared in exercise of this control function will constitute the basis for
periodic reviews of the investment portfolios by its Board of Directors.



ANNEX 24
Page 3
13.       COFIEC's operating expenses will be maintained at a minimum con-
sistent with the scope of its activities and with the volume of its opera-
tions.
14.       In accordance with normal business practice, COFIEC will require
its borrowers to provide and to maintain adequate security, to keep records
and accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices and to furnish
whatever information on their operations and accounts COFIEC deems desir-
able. COFIEC will take the right to inspect the enterprises it finances as
well as their operations and accounts. Business secrets and other informa-
tion supplied by applicants or clients will be trated as confidential.
15.       COFIEC will conduct its operations in such a manner as to maintain
the value of its capital and secure a satisfactory profit. It will build
reserves consistent with sound financial practice; these will include re-
serves for bad debts and investment and, in addition, supplementary reserves.
Its dividend policy will be consistent with the foregoing.
16.       COFIEC will not carry the foreign exchange risk on external borrow-
ings, which it must repay in foreign exchange. It will pass the risk on to
its clients or find other suitable means to cover it.
17.       COFIEC will not incur, assume or guarantee any debt maturing more
than one year from the date on which it is originally drawn down or assumed
if, after incurring or assuming such debt, the total amount of it then in-
curred and outstanding exceeds an amount equal to 4 times the aggregate of
COFIEC's paid-in capital, free reserves and unappropriated surplus.
18.       The maturities of COFIEC's assets will correspond with, or be
shorter than, the maturities of its liabilities.
19.       The Board of Directors of COFIEC will direct the operations of
COFIEC in such a way as to assure uniformity in the application of the
policies and guidelines set forth herein. In order to assure the implemen-
tation of this policy by the Executive Committee, the Board will, at each
meeting, review the decisions of the Executive Committee in the interim.
20.       COFIEC will have its books and accounts audited annually by a firm
of reputable independent public accountants.
LCPDF
October, 1976



ECUADOR-APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S A. ICOMPANIA FINANCIERA)
ORGANIZATION CHART, MARCH 31, 1976
~~es_                                                         54540,;,,1
| EIX .1.1151.1.  '1' O1-____-
l1,01104flb00 I80ST410                         1511444004                                         08404A
.000 ERTll0  554400             0411(4             E       .        .... I .,, 
DEPARTMENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4510                                                  D     ..10LI.1L.IT     0.ll,..           4500N11             ,04.l00000100044  4                             _
A                  /                                0       _                            , 7             S       r                             0SL 40000
ANALST9   1   S  tX  T  w  1  | tHEU4T 1 | RFkIIT s | H X |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE"T"'
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L }!I N                                                                                                               '<- A AI'A     3l 



ANNEx 25
Page 2
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
Key to Organization Chart
1.   Board of Directors           See Annex 19
2.   Executive Committee          See Annex 19
3.   PRESIDENCY                   Dr. Jose Antonio Correa Escobar    (President)
Maria Amelia Maldonado Carbo          (Secretary)
4.   External Auditor             Price Waterhouse & Co.
5.   Internal Auditor             Econ. Ernesto Davalos Salazar          (Auditor)
Fabian Cevallos Endara                (Assistant)
Patricia Flor Rubianes                (Secretary)
6.   Advisors                     Econ. Gustavo Bravo Rivera             (Fiscal)
Dr. Rafael A. Tera'n Varea            (Legal)
Dr. Julio Corral Borrero              (Legal)
7.   REGIONAL MANAGER             Econ. Oscar Mora Cardenas
7.1  Legal Department             Dr. Patricio Borja Maldonado           (Lawyer)
Lcdo. Rodrigo Valdez Valdez           (Assistant)
Maria Mercedes Carrasco Toral         (Secretary)
7.2  Credit Department            Vacant                                 (Chief)
Maria de los Angeles Mena R.          (Secretary)
Alexandra Isch de Arias               (Secretary)
Adriana Bermeo Bardagi                (Secretary)
7.3  Supervision and              Ing. Santiago Pizarro Alverez          (Chief)
Investments                Econ. Eduardo Paredex Acevedo         (Analyst)
7.4  Industrial Projects          Ing. Ramiro Leo'n Paez                 (Chief)
Econ. Cesar A. Ledrn Mendieta         (Analyst)
Olga Polit Macias                     (Analyst)
7.5  Livestock Projects           Ing. Miguel Angel Vega                 (Chief)
7.6  Operations Department        Vacant                                 (Chief)
Ernesto Chiriboga B.                  (Portfolio)
Susana Varea Maldonado                (Supervisor)
Blanca Ayllon Perez                   (Loans & Guarantees)
Ana Felix de Abdo                     (Letters of Credit)
Jaime Jose Ordonez M.                 (Billing)



ANNEX 25
Page 3
Romelia Larrea de Burbano             (World Bank)
Maria Sol Villagomez L.               (Files)
Mo"nica Apunte Franco                 (Secretary)
7.7  Resources Department         Econ. Radl Daza Martinez              (Manager)
Mariana Avila Orejuela                (Assistant)
Beatriz Troya                         (Secretary)
Vacant                                (Accountant)
Ivan Almeida                          (Accounting
Asst.)
Diego Galarza                         (Machine
Operator)
Marcfa Chaco'n                        (Statistics)
8.   GENERAL SECRETARY            Dr. Carlos Larrea Holguin             (General Secretary)
Adriana Escobar Cisneros              (Secretary)
Miran Endara Ldpez                    (Secretaria)
8.1  Files                        Leonor Murgueytio Yepez               (Chief)
Maria Eulalia Lozada D.               (Assistant)
8.2  Securities                   Vacant
8.3  Personnel                    Josefina Penaherrera
8.4  Medical Services             Dr. Marcelo Aguirre                   (Doctor)
Dr. Alfonso Arcos                     (Dentist)
8.5  General Services             Amparo Fegan                          (Receptionist)
Jose Ricardo Maldonado                (Driver)
Marcelina Parra                       (Maintenance)
Victor Melo                           (Door Keeper)
Flavio Martinez                       (Messenger)
Jorge Eduardo Maldonado               (Messenger)
Manuel Sosapanta                      (Messenger)
Ivan Moya                             (Messenger)
9.   TREASURY                     Vacant                                (Treasurer)
9.1  Cashier                      Facundo Suarez                        (Chief)
Lilian G. de Zurita                   (Secretary)
10.  REGIONAL MANAGER             Angel Torrez
Vacant                                (Secretary)
10.1 Securities                   Junia de Curlizer
10.2 Treasury                     John Taylor



ANNEX 25
Page 4
10.3 Personnel                    Desiree Vergara
10.4 Lawyer                       Rdmulo Galleges
Hilda de Ycaza                        (Secretary)
10.5 Lawyer                       Antonio Arosemena
Mariela Guerreros                     (Secretary)
10.6 Credit Department            Carmen de Garcfa                      (Chief)
Hugo Zambrano                         (Financial
Analyst)
Johnny Salguero                       (Financial
Analyst)
Carlos Salgado                        (Financial
Analyst)
Vacant                                (Financial
Analyst)
George Neal                           (Livestock
Analyst)
Yolanda Dutuzaka                      (Asst. Analyst)
Eliza Weray                           (Secretary)
10.7 Accounting Department        Victor Hugo Alleivar                  (Chief)
Elmer Taylor                          (Machine Operator)
Carlos Mite                           (Accounting Asst.)
Jenny de Tello                        (Accounting Asst.)
Priscilla Wagner                      (Accounting Asst.)
Vacant                                (Accounting Asst.)
10.8 Operations Department        Teresa Acaituri                       (Chief)
Flor Maria Reyes                     (Deputy)
Vacant                                (Portfolio)
Norma de Castillo                     (Cashier)
Cecilia Bastidas                     (Operations Asst.)
Dolores Vasquez                       (Operations Asst.)
Jose Calderon                        (Operations Asst.)
Patricia de Barriro                  (Receptionist)
LCPDF
September, 1976



ECUADOR -  PRIAPFTETO.  EEOMN   AKN    0031I47
1972          ____L973 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~174                                                                                   1971
No.  7,  AnBont       7,              ~~~~     ~~ ~       ~~~~~~No.  7, A,ount  1,No.            7.          doonoo         T            No.                A-ntno         I
Uip to SI 2.0 million                                        26      56.5       25,012.8       20.2              SI      60.3       41,159.9        9.3           N73    BI.5         252,079.6      36.3          409    07.2   274,0009           51.0
0/2.  elIBo  to I/ 4.0 nill-o                              I       21.7       26,714.9        21.6            tI       13.3       30,419.4         6.9           409    10.7        134,301.3      19.3           38       8.1    L08,963.1       20.6
0/4.0 ollno Co I/ 6.1 nilElno                               4       0.7        20,025.0       16.2              2       2. ~    9,310.0            2.1            1 5     3.2        78,740.4      14.3            II      2.4     54,478.5       1R.3
SI 6.0million to B! 10.0 nlio                                 5      LBS9       36,020.0       29.1               N       6.0       41,752.0        9.4            11       2.4        96,754.4      13.9            B      1.7    60,043.2         11.4
B! 1B.B  iLliEne to 1/ 14.0 million..                                                            -                           -                 -                     A      0.9        41,040.0       N.9             3     0.6      31,000.0        1.9
SI 14.0 million Co Si 18.0 miIo                               1       2.2       16,I0H.H       12.9               4       4.3       64.SOB.I       14,N             6       1.3        93,600.0      13.3-                    -            
B! 19.0 illo  to Sf25.B oilBion-                                       -                        -                 9       I0.i     200,:170.0      45.2              -              -      -                         -
Mrmie.n 0/ 21 B million-                                                                    -                  2       2.-        60_010 )      _126_                                                  
Total                                     46     WMR.        123,7_72.7     100.1             03      00.1      4i,_94.7        101.0           439   100.0         6~97,333. 7   100.0          469   100O      52    8.       100.1
HI Prolor   orLo
Sierra
Plohiorba                                                    30      69.3       01,367.6       65.7              19      71.,       293,601.8      64.0           211     46.1        390,474.0      14.6          220    46.9    269,501.7          21.0
Tongora.. h..                                                                                                                -                -                      6      1.3         7,201.3       1.0             N      1.1     10,023.0         2.0
Cotopani                                                      5      lB 9        4,806.6        3.9               3       3.,          3,939.3      0.9              2      0.4        21,700.0       3.1             7      1.5      8,752.5         1.6
Carh                                                                   .            883          07I                      1.7            719.5       0.2             4      0.9          2,139.0      0.3             N      1.1      3,360.9          8.6
2 24.         89,013         07.-                                   -     -                      2      0.4          1,000.0      0.1             2      0.4      2,170.8          0.4
Imbabora            1        2.2        1,200.0        1.0              -        -                                         2      0.4            781.2       0.1            2      0.4       1,966.4         1.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 04  72.  0I    0.  196.4o.
Thimb-r..o                                                             -                          -               -       -             -            -               5      1.1        11,230.0       1.7             5      E.1      1,704.6         0.3
itney                                         ~ ~ ~            ~      ~     ~    ~        ~      ~ ~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~-  .    -  1  1.2  B,ROI.0  1.7-                                       1      0.2         622.3         0.1
Penmcee                                      ~ ~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~       ~~~       ~      ~        ~~2 4. 3  J. 385.2  1._I________                            __
Sob-Total                                 41      89.2        90,637.7       79.7             64      77.1        296,260.0      66.8           232    50.6         423,073.3      60.9          247     N2.7   298,513.5          36.6
CocoA 
Gaan2                                                                 4.3       15,420.0        12.2             12      14.3       128,658.7       29.0           203    44.3        234,916.5    33.0             205    43.5   202,607.7           39.3
Inner.ldan                                    ~ ~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~       ~~~       ~      ~ ~~2 4.3  9,333.0  7.5  4  4.0  6,595.0  1.3       9      2.0         29,946.2       4.3            6       1.3     12,337.3         2.3
Manebi  -       -             -           -                -        -                                        3      2.7             268.2        -             2      0.4      8,200.0         1.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4 820.0L
Lot lion                                     1      ~~~~          ~~~~~~       ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~2_2  360.0  0.3  3 3.6  .._..4.,.Z   ,. _ 2.7          11      2.4     _...2..7 .0X       1010                 _2.1    7,2-27. 0          1.4
Hub-Total                                  N      10.8        23,113.0       20.3             19      22.9        147,043.7      33.2           226    49.4         272,238.4      39.1          222    47.3   230,472.2           43.6
Total                                     46     109.0O      123,_772.7    100.01             83    1-00-0      ..4At43 04      10.04510 0.0                        673337        10849                 1Q.                        0.
By_Tyc  f Artotiit
Agtoutore.,  sod Li-metonk                                   IS      32.6        15,492.0       12.5              0       9.,         18,260.3       4.1            48     20.3         63,034.16      9.0           47     11.0     46,817.3          8.8
Pinhi,g                                                       -       ---                          -                   -                  -                         29      6.3         19,934.6       2.9           28      6.0     28,432.8          5.4
Emplootmtr-  of mine and qoarnLon                                 -          -                    --                       .                                         1      0.2            125.9        -                    1.1       4,i50.3         8.8
... f-tori.g r~d-tti-                     29      62.1                       746l,j. __       5                  31_ 65.  17  . 7  70.           6      5 _        40_6 627.B    69.9            243     51.8   345_981, N
-Food.toffn                                               7      15.3       28.480,0       23.0               7       0.4        4 63,90.R       9.9            35      7.6         78,944.8      11.3           25      2.3    27,5232            3.2
-  lenereaca                               -       -             ~      ~     ~       ~       ~ ~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~     ~~~-  -  1  1.2  7,980.0  0.6  30  6.6  30,319.    4.3            11      2.4     14,175.8          2.7
-Tobar-                                                   -       -              -                            1       1.2             800         -                      .E          6,500.2       0.             N '    1.1       7,508.0         1.6
-T.otilee                                                1       28.3       39,263.0        31.7             15      18.2         82,705.       10.7            49     10.           9950          8.6           32      6,8      48,9.             .
-Leaerth---                                                                             -           -            -              -                                2      0.4          2,080.N       0.3            1      R,2         600.0         0.1
-  BnemBik                                                        --                          -- -                                   -            -              2      0.4          3,326.3       8,8            4      RB8    12,700.0           2.4
L-Lober                                                   2       4.3         2,4089.0       2.0              6       7A2         12,995.0       2.9            15      3.3         29,636.9       4.3           17      3.6    21,292.5           4.0
-F onit-r                                                 1       1.2           200.0       0.2               3       6.1,         1,450.0       0,3             1      0,2            100,3 C      -             6       1.3      1,239.2         0,2
-  Paper           -       -              -            -               -        -             -            -              4      0.9          6,621.0       1,0            5      1.1      11,608.0         2,2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   .9  ,65.  10    1 1160   02 
-  PrIntIng                                 ~ ~~~~~             ~~~~~~~~      ~~~        ~      ~~2 4,3  9,250.0  7.5  7  N..  76,b46.7  17.2      11      3.3         23,974.7       3.4           17      3.6     1,9.               .
-Chbre,OrlP-ndo-m                                         -       .2                                                  2.4            235.0       0.1            21      4,6         32,109.0       4,6           29      3.2    47,234,6           8.8
-PIatI  and robber prod-lt                                1       2.2         1,600,0        1.3              2       2.4         20,000.0       4.5            12      2.6         35,481.8       5.1            9       1.9     16,578,5         3,1
-   o- ern  nieaa-                                          --                                         1       1.2         8,ROO.R       1.8              6      1,3        17,784.0        2.6            8      1.7     11,077,3         2,2
-Metal prod-nta                                           N       43          S.101.R        4.1              4       4.8         28,ROO.0       6.3            33      7.2         58,263.3       8._4          32      6,8    48,764,2           9.2
-MOahinery leere.pting eetil)-                                     --                         ----                             -            -                  -                   -                              2      2.4       1,708. 0        0.3
-Henbi-ey, aoenre,& o1LerirIc  agp1.a-re                  1       7.3         5,988.         4.8              3       3.,         37,500.0       6.5            26      5.7         73,412.2      10.3           22       4.7     33,649.5         6.4
-Cen-teortion of tr'anaportatlon material                 -       --                                                            -                                8      1.7          5,950.2       0.9             8      1.7     12,300,0         2.6
M fne_aMno.-   Endoetolee                                 -       .              -            -               -         --                                       4      0.9         28,250.1       2.9           10       2.2      9,227.3         1,0
Conafrontion                                                  2       4.3        16,016.7       12.9             14      16 9         98,174.0      22.1            46     10,0         62,091.6       8.9           72      15.6     61,493.N5       11.6
Tran-porttion-                                                     -          -            -                      2       2.4          8,800.0       2.9            22      4.9         30,829.8       4.4           24       5.1     12,153.2         2.3
leroloe                                                                 -     -                   -               4       4.3          4,236.3       0.9             0       1.7          3,788.8      0.9            23      4.9     16,284.931
T. ti..                                                                                         ~            ~            ~~~~                               ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -  -  -  2   0.2   2,508.0 0,
Ontepe~~~~~~~~~~f1ed           -         -             .                            1       2.2            250.0      0.1             36      7.9         30.,293,.fl    4.4           26      5.5     11,173.8          2.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12  .1  16 7~9 __0 9_226  1  1-12 
Total              46     100.1       123.772,7      108.0             83     101.0        443.3l4.~~~~4.3   100.0       650    100,0        897.,. 10070100.00669 1108.8_328.981,7100.8
LC PDF
lottbeo, 1976



ECUADOR - A kPr.AISAL OF T1T fIiLTkD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECIJATORIANA DE DESAKROTOL S.A. (COM1'A IgA FINANCTEWA)
Summary Breakdown of Ln-sn Approvals Under
World Batik Loans 721-EC and 930-EC
(SI [hoisaiuls)
721-t                                     930-EC                                          721-EC and 930-EC
9Y AMOUNI
U>        X         AMOUNT                    W No.    %         AMOUNT           X        ,o.         X         AMOUNT         X
up to SV. 1.0 million                        1        5.9          697.9       0.7         --       --          --            __           1        1.8          697.9       0.2
S/. 1.0 million to S/. 2.0 million           4       23.5        5.952.7       6.0         6      15.9       10.308.1         4.O         10       18.2      ,6.260.8       4.5
S/. 2.0 million to VI. 4.0 million           3       17.6        7.489.2       7.5        14      36.8       41.225.3        15.9         17      31.0       418.714.5      13.6
W/. 4.0 million to 5/. 6.0 million           3       17.6       i6.782.2      16.8         4      10.5       20.780.1         8.0          7       12.7      37.562.3       10.4
5/. 6.0 mIllion to Si. 10.0 million          4       23.5       29.097.0      29.0         6      15.8       45.027.2        17.4         10       18.2      74.124.2      20.6
VI. 10.0 million to 57. 14.0 million        --         --             --        --         1       2.6       10.987.5         4.2          1        1.8      10.987.5       3.1
S/, 14.0 million to 5V. 18.0 million        --         --              --       --         5      13.2       76.526.3        29.5          5        9.0      76.526.3       21.3
S/. 18.0 million to SV. 25.0 million         2       11.9       39.981.0      40.0         1       2.6       24.393.0         9.4          3        5.5      64.374.0       17.9
More then 5/. 25.0 million                  --          --             --       --         I        2.6      30.261.1        11.6          1        1.8       30.261.1       8.4
TOTAL            17      100.0      lOe.0.o    100.0           38     I5O 100.0                                                  3s9,08.6  100    00100.0
BY DIPATION
up to 3 years                                t        5.9        5.940.5       5.9        --                      --            -          11'      1.8       5.940.5        1.7
From 3 tO 5 years                            3       17.6        8.471.3       8.5        12      31.6       39.476.6        15.2         15       27.3      47.947.9       13.3
Frsm 5 tO 7 years                            5       29.4        9.275.3       9.3        12      31.6       52.654.0        20.3         17      30.9       61.929.3      17.2
Frora 7 to 9 years                           3        17.6      18.001o.6     18.0         6      15.8       59.407.6        22.9          9       16.4      77.409.2      21.5
Frca 9 to 11 years                           5       29.4       58.311.3      58.3         8      21.0      107.970..4       41.6           3      23.6     166.281.7      46.3
TOTAL            17      100.0      100.000.0    100.0         38     100.0      259.508.6       100.0         SS      100.0     3 52.L 6    100.0
Br NATURE Of ENTERPRISE
New Enterprise                               2       11.8       14.919.5      14.9        15      39.5      116.945.3        45.1         17      30.9      131.864.8      36.7
Exlstlng Enterprise                         15       88.2       85,080.5      85.1        23      60.5    1142.563.3         54.9         38      69.1      227.643.8      63.3
., 1Z. ;2 .   1_ g22              1= s8 100.!3  "212S258L60 100.0                                             - 5j5 -22L28 .1228O.6    100!.
SI E5PA                                                                                   BY PROJECT LOCATION
PIhi ncha                                   11       64.7       53-730.5      53.7        19      50.0      109.364.8        42.1         30      54.5      163.095.3      45.4
Azuay                                       --         --              --       --         I        2.6       7.523.5         2.9          1        1.8       7.523.5        2.1
Cotopaxl                                         --            --               --         3       7.9       18,805.3         7.2          2        3.6      18.805.3        5.2
Loja                                         1        5.9        6.683.2       6.7         -        -             --                       1        1.8       6.683.2        1.8
Imbabura                                     1        5.9          697.9       0.7        -         '                                      1        1.8         697.9       0.2
COS TA
Guayas                                       3       17.6       29.909.5      29.9        13      34.2      114.855.6        44.3         16      29.2      144.765.1       40.3     On,
Esmeraldas                                   I        5.9        8.978.9       9.0         2       5.3        8.959.4         3.5          3       5.5       17.938.3       5.0  
Other                                       --         --            -.-                     -             --            --                I        1.8                       -
17      100.0      100.000.0     Wo.O        38      100.0      259.508.6       100.0        55      100.0      359.508.6    100.0



BY PROJECT ORIENTATION                                    - 721-EC                                       930-EC                                      721-EC and 930-EC
No.      %       AMOUNT        ,A Mo.                X         AHOUNT          X           No.         %         AMOUNT           %
Exclusively Import SubstitutiqnOrlented         8       47.1      37.886.0    37.9         21      55.3       164.632.9       63.4         29         52.7      202.518.9        56.3
Exclusively Export Oriented                     -                                -- --      2       5.3        21.490.0        8.3          2          3.6       21.490.0         6.0
Both Im,port Subst. and Export Oriented         7       41.2      54.443.0    54.4          9       23.7       51.948.7       20.0         16         29.2      1'5.391.7        29.6
Others                                          2       11.7       7.671.0      7.7         6       15.7       21.437.0        8.3          8         14.5       29.108.0         8.1
17     100.0    100.000.0   100.0          38      100.0       259.508.6    100.0          55        100.0      359.508.6       100.0
BY PPE OF ACTIVITY          *
Alln-entos                                      4       23.5      34.622.8    34.6          8       21.1       52.998.2       20.4         12         21.8       87.621.0        24.4
Textil                                          7       41.2      38.016.6    38.0          6       15.8       71.259.7       27.5         13         23.6      109.276.3        30.3
talzado                                        --         --                                1        2.6        3.032.3        1.2          1          1.8        3.032.3         0.8
Padera                                          1        5-9       8.978.9      9.0   *    4        10.5        13.897.2.      5.4          5          9.1       22.876.1         6.4
1!-prentiS                                      B        5.9       2.667.8      2.7         4      10.5        15.400.0        5.9          5          9.1       18.067.8        5.0
Prod.ctus Qulmicos                                        --            --                  1        2.6         1.929.4       0.7          1          1.8         1.929.4        0.5
Prod,ctos P1A,ticos y de Caucho                --         --            -        --         1        2.6         3.902.8       1.5          1          1.8        3.902.8         1.1
Hinerales no Hethllcos                          2       11.7       8.142.3      8.1         3        8.0        13.812.0       5.3          5          9.1       22.014.3         6.1
Prd.,dcto. HeCtAiicos                                       --        --                    7       18.5       62.018.0       23.9          7         12.9       62.018.0        17.3
?aq8inarlas. artefactos y arttcul9s elEct.   1           5.9       5.841.6      5.9         1        2.6        15.000.0       5.8          2          3.6       20.841.6         5.8
ConstrucciSn                                    I        5.9       1.730.0      1.7         --        --             --         --          1          1.8        1.730.0         0.5
Transporte                                     --         --           --        --         I        2.6         3.079.1       1.2          1          1.8        3.079.1         0.9
Servicios                                      --         --           --         --        1        2.6         3.119.1        I.t          1          1.8        3-19-          0.9
1009      100 .000.0   0oo.0               1= .0    _29.508.6    100.0                      10D=0.0    355o8.6         100.0
BY IOTAL PROJECr COST
Up to 6 million                                 3       17.6      11.442.2      1.0         9       23.7       46.712.5        3.1         12         21.8       58.154.7         2.2
FrcLm S/. 6 million to SJ. 10 million           2       11.8      17.711.9      1.6         5       13.2        39.454.6       2.6          7         12.7       57.166.5         2.2
FrL(n S/. 10 miillion to S/. 15 million         2       11.8      27.424.8      2.4         4       10.5       48.874.9        3.3          6         10.9       76.299.7         2.9
Fr,u S/. 15 mnll Ion to S/. 20 million           1       5.9      17.936.0      1.6         3        8.o        52.049.1       3.5          4          7.3       69.935.1         2.7
From S/. 20 millIon to S/. 25 million            1       5.9      20.164.6      1.8 .       4       10.5       85.218.5        5.7          5          9.1      105.383.1         4.0
Fr cm S/. 25 million to S/. 35 million          --        --            --       --         i        2.6       30,890.0        2.1          1          1.8       30.890.0         1.2
Froa  S/. 35 million to S/. 55 millon           3       17.6    129.601.2    11.4           4       10.5       174.599.5      11.7          7         12.7      304.200.7        11.6
Frum S/. 55 million to S/. 75 milion            2       11.8    134.822.5    11.9           1        2.6        70.261.0       4.7          3         . 5.5     205.083.5         7.8
Fore than SI. 75 million                        3       17.6    774.996.0    68.3           7       18.4      946.567.2       63.3         10         18.2   1.721.563 2         65.4
.17     100.0  L_       992   100.0                   6.0                     100 ....    ..                        . .          100.
BY TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING
COFIEC                                                           263.900.3    23.3         38                  275.862.5      18.5         55                   539.762.8        20.5
Fondos Proplos                                 17                705.850.0    62.2         38                 849.529.8       56.8         55                 1.555.379.8        69.2
CV. CFht.                                       7                 24.650.8      2.2         6                  101.118.0       6.8         13                   125.768.8         4.8
Otros                                           _i               139.698.1    12.3         20       _         268.117.0       17.9         31  -                407.815.1        15.5
i-di
1.134.099.2   100.0                          1.494.627.3    100.0                              2.628.726.S      100.0    0 
..  .......... ....... .......CD .                                                                      - '
J ,CPDF 
October,  1976



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECITATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPARIA FINANCIERA)
Equity Portfolio, 1972-75
1973                   1974                    1975
Portfolio                                                                                Portfolio
Comllpanly                      Dec. 31, 1972    Purchases   Sales    Purchases   Sales    Purchases   Sales              Dec. 31, 1975
Intetuational, S.A.                                    -          -            -          -        5,875.6    5,875.6            -
Ecuatoriana de Artefactos           5,834.7         2,685.5    664.2       1,779.5    261.6        5,424.5        -          14,798.4
Cergi-niica Andina, C.A.              612.5           812.5       -            -          -          162.5        -           1,787.5
Soc. Agric. e Ind. San Carlos         499.2            -          -            -          -           -           -             499.2
Creditos Mercantiles                   70.0            21.0       -            -          -           -           -              91.0
Soc. Ecuatoriana de Carb6n            400.0            -          -            -          -           -           -             400.8
Desarrollo Agropecuario             2,261.3                                    -          -           -           -           2,261.3
Bolsa de Valores Quito                 50.0            -          -            50.0       -          --           -             100.0
Bolsa de Valores Guayaquil             50.0           --          -            -          -                       -              50.0
Almacenes de Ecuador                1,700.0            -          _           477.1       -           -           -           2,177.1
hlotel Col6n                          602.5            123.7      -             0.3       -          857.5        -           1,584.0
Cementos Ecuatorianos                  -            6,000.0  2,490.0           -          -           -          750.0        2,760.0
S.A. El Comercio                       -              500.0       -            78.1       -           -           -             578.1
Ganaderias Ecuatorianas                -                -          -          25D.0       -           -           -             250.0
Hlormigones Comprimidos, S.A.          -               -          -           750.0       -           -           -             750.0
Cia. de Servicios Agroindust.          -               -          -            -          -          250.0        -             250.0
Rlinc6n Servicios                     500.0            -          -            -          -           -           -             500.0
Propiedades del Mar                   250.0            -          -            -        250.0         -           -
OMEGA                                 400.0                       -            -        400.0         -           -
Banco de Guayaquil                  1,897.4            -          -            -          -           -        1,897.4           -
P'orLfolio at end of year          15,327.6                  22,316.1               24,789.5                  28,836.6       28,836.6
Average Portfolio                                            18,821.9               23,552.8                  26,813.1
Dividends           1                                         1,928.9                2,735.6                   4,811.9                 z
RetUrn on Portfolio- %)                                          10.2                    11.6                     17.9 
I/ I)oes not include gains on sales of investments.
LCPDF?
October, 1976



ANNEX 29
Page 1
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO, S.A.
(Compania Financiera)
Operational Strategy and Financial Objectives for 1976-80
(April 1976)
During its first 10 years COFIEC has created a financial and opera-
tional base that should be refined, consolidated and expanded in 1976-80.
1.        With regard to financing, we undertake to seek a better balance
between internal and external resources to the end of using the former to
the maximum extent possible.  To this effect resource mobilization instru-
ments have been designed such as bonds, financial certificates, and internal
loans, although the current rigid structure of commission rates makes this
mobilization policy difficult. We likewise undertake to seek an adequate
balance between lines of external resources so as not to depend excessively
on either international intergovernmental organizations or on private
foreign banks.
2.        With regard to the terms of COFIEC's operations, we believe that
it will be possible to reverse the proportion of 60% short- and medium-term
and 40% long-term operations that has resulted from the difficulties COFIEC
has faced in obtaining long-term resources during its first 10 years. Never-
theless, experience has shown that industrial enterprises require integrated
financing that permits the acquisition of fixed equipment payable at long
term as well as provision of adequate resources for working capital. There
seems to be agreement in financial circles about the difficulties that a
lack of working capital can cause firms.
3.        With regard to operations, our efforts to date have resulted in
forming a group of project evaluators of high quality in the Quito office
and a group in the Guayaquil office that, although less experienced, has the
potential of achieving equally high quality. Training will be conducted
both within the country and by spending staff members abroad so as to main-
tain high professional standards. The operations departmeni-s are operating
efficiently and with adequate controls. Putting into effect the operations
manual will constitute a key element in the systematization of methods and
procedures.
4.        Efforts in the next five years be directed at re-enforcing the
effectiveness of supervision and control of loans and investments and at creat-
ing, technically equipping, and fortifying the treasury and administrative
departments that must operate autonomously and efficiently, given the volume
of the Company's business.



ANNEX 29
Page 2
5.        With regard to objectives, these must be constantly adjusted to the
changing situation of the Ecuadorian economy. But the following may well be
defined as basic objectives:
(a) We maintain as first priority the financing of the industrial
sector (which currently makes up 62.4% of operations out-
standing) and as second priority the livestock sector. The
analysis and projections of industrial development made by
Engineer Galo Montano and Edwardo Wygard and the Round Table
held subsequently, will permit a definition of the most advisable
sectors within the large scope of manufacturing industry;
(b) It is to be hoped that the problems which have made vigorous
investment activity difficult will be overcome and that in
the next 5 years the volume of COFIEC's investment in enter-
prises will be greater. Everything seems to indicate that
the legal and economic bottlenecks are being identified and
that there is a political will to modernize the law and to
create incentives for investment; and
(c) We undertake as well to emphasize provision of services such
as cash management, collections, and technical assistance, both
because of the need that enterprises have of these services and
because they will be profitable to COFIEC.
6.        With respect to the amount of capital, COFIEC intends to grow by
capitalizing its reserves at the rate of 15% of capital p.a., a conservative
goal that can be revised if it turns out that the demand for credit is greater
than can be provided by the banking and financial system, by new banks and
financial institutions that may be established and by the growth of the capital
bases of existing banks.
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 30
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPARIA FINANCIERA)
Projected Operations 1976-1980 Compared to 1974 and 1975
(S/ millions)
Actual                           Projected
1974     1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980
APPROVALS
Loans                           697.3    529.0    479.0    688.0    842.0    900.0  1,003.0
COMMITMENTS
Loans                           386.3    484.1    438.0    630.0    770.0    824.0    915.0
DISBURSEMENTS
T.oqnq 2/                       404.5    460.1    417.0    598.6    732.5    783.0    872.9
(short-  and medium-term)                       (292.2)  (238.6)  (374.5)  (388.0)  (452.9)
(long-term)                                     (124.8j  (360.0)  (385.0)  (395.0)  (420.0)
Guarantees                      503.5    603.0    770.0    730.0    688.0    697.0    714.0
Letters of Credit               270.8    309.6    442.0    553.0    608.0    686.0    774.0
Acceptances                     126.7      65.9    180.0    200.0    220.0    240.0    260.0
Equity Investments                3.4      12.6     14.7       8.0      11.0     14.5      18.0
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS    1,308.9  1,451.2  1,823.7  2,089.6  2,259.5  2,420.5  2,638.9
Equity Divestments                  0.9       8.5       1.5      3.0       5.0       8.0      9.5
1/ Projected loan commitments equal 85% of year's projected approvals.
2/ Projected loan disbursements equal 96% of year's projected commitments.
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 31
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OP THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIAMA DE DESARROLLO, S.A. (COMPANIA FINAN8CTARA)
Projected Balance Sheets 1976-e0 CcoaPred vith Audited Balance Sheets 1972-75
1972          1973          1974          1975          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980
(audited)    (audited)    (audited)    (audited)   (Projected)  (Projected)  (Projected)  (ProJected)  (Projected)
ASSETS
Current Assets (except loans
due within one year)
Cash and Securities                         76.8          62.9          72.9          70.6          69.6          88.1          91.0           65.6          76.1
Receivables and Other                       13.5          13.7          17.8          34.7          35.8          40.0          45.0           50.0          55.0
Letters of Credit                         ' 54.5%        133 7        (124.4         279.         400.0          90.0          100.0         120.0         150.0
Refinanced letters of Credit                           (137            1     K l      7     __ 1,    _           410.0         450.0          500.0         500.0
Total Ctrrent Assets                 144.8         210.3         215.1         385.2          505.4         628.1         686.0         735.6         831.1
portfolio
Short Tenm Loans                           115.6         136 7         386.7         353.1         461.4         546.9         579.9          609.4         799.1
Median  and Long-tern Loens                170.4 i/      162.1 V        267.5        485,          485.4          708.0         994.5       1,126.3       1,228.0
(of which due within 1 year)             (n.1.)        (n.e.)        (n.a.)       (117.2)       (82.6)        (107.1)       (151.7)       (208.1)       (237.5)
Equity Investments                          15.3          22.3         24.8           28,8          42.0          47.0          53,0           60.0          68.0
Minus Provision for Bad Debts            (18.2)        (21.8)        (24.9)        (28.9)        L23.3)        (23.1)        (26.5)         (28.5)        (30.1)
Total Portfolio                      293.1          299.3         654.1         838.4         965.5       1,278,8       1,600.9       18_56.2       2,065.0
Fixed Assets                                     1.9           4.6           3.1          10.9          12.0          34.0           34.0          35.0          36.0
Deferred Expenses2/                              9.4           9.3          23.5          58.2         100.0          36.0            6.5           7.0           8.0
Short Tert Guarantees                          325.2         455.8         429.8         452.0         550.0         450.0          400.0         340.0         350.0
Redion Tern Guarantees                            -             -             -             -             -           100.0         195,0         340.0         410.0
Total Assets and Contingencies        764.4         979.3                    14.22,9 1,7 4                                            3,313.9 8
LIABILITTES
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                            43.2          33.2          43.1          59.0          35.0          37.0          38.0           39.0          40.0
Sank Loans                                   3.0           4.5          45.9          34.0          40.0          40.0          30.0          25.0           25.0
Rediscounts                                  4.5           0.2          17.5          42.6          48.0          50.0          55.0          60.0           70.0
Ac-eptancies                                 4.5           8.0          43.6          71.8          85.0          80.0          85.0           90.0         OO.0
Other                                        5.0           5.1          11.5          15.5          35.0          12.0          10.0           8.0            8.0
Letters of Credit                           54.5         133.7         124.4         279.9         400.0         500.0         550.0         620.0         700.0
Total Current Liabilities            114.7          184.7        286.0         502.8         643.0          719.0         768.0         842.0         943.0
Medium and Long Tenm Liabilities
AID                                         63.6          58.9          54.2          49.4          44.7          40.0          35.3           30.6          25.9
Eximbank                                    35.1          22.6           8.4           - 4-                                      -
IBRD and other Livestock                    26.6          30.5          34.6          38.2          70.0         104.5         143.1         183.6         222.7
IBRD and other DFC                          86,2          76.4         161.2         289.3         324.2         377.6         434.3         575.1          711.8
Bonds                                       13.5          33.1          87.0          90.3         103.2         296.3         458.1         482.1          465.0
IESS                                         -             -           113.3         124.9         105.6          76.7          45.3          15,4           -
Financial Certificates                       -             -             -             -            20.0          50.0          80.0          90.0         100.0
Bank Loans                                  10.6           5.8           3.1          13.7                         -             -
Total Medium and Long Tern
Liabilities                          235.6          227.3        461.8          605.8         667.7         942.1       1,196.1       L.376.1       1,525.4
(of which due within I year)                  78.3          78.6          52.0          73.6         117.8         158.2         193.5         225.0         269.6
Guarantees                                   325.2         455.8         429.8         452.8         550.0         550.0         595.0         680.0          760.0
Deferred Income                                4.9           5.1          11.5          15.6          16.0          17.0          18.0          19.0           20.0
Stockholders' Equity
Capital                                     72.0          90,0         120.0         140,9         200.0         230.0         265.0         305.0         350.0
Legal Reserve and Other Reserves             3.6           4.7           6.2           8.1          17.8          21.2          25.5          30.2          35.3
Retained Earnings                           13.3          16.8          21.8          35.1          38.4          47.6          54.8          60,8          66.4
Total Stockholders' Equity            88.9          111.5         148.0         184.1        256.2          298.8         345.3         396,0         451.7
Total Liabilities
and Contingencies                  764.4         979.3       1.325.6        1,745.5      2.9           2,526.9       2             3.313,8        3.700.1
I/ Current portion of long-term loans included with short-tern loans,
2/ Includes construction in progress.
LCPDF
October i976



ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIA DE DESORROLLO S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
Projected Income Statements 1976-80 Compared With Audited Income Statements 1972-75 1/
1972          1973          1974          1975          1976          1977          1978          1979           1980
(audited)     (audited)    (audited)    (audited)   (Projected)  (Projected)  (Projected)  (Projected)  (Projected)
Income
Interest                                        21.4          27.0          48.0          84.5          98.4          122.3         162.8         198.0         227.0
Commissions                                     18.3          21.4          26.4          39.7          39.3           47.9          55.6          62.5          69.0
other                                            5.0           5.4           6.6            7.0           7.8          14.3          15.0          10.7          11.4
Total Income                                 44.7          53.8          81.0         131.2         145.5          184.5         233.4         271.2         307.4
Operating Expenses
Financial Expenses
Commissions                                    2.1           1.3           3.1           2.4          2/             2/            2/            2/            2/
Interest                                       9.8          12.6          27.1          53.6
Total Financial Expenses                   11.9          13.9          30.2          56.0          62.4          80.6          111.5         133.6         150.9
Administrative Expenses
Salaries                                       6.9           7.8           9.4           12.1          14.7          17.6          21.2          25.4          30.6
Profit Sharing                                 3.6           4.3           5.3            8.5           9.2          11.5          13.5          14.7           16.1
Taxes except Income Tax, Amortization,
Depreciation and Other                       1.5           3.0           3.4           3.0           4.6            7.4           8.6          10.4          12.5
General Expenditure                          3.2           3.5           4.9           6.9           8.3          10.0           12.0          14.4          17.3
Total Administrative Expenses              15.2          18.6          23.0          30.5          36.8          46.5           55.8          64.9          76.5
Provision for Bad Debts                          4.0            3.6          4.2            3.9           4.5           4.8           5.4            6.0           6.6
Total Operating Expenditures                 31.1          36.0          57.4           90.4         103.1         131.9         172.2         204.5         234.0
Net Before Tax                                    13.6           17.8          23.6          40.8          41.8          52.6          61.2           66.7          73.4
Income Tax (provision and adjustment
for prior years)                                 2.4           3.1           4.5            8.7           7.8          10.0          14.7           16.0          17.7
Net Income                                         11.2          14.7          19.1          32.1          34.0          42.6           46.5          50.7          55.7
Disposition of Net Income
Stock Dividend                                  11.1           10.1          12.6          16.8          30.0          34.5          39.8           45.8          52.5
Legal Reserve                                    0.8            1.1           1.5           1.9           3.4           4.3           4.7            5.1           5.6
Retained Earnings                               10.4            3.5           5.0          13.4           0.6           3.8            2,0           0.2           2.4
Total Net Income                                   11.2          14.7          19.1          32.1          34.0          42.6           46.5          50.7          55.7
1/  Totals may not add due to rounding.
2/  Not shown separately
LCPDF
October 1976



ANNEX 33
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DFSARROLLO S.A. (COnMPAIA FINANCIERA)
Projected Sources and Applications of Funds
(Millions of Sucres)
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
Liquid Assets at
Beginning of the Year                70.6       69.6       88.1       91.0        65.6
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Income                             34.0       42.6       46.5        50.7       55.7
Allocation to Provisions                4.5         4.8        5.4        6.0        6.6
Amortization                            1.1         2.7        2.8        2.9        3.0
New Capital                            38.0        --          --         --         --
Issue of Bonds                         30.0      220.0      215.0       100.0     115.0
Sale ofEquity Investments               1.5        3.0         5.0        8.0        9.5
LOANS
- World Bank and other Livestock    35.0          40.0       45.0        50.0       55.0
- World Bank 930-EC                    59.8        --          --         --         --
- World Bank DFC III                    --       100.0      125.0        25.0        --
- Other Industrial Loans                --         --         --       200.0      250.0
- IESS                                 30.0        --         --          --         --
Letters of Credit                     120.1      100.0       50.0        70.0       80.0
Loan Repayments                        79.5      127.6      169.2      226.2       280.9
Issue of Financial Certificates        20.0       30.0       30.0        30.0       40.0
Increase in Deferred Income             0.4         1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0
Increase in Other Liabilities           0.4        --          --         4.0       21.0
Decrease in Other Assets                --        42.0        29.5        -- 
TOTAL SOURCES                         454.3      713.7       724.4      793.8      916.8
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Disbursement of Medium and
Long Term Loans                     189.8      442.5      496.4      474.8      452.A
Investment in Stock                    14.7        8.0       11.0        14.5       18.0
AMORTIZATION
- AID                                   4.7         4.7        4.7        4.7        4.7
- EXIMBANK                               2.8        --         --         --         --
- World Bank  and other Livestock    4.0            5.5        6.5        9.5       15.9
- World Bank Industrial Loans          24.9       49.7        65.3      104.3     113.4
- Other Industrial Loans                --          --         --        10.0       37.5
- IESS                                 24.3       28.9        31.4       29.9       15.4
- Bonds                                17.1       26.9        53.2       76.0     132.1
- Financial Certificates                -            -          -        20.0       30.0
Letters of Credit                     120.1      100.0       50.0'       70.0       80.0
Writing off Bad Debts                  10.0         5.0        2.0        4.0        5.0
Increase in Other Assets               42.9        --         --         1.5         2.0
Decrease in Other Liabilities           --        24.0         1.0        --         --
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                    455.3      695.2      721.5      819.2      906.3
Increase (Decrease) in
Liquid Assets                        (1.0)      18.5        2.9      (25.4)     (10.5)
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 34
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPAfiIA FINANCIERA)
Projected Gap in Foreign Exchange Resources
over the Period 1976-19b0
(Sf millions)
1976     1977      1978      1979     1980
Funds available for disbursement
& beginning of period                   59.8
Funds obtained for
disbursement during the period
Livestock                            35.0     25.0       25.0      25.0      25.0
Loan repayments                      28.9      58.3      85.2    110.6    140.8
Total fTnds available for
disbursement                       123.7     99.     11S.2    140.6    165.8
Use of funds available for
disbursement during the period
Projected loan disbursement
during the period                     94.8     225.0    275.0    275.0    275.0
Loan repayments                      28.9      58.3      85.2    110.6    i4o.8
Total projected foreign exchange
needs                                123.7    283.3    360.2    385.6    415.8
Gap in foreign exchange
resources                              -      200.0    250.0    250.0    250.0
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 35
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THiE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
ECUATORIANA DE DESARROLLO S.A. (COMPANIA FINANCIERA)
Past and Projected Financial Ratios 1972-1980
1972     1973      1974      1975      1976     1977      1978      1979      1980
Income Statement as % of Average
Total Assets
Income                                         6.7       6.2      7.0       8.5       7.5       7.9      8.6       8.7       8.8
Financial Expenses                             1.8       1.6      2.6       3.6       3.2       3.5      4.1       4.3       4.3
Spread                                         4.9       4.6      4.4       4.9       4.3       4.4      4.5       4.6       4.5
Administrative Expenses                        2.3       2.1      2.0       2.0       1.9       2.0       2.0      2.1       2.2
Provisions for Bad Debts                       0.6       0.4      0.4       0.3       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2
Net Income Before Taxes                        2.0       2.0      2.0       2.7       2.2 -.2            2.2 2.2 22  2.1     2.1
Taxes                                          0.4       0.4      0.4       0.6       0.4       0.4      0.5       0.5       0.5
Net Income                                  1.7      1.7       1.7       2.1       1.8      1.8       1.7       1.6       1.6
Average Total Assetsl/                    670.6    891.7  1,151.5  1,535.6  1,939.2  2,329.9  2,724.7  3,118.1  3,506.9
Other Financial Ratios
Growth of Total Asset/                        40.1      28.2     35.4      31.7      22.2      18.5     15.7      13.4      11.7
Growth of T tal Assets (real) (%)             29.8      13.6      9.7      13.8      12.1       9.7      8.1       6.0       4.4
Total Debt-  Equity                            7.6       7.8      8.0       8.5       7.3       7.4      7.5       7.4       7.2
Cash and Market9le Securities/Current
Liabilities    (.7)                 1/6/  14.8       8.7       9.5       6.9       5.3      6.6       6.7       4.7       4.9
Current Assets - /Current Liabilities- -
Short- and Medium-term Operations 2/ /
Equity  11        1/                        5.6      6.5       7.0       f.5       7.1      5.L       4.8       4.5       4.0
Total Loan- / Loans/ dye within one year   1.4           1.3      1.3       1.6       1.4       1.8      2.2       2.4       2.4
Total Debt-  / Debt-  due within one year   1.4          1.3      1.7       1.8       1.6       2.1      2.5       3.0       3.0
Earnings before Interest, Depreciation
& Provisions/Ffnancial Charges                2.4      2.5       1.9       1.7       1.7       1.7      1.5       1.5       1.5
Net Income/Total Income                       25.1      27.3     23.6      24.5      23.4      23.1      19.9     18.7      18.1
Breakeven Assets/Total Assets34/               0.59      0.56     0.54      0.46      0.50      0.49     0.50      0.52      0.53
Elasticity of Return on  Equity-               4.0       3.7      4.2       4.1       4.3      4.3       5.2       5.4       5.5
Return on Equity (%)                          14.0      14.7     14.7      19.3      15.4      15.4     16.4      13.4      13.1
Return on FEuity (real) (%)                    5.7       1.6     -7.1       3.1       4.9       6.8      6.9       6.0       5.7
Inflation -                                    7.9      12.9     23.4      15.7      10.0       8.0      7.0       7.0       7.0
1/ Includes guarantees.
2/ Loans and guarantees with original maturities less than 5 years, letters of credit and acceptances: 1972-75, long-
term loans assumed to be greater than 5 years.
3/ Administrative Expenses Provisions/Spread.
4/ % change in return on equity with respect to % change in return on assets.
5/ Rate of increase in consumers price index.
6/ Including current portion of long-term liabilities.
LCPDF
October, 1976



ANNEX 36
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Possible Participants in the Proposed Loan
Authorized                                  Current
Name          Location    capital        Characteristics               Status
(million S/)
ECUFINSA      Guayaquil       60         Private company.  Major       In operation
promoter:  Banco La          since Jan.
Previsora.  General          1976.
Manager: Ernesto
Intriago.
Financiera    Guayaquil      n.a.        Private company.  Major       In the pro-
Guayaquil                                promoter:  Banco              cess of in-
Guayaquil.  Possible         corporation.
president: Cesar Duran
Ballen.
Financiera    Cuenca          100        Private/public company.       In the pro-
del Austro                               Major promoters:  CREA        cess of hir-
S.A.                                     and CV-CFN.  Possible         ing a general
president:  Enrique          manager to
Arizaga Toral.                start operat-
ing in the
second half
of 1976.
FINANSA       Quito            60        Private company.  Major       In the pro-
promoter:  Bco.  Popular    cess of hir-
and Bco. Pacifico.           ing person-
General Manager:  Fer-       nel will start
nando Aspiazu Seminario.    operations
in the second
half of 1976.
COFINPE       Guayaquil      n.a.        Public company for small    Feasibility
enterprises.  Ministry of   study.
Industry and Commerce and
CV-CFN.
LCPDF,
August, 1976



ANNEX  37
ECUADOR - APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
IBRD                                                  Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year           Quarter Ending              at End of Quarter (US$ thousands)
1977               June 30, 1977                           1,200
1978               September 31, 1977                      2,300
December 31, 1977                       4,600
March 31, 1978                          9,200
June 30, 1978                          15,100
1979               September 31, 1978                     20,600
December 31, 1978                      22,700
March 31, 1979                         23,800
June 30, 1979                          25,000
1980               September 31, 1979                     25,600
December 31, 1979                      26,000
LCPDF
October 1976



IBRD- 12618
- roo'                                                      -                                    7700                                              7500'                                             7300                DECEMBER 1976
DoA
: ECUADOR
00  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     O  0.0                ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,.,0                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   NATIONAL CAPITAL
>gx  p                 11 M  //               A              <                                                             C:0  PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
TP.los  /S                                                                                                   TOWNS
|W                                                                                                       __________ MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROACH
RAILWAYS
Cd~~~~~~~~.t. ~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
Lo cTg                                                            RooNr-       H                                     PROVINCIAL BOUJNDAkIES
)    4  Mo  _     a    ~            <        n         g        o       \Wt+g>_<kg                                                Roccarh+F   +         *                       -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
X aO
0                                                                                                                                                                                                                4-1
~~~~~~~00...                                                             ,,       /                                                            (S                                         2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00'~~~~~~~~.......
: ~~~~~~-                                      iMo                                                               J- I-                                                                              0{,.; ,4 0,;;
-P                                  M~~~~~~~~~~tJCRCA SANTIVOC 
z   I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~RO
T\mb~~  P0                                                               6 0 6RY          IR        IoS 2 0 0
KI OMETERS   
8foo,                   70'00                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~77'00'                         75'00'               World B-ko -od it, ffllt,oo



