CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1359 EC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Third Development Banking Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMISION DE VALORES
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Dated February 18, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and COMISION DE VALORES CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
(hereinafter called CFN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween Republic of Ecuador (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million
dollars ($26,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement for relending to CFN, COFIEC and the New
Financieras (as such terms are defined in the Loan Agreement),
but only on condition that, inter alia, CFN agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS CFN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
shall have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term
"1973 Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement (Second De-
velopment Finance Companies Project) between the Bank and CFN,
dated August 17, 1973.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CFN shall carry out its part of the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial and
investment practices and standards under the supervision of quali-
fied and experienced management and personnel and in accordance
with its Estatutos and the Statement of Operating Policies and Pro-
cedures. This paragraph replaces Section 2.01 of the 1973 Project
Agreement.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CFN shall, inter alia,
take all such steps, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be neces-
sary to: (i) within six months from the date of this Agreement,
(A) submit to the Bank, for approval, and enactment by CFN there-
after, a loan disbursement procedures manual and a project super-
vision procedures manual; and (B) establish, and maintain there-
after, an improved budgeting system designed to prevent liqui-
dity constraints; (ii) ensure that from December 31, 1978 on,
CFN's provisions for probable losses on the outstanding amount
of all loans and investments made, or guarantees given, by CFN
shall be equivalent to not less than one and one-half of one per
cent of such outstanding amount.
Section 2.02. CFN shall: (i) enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower; (ii) exercise its rights under the


﻿Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the inte-
rests of the Borrower, the Bank and CFN; and (iii) except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, suspend-
ing or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.03. CFN shall be entitled, subject to the provisions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to withdraw the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in Sections 2.02, 2.03 and 3.02 of the Loan Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. (a) CFN shall submit Investment Projects to the
Bank for approval or for authorization through the Borrower, as
well as withdrawal application from the Loan Account, all as pro-
vided in Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement, and for such purpose
it shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such documents
and information as are required pursuant to such Section.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, CFN
shall calculate in accordance with methods satisfactory to the
Bank the financial and economic rates of return of any project
to be financed by CFN requiring an investment by the recipient
of CFN's financing (including Investment Enterprises) of more
than the equivalent of $500,000; and shall furnish to the Bank
information on such rates, when submitting an Investment Project
to the Bank, or whenever the Bank will request such information
in connection with projects financed by CFN other than Investment
Projects.


﻿Section 2.05. (a) CFN shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project financed by it in whole or in part out
of the proceeds of the Loan in such manner as to protect the in-
terests of the Borrower, the Bank and CFN.
(b) CFN undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms whereby
CFN shall obtain, by written agreement with the Investment Enter-
prise or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to pro-
tect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and CFN, enabling
the Borrower to carry out its obligations under the Loan Agree-
ment, and including, without limitation, in the case of any such
Sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, in the
case of any such Investment, the right to:
(i) cause such Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and management standards and to
maintain adequate records and documents;
(ii) apply to Sub-loans the financial terms and condi-
tions set forth or referred to in Section 3.02 (b)
of the Loan Agreement;
(iii) cause such Investment Enterprise to use the proceeds
of the Loan exclusively to finance the goods and
services required to carry out the Investment Proj-
ect in respect of which such proceeds were with-
drawn and ensure that such goods and services shall


﻿- 6 -
be (1) used exclusively in the carrying out of such
Investment Project and (2) purchased at a reason-
able price, account being taken also of other rele-
vant factors, such as time of delivery and effici-
ency and reliability of the goods and availability
of maintenance and repair facilities and spare
parts therefor and, in the case of services, their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering
them;
(iv) ensure the Bank's and CFN's rights to inspect such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in such Investment Project, the operation
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(v) require that such Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice
and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installa-
tion, and that any indemnity thereunder shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by such Invest-
ment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(vi) obtain all such information as the Bank or CFN shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and


﻿-71-
to the administration, operations and financial
condition of such Investment Enterprise;
(vii) establish and amend the amortization schedule to
the respective Sub-loan in accordance with the cor-
responding provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and
(viii) suspend or terminate access by such Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to per-
form its obligations under its agreements with CFN.
Section 2.06. (a) CFN shall take such steps, satisfactory to
the Bank, as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
various currencies (including Sucres) used in its operations.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, any loss (other than losses to be borne by the Borrower
in accordance with Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement) or profits
resulting from such changes in the rates of exchange, shall be
treated by CFN, respectively, as expenses incurred or income ob-
tained, during CFN's fiscal year in which such changes occurred.
Section 2.07. (a) CFN shall furnish to the Bank all such in-
formation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the Investment
Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and Investments


﻿-8
and the administration, operations and financial condition of CFN
(including any proposal to create, acquire or take over a Subsi-
diary).
(b) CFN shall maintain records adequate to record the prog-
ress of the Project and of each Investment Project financed by
CFN (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of CFN and shall enable the Bank's repres-
entatives to examine such records.
(c) CFN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and re-
lated statements) for each fiscal year audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon
as available but, in any case, not later than three months after
the end of each such year, certified copies of its audited finan-
cial statements for such year and the report of such audit by
such auditors of such scope and in such detail as tho Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of CFN and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 2.08. (a) The Bank and CFN shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished.
To that end, the Bank and CFN shall from time to time, at the


﻿- 9 -
request of either party, exchange views through their represen-
tatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the perfor-
mance by CFN of its obligations under this Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of CFN and any other matters rrelating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) CFN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
(including the incurrence of losses by reason of its borrowing
operations outside the territories of the Borrower) which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service of
the Subsidiary Loan or the performance by CFN of its obligations
under this Project Agreement.
Section 2.09. CFN shall exchange views with the Bank con-
cerning any proposed amendment of its Estatutos or its Statement
of Operating Policies and Procedures.
Section 2.10. If CFN shall sell, lease, transfer, mortgage
or otherwise dispose of or encumber its property or assets, ex-
cept in the ordinary course of its operations as set forth in its
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures, CFN shall, except
as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, promptly repay
an amount of the Subsidiary Loan equivalent to the fair value of
such property or assets or make other arrangements satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank to protect or secure the interests
of the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
Section 2.11. Except as the Bank and CFN shall otherwise
agree, CFN shall not incur or permit any of its Financial Sub-
sidiaries to incur any debt if, after the incurring of any such
debt, the consolidated debt of CFN and all its Financial Subsi-
diaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than six
times the consolidated capital and surplus of CFN and its Finan-
cial Subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "Debt" means any debt incurred or guaranteed by CFN or
any of its Financial Subsidiaries.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement),
on the date and to the extent that the amount of the loan is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee shall have been entered into, but
only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) "Consolidated capital and surplus of CFN and its Finan-
cial Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the total unimpaired
capital, unappropriated surplus and free reserves of CFN and its
Financial Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as
shall represent (i) equity interests of CFN in any of its Finan-
cial Subsidiaries or of any such Financial Subsidiary in CFN or
in any other of its Financial Subsidiaries and (ii) provisions
for probable losses on the outstanding amount of all loans and
investments made or guarantees given by CFN as shall have been


﻿- 11 -
determined by CFN to be adequate to cover the risk of such losses
in accordance with sound business and financial practices and,
from December 31, 1978 on, also with Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement.
(d) "unimpaired capital" means paid-up capital less accu-
mulated losses.
(e) "free reserves" means the aggregate of appropriated
retained earnings and revaluation of assets.
(f) "consolidated debt of CFN and its Financial Subsi-
diaries" means the total amount of debt of CFN and its Financial
Subsidiaries, excluding therefrom any debt owed by CFN to any of
its Financial Subsidiaries or by any Subsidiary to CFN or any
other of its Financial Subsidiaries.
(g) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Sucres debt repayable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
at the time of such valuation, obtainable by CFN or its Financial
Subsidiaries for the purposes of servicing such debt.
The provisions of this Section replace the provisions of
Section 2.11 of the 1973 Project Agreement.
Section 2.12. (a) CFN shall at all times take all steps nec-
essary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on
operations and shall take all steps necessary to maintain and


﻿- 12 -
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) CFN shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if any) to
observe and perform the obligations of CFN hereunder to the ex-
tent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable there-
to, as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
subsidiaries.
Section 2.13. (a) Except as the Bank and CFN shall other-
wise agree, the balance outstanding at any time of CFN's short-
and medium-term portfolio shall not be greater than four times
the consolidated capital and surplus of CFN and its Financial
Subsidiaries.
(b) For purposes of this Section, (i) "CFN's short- and
medium-term portfolio" means loans made and guarantees given
by CFN and its Financial Subsidiaries (including deudores
]xr aceptaciones and creditos documentarios) having an original
final maturity of less than five years, and (ii) the phrase
"consolidated capital and surplus of CFN and its Financial
Subsidiaries" has the same meaning as in Section 2.11 of this
Agreement.
Section 2.14. Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes
of this Project Agreement (except Section 2.11 thereof) to deter-
mine the value in terms of Sucres of any other currency, such
value shall be as determined by the Bank from time to time.


﻿- 13 -
Section 2.15. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CFN
shall not make a Sub-loan or an Investment to an Investment Enter-
prise if, after the making of such Sub-loan or Investment the ag-
gregate amount of Sub-loans and Investments made by CFN to such
Investment Enterprise or any of its Subsidiaries shall exceed the
equivalent of three million dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.16. CFN shall take all necessary measures tc amend,
to the extent required by the Bank, CFN's Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures in respect of:
(i) the inclusion of FOPEX;
(ii) the change of Article VII Section 20 thereof
to reflect the provisions of Section 2.11 of
this Agreement; and
(iii) the insertion therein of a new section re-
flecting the provisions of Section 2.13 of
this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of CFN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following three dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall termi-
nate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date on which the entire aggregate amount of
the outstanding principal of, and all interest
and other charges which shall have accrued on,
every applicable Subsidiary Loan, shall have been
paid by CFN; or
(iii) the date on which the portion of the principal of
the Loan relent to CFN shall have been repaid by
the Borrower in advance of its agreed maturity in
accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions, the Bank shall promptly
notify CFN of this event.


﻿- 15 -
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notvithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise
any right, power or remedy accruing to any party under this Proj-
ect Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power
or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquies-
cence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in re-
spect of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect
or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of
any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 17 -
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For CFN:
Comisi6n de Valores-Corporaci6n
Financiera Nacional
Apartado No. 163
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
CORFINAL
Quito
Section 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CFN may be taken or executed by its
Gerente General or such other person or persons as CFN shall des-
ignate in writing.
Section 4.04. CFN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of CFN, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by CFN pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 4.05. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMISION DE VALORES-CORPORACION
FINANCIERA NACIONAL
By /s/ Gustavo Icaza
Authorized Representative


