Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12920-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 3, 1995
Industrial and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(As of December 1994)
US$1                          Rp 2,193
Rp I billion       =  US$0.456 million
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton            = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)             = 0.0063 barrels (bbl)
1 kilometer (kin)       = 0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)         = 1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA) = 1,000 kilovolt-arnperes (kVA)
1 megawatt (MW)         = 1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)    = 1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 terrawatt hour (TWh)    = 1 billion kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKOREN             -  National Energy Board
BAPPENAS            -  National Development Planning Agency
BOO                 -  Build, Own and Operate
DGEED               -  Directorate-General of Electricity and Energy Development
EA                  -  Environmental Assessment
GOI                 -  Government of Indonesia
IERR                -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
LNG                 -  Liquefield Natural Gas
LRMC                -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MME                 -  Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOC                 -  Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development
MSA                 -  Management Services Agreement
PERTAMINA           -  National Oil and Gas Company
PLN                 -  State Electricity Corporation
PMIP                -  Project Management and Implementation Plan
PMU                 -  Project Management Unit
PPE                 -  Engineering Services Center of PLN
PUSDIKLAT           -  PLN's Center for Education and Training
RE                  -  Rural Electrification
REPELITA            -  Five-Year Development Plan
ROR                 -  Rate of Return
TA                  -  Technical Assistance



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:   Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary: State Electricity Corporation (P.T. PLN (PERSERO))
Amount:    US$ 398.0 million equivalent
Terms:      Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace at the standard variable
interest rate
Onlending:  The proceeds of the loan, except $2.2 million which would be made available to
MOC for the implementation of its project component, would be onlent by the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) to PLN for 20 years, including a grace period
of 5 years; the subsidiary loan will be denominated in foreign currency withdrawn
and the onlending interest rate would be equal to the Bank's standard variable
interest rate plus 0.5 percent per annum. PLN would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project:    The proposed project would support the development and implementation of an
efficient RE program in Indonesia and consists of two components, for PLN and
for the Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development (MOC).
The PLN component includes: (a) electrification of 7000 rural villages in the
second and third years of Repelita VI (95/96-96/97) through the construction of
an estimated 28,000 kmc of MV lines and 35,000 kmc of LV lines, 1.3 million
poles and 833 MVA of distribution transformer capacity; (b) economic sub-
transmission schemes aimed at promoting private sector participation in small
scale generation by interconnecting captive power plants, cogeneration plants and
other small power producers that are prepared to sell power to a PLN regional
or mini-grid serving a rural area on the basis of a published small power purchase
tariff to be offered by PLN. This tariff is derived in a transparent manner from
PLN's "avoided cost of supply" in different regions, and made available to all
such potential sellers on a non-discriminatory and non-negotiated basis as per the
terms of a simple and standard power purchase contract; (c) development of five
mini-hydro power projects with an aggregate capacity of 7.45 MW and and field
test drilling of two mini-geothermal fields in Lombok and Ambon for which
power plant construction would be considered for financing under a proposed
follow-on Renewable Energy Development project; (d) pilot projects to test the
adaptability of low cost "low tech" equipment designs, low cost network



- jj -
reticulation designs and more efficient construction management methods for full
scale implementation at a subsequent stage, possibly supported by a Bank loan in
RE III; and (e) expansion of the ongoing rural business services component to
promote productive uses of electricity, including participation by NGOs; (f)
technical assistance for: (i) enhancing the RE planning systems capability within
PLN and transferring it to PLN Regions and branches; (ii) preparation of a
Renewable Energy Master Plan for rural electrification in areas not likely to be
covered by PLN's major regional grids within the next ten years and; (iii)
implementing RE-specific institutional changes required to enhance the
organizational and management efficiency of undertaking RE within PLN,
consistent with the ongoing restructuring of PLN and its conversion to Persero
status. The MOC component includes: (a) implementation support for expansion
of schemes for local participation by village level cooperatives and organizations
in power distribution related activities; and (b) preparation of up to two
geographic areas for possible conversion to a "Pola III" mode of organization,
wherein responsibility for all distribution functions including ownership of assets
is transferred from PLN to a third party.
Benefits:    The proposed project would increase the effectiveness of RE delivery by the
further development and implementation of an efficient RE program in Indonesia,
and hence lead to higher returns and speedier coverage. It would help reduce
present and future unit costs of RE and help address a primary constraint to
further enhancing the efficiency of RE delivery as well as the long term
sustainability of the RE program; by facilitating a significant change in PLN's
present organizational structure and management processes for the RE program.
In addition, it would help extend the supply of electricity in rural areas in
Indonesia during 1995-1997 to 7,000 villages and thereby contributing to a
significant improvement in the quality of life of 2.1 million rural households --
with women and children being primary beneficiaries -- and more broadly
contributing to the development of rural areas, by facilitating economic
opportunity through productive uses of electricity.
Risks:      No significant technical or implementation risks are foreseen with respect to the
physical network development program, that involves routine grid extensions and
consumer connections. PLN has consistently exceeded annual rural electrification
targets and implementation schedules. The risk associated with implementation
of the mini-hydro is minimized by a technical design that places maximum
emphasis on standardization, and ensuring appointment of highly qualified
construction management and supervisory contractor in the case of mini-hydro;
and in the case of the mini-geothermal component by employing an internationally
reputed firm under a single integrated drilling services contract. Risks associated
with implementation of the overall policy reform agenda in general and other
elements of the policy component specific to RE -- institutional restructuring, and



- Hii -
implementation of the published small power purchase tariff and standardized
contract and the bulk supply tariff -- are minimal in view of the Governrment's
and PLN's satisfactory record in implementation once agreement is reached.
Cost Estimate:                             Local           Foreign       Total
-------------------- (US$ million) --------------------
PLN Component
1. Distribution Schemes               264.5          337.1          601.7
2. Pilot Projects                       4.4             6.6           11.0
3. Mini-Hydro/Geothermal                12.5           16.1          28.7
4. Rural Business Services               5.0            1.5            6.5
5. Pola Program                         6.2             -             6.2
6. Other Technical Assistance           3.8            5.7            9.5
Base Cost                            296.4          367.1          663.5
MOC Component
1. Pola Program Support                 0.5            1.1            1.5.
2. Pola III Preparation                 0.1            0.5            0.7
Base Cost                              0.6            1.6            2.2
Total Base Cost                      297.0          368.7         665.7
Physical Contingency                    19.9          21.7           41.6
Price Contingency                       16.5           19.2          35.7
Total Project Cost /a                333.5          409.5          743.0
Interest During Construction           42.7            55.6          98.3
Total Financing Required              376.2          465.1          841.3
/a   The local costs are inclusive of taxes and duties estimated to be about US$63.7 million
equivalent.



- iv -
Financing Plan: /a
Local      Foreign    Total
------------- (US$ million) ------------
PLN Component
IBRD                    11.4       384.4      395.8
GOI/PLN                364.1        78.7      442.8
Subtotal PLN               375.5       463.1      838.6
MOC Component
IBRD                     0.5         1.7        2.2
GOI                      0.2         0.3        0.5
Subtotal MOC                0.7          2.0        2.7
TOTAL                       376.2        465.1      841.3
/a Due to rounding, totals may not add up.
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY                      1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Annual                     4.0    116.7   188.2    83.5       5.6
Cumulative                 4.0    120.7   308.9   392.4   398.0
Rate of Return: Distribution component:  21 %
Mini-hydro projects:    20% to 31%
Mini-geothermal projects: 39 %
Poverty Category: Not Applicable



- v -
CONTENTS
1   THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
Energy Sector Overview   ..............................                                1
Sector Institutions ...................................                               2
Electricity Sub-Sector  ................................                              3
Power Sector Development and Investment Program   .............                       3
Strategic Sector-wide Issues and Priorities for Reform   ....         ........        4
Strategy in Support of Sector Reform  .......................                         5
2   RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
The National Development Context ........................                            10
The Rural Village Environment ..........................                             11
Extent of Rural Electrification ...........................                          12
RE Sector Priorities  .................................                              14
Strategy for Future ..................................                               17
Bank's Past Experience  ...............................                              21
3   THE BORROWER AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
PLN's Organization  .................................                                23
Institutional Change  .................................                              23
Staff Development and Training ..........................                            24
Accounting and Budgeting  .............................                              25
Billing and Collections ................................                             25
Audit and Internal Control .............................                             26
Insurance ........................................                                   26
The Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development ... ..                26
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Arun P. Sanghvi (Task
Manager), consultants John Tulloch, Jim Finucane, John Cranston and Richard Carroll, and Anil Cabraal
(ASTAE), who visited Indonesia in January/February 1994. The financial analysis was prepared by Mr.
Sushil Bhatnagar. Peer reviewers were Messrs. Andres Liebenthal and John Irving. Mrs. Marianne
Haug, Director (EA3DR) and Mr. Peter R. Scherer, Division Chief (EA3IE) have endorsed the project.



- vi -                                                       Page No.
4   THE PROJECT
RE  Development Plan   ................................                                                                      28
Project Objectives and  Scope  ............................                                                                  28
Project Description   ..................................                                                                     29
- System   Cost and  Developmental Impacts    ...................                                                            30
- Technical Assistance   ................................                                                                    30
- Mini-hydro  ......................................                                                                         33
- Mini-geothermal   ..................................                                                                       33
Project Cost Estimate    ................................                                                                    34
Financing  Plan    ....................................                                                                      34
Procurement  ......................................                                                                          36
Disbursement   .....................................                                                                         39
Implementation   ....................................                                                                        39
Project Management &   Monitoring   ........................                                                                 41
Environment and  Resettlement  ...........................                                                                   42
5   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Operating  Results and  Financial Position  ..................                                                          44
Financial Objectives   .................................                                                                     44
Present and  Future Performance  ..........................                                                                  44
Tariffs    .........................................                                                                         47
Overall Development Fund and Dividend Policy  ................                                                               48
Financing  Policy    ...................................                                                                     48
Asset Revaluation  ...................................                                                                       49
6   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits  ....................................                                                                       50
Economic  Rate of Return   ..............................                                                                    51
Project Risks    .....................................                                                                       52
7   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached  with  the Borrower  .....................                                                                53
Agreements Reached  with  PLN    ..........................                                                                  54
Condition  of Effectiveness    .............................                                                                 56
Actions to be Taken before Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds ....                                               ......             56
Recommendation   ...................................                                                                         56



- vii -
ANNEXES
1.1   Organization Chart of MME
1.2   Growth of PLN's Consumers and Sales
1.3   Electricity Consumption Forecasts
1.4   Peak Load, Production and Installed Capacity  Java-Bali
1.5 Peak Load, Production and Installed Capacity: Outer Islands
1.6   PLN's Investment Program for Java-Bali System
1.7   PLN's Investment Program for Outer Islands
1.8   Policy Statement (Goals and Policies for the Development
of the Electric Power Sub-Sector)
2.1   Growth in Rural Village Electrification Coverage
2.2   Growth in Rural Household Electrification Coverage
2.3   Power Sub-Sector - List of IDA Credits and Bank Loans
3.1   Organization Chart of PLN
3.2   PLN: Performance Indicators
3.3   Organization Chart of MOC
4.1   PLN's REPELITA VI RE Investment Plan
4.2  Increasing Cost Effectiveness in Service Delivery
4.3   Disbursement Schedule
4.4   Project Implementation Schedule
4.5   Productive Uses Component
4.6   Project Supervision Schedule
4.7   Guidelines for the Environmental Chapter in Distribution
Sub-Project Survey Reports
4.8   Framework for Preparation of Involuntary Resettlement Components
4.9   Summary Features of Proposed Mini-Hydro Projects
4.10 Guidelines for the Environmental Screening as Required for Environmental Analysis
for Minihydro Projects.
5.1   PLN's Financial Statements - Past Results and Forecasts
5.2   Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
5.3   PLN's Tariff
6.1 Internal Economic Rate of Return - RE Time Slice Investment
6.2 Least Cost & Economic Rate of Return Analysis for Mini-Hydro Projects
6.3 Least Cost & Economic Rate of Return Analysis for Mini-Geothermal Projects
7.0   Selected Documents and Data in Project File
MAPS: 1 IBRD 25506
MA1JO6MRS&ARTOC



I



1
THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
Energy Sector Overview
1.1       Indonesia is richly endowed with diverse and large energy resources including oil, natural
gas, coal, hydropower and geothermal. The oil and gas sector continue to play a critical role in the
Indonesian economy; together accounting for over 85 percent of commercial net energy consumption and
accounting for about 30 percent of the country's export receipts.
1.2       Indonesia's basic goals and policies for the future development of the energy sector are
described in the Outlines of State Policy (Garis-Garis Besar Haulan Negara or GBHN), promulgated by
the People's Consultative Assembly (MPR) in March 1993 to guide the formulation of the Sixth Medium-
Term (five-year 1994/95-1998/99) Development Plan (REPELITA VI); and the Second Stage Long-Term
(twenty-five year) Development Strategy (PJPT-II). The GBHN highlights the importance for Indonesia's
sustained economic and social development of meeting its rapidly growing energy needs efficiently -
including through conservation and diversification of primary energy resources and their more efficient
utilization -- and of minimizing the adverse enviromnental and social impacts of energy use. In the power
sub-sector, the GBHN recognizes that an adequate, reliable and reasonably priced electricity supply is
essential for the country's continuing development, emphasizing its essential role in serving the needs of
the productive sectors and in contributing directly to improving the living standards of the people in all
regions of the country. Rural electrification (RE), is a key and integral part of the Government's rural
development strategy and the long-term goal is to electrify all villages and enable the basic services
provided by energy.
1.3       A key and continuing thrust of the Government's energy strategy is to slow down the pace
of Indonesia's transition to net oil importer status, by diversifying domestic energy consumption towards
alternative and more economic and indigenous energy resources that either have a non-exportable surplus,
such as coal and natural gas, or are non-tradeable (hydro, geothermal). Otn the demand-side, to promote
efficient utilization of oil-based fuels, the Government's policy is to maintain average petroleum product
prices at or above international parity (efficiency pricing), while cross-subsidizing as necessary the price
of kerosene in order to ensure its affordability, with an implicit tax on gasoline.
1.4       In the power sector, which is a major user of petroleum fuels, plans call for a further
reduction of oil's share of power generation from about 50 percent in 1992/93 (about 34 million barrels
of diesel and fuel oil), to about 7 percent by the end of this decade (14 million barrels per year).
1.5       Considerable potential exists for substituting conventional energy supplies and especially for
meeting the decentralized energy needs of the rural sector, by the use of economic non-conventional and
renewable energy supplies, particularly mini-hydro and mini-geothermal power schemes, biomass-based
power projects (including cogeneration), and solar photovoltaic energy systems. The Government has
been undertaking several solar pilot projects for demonstration purposes.



2
1.6        The Government oflndonesia (GOI), has also relied on the following policies in support of
its objectives for the energy sector (para 1.2):
(a) electricity tariffs: Electricity prices have been maintained at low levels for small residential,
commercial and industrial users who account for about 40 percent of PLN's sales. Periodic
adjustments in the average sale price (the latest average increase of about 8 percent, effective
November 1, 1994), have generally maintained this average close to the long-run marginal cost
of supply in Java (para 5.10);
(b) private sector participation: The private sector operates significant amounts of captive power
capacity, and is expected to play an increasingly important role in the supply of gas and electricity.
The Government has already signed power purchase agreements with independent power producers
(IPPs), to supply about 3,000 MW of bulk power to PLN. The Government's plans indicate that
about 5,000 MW of IPP capacity is expected to be commissioned during REPELITA VI, on build-
own-operate (BOO) basis, of which about 600 MW would be Outside Java.
(c) regionally balanced development: The GOI has (i) maintained a uniform price structure for
electricity and petroleum products in all parts of the country, and (ii) extended the supply of
electricity in a balanced manner to all parts of the country. This policy entails the subsidization of
higher cost energy supply to the Outer Islands and to the rural population.
(d) environmental protection: The Government has established and utilizes uniform procedures
and guidelines for the preparation, and approval of environmental impact analysis (ANDAL), for
issuance of environmental clearances, as well as periodic reporting requirements on environmental
management and monitoring during project implementation.
Sector Institutions
1.7        The principal agency responsible for implementing Government policies in the energy sector
is the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME); which coordinates all activities in the energy sector and
supervises the state enterprises in the sector: PERTAMINA (oil, gas and geothermal), P.T. Bukit Asam
coal), PGN (gas distribution) and PLN (electricity). Other ministries and agencies are also involved in
the sector, for example, the Ministry of Public Works is responsible for hydropower resource surveys
and the operation of multipurpose hydro plants, the National Atomic Energy commission is responsible
for nuclear development, and the Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development (MOC)
is responsible for enhancing the role of cooperatives in rural electrification. An inter-ministerial National
Energy Board (BAKOREN) coordinates energy policies and development with those of other sectors.
BAKOREN is supported by a Technical Committee (PTE) consisting of senior officials in different
departments, chaired by the Director General of Electricity and Energy Development (DGEED). The
electricity subsector is regulated by the MME through the DGEED. The rural electrification Steering
Committee, chaired by the DGEED, is responsible to ensure inter-agency coordination and cooperation
in matters related to the Government's rural electrification program. The organization chart of MME is
shown in Annex 1.1.



3
Electricity Subsector
1.8        The Electricity Act (Law No. 15 of 1985) defines the legal framework for electricity sector.
Under this Act, PLN, the State Electricity Corporation that was established by Government Regulation
No. 18/1972, has both the right and obligation to supply power in Indonesia. The provisions of the
Electricity Act are amplified in Government Regulation No. 17/1990 for PLN, the State Electricity
Corporation; and No. 10/1989 for others. The Electricity Act permits establishment of private power
producers, distributors and licensees. Presidential Decree No. 37/1992 specifically authorizes private
sector participation under BOO schemes, and permits cooperatives and other legal entities to generate,
transmit, and distribute power for public use.
1.9        At present, the sector comprises: (i) PLN; (ii) captive plants installed by private parties for
their own use; (iii) three Government-sponsored rural electric cooperatives; and (iv) a large number of
informal micro-enterprises providing electricity to clusters of customers in rural villages not served by
PLN. PLN accounts for about half of the electricity used by industries, and the rest is provided by
captive generation facilities. In 1992, the total installed captive generation capacity was about 8,500 MW
of which about 3,300 MW was reserve capacity that served as a backup to PLN supply.
1.10       Indonesia's power sector has grown rapidly during the 1980s and 1990s. Electricity sales
of PLN grew at an average annual rate of about 16 percent over the fifteen year period 1978/79 to
1993/94, from 4,287 GWh to 41,675 GWh. During the same period, the number of customers grew over
eight-fold, from 2.2 million to about 15 million and; the number of villages electrified increased eight-
fold, from 3,400 to over 29,000. Annex 1.2 shows the historic growth in PLN's customers and sales.
In order to meet this growth, PLN's installed capacity increased nearly six-fold from 2,288 MW in
1978/79 to 13,128 MW in 1993/1994. Over the same period, PLN's implementation capacity has grown
significantly, whereby it now connects over one million new consumers annually, a pace un-matched by
most utilities and, PLN carries out an annual investment program of about US$ 3.5 billion.
1.11       In spite of the rapid growth, there is considerable unmet demand at economic prices. In
1993/94, PLN was able to serve just over one-third of all households (44 percent in urban areas and 29
percent in rural areas); whereas at least 90 percent of urban households and two-thirds of rural households
are estimated to be able to purchase electricity at the economic cost of supply. In the industrial sector,
PLN accounts for about 50 percent of electricity used by industries, with the remainder provided by
captive generation plant.
Power Sector Development and Investment Program
1.12       Demand Forecast The potential for future growth in electricity consumption remains high
in Indonesia. Residential energy sales will increase as the household electrification ratios and incomes
rise. PLN's core development program targets household electrification ratios of 60 percent by the end
of REPELITA VI (1994/95-1998/99), and 75 percent by the end of REPELITA VII (1999/00-2003/04)
in Java-Bali. The corresponding targets for Outside Java are 45 percent and 56 percent, respectively. The
rise in industrial consumption is underpinned by the industrial sector GDP growth rate projected to be
about 10 to 11 percent per annum during this decade; and by the targeted share of industrial electricity
consumption to be supplied by PLN (50 percent by the end of REPELITA VI). This core plan implies
an average annual growth rate in total electricity consumption over the period 1991/92 to 2003/04 to be
about 12 percent; with PLN sales projected to grow at about 12 to 14 percent per year over 1992/93-
2003/04 (Annex 1.3). It is expected that private power producers will commence operations in future and



4
sell substantial amounts of bulk energy to PLN starting 1998/99 in Java-Bali as well as the Outer Islands.
For example, about 20,000 GWH (28 percent) of PLN sales in Java-Bali in 1999/00 are projected to be
supplied by private generators.
1.13       Development Program   A core development program for the power sector has been
determined to meet the projected increase in electricity demand in a least cost manner; taking into account
likely participation of private generators and the outer envelope of financing available to PLN for
REPELITA VI from all sources -- Government contributions, self-financing, and borrowings -- that has
been estimated to be about Rp. 50 trillion (US$ 17.4 billion in constant 1993 prices, excluding financing
costs). The core program envisages generating capacity additions to the Java-Bali grid over the period
1994-1998 of about 8,000 MW, of which 2,135 MW (about 27%) is expected from private projects. In
the Outer Islands, the installed capacity is projected to increase by about 2,700 MW by 1998, of which
about 480 MW (18%) is expected to come from the private sector. Annexes 1.4 and 1.5 summarize the
program's generation expansion components for the Java-Bali system and for the Outer Islands as a
whole, through 2003/04.
1.14      Investment Requirements The overall investment requirements for REPELITA VI are
estimated to be US$ 21.2 billion in constant 1993 prices and excluding financing costs; not counting the
costs incurred by industry for installing captive plant in the future. Of this amount, about US$ 3.8 billion
is estimated private sector investment, including initial expenditures for plants that will be commissioned
after REPELITA VI. The balance of about US$ 17.4 billion represents PLN investment. Annexes 1.6
and 1.7 provide estimates of annual investments for PLN in Java-Bali and in the Outer Islands. Including
financing costs, these estimates indicate a sector financing requirement -- PLN plus large private projects
-- of the order of US$ 25-30 billion for REPELITA VI, which represents a formidable challenge even
for Indonesia's growing economy.
Strategic Sector-wide Issues and Priorities for Reform
1.15      The task ahead. Following two decades of rapid growth, Indonesia's power sector is now
at a major crossroads. Significant changes, based on a new system of sector governance and organization
and requiring the introduction of major reforms, are needed to ensure that the sector can effectively meet
the daunting challenges of future expansion. Today, about five out of ten urban households and seven out
of ten rural households must do without electricity; industry is forced to self-generate nearly 50 percent
of its electricity requirements, much at higher cost than the cost of efficient grid supply; and electricity
consumption averages about 270 kwh per capita, a level below that in many countries with lower per
capita incomes than Indonesia. Furthermore, the rapid pace of sector growth, historically, has posed
challenges that have strained PLN's evolving institutional and management capacities to a point where
customer service, supply reliability and quality have been compromised; and costs remain stubbornly
high, especially in the Outer Islands.
1.16      Challenges. Mobilizing sufficient resources -- financial, managerial and technical -- for
ensuring the adequacy and reliability of power supply and at competitive prices, and quickly and
efficiently expanding the access of electricity to households throughout the country, poses a formidable
challenge to the continued development of the sector. Prospects for attracting the large sums of money
required year-in-and-out to just one sector in Indonesia -- US$ 5-6 billion per year (para 1.14) -- must
also be viewed against the backdrop that in the future the Government will be hard pressed to maintain
past levels of financial contributions to PLN, because of increasing demands on its resources from priority
social sectors. These challenges of the future are several orders of magnitude larger and more complex



5
than faced hitherto and cannot be met by a mere intensification and replication of efforts along established
lines of business-as-usual. The Government recognizes the necessity for fundamental changes to policies,
regulations, organizational structures and management approaches that have guided sector development
and operations in the past; and that several key issues have to be addressed in a coordinated manner in
order to bring about these changes.
1.17       Private sector participation. The GOI has concluded that private sector participation is a
prerequisite for reducing the financial burden on the GOI as well as increasing the efficiency of electricity
production. Projects with signed power purchase agreements, projects for which negotiations are
reportedly nearing completion, together with projects earmarked for private investors and to be
commissioned within the next eight years, account for over 7,000 MW of generation power plant. Major
policy, institutional and sector structure changes are needed to ensure that this participation -- entry as
well as operations -- is based on competition and transparent rules, and that the resulting power purchase
prices are the lowest possible.
1.18       PLN's performance. While PLN has been steadily improving its operations, and has
successfully constructed and operated the Java-Bali grid, PLN's performance has not yet reached best
utility practices. Furthermore, key to the long-term sustainability of the rural electrification program in
Indonesia and accelerating the pace of extending RE coverage will be PLN's ability and success in
enhancing the efficiency of RE design, implementation and delivery, and on a continuing and ongoing
basis. Piece-meal, incremental changes resulting in marginal improvements are no longer adequate for
meeting the challenge ahead. Instead, fundamental structural changes are needed to PLN's organization
structure and management processes in order to further improve PLN's performance.
1.19       Sectoral development and regulation. With the emergence of a significant role for the
private sector, a new sectoral agency would be required to regulate both PLN and the private operators.
There would also be a need for a central agency to jointly optimize PLN's and private investors'
development strategies, based on global least-cost considerations.
1.20       Power tariffs. The ad hoc tariff setting modalities of the past will not be appropriate in the
emerging environment. A mechanism for setting power tariffs should allow PLN to deal effectively with
the private sector, while also providing the necessary incentives to PLN to bring the efficiency of its
operations in line with best practices.
Strategy in Support of Sector Reform
1.21       Dialogue with Govermnent. Based on the dialogue between the Bank and GOI, a consensus
has emerged regarding the main issues facing the sector and on the fundamental policy changes needed
for efficient long-run development of the power sector (paras 1.16 through 1.20). The Government has
formulated its strategy and action plan in a Policy Statement titled: "Goals and Policies for the
Development of the Electric Power Subsector," (Annex 1.8); and has stated its intention to implement
it. The Bank supports the GOI's reform agenda for the power sector. The proposed project together with
the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project will facilitate implementation of the first stage of the power
sector reform agenda; while lending operations to follow during the course of the next several years -
Renewable Energy Development, Power Transmission and Distribution II -- are intended to facilitate and
support implementation of the subsequent stages of the reform agenda for sector restructuring. The major
elements of the Bank's support are summarized in the following.



6
1.22       Policy Framework. The Government's overall strategy to address the major sectoral issues
centers around the vision of creating an environment in the sector wherein PLN and all other participants
will be motivated to their maximum capacities to enhance efficiency, reduce costs and improve service.
As a general direction, the creation of such an environment will be achieved through a shift towards
greater reliance on guidance through incentives; introducing sound commercial principles and where
appropriate competition, attracting private capital -- domestic and foreign -- and implementing supportive
sector regulations and administrative arrangements that are transparently and uniformly applied to all
participants. The four pillars of the Government's power sector reform implementation strategy are: (i)
expanding entry to private investors and operators, to accelerate expansion of supply and upgrade sector
operating standards and practices through actual competition or "competition by comparison"; (ii)
restructuring and corporatizing PLN, to improve the company's performance, customer service reliability
and responsiveness and its ability to directly access the capital markets, while continuing to draw upon
its extensive organizational and geographical outreach and unique implementation experience in rural
electrification; (iii) reforming regulatory and sectoral functions by implementing regulations and
supporting administrative and legal arrangements, to be applied uniformly and transparently to all
participants (PLN and private), that promote efficiency in sector operations and expansion and facilitate
maximization of private sector participation at least cost; and (iv) strengthening sector finance by the
regularization of tariff adjustments to maintain tariffs at adequate levels.
1.23       Private Sector Participation. The Government has high expectations for the extent of
private sector participation in satisfying Indonesia's electricity needs in the future (para 1.13), and
alongside PLN, to help ensure adequate, reliable and economical supplies of electricity. At present, such
participation is constrained: (i) by lack of a policy context in which GOI defines clearly and in adequate
detail, its rationale, objectives and strategies for encouraging private sector participation; (ii) by the lack
of supporting laws and transparent, comprehensive and consistent regulatory framework that clearly
defines the rules under which state-owned and private-power enterprises will compete to gain entry to
various segments of the power market, and regulations governing the subsequent operations should they
gain entry; (iii) by the lack of specific regulations regarding, (a) the fair and efficient pricing of power
sales to the grid and to third parties by private suppliers, (b) wheeling charges for transmission services
on PLN's grid, and (c) efficient pricing of power sales by PLN to distributors; (iv) by the lack of rules
and procedures for promoting private sector participation in modes other than BOO schemes that prima
facie appear to be more efficient in terms of securing private participation at lower cost to the nation,
such as purchase of electricity on the basis of competitive bidding and unsolicited proposals with
transmission access provided if necessary, licensing private generation and cogeneration in industrial
estates and franchising geographical areas to licensees for the generation and or distribution of electricity.
1.24       Some steps towards addressing the constraints identified above have already been completed.
First, the Government has established a Directorate of Private Power under DGEED in the Ministry of
Mines and Energy. Second, the Government is following-up on the findings of a study sponsored by the
Bank with financing from the Norwegian Consultant Trust Fund, which addressed, inter alia, structural
changes to promote an increased private sector role, by undertaking an action-oriented study ("Private
Power Development Study"), to develop a comprehensive Private Power Program. Detailed rules and
procedures to govern private sector participation, are expected to be finalized and implemented by the
end of 1995.
1.25       Under the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project, agreement was reached with the
Government that it will: (a) undertake and complete a study on private power development in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) upon completion of the said study, furnish the same



7
to, and discuss the results and recommendations thereof, with the Bank; and (c) based on the said study's
results and recommendations and subsequent review, comments and discussions prepare draft rules and
procedures to govern private sector participation including the solicitation and evaluation of all forms of
proposals for private power supply, furnish the said draft rules and procedures for review and comments
to the Bank, and (iii) by December 31, 1995, finalize, adopt and enforce the same taking into account
the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank. During negotiations for the proposed project, this covenant
was also agreed to.
1.26       In the context of the Private Power Program, the GOI recognizes the importance of
implementing bulk power purchase and supply tariffs. Agreements regarding the implementation of these
tariffs have been reached in the proposed project (paras 2.32 and 2.34), and the GOI has also expressed
its intention to develop a transmission access procedures and tariff. Bulk purchase power tariffs, pegged
to PLN's avoided costs, will encourage efficient private sector levels and modes of participation in
electricity generation by small producers; the rates for large independent producers would continue to be
set by negotiations in a competitive environment. Similarly, a bulk power supply tariff, based on PLN's
economic cost of supply, will encourage efficient private sector participation in distribution.
1.27       Restructuring PLN. The GOI's strategy for restructuring PLN has two inter-related
aspects: (i) decentralization and unbundling its operations, and (ii) commercialization and corporatization.
To improve its financial performance as well as the quality and efficiency of service, PLN has already
initiated a reorganization of its structure and management system, based on a plan developed with the
assistance of consultants under Bank financing. Improving PLN's efficiency and quality of its services,
necessitate significant changes to the present organizational structure, management processes and
transformation of its corporate culture to that typically found in a commercial enterprise, where
management has strong motivation and autonomy to undertake the necessary actions in pursuit of clearly
established objectives and expectations. In this regard, the Government's policy implementation plan calls
for decentralization of PLN organization and management processes along functional lines in Java
(generation, transmission and distribution), and along geographical lines for Outside Java operations. This
would entail creation of corresponding profit centers and management units, with a separation between
RE and non-RE management, finances and operations. The unit managers would be held accountable for
their performance as measured against a performance contract-based set of objectives and performance
indicators and incentive structure, once these are developed and implemented. To assist in the ongoing
reorganization of PLN, and to further develop a detailed action plan for restructuring PLN ("PLN
Restructuring Plan"), including recommendations for an appropriate organizational and management
model for effectively undertaking rural electrification that can co-exist with other PLN operations that
would be operated along commercial lines, an international consulting firm financed as part of Technical
Assistance under the Suralaya Thermal Power Project (Loan 3501-IND) is underway, with an action plan
for PLN restructuring to be finalized in consultation with the Bank, and implementation to begin by June
30, 1995 (para 3.6).
1.28       Another key element of the GOI's strategy in restructuring PLN is a change in its corporate
status from a State-owned agency with a social purpose (Perum) to a group of profit-oriented limited
liability companies (Perseros), with private participation in their ownership as soon as their financial
performance permits. As an initial step, the Government converted PLN 's corporate status to a Persero,
effective August 1, 1994. Details of the multi-company/subsidiary structure are being worked on at
present. Over time, the GOI intends that the group of companies that emerge as a consequence of
restructuring and unbundling and corporatizing PLN, would compete in a market-oriented environment
and subject to oversight by the regulatory regime that is implemented (para 1.30). The Government would



8
only exercise strategic control over PLN on an "arm's length" basis through performance contracts that
specify clear objectives and efficiency indicators. Under such an agreement, GOI's financial contributions
to PLN would be phased out over time, and ultimately would be limited to: (i) provision of cost recovery
for socially mandated activities (such as expansion of the network and supply capability for increasing
rural electrification coverage); (ii) coverage of operating losses to the extent that the Goverrnent
mandated retail tariffs to end-users do not cover such costs and; (ii) cost recovery in instances where a
Government mandated transfer price -- for bulk supply to distributors -- is lower than the efficient cost
of supply.
1.29       Regulatory Refonn.  A Bank sponsored study, with financing from the Norwegian
Consultant Trust Fund, identified the broad elements of regulatory reform needed in view of the evolution
of the power sector. An initial step towards the establishment of a sectoral regulatory oversight agency
will be the separation of those functions that relate to the power industry's regulation and oversight from
the functions that relate to power sector policy and planning. To this end, agreement was reached that
the Government shall by June 30, 1995, establish a Directorate of Regulation within DGEED with
adequate staff and funds and necessary functions and power to administer and oversee compliance with
regulations (including pricing and technical regulations) regarding the electricity sector. Subsequently,
this Directorate would be converted to a higher level agency with greater autonomy and authority.
1.30       In order to identify and define further specific changes needed, the Ministry of Mines and
Energy will undertake a major review, with the assistance of consultants to be financed by the Bank as
Technical Assistance under the Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Project (Loan 3602-IND), the power sector's
current organization and legal and regulatory framework, with the aim of formulating and implementing
further regulations and strengthening the Directorate of Regulation ("Regulatory Reform Study"). The
Regulatory Reform Study will also evaluate, inter alia: (i) a "cost plus approach" to electricity pricing,
which would include explicit efficiency benchmarks to regulate recovery of "allowable costs" in the base
tariff; and (ii) a "price cap" regulation approach, wherein the incentive to improve efficiency is implicit
in the price cap set and in subsequent adjustments thereof. Under the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power
Project, agreement was reached with the Government that it will: (a) undertake and complete a study on
regulatory reform in the power sector in accordance with terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank; (b) upon completion of the said study, furnish the same for review and comments to, and
discuss the results and recommendations thereof with, the Bank; and (c) based on the said study's results
and recommendations and subsequent review, comments and discussions: (i) prepare draft regulations for
the power sector, (ii) furnish the said draft regulations for review and comments to the Bank, and (iii)
by June 30, 1996, finalize, adopt and enforce the same taking into account the comments, if any, thereon
by the Bank. During negotiations for the proposed project, this covenant was also agreed to.
1.31       Sectoral Development. Effective management of increased private sector participation will
require a transfer of responsibility for power sector development to a central agency in the MME, which
would ensure that the total sectoral demand for electricity is met in jointly optimized least-cost manner,
taking account of the roles of both PLN and private investors. The central agency would project the
future demand for electricity, and determine the most effective mode of meeting the demand, based on
an assessment of private sector participation under the prevailing system of rules and incentives, and of
PLN's resource availability and implementation capabilities. This would help to ensure that the timing,
size and location of all uncommitted large generation plants, including those of PLN and private
promoters, are part of an overall least-cost generation expansion plan. The Government has initiated the
process of upgrading DGEED's capacities in the areas of demand forecasting and least-cost system
expansion planning. In this context, PLN is planning to formulate rolling contingency plans to respond



9
to any supply/demand imbalance due to changes in the anticipated schedule of private sector participation.
1.32       Under the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project, agreement was reached with GOI that
it shall: (a) by December 31 each year commencing in 1995, (i) review with the Bank, its power sector
development program, the least-cost planning analysis used to formulate the said program, the roles of
PLN and the private sector in the said program, and the transparency and appropriateness of the business
environment for private sector participation; and (ii) review with the Bank, PLN's development and
investment programs with respect to their consistency with the power sector development program, the
balance among generation, transmission and distribution investments, and the balanced development of
regions. In addition, it was agreed that the Borrower shall ensure that PLN has access to sufficient funds
to finance capital expenditures for its investment program pursuant to the said reviews. During
negotiations for the proposed project, this covenant was also agreed to.
1.33       Regularizing Electricity Tariff Adjustments. The Bank supports the importance that the
GOI attaches to the pricing of electricity so that there is efficiency in consumption, while also providing
strong incentives for PLN to further improve the efficiency of its operations. To this end, the Bank-
financed Regulatory Reform Study TA (para 1.31 ), will provide recommendations for the Government
on a regulatory regime that effectively complements the emerging market structure, in fostering
competitive pressures and an operating environment wherein all participants are motivated to deliver
efficient performance while seeking to optimize the narrower self interests of their respective
organizations. Furthermore, as PLN's purchases of power from independent power producers increase,
it will become increasingly important that PLN's tariffs adjust in response to changes in purchased power
prices. To this end, the Government approved on November 1, 1994, a Periodic Tariff Adjustment
Mechanism to ensure PLN's financial health and to facilitate private power entry into the sector.
1.34       Energy Efficiency. The GOI uses efficiency pricing, complemented by other appropriate
measures, to encourage and induce sound electricity use decisions. In the power sector, the GOI is
focusing on more efficient utilization of electricity, introduction of renewable energy in the rural areas,
and demand-side management (DSM). Under the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project, the Bank has
provided financing to strengthen PLN's institutional capability for designing, implementing and evaluating
DSM options and programs, development of a DSM Annual Plan, and implementing DSM within a
framework of integrated resource planning. This TA will assist PLN to: (i) develop a rationalized strategy
for DSM and the corresponding action plan, based upon data and conditions specific to Indonesia, (ii)
establish realistic targets of penetration and savings to be achieved, (iii) determine efficient delivery and
incentive mechanisms, and (iv) formulate the financing plan for DSM.



I



2
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
The National Development Context
2.1        The basic goals of electric power development in Indonesia as stated in the Government's
Outlines of National Policy (GBHN), are to improve the welfare of the population and to support and
stimulate economic activities both in rural and urban areas. These derive from the three national
principles of development (" Trilogi Pembangunan"): equity, growth and sound economic and fiscal
management. Until the mid-1970s, electricity development efforts were primarily concentrated on the
expansion of urban-industrial areas. By the late 1970s, rural electrification (RE) emerged as a specific
objective of the Government, arising out of concern about the wide disparity in electrification coverage
between urban and rural areas. From then onwards, RE has been recognized as a key and explicit
component of the government's village development strategy (para 1.2).
2.2        The primary means for achieving the national development goals for rural electrification is
through realization of the explicit targets set for village electrification in the national Five Year
Development Plans (REPELITA), starting with REPELITA III (1979/80-1983/84). For this purpose, RE
is defined as the supply of electricity to consumers living in rural areas, identified as areas that are
outside the boundary of the national, provincial and district capitals, and excluding municipal and
administrative towns. The primary agent for implementing the Government's targets for RE is PLN, the
State Electricity Corporation.
2.3        The Government's pursuit of RE is on the basis of its developmental merits. There is a
distinct and positive impact on the quality of life in rural areas upon the introduction of electricity.
Improved lighting makes it possible to extend available hours for work, educational purposes and reading,
as well as recreation, while outdoor illumination contributes to improved security. Reduced air pollution
levels from displacement of kerosene lamps, and greater usage of appliances help mitigate human
suffering and drudgery, with women and children being the greatest beneficiaries, since they spend more
time at home. Furthermore, the economic benefits of electricity made possible from productive uses go
far beyond the increases in productivity, value-added or cost efficiency, and arise as a consequence of
the change over to a electricity using technology. This technology change is a first step in the structural
transformation process of rural development, as communities adjust to changing competitive conditions
and increasingly become integrated in the regional and wider economies. It is these broader development
impacts associated with technological change over time, and made possible by the introduction of
electricity, that provides another central justification for rural electrification. While electricity on its own
will not lead to a more productive rural economy, for most rural areas, development will not occur
without it. It would not be overstating the case that no other single source of energy comes close to
symbolizing the hopes and socioeconomic aspirations of the vast majority of rural households, who look
to the arrival of electricity as a defining milestone event in their lives, with the potential for bringing
about quantum improvements in their daily lives and living conditions and whose arrival symbolizes their
connection to the modern world.



11
The Rural Village Environment
2.4        The Republic of Indonesia is the largest archipelago and the fourth most populous in the
world, comprising of over 13,600 islands, and spread over 5,100 kilometers from east to west and nearly
1800 kilometers from north to south. The population of about 186 million, organized into more than 40
million households and comprising over 300 ethnic groups speaking 200 languages, is bound together by
a common language, Bahasa Indonesia, and a commitment to the shared vision that is embodied in the
concepts of Pancasila as expressed in the Constitution. The island of Java, with about 61 percent of the
total population (114 million), and only about seven percent of the total land area, is the political,
commercial and demographic center of the country. The Outer Islands -- islands other than Java and Bali
-- with a population of about 72 million, include the large islands of Sumatra with a population of about
34 million, Kalimantan with a population of about 9 million and Sulawesi with a population of about 13
million. The balance of the population of about 16 million is dispersed across the 3000 populated islands.
2.5        The rural areas account for nearly 70 percent of Indonesia's population, comprising about
31 million households. Nearly 60 percent of the rural population lives on the islands of Java and Bali,
where the average population density, at about 600 persons/square km. ranks amongst the highest in the
world. The remaining 40 percent of the rural population is dispersed and distributed across the Outer
Islands, where the average population density is about 30 persons/square km. These sharply contrasting
geographic and demographic characteristics serve to highlight the differing development challenges faced
by the RE program in Java-Bali and in the Outer Islands. Java-Bali is better placed for increasing
electricity access to new villages by virtue of the existence of a high voltage backbone transmission grid
supplying a well developed 20kV distribution system; with power generated by large and efficient
baseload plants that operate economically. By contrast, in the Outer Islands, expanding RE access
involves resorting to one of three modes: (i) extending the seven regional grids that operate at lower
transmission voltages and therefore experience higher network losses and that are fed by power generated
by less efficient smaller-scale power plants; (ii) expanding the dozens of existing mini-grids -- served by
one or more interconnected diesel power plants in the 1 -12 MW size range or; (iii) setting up an entirely
new and isolated small diesel power plant based operation -- in the 20 kW to 200 kW size range -- of
which there are over 900 such isolated and very high operating cost systems in operation today, many
only supplying power for a few hours in the evening and night time.
2.6        Rural areas are characterized by a lower level of economic and social development. Average
rural incomes are about 60 percent of income in urban areas; stemming in part from differences in the
patterns of employment. Whereas in rural areas about 70 percent of the employment is in the primary
sectors (mainly agriculture), 8 percent in secondary sectors and 20 percent in services, the corresponding
shares in urban areas are 11 percent, 18 percent and 64 percent. The percentage of rural households
below the poverty line is higher; 17 percent in comparison to 14 percent in urban areas, according to
Government statistics. The rural-urban income differentials are also accompanied by substantial
differences in social development indicators; such as in the case of primary school completion rates (61
percent versus 86 percent), child malnutrition (48 percent versus 39 percent), under five child mortality
(116 versus 84 per thousand births), and fertility rates (3.2 versus 2.6 children per woman). The urban-
rural contrast is also evident in the access to electricity. As of 1992/93, about 50 percent of urban
households had PLN electricity supply versus 32 percent of rural households.
2.7         For development purposes, and from an administrative point of view as well as for statistical
monitoring, the basic unit is a village (desa); which is identified as geographic area occupied by a
population that forms a social unit and which also represents the lowest level of Government



12
administration that has the right to run its own (local) administration under the jurisdiction of a village
head (kepala desa). A village typically comprises a central core population of households and several
scattered hamlets -- individual clusters of 5 to 50+ households -- and isolated farmsteads within the
village area boundary. The average number of households in a rural village is about 900 in Java-Bali and
300 in the Outer islands. The average village population is about 4000 persons/village in Java-Bali and
1500 persons/village in the Outer Islands. A further difference is in the population density within a
village; which is about 600 to 800 persons/square km. in Java-Bali in contrast to about 30 to 60 persons
per square km. in the Outer Islands.
2.8         Village classification. The government uses a three-tiered classification of rural villages
to plan and monitor interventions related to the development status of each village. The Ministry of Home
Affairs classification scheme identifies these village types based on the level of development as reflected
by seven indicators: source of income, level of production, level of modernization, existence of village
institutions, education level, community spirit, and availability of infrastructure. On this basis, all villages
are classified into three types; swasembada ("self-sufficient") villages, swakarva (transitional) villages
and swadava (traditional) villages. As of the 1990 census, in Java-Bali 77 percent were reported to be
in the swasembada category, 18 percent in the swakarya category and 5 percent in the swadaya category.
Comparable numbers in the case of the Outer Islands are, respectively, 25 percent, 52 percent and 23
percent. This classification scheme has been used by the government as a guide to coordinate the rural
development efforts of government agencies, including PLN. For example, swasembada villages are
entitled to electricity supply, paved roads and bank branches; swakarya villages receive priority for water
supply, gravel roads, elementary schools etc.. The long-term goal is to see that every village transitions
to the swasembada status and is fully serviced with the basic human infrastructure and utility services.
2.9         Three step village screening process. A three step process is used to identify the specific
villages to be electrified each year. First, the Government decides on the annual village electrification
targets, national total and provincial targets. Second, PLN employs a screening aimed at identifying the
specific villages to be recommended for electrification in a given region/rural area. This preliminary
screening by PLN, is based on an evaluation method which scores each candidate village on fourteen
variables, one of which is the village classification (swasembada, swakaraya, swadaya). Other parameters
include variables such as distance to the nearest 20 kV grid connection point, pattern of settlement,
installed capacity of captive generators. The weighted average scores provide the basis for rank-ordering
the villages. In the third step, final selections of the specific villages are the outcome of discussions with
regional Government authorities (BAPPEDAS), with priority accorded to villages that have a high
economic potential (for which a swasembada classification serves as a proxy); a sub-district capital
(kecamatan) village; a village that is close to an existing or planned 20 kV grid; villages that are
important from the view point of regional development i.e., villages that have small-scale industries or
potential for productive uses.
Extent Of Rural Electrification
2.10        PLN has been connecting rural consumers ever since it was established in 1972. However,
the "RE Program" at PLN formally started only in 1977/78, with the establishment of a separate RE sub-
directorate, when rural electrification first emerged as a specific objective of the Government and explicit
targets for village electrification to be achieved during REPELITA III (1979/80-1983/84) were set by the
Government. Since then, PLN has consistently met or exceeded the Government's targets for RE and
the record is impressive. At the end of REPELITA 11 (1978/79), the village electrification ratio in
Indonesia was about 5 percent (7 percent in Java-Bali), whereas the household electrification ratio was



13
about 2 percent (3 percent in Java-Bali). By the end of REPELITA V (1993/94), the national village
electrification ratio rose to about 51 percent (72 percent in Java-Bali)'; and the household electrification
ratio was about 32 percent (38 percent in Java and 23 percent outside Java). Annexes 2.1 and 2.2,
respectively, show the growth in village and household electrification achieved over the period 1978/79-
1993/94. The household coverage of rural electrification in Indonesia lags considerably, comparable
development among its regional peers; with the household electrification ratio in Thailand reported to
about 75 percent and about 98 percent in Malaysia.
2.11       Rural electric cooperatives. In addition to PLN, there are three rural electric cooperatives
(Kooperasi Listrik Pedasaan, KLP) in the Outer Islands; that function as vertically integrated utilities
independent of PLN. These KLPs are in: Lampung, South Sumatra (covering about 30 villages and
14,000 consumers and a peak load of about 3.4 MW); in Luwu, South Sulawesi (covering 66 villages
and 16,000 consumers, with a peak load of about 3.1 MW) ; and in Lombok island (covering 97 villages
and 17,000 consumers, with a peak load of about 4.2 MW). This effort was initiated in 1978 with a
USAID-financed project; with the Ministry of Cooperatives (MOC) as the implementing agency, to set
up and demonstrate the concept of rural electric cooperatives in areas that were not planned to be
electrified by PLN in the near future.
2.12       While these rural cooperatives provided a reasonable standard of service for a few years
early on, more recently they have been plagued by technical, financial and management problems. In spite
of the fact that the effective prices for small residential consumers charged by the KLPs range between
two to three times those under PLN's retail tariff structure -- Rp. 230-324 per kWh for a household with
monthly consumption of 30 kWh -- these cooperatives have been unable to cover even operating costs
in recent years; which has resulted in serious deterioration of the distribution network as well as the
generating plant to the point where losses are excessive, reliability of service is extremely poor and as
a consequence, bill collection rates have fallen substantially. Two out of the three KLPs, are financially
bankrupt and the third barely covers its operating costs today. MOC is presently evaluating options to
restructure the KLPs; the most promising of which appears to be a conversion to Pola III scheme (para
2.17); whereby each cooperative would be connected to the nearest PLN grid, thus enabling the
retirement of its expensive and old and inefficient diesel power plants. The cooperatives would then
function as a distributor of electricity, buying power in bulk from PLN and retailing to end users. This
restructuring will require implementing a financial workout plan; keys to which are Government decisions
about the capital structure of the new entity, and the extent to which the Government is prepared to take
an equity position, in order to ensure that retail tariffs for the distributor can be maintained at a
reasonable level and that the workout results in a revitalized cooperative that is sustainable, and no longer
functioning as a demonstration experiment requiring ongoing and special attention.
2.13       Private enterprises. There are reportedly over 17,000 privately owned and unlicensed
micro-enterprises in rural areas, each engaged in selling electricity to a few households (5 to 25);
typically employing a small diesel generator set (1 to 5 kVA) and using a makeshift wiring arrangement
strung from house-to-house. Most often this service is provided for a few hours in the evening, and prices
that effectively range between Rp. 400 to 800 per kWh, with fees upwards of Rp.5,000 per month for
a service to two light bulbs of 25 watts each. Such makeshift arrangements provide service of low
standard and serve solely as a temporary solution until PLN supply becomes available in that area.
I/ A village is classified as "electrified" if at least 30 households are connected to PLN supply.



14
RE Sector Priorities
2.14        The primary objective of the national RE program is to support the development of rural
areas by increasing the welfare of the people and stimulating the growth of economic activities. RE is
a key and integral part of the Government's rural development strategy, and the long-term target is to
electrify all villages and to enable the people to afford the basic services provided by energy.
Coordination of the RE program to expand electricity coverage with Government investments in other
infrastructure and social services is carried out through the provincial Planning Commissions (BAPPEDA)
in each province. This coordination broadly relies on the three-tiered village classification scheme of the
Government (para 2.8).
2.15        Village selection criteria. An equally important objective of the RE program is to promote
the development of the country in a balanced manner; not only with respect to mitigating urban/rural but
geographical/regional disparities as well. This priority is prominently reflected in the process and
procedure used by PLN to arrive at the specific list of villages to be electrified each year (para 2.9). This
approach for village selection has by-and-large yielded reasonable results. However, there is scope for
sharpening the ranking and selection criteria in order to improve the sequencing of villages to be
electrified and their adherence to economic priority needs, primarily by utilizing a smaller and non-
overlapping set of criteria that are purely economic in nature. With these changes, the first step in village
selection and ranking would be based solely on the economic merits of each case. Thus, when departures
from this ranking are discussed during the second stage of consultations to consider other developmental
priorities such as geographical balance, decisions can be made on an informed basis as to the opportunity
costs of such departures.
2.16        There exist substantial regional variations in the extent of electrification coverage levels
today (Annex 2.1 and 2.2). Village electrification ratios projected for year-end 1993/94 are as follows:
Java-Bali (72 percent), Sulawesi (59 percent), Sumatra (44 percent), Kalimantan (23 percent), and Eastern
Indonesia (28 percent). Within Eastern Indonesia, there is considerable variation, ranging from a high
of 100 percent in Bali to a low of 7 percent in East Timor. Household electrification ratios projected for
year-end 1993/94 are as follows: Java-Bali (38 percent), Sulawesi (28 percent), Sumatra (22 percent),
Kalimantan (24 percent), and Eastern Indonesia (16 percent). Again, within Eastern Indonesia, there is
considerable variation; ranging from a high of 60 percent in Bali to a low of 2 percent in East Timor.
These inter-regional variations in village electrification coverage reflect the Government's balancing of
two divergent pulls, balanced regional development on the one hand versus purely economic
considerations. A second balance that is implicit in GOI's strategy for extending RE is the priority given
to extensification over intensification. Given the relatively low levels of household electrification levels
today, the marginal costs of intensification-- the incremental cost of connecting one additional household
within a village that already has access to electricity -- are substantially lower than the marginal cost of
extensification, the cost of extending the 20 kV network to an un-electrified village.
2.17        Local participation.  Local participation, another important objective of the Government
and undertaken through a cooperative arrangement between MOC, MME and PLN, enhances the
developmental benefits of RE programs, by fostering a sense of ownership and control among the rural
communities involved through grassroots organizations such as Kooperasi Unit Desa (KUD), or village
cooperative unit). If properly structured, local participation also makes good economic sense for PLN and
the country; by reducing PLN's costs, human resource requirements and need for further organizational
expansion and geographical extension; while also providing the opportunity for the development of village
level managerial and technical resources and a labor pool. Four patterns/schemes ("polas") and two types



15
of management service agreements (MSAs) are possible under existing arrangements, differentiated either
by the scope of activities contracted or by the ownership and functions carried out:
(a)        Pola 1: the cooperative handles customer administration functions, such as meter reading
and bill collection, on a fee-for-service basis;
(b)        Pola II: the cooperative installs house wiring as a contractor of the customer, with a license
and fee schedule approved by PLN;
(c)        Pola III: the cooperative purchases electricity in bulk, from PLN, and takes over all
distribution functions as well as ownership of all such assets;
(d)        Pola IV:  the cooperative generates and distributes electricity, independently of PLN,
subject to MME regulation;
(e)        MSA-erid: the cooperative handles a wider range of customer and technical functions, such
as line maintenance, simple fault clearing, tree trimming, street light maintenance, based
on a management services arrangement that identifies the geographical service area of
responsibility, specific functions and work elements to be undertaken, performance
indicators, and the fee structure; and
(f)        MSA-isolated diesel: the cooperative handles the daily operation and management of a
remote (isolated) diesel power plant based generation and distribution system, including all
customer administration functions, with asset ownership still in PLN's hands.
2.18       Currently, an estimated 2,260 KUDs are under contract with PLN, operating 1,800 Pola
I schemes and 460 Pola I&II schemes; and covering about 11,000 villages out of the 29,000 villages
electrified by PLN. About 60% of these KUDs are situated Outside Java. Further, there are about 90
MSA-grid and 20 MSA-diesel agreements in operation. Field assessments of the Pola Program to date
indicate that by and large, the experience is viewed very positively by PLN as well as the KUDs. PLN
reports these activities to be cost effective and from a longer term outlook it helps mitigate the need for
PLN to expand its staff and organizational resources that are already stretched to the limit. The main
benefits to the KUDs have been: (i) increased fee income -- in 1993, through Pola I schemes alone,
KUDs collected a total of about Rp. 93 billion (US$44 million) per month in electric bills for PLN and
received fee income of about Rp. 1.4 billion (an average of US$279 monthly income per KUD) ; (ii)
increased income from membership fees as well as the provision of electricity related value-added
services, such as a convenience facility for bill payment at home; (iii) employment; and (iv) less
quantifiable but important benefits such as improved ability to serve the community and enhanced status
by association with a "high tech" and professional organization such as PLN that is generally held in high
esteem.
2.19       At present, the major constraints to expansion of the Pola/MSA Programs are the weak skills
base of KUD personnel, a fee structure that in many instances is inadequate to attract qualified personnel,
inadequate support and facilitation by MOC staff from headquarters and particularly from provincial staff
at the provincial (KANWIL) and district (KANDEP) levels, administrative procedures and management
approach at PLN that sometimes cause excessive delays in identifying, preparing the groundwork and
implementing Pola schemes, and limitations in PLN's training capacity to train the necessary numbers
of KUD personnel for the very activities they would subsequently takeover. The Pola Program component



16
of the proposed project calls for a significant expansion of the programn to be facilitated by easing the
major program constraints today, and with a longer term vision in mind as follows.
2.20       Experience with the Pola/MSA programs to date underpins the conclusion that an effective
approach for RE delivery is for PLN to devolve itself of as many labor intensive distribution system
activities in as any areas as is feasible; where the KUDs or other organizations are demonstrably able to
efficiently take over such activities and at a cost lower than PLN's cost. This positive experience also
underlies the longer term vision that opportunities can be proactively created over time, whereby an entire
geographical area serving somewhere between 20 to 50 thousand consumers and with the right
socioeconomic structure will lend itself to the creation of Pola Ills. This would be achieved by the
consolidation of the service areas of successful KUDs that are already well established in that area and
successful in running MSA-grid agreements and Pola I&II schemes. Several KUDs could band together
into a "super-KUD" or another such over-arching local electricity organization, and assume responsibility
for managing all distribution in the service area -- including ownership of assets -- and buying electricity
from PLN at a bulk supply tariff based on the economic cost of supply. Such an evolutionary strategy
for RE delivery by increasing local participation, if effectively carried out, could be expected to result
in substantially redefining PLN's role over time to that of an efficient bulk power supplier in as many
rural areas as is feasible; and perhaps providing on a fee basis, specialized manpower or technical skills
as needed to the Pola III management. Naturally, the pace of any such development in the emergence of
Pola III schemes will vary by region, depending upon the human resource potential in that area,
socioeconomic and demographic characteristics and level of development. Advance indication of progress
in this direction would become available over time, through actual experience with performance in Pola
I&II and MSA schemes.
2.21       Promotion of productive uses of electricity. A primary objective of the RE program in
Indonesia is to contribute to the development of economic activities in rural areas through the productive
uses of electricity. Productive uses are essential to establish the long-term economic viability and
sustainability of rural electrification, particularly in the Outer Islands, where costs are high. Increased
productive uses contribute both to higher benefits and lower costs. Load development increases capacity
utilization of high fixed cost investment and therefore enhances the economic rate of return, as long as
the tariff covers at least the variable cost of electricity generation.
2.22       A long recognized issue in Indonesia is that the productive use of PLN electricity in many
rural areas is below achievable potential. New uses, beyond lighting, do not appear to increase
substantially following electrification, and changeover by existing productive users of alternative energy
sources to PLN tends to be slow in coming. A key constraint to productive uses has been that insufficient
information has been provided to users and potential users. This constraint was addressed on a pilot
basis, by the Small Business Services (SBS) component under RE I, with special promotion programs in
two of PLN's regions outside Java and in one region on Java. Working in collaboration with NGOs,
PLN actively informed existing and potential small business customers of the opportunities, methods and
advantages of using electricity for productive purposes. The SBS pilot program experience to date is
positive and results indicate that such marketing efforts which provide price and technical information
are key to increasing the number of rural productive users of PLN electricity. Under the Rural Business
Services (RBS) component of the proposed project, this approach would be expanded to all 14 of PLN's
regions using a more targeted and efficient approach which draws upon the lessons learned under RE I.
Annex 4.5 contains more details about the SBS program experience to date under the RE I, and the
design of the RBS component.



17
2.23        In addition to the constraints to increase in productive uses noted above, in many instances
rural businesses face entry and expansion barriers, most notably PLN tariff code practices: (i) the lack
of a provision for the installment payment for PLN charges for new connections or for increasing
contracted power that many firms find to be too high and; (ii) PLN's fixed demand charges, and
relatively high charges for increases in contracted power (kVA), that have reduced the effectiveness of
the SBS efforts. Removal of these barriers, that are not considered to be the primary constraints to
increased productive uses at present, is being addressed within the overall context of the Bank's policy
dialogue and the Government's agenda for sector reform, whose implementation should bring about
conditions under which the Government will find it easier to undertake restructuring of these and other
inefficient features of the present tariff structure (para 5.9).
Strategy for Future
2.24        The record of past accomplishments in expanding electricity coverage is impressive.
However, the un-finished task ahead is more formidable by several orders-of-magnitude, and the
institutional, financial and technical challenges that will have to be faced along the way cut to the very
core issue of efficiency, and RE program sustainability. Significant changes from past practices,
amounting to fundamental restructuring of the institutional and other design and delivery aspects of the
RE program are unquestionably needed. Sustaining the historical pace, let alone accelerating the pace of
growth in expanding access to electricity will require increasing the efficiency of the program -- technical,
managerial and institutional -- changes that significantly reduce the future cost of the program on the one
hand and enhance the benefits to the rural population on the other.
2.25        The unftnished task ahead. In the course of the last fifteen years spanning three
REPELITAs (1978/79-1993/94), and starting almost from ground zero, electricity access has reached
about 29,000 rural villages and about 8 million rural households receive PLN supply. To put this
accomplishment in perspective, the RE program has yet to pass even the half way mark in terms of
village coverage -- with about 31,000 villages remaining to be electrified -- and has only recently crossed
the quarter-way milestone in terms of the more important statistic of household electrification, with about
20 million households still waiting, literally and figuratively speaking, in the dark. Extrapolating at the
electrification pace reached in the recent past, and even with some provision for further acceleration, this
would imply that another 12 to 15 years would be required to achieve nearly 100 village electrification.
A more sobering implication is that it will be another 30 years at the very least before nearly all rural
homes begin to experience and share in the benefits derived from electricity service; assuming a modest
population growth rate of 1.5% per year.
2.26        Cost reduction: the continuing technical challenge. Maintaining the pace of growth of
the RE program will require all the technical ingenuity and organizational commitment to aggressively
seek and implement lower cost equipment and network designs, and delivery methods. As the RE
program pushes the geographical envelope of coverage further out, the financing constraint imposed
pressures to implement low cost reticulation designs for extensification and intensification loom large.
On the extensive margin, line lengths and material transportation costs in particular, are increasing at a
rapid rate, in order to gain access to more remote villages that require traversal over increasingly rugged
terrain. A similar challenge of high marginal costs must be confronted on the "intensive margin"
(intensification). This is best illustrated with an example, as in the case of the island of Bali where " 100
percent" electrification was achieved last year. Yet, about 40 percent of households in Bali will still not
have electricity and many are unlikely to receive PLN supply for a long time. Typically, these households
are clustered in hamlets (kampungs) of 30 to 50+ households, situated at distances ranging from 5 to



18
15 + kilometers from the nearest connecting point on the 20 kV grid. The capital costs of conventional
schemes for extending the grid to such individual clusters are extremely high; when coupled with low
consumer and load densities that result in low capacity utilization, most such situations pose an
uneconomic proposition using conventional approaches.
2.27       Grid extensification and intensification based on conventional network designs, equipment
standards, and implementation practices that can be justified in urban areas -- such as three phase MV
line extensions with 100% strength spun and pre-stressed concrete poles, and elaborate protection, and
sectionalizing equipment at substations -- are prohibitively expensive in the RE context. The proposed
project design incorporates several equipment and network design changes from present PLN practices
that will generate significant cost reductions. The proposed project also incorporates five pilot projects
to test the adaptability of "low tech" low cost network designs and equipment for RE extensification and
intensification, and construction management and procurement practices that have been successfully used
elsewhere, to reduce the costs of rural electrification; and if proven to be successful in Indonesia, these
designs will be incorporated as standard practice in the future RE program. Annex 4.2 provides a brief
description of the equipment and network design changes to be introduce in the proposed project, as well
as brief descriptions of the pilot project components.
2.28       RE-specific institutional restructuring. The single most important change that has the
potential for increasing the efficiency of the RE program by a significant quantum is in the manner in
which PLN is presently organized and manages RE.  Realizing cost reductions through technical
modifications (paras 2.26 and 2.27) will only go so far. Moreover, under the present organizational setup
and management model, incentives for pursuing technical cost reductions are weak. With changed
incentives, the RE managers themselves will become more creative in seeking solutions that reduce the
unit cost of RE delivery.
2.29       The commingling of management responsibilities for two distinct missions,i.e., RE and non-
RE operations, that require different technical solutions and management approach and culture, and with
a vastly divergent financial incentives, compromises the performance of PLN's RE as well as its urban-
industrial operations. RE operations by their very nature -- smaller and dispersed loads, more labor
intensive, low capacity utilization and relatively speaking representing the "low tech" end of the electricity
supply business -- impose a significantly higher investment and operating cost burden, and hence require
a subsidy. By contrast, PLN's urban-industrial electricity operations are largely commercial in nature
and profitable. As rural electrification coverage expands and with each new household connection, the
financial pressures on PLN increase, creating direct conflicts in objectives. With respect to its urban
operations, the strategic issues for management center around market share, profitability, customer
satisfaction, service unbundling, among others. By contrast, in the case of RE, the strategic issues
concern obligation to serve, cost minimization, and program sustainability. Under the present mixed
management model and an environment marked by conflicting priorities, rural electrification inevitably
takes a back seat. With the span of control of each top manager spread between RE and non-RE, the span
of attention given to RE is limited. Although government mandated physical targets for RE have been
met, efficiency is compromised. Very importantly, the long-term sustainability of the RE program cannot
be taken for granted by simply continuing to follow the "top-down" and mixed responsibility model for
designing, implementing and managing RE; a model that has stretched well beyond its limits of
effectiveness.
2.30       A range of institutional restructuring options are available for undertaking RE. Taking into
account the specific circumstances of PLN and drawing upon the experience with organizational and



19
management models and practices in countries that have rapidly and efficiently carried out RE -- such
as Thailand and Malaysia -- would point to an organizational and management model for PLN wherein:
(i) at the headquarters, consolidation of the responsibility for the full range of functions necessary to
undertake RE effectively within a single management unit and single point of responsibility, with
associated authority and accountability established at the highest levels and; (ii) in each of the eleven
operating regions and the four distribution units, establishing distinct and stand alone operating units, each
with a sharply defined separation -- management, operational and financial and accounting -- between the
RE and non-RE missions, with appropriate transfer prices set for any inter-unit transactions. Under such
a model, the RE units would report to the consolidated RE management unit at the headquarters. The
creation of such a distinct institutional and management sub-structure within PLN, accountable solely for
carrying out RE, and with direct and transparent access to the resources required to carry out its mission
in an efficient manner (para 1.28), will spawn a management and staff sub-culture that is driven by a
singular and well defined sense of mission. Such an organizational unit would feel empowered to take
the initiative in implementing the policies and actions necessary to accelerate the pace and enhance the
efficiency of the RE expansion program to their maximum potential. Details of the RE-specific
reorganization and management model are being presently worked out under PLN Restructuring Plan
effort financed by a Bank TA (para 1.27). The proposed project provides for TA to implement a time
bound action plan for RE-specific reorganization to be agreed to between the Bank and PLN, taking into
consideration the recommendations to be finalized in the context of the ongoing PLN Restructuring Plan.
2.31        Increasing private sector participation - published power purchase tariff. A key
efficiency objective of GOI and PLN for the power sector is to ensure that the generation supply mix in
PLN's various grids provide electricity at least cost. PLN cannot afford to neglect the potential for cost
savings -- fuel and capital -- resulting from purchases of electricity at a price equal to or lower than the
cost of PLN supply at the margin, i.e., not exceeding PLN's "avoided cost". The potential for such
efficiency gains arise because of the unique circumstances favoring the potential suppliers, such as: access
to a specific low cost power project, access to a low cost fuel resource, or where excess electricity can
be produced as a by-product (e.g., mini-hydro, mini-geothermal, biomass, cogeneration, excess captive
generation).
2.32        In keeping with the Government's stated goal of substantially increasing private sector
participation in the power sector (para 1.23) -- which the Bank fully supports -- a key policy component
of the proposed project is the creation of a sustainable and efficient small power market and to maximize
the volume and number of such transactions (contracts) in this market. Central to the realization of such
a market is the implementation of the small power purchase tariff derived from the following principles:
(i) published purchase price not to exceed PLN's avoided cost; and (ii) a standard simple power purchase
contract to apply for all transactions. Immediate corollaries of these principles are, respectively; (i) the
published tariff to apply to all small power purchases by PLN (i.e., the power purchase tariffs would not
be differentiated based on the technology or fuel source employed by the seller, whether it is captive
power, cogenerated power, "excess" power, renewable power, hydro, biomass etc., and the sellers cost
structure or "profit potential" would not be a consideration in the transaction); and (ii) there are to be no
negotiations (i.e., neither the tariff nor the contract clauses are negotiable). Negotiations in the case of
small power contracts typically: (a) result in a protracted contracting process, (b) inherently impose a
higher and crushing burden on the small developer because of the asymmetry in  information and
expertise available to the two parties, and (c) introduce the risk of manipulation by both sides.
Furthermore, as long as the purchase price does not exceed PLN's avoided cost, the resultant outcome
is to the advantage of all parties concerned and in the nation's interest. During negotiations for the
proposed project, agreement was reached that PLN shall, by June 30 (or such other date as may be



20
agreed by the Bank), every year commencing in 1995, revise and publish the small power purchase tariff
schedule including the form of the standardpower purchase contract in accordance with the methodology
agreed to by the Bank.
2.33       Understanding has also been reached with PLN as to the necessity of designing and
implementing a monitoring program that will enable periodic evaluation of the experience of the published
small power purchase tariff following implementation of the tariff. Such a data base will include, inter
alia, "expressions of interest" and contract signing under the program and essential information such as,
name and address of the owner, initial date of contact, technical and operating parameters of the project,
type of contract sought or signed, date of signing, date of first power delivery, etc.. The database and
monitoring system would provide a basis for evaluation of the resultant power transactions that take place
-- and those that did not -- which would point the way to desirable revisions and refinements to the tariff
and power purchase contract in order to enhance the efficiency, magnitude and scope of the small power
purchase market transactions.
2.34       Bulk supply tariff. A necessary condition for the entry of cooperatives and other private
sector operators in electricity distribution and retailing -- through Pola III schemes -- is the introduction
of a transfer price/bulk supply tariff at which the distributor would buy from PLN. Such a tariff would
be based on PLN's economic cost of supply, and the specific regulatory provisions governing its approval
and implementation would be under the jurisdiction of the DGEED which also has the responsibility for
approving retail tariffs of cooperatives. Agreement was reached during negotiations for the proposed
project that PLN shall, by June 30 (or such other date as may be agreed by the Bank), every year
commencing in 1995, revise and publish the bulk supply tariff schedule in accordance with the
methodology agreed to by the Bank.
2.35       Simply implementing a bulk supply tariff, however, will not trigger private sector
participation since the government controls retail tariffs as well, and under present conditions, all such
distributors would be caught in a "price squeeze" that make electricity distribution a financially non-viable
proposition. Therefore, it is essential for the government to clearly articulate policies and supporting
regulations on the handling of situations and conditions under which subsidies would be granted. The
source and mechanics of such a subsidy transfer is being worked out by DGEED in consultation with the
Government, bearing in mind that transparency is important in the provision of any such subsidies. The
DGEED will also establish a clear policy, following close consultation with the Governrment, whether the
subsidy would be directed to PLN -- in effect subsidizing the BST for a given retailer -- or given to the
distributor directly; and in which event the method for calculating the magnitude of such a subsidy.
Development of the policy framework and regulatory approach for handling this specific issue of
implementation of the bulk supply tariff and the design and implementation of detailed regulations for
regulatory oversight of both, the bulk supply tariff and the published small power purchase tariff, will
be undertaken within the broader "Regulatory Reform Study" (para 1.30). During negotiations for the
proposed project, it was agreed that the Government shall: (a) prepare and, by June 30, 1995, adopt
a policy regarding implementation of the power purchase tariff and bulk supply tariff satisfactory to the
Bank including policies governing the granting of any subsidies related to implementation of the bulk
supply tariff, rules and procedures for determining such subsidies and how such subsidies are to be
financed and directed in a transparent manner; and (b) draft, and by December 31, 1995, promulgate
rules and regulations concerning oversight of the power purchase tariff and bulk supply tariff
implementation, in form acceptable to the Bank.



21
2.36       Renewable energy development. PLN owns about 2,000 MW of diesel generating capacity
scattered through Indonesia, designed as a primary means to sustain RE growth in the Outer Islands.
Much of the diesel plant is under-utilized, with capacity factors averaging less than 30%. Following the
Government's decision to discontinue subsidies for most petroleum products, earlier this year, the price
of high speed diesel fuel (HSD) was raised on January 7, 1993 to Rp. 360 liter, in approximately parity
to economic/border prices; thereby raising the costs of diesel generation substantially. Under these
conditions, it has become increasingly important to consider alternative ways of optimizing electricity
supply sources, by utilizing cost effective renewable resources that are environmentally superior to fossil
fuels based generation.
2.37       Indonesia's renewable energy experience has generally been very positive, although in terms
of decentralized and small-scale applications, it has remained mainly a demonstration effort. Over 10,000
solar home systems (SHS) have been installed since 1988; as a strategy of electrification while waiting
access to grid connection. Numerous studies by DJLEB, PLN, BPPT, demonstrate the significant
potential of renewable energy. However, renewable energy projects need to be developed within the
framework of a least-cost rural electrification strategy, rather than as a series of individual demonstration
projects. A cohesive renewable energy development strategy to set goals, plans and policies is also
needed to guide donor funds towards priority investments. The RE Master Plan being prepared under
the Bank-funded TA component of the ongoing RE I project will establish for each region, the
economically optimal village electrification targets to be ultimately achieved in each region by grid
reticulation, as well as the corresponding year-to-year electrification targets for each region. Areas not
planned to be covered by grid extensions for at least ten years will be identified as well in this process,
and would be potential candidates for employing cost effective and decentralized generation alternatives
especially renewable based generation. A technical assistance component of the proposed project will
facilitate the preparation of a Renewable Energy Development Plan (para 4.6).
2.38       Most immediately, PLN can take advantage of the considerable design and development
work done so far in the areas of mini-hydro and mini-geothermal project development; projects that can
supply power to rural areas at economic costs that are lower than the cost of diesel-based power supply.
The proposed project includes construction of five mini-hydropower plants in Sulawesi and Eastern
Indonesia, and well test drilling for two mini-geothermal sites. If the test well drilling proves to be
successful as per expectations, financing for the mini-geothermal powerplants at those sites could be
considered for provision in a subsequent lending operation by the Bank.
Bank's Past Experience
2.39       Overview. The Bank group has played a very active role in the development of the power
sector in Indonesia. Since 1969, it has provided about $4.1 billion for the power sector, through three
IDA Credits, 18 loans and one supplemental loan. A list of past lending operations is provided in Annex
2.3. Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) and Project Completion Reports (PCRs) on the first
14 projects have concluded that the Bank has made positive contributions towards the development of the
Indonesian power sector over the past 20 years by improving PLN's project implementation, operational
and managerial capabilities and helping Indonesia meet critical demands for electricity. These reports
attribute the success of power operations in Indonesia to the facts that: (i) there was a long-term vision
for the development of the sector and this vision was shared by the Bank, Government and PLN; (ii) the
vision was translated into a long-term strategy which was resolutely pursued; and (iii) a reasonable
balance was struck between the physical and the institutional development components of the projects.
Taken altogether, these projects have assisted in the expansion of generation, transmission and distribution



22
facilities and rural electrification and institutional development of PLN. The technical assistance provided
by the Bank has also strengthened PLN's technical and management capabilities in engineering, project
management capabilities, distribution and rural electrification planning and management, and corporate
and financial planning. As a result of these efforts, PLN's implementation capacity and operational
efficiency have increased significantly, whereby it now handles an investment program of about US$ 3.5
billion per year, and connects over one million new customers annually.
2.40       Experience with rural electrification. The Bank's first and ongoing lending operation for
rural electrification (RE I, Loan 3180-IND), provides US$329 million to finance the bulk of the foreign
exchange costs of a time slice of the RE development plan through FY 94/95, and is scheduled to close
in June 1995. The Bank's objectives in the RE I project derive directly from the findings of the Rural
Electrification Review (Report 6144-IND, 1986). In addition to helping finance implementation of the
physical program elements, the key objectives of RE I are centrally aimed at: (i) development of a RE
Master Plan and upgrading of PLN's planning, technical and manpower capability in this area; (ii)
reducing the costs of future RE development by, (a) promoting the development of appropriate technical
standards for equipment performance and network design and construction practices, (b) reducing PLN's
costs and provide an opportunity for the development of village-based local participation in the form of
managerial, technical and labor resources (i.e., "Pola I & II" and "MSA" sub-contracting arrangements);
(iii) increasing the benefits of future RE development by development and demonstration of a pilot
program for increasing the productive uses of electricity by small businesses; and(iv) technical assistance
to develop methods to establish financial transparency in PLN's accounting of the costs of rural
electrification, as well as assistance for training personnel from PLN and the Ministry of Cooperatives
(MOC) to support the RE program.
2.41       By and large, the RE I project's scorecard vis-a-vis its objectives is favorable.  The
problems encountered in earlier power projects relating to the need to reduce implementation delays by
the timely appointment of consultants, and speedier procurement, still persist, though to a greatly reduced
extent. The Master Plan work-in-progress represents a major step forward in rationalizing RE planning
in Indonesia, and is directly helping rationalize the future sequencing of network (grid) reticulation;
including the allocation of national electrification target by region, extensification and intensification
within each region, and village selection in the proposed project. Assessing the performance of the RE
I project has to be seen in the context of a gradual and continuous learning process. Thus, changes in
equipment standards and performance specifications and in network design, facilitated by the RE I
project, provide the basis for significant cost reductions in the equipment and material costs of the
physical program in the next stage of rural electrification under the proposed project and advanced
knowledge coupled with PLN's evolved state of technical readiness set the stage for testing pilot
distribution projects in the proposed project that would form the basis for further cost reduction in RE
III, possibly with Bank financing. Experience gained with local participation under RE I -- in the form
of the Pola program -- has been generally quite positive, and provides the basis for seeking a more
ambitious and larger scale promotion of this concept. This would include introduction of a bulk supply
tariff for the sale of electricity by PLN to third parties engaged in electricity distribution (Pola III). In
addition, experience under RE I with the high cost diesel operations of PLN points the way for
aggressively seeking lower cost sources of generation including from private sources; a necessary
condition for which is the introduction of a published small power purchase tariff based on PLN's
"avoided cost" of supply and a standardized power purchase contract to apply for such purchases.



23
3
THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
3.1       The proposed loan would be made to the Government of Indonesia (GOI). The
proceeds of the proposed loan are to be made available to the State Electricity Corporation
(PLN), through an onlending arrangement, and to MOC; which are responsible for the
implementation of the respective components of the proposed project. PLN, the sole government-
owned national power utility, has been the beneficiary of Bank Group lending to the power
sector in Indonesia since 1969, including the first and ongoing rural electrification project (RE
I, Loan 3180-IND, paras 2.40 and 2.41). MOC, also a beneficiary of the RE I project, will
implement its project component through the Directorate of Industry and Electric Power
Promotion of its Directorate General of Urban Cooperatives Development.
PLN's Organization
3.2       PLN was established as a public corporation (Perum) under a Presidential Decree
of 1972, that confers upon it the responsibility and obligation to manage Indonesia's power
system, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, and the planning,
construction and operation of electricity supply facilities (para 1. 8). At present, PLN is managed
in a centralized command and control manner, by a Board of Directors headed by a President
Director who is appointed by the President of the Republic, and is accountable to MME. The
Board of Directors have, both, policy setting and supervisory responsibilities.  PLN's
organization chart is shown in Annex 3.1.
3.3        For the Java-Bali system, the operational responsibility rests with the managers of
two generation and transmission units, the Java-Bali load dispatch center, and four distribution
units. For the Outer Islands, operational responsibility rests with the managers of PLN's eleven
operating regions and the special region of Batam island. Under the Regional Manager, there
are four primary departments with Deputy Managers in charge of Operations, Construction,
Finance, and Administration. Each Region has a number of branches and sub-branches. The
branch manager is responsible for service at the customer level, and reports directly to the
Regional Manager. The Construction Divisions in the Regions have responsibility for distribution
lines and small generation facilities (under 1 MW), with major construction and procurement
decisions being the responsibility of a number of project managers who report directly to the
Board. There is no real separation of management responsibility for RE and non-RE operations
and functions in the regions, the distribution units or at the Board level.
Institutional Change
3.4       PLN's managing and operating capabilities have increased along with energy sales;
it has effectively managed a large investment program, and constructed and operated large coal-
fired plants in Java-Bali. Annex 3.2 shows some of the performance indicators for PLN for the



24
years 1981/82 to 1992/93; they indicate significant achievements in several areas. However,
when compared with best utility practices, there is considerable scope for improvement. PLN
has reached the limits of its effectiveness under the present organizational structure and
management systems, and a detailed plan for restructuring PLN is now underway and will be
finalized by December 1994 (paras 1.27 and 1.28).
3.5        With centralized control and most decisions requiring Board approval, the Managers
of PLN's Regions in the Outer Islands and the four distribution units in Java-Bali have limited
planning and operational flexibility and discretion; correspondingly, their accountability for
operational efficiency is also limited. As a result, the Managers have few opportunities or
incentives to initiate steps to improve the quality and level of service and/or reduce costs by
introducing efficiency measures. These systemic problems are further compounded by the lack
of a clear separation of responsibility and accountability -- management, technical performance,
financial -- at headquarters and in the regions, between PLN's RE and non-RE operations;
despite the fact that these two missions are quite distinct in terms of the technical, commercial,
and customer administration challenges. With decisions on standards, planning, on-ground
implementation, procurement, monitoring, and responsibility for overseeing construction in-field
residing in so many different functions and operational units, global cost and efficiency of the
RE program are compromised; since the outcome is based on a management system of
coordinated and collective responsibility and conflicting objectives inherent between RE and non-
RE operations under the present organizational and management structure (paras 2.28 through
2.30).
3.6        During negotiations for the proposed project, agreement was reached with the
Government and PLN that they shall (a) furnish to the Bank, (i) such periodic reports concerning
the reorganization of PLN as reasonably requested by the Bank, and (ii) a draft time bound
corporate reorganization and restructuring action plan, based on terms of reference agreed with
the Bank, for PLN to operate according to best utility practices (including an action plan for
restructuring specific to rural electrification); (b) discuss the said report(s) and draft action plan
with the Bank; (c) finalize the said action plan taking into account the comments, if any, thereon
by the Bank, and (d) by June 30, 1995, take appropriate steps to implement the said action plan
taking into consideration the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank.
Staff Development and Training
3.7        As of March 31, 1993, PLN had nearly 56,000 employees, of whom about 46,000
are permanent staff. PLN has no difficulty in recruiting staff educated at levels up to technical
high school; however, less than 5% of the staff have university degrees. PLN's Center for
Education and Training (PUSDIKLAT), plays an important role in its efforts to upgrade the
skills of its technical and administrative staff, and manages ten training centers with a staff of
over 500, including over 200 trained instructors. These efforts have been largely successful. In
1992/93, about 8,000 staff received training of various durations, including about 200 staff
trained abroad. PLN also expends considerable effort in training personnel from rural areas in
labor intensive functions such as meter reading and bill collection, house wiring, and more
technical functions such as low voltage line maintenance, and diesel power plant operations.
Once trained, these individuals are sub-contracted through the various Pola arrangements and
Management Service Agreements (MSAs) between PLN and KUDs, to undertake the



25
corresponding functions on a fee basis, that would otherwise require the hiring of full time PLN
staff and at a higher cost (paras 2.17 and 2.18).
3.8        The Bank has supported PLN's training activities and human resources development
efforts, including the establishment of several training centers. Current efforts being supported
by the Bank include training in the areas of diesel power plant efficiency improvements,
distribution management, corporate and financial planning, and general accounting and cash
management. Additional training activities related to rural electrification include RE planning and
best RE practices in other countries.
Accounting and Budgeting
3.9        PLN's accounting system, installed in the early 1970s, follows generally accepted
accounting principles, and normal utility practices, but it needs upgrading to keep pace with the
growing complexity and volume of accounting transactions. The accounting system needs to
produce more accurate information in a timely manner for decision-making purposes. Also,
PLN's internal procedures for preparing budgets and monitoring actual expenditures need to be
strengthened through better coordination among and participation by the various functional
directorates and regional offices in the process, to enhance the budget's value as a management
tool. Since 1987, PLN has been implementing an action plan to improve its accounting practices
and functions. PLN is also attempting to improve coordination between its departments and its
regional offices in the areas of budget preparation, and monitoring and evaluation of
performance. Technical assistance is provided under the Power Sector Efficiency Project (Loan
3097-IND) to improve the accounting system. The Rural Electrification Project (Loan 3180-
IND) provides technical assistance to continue to enhance the system for the segregation of
PLN's accounting of its RE operations.
Billing and Collections
3.10       PLN's bills are computerized and prepared monthly at the Jakarta headquarters; for
the Outer Islands, the bills are prepared at the branch level, and printed by the Region's Finance
Division. Overall collection performance is generally satisfactory. The receivables position of
general consumer accounts has been good, as it has been kept below one and one-half months
of the yearly billing. The overdues from government users (including the Armed Forces and
local governments), which account for about 10 percent of PLN's total sales, have also been
maintained to under two months' billing.
Audit and Internal Control
3.11       PLN's accounts are required by its charter to be audited by Government auditors.
The audits are carried out following generally accepted accounting practices and standards. In
the audit reports for 1989 through 1993 there were no qualifications. As a result of joint efforts
by PLN and its auditors, the time required for completing PLN's audits has been reduced
significantly over the last three years. In recent years, the accounts have generally been finalized
within three months after the closing of the fiscal year and the audited accounts were available
within four months of the close of the fiscal year. The audit covenant under Loan 3602-IND,
that requires PLN to submit to the Bank its audited financial statements and the report of such
audits no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, was also agreed to under the



26
proposed project. In addition, PLN would furnish to the Bank (i) a copy of its unaudited annual
accounts whenever they are sent to the auditors; and (ii) its segregated financial and operating
information on rural activities within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
3.12       PLN has an effective internal audit group which reports to the President Director
for various special investigations, in addition to keeping general and project accounting matters
under review. The Bank is discussing with Government and PLN the desirability of having
PLN's accounts audited by internationally reputed commercial accounting firms, independently
of Government auditors. Such commercial audits would not only ensure timely availability of
PLN's audited accounts, but would also provide greater comfort to the capital markets, which
PLN would be accessing increasingly following its recent conversion to a Persero, for funds to
finance its capital expenditures.
Insurance
3.13       PLN currently carries transit and marine insurance on equipment and materials in
transit. Projects under construction are covered by the contractor's all risk and erection
insurance. Fire and other hazards on most of the assets in operation are self-insured. In view
of the geographical spread of PLN's assets, any single loss would be relatively small by
comparison with total assets and operations, and this policy has been considered satisfactory by
the Bank. However, with some very large projects having been completed in recent years and
others now under implementation, there would be a greater concentration of assets in certain
locations than in the past. An understanding was reached under Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND
that major works, plant and equipment at large power projects would be insured with outside
agencies. Accordingly, PLN is currently carrying commercial insurance for major operating
plants and equipment at several large power projects totalling about 4,900 MW, in and outside
Java. PLN is also considering proposals for creating a fund for self-insurance of the remaining
assets.
The Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development (MOC)
3.14       MOCs involvement in rural electrification began in 1978, when it served as the
implementing agency for a USAID-financed project to set up demonstration electric cooperatives
in three rural areas in Lampung (South Sumatra), Lombok (West Nusa Tenggara) and Luwu
(South Sulawesi), which are the three major Pola IV schemes (paras 2.11 and 2.12). MOC's
involvement in rural electrification is currently handled through its Directorate General of Urban
Cooperatives Development (Direktorat Pembangunan Koperasi Perkotaan (DJPKP), that among
other things, took over the functions of the former Directorate for the Promotion of Electric
Cooperatives and Project Development office. Through its Directorate for Industry and Electric
Power promotion, MOC also collaborates with PLN for the implementation of the joint MOC-
MME program to promote the role of village cooperatives in rural electrification. MOC is also
a member of the RE Steering Committee chaired by the DGEED to ensure inter-agency
coordination and cooperation in matters related to the Government's rural electrification
program. An organization chart of MOC is shown in Annex 3.3.
3.15       MOC's primary role in RE is to promote and facilitate local participation by village
cooperative organizations (KUDs), in Pola I-IV and MSA contracts with PLN. MOC's field staff
at the provincial (KANDEP) and district (KANWIL) levels are key to carrying out this mission.



27
These staff typically: (i) help monitor progress and facilitate resolution of any problems with the
ongoing Pola and MSA contracts between PLN and KUDs by bringing both parties together; (ii)
identify prospective new KUDs interested in entering into such contracts with PLN; and (iii)
facilitate the required follow-up steps in such instances, including discussions with the PLN
regional managers, and facilitating the necessary training of KUD personnel at PLN's regional
training centers (UDIKLAT). However, their ability to carry out this role effectively is hampered
by the insufficient knowledge about the various facets of the electricity supply. A TA on human
resource development, financed under the ongoing RE I project is providing training for MOC's
headquarters and KANWIL and KANDEP staff on the basics of electricity supply; technical
aspects, safety, financial and accounting systems, customer administration, and management.
This basic grounding will strengthen the institutional capacity of MOC to facilitate expansion of
the Pola Program component of the proposed project.
3.16       Technical assistance would be provided to MOC under the proposed project for:
(i) implementation support for the Pola Program expansion to be carried out; and (ii) policy
support to undertake the detailed feasibility studies and advanced preparation required for
potentially setting up Pola III schemes in up to two promising areas, Central Java and South
Sulawesi.



28
4
THE PROJECT
RE Development Plan.
4.1        PLN has prepared year-by-year RE plans for REPELITA VI (1994/95-1998/99) targets for
rural electrification, that call for the connection of about 6.5 million new consumers and 18,600 villages
over the five year period. The physical program underlying this expansion involves the installation of
about 62,000 kmc (circuit-kIn) of MV lines, 105,000 kcm of LV power lines, 3000 MVA of transformer
capacity, and 40 MW of additional diesel capacity, requiring capital expenditures of about US$1.7 billion
(in 1993 prices) over the five year period. Details of this plan are shown in Annex 4.1. The physical
program requirements and estimated expenditures are to be finalized by June 1995, under the ongoing
Bank-financed technical assistance for development of the overall RE Master Plan for Indonesia, under
the RE I project. The RE Master Plan will establish for each region, based upon a computerized RE
Planning System (REPS), the year-by-year village electrification levels to be achieved, extensions of the
various regional grids and in the process will also determine an economic rank order of priority for
electrifying the remaining 30,000 villages; including those villages where the grid extension is not
economically feasible for the foreseeable future and alternate decentralized means would be necessary for
electrification.
Project Objectives and Scope
4.2        The specific objectives of the proposed RE II project, besides continuing Bank support for
the broader reform agenda for the power sector initiated under the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power
Project, are to:
(a)   advance the efforts initiated under RE I project to place the rural electrification
program in Indonesia on an efficient and sustainable footing by: (i) reducing the unit
cost burden of RE through least-cost planning, lowering equipment and construction
costs, and by restructuring PLN's organizational structure and management processes
specific to its RE mission; (ii) enhancing the efficiency of RE delivery by increasing
and strengthening local participation; and (iii) maximizing the economic benefits of
RE by promoting productive uses of electricity in rural areas;
(b)   expand the coverage and supply of electricity to rural areas through a time slice
investment program;
(c)   establish incentives for private sector and local cooperatives to take an increasingly
larger share of RE distribution and alternative energy development within the
framework of a least-cost RE Master Plan, specifically by implementing: (i) a
published power purchase tariff based on PLN's "avoided cost of supply" and
standard contract for purchases by PLN from small power producers; (ii) a bulk



29
supply tariff for wholesale sales of power by PLN to potential retail distributors of
electricity based on PLN's economic cost of supply;
(d)   continue PLN's  institutional development to  undertake  RE  planning  and
implementation, especially at the regional level; and
(e)   undertake pilot distribution programs that have the potential for further reducing the
costs of RE extensification and intensification, with a view to introducing them as
regular components in the Government's rural electrification program, possibly
supported by future Bank lending.
Project Description
4.3        The principal components of the proposed project are as follows:
(a)   electrification of 7000 rural villages in the second and third years of Repelita VI
(95/96-96/97); comprising about 2.1 million new consumers -- 1.8 million from
extensification and 350,000 from intensification -- through the construction of an
estimated 28,000 kmc of MV lines and 35,000 kmc of LV lines, 1.3 million poles
and 833 MVA of distribution transformer capacity;
(b)  implementation of economic sub-transmission schemes aimed at promoting private
sector participation in small-scale generation by interconnecting captive power plants,
cogeneration plants and other small power producers that are prepared to sell power
to a PLN regional or mini-grid serving a rural area. For such transactions, a
published power purchase tariff will be offered by PLN; derived in a transparent
manner from PLN's "avoided cost of supply" in different regions, and which is
available to all such potential sellers on a non-discriminatory and non-negotiated
basis as per the terms of a simple and standard power purchase contract;
(c)   development by PLN of five mini-hydro projects with an aggregate capacity of 7.45
MW, and field test drilling of two mini-geothermal fields in Lombok and Ambon for
which power plant construction would be considered for financing under a proposed
follow-on Renewable Energy Development project;
(d)   pilot projects to test the adaptability of low cost "low tech" equipment designs, low
cost network reticulation designs and more efficient construction management
methods for full scale implementation in RE III;
(e)   expansion of the ongoing rural small business services component to promote
productive uses of electricity by businesses in rural areas, including participation by
NGOs;
(f)  implementation support for expansion of the Pola I, II and MSA schemes for local
participation by village level cooperatives and organizations in power distribution
related activities; and preparation of up to two geographic areas for possible
conversion to Pola III; and



30
(g)  technical assistance for: (i) enhancing the RE planning systems capability within PLN
and transferring it to PLN Regions and branches; (ii) preparation of a Renewable
Energy Master Plan for rural electrification in areas not likely to be covered by
PLN's major regional grids within the next ten years; and (iii) implementing the RE-
specific institutional changes required to enhance the organizational and management
efficiency of undertaking RE within PLN, that is consistent with the ongoing
restructuring of PLN and its conversion to Persero status.
4.4        The investment component of the proposed project has been developed on the basis of
advance results available from the RE Master Plan effort. Since the proposed project would cover a two-
year time slice of the RE Development Plan, and further to the agreement reached to review with the
Bank annually, PLN's development program and investment plan (para 1.32), agreemenL was reached
during negotiations for the proposed project that PLN shall: (a) by October 31 of each year commencing
in 1995, until completion of the project, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, PLN's draft
annual electrification development and investment plans; and (b) thereafterfinalize the said development
plans taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank.
4.5         System cost and developmental impacts The distribution investment component of the
proposed project incorporates several modifications in equipment specifications and network designs that
would provide significant cost reductions from past PLN practices. These changes in equipment technical
standards and performance specifications, and in network design and construction practices, are the
outcome of TA efforts financed under the Bank's RE I project and as a result of PLN's evolved state of
technical readiness in RE. Since design improvements are the outcome of a continuous process, the
proposed project includes pilot projects that if proven successful, will set the stage for realizing further
cost reductions in subsequent RE programs. Annex 4.2 provides further information about the key design
changes as well as brief descriptions of the pilot project components and the potential for further cost
reductions. Besides targeting and monitoring efficiency improvements in service delivery, the project also
contains elements that will help better assess developmental impacts than hitherto. A TA component on
enhancing RE Planning (para 4.6) will facilitate monitoring of household connection rates over time,
following village electrification as well as household consumption rates and patterns over time. The Rural
Business Services component (para 4.7) incorporates a monitoring system that will help assess the
project's impact on increasing productive activity in rural areas.
4.6        Technical Assistance. The technical assistance components of the project are individually
identified by category and value, in Table 4.1. Out of a total value of about US$29 million, nearly 70%
is for engineering and implementation support of the project components identified. About US$8. 1 million
of TA is for institutional development to: (i) enhance the RE Planning System (REPS) being developed
under the ongoing RE Master Plan TA, and to implement and operationalize the systems and planning
capabilities in PLN's regional offices; and (ii) implement the RE-specific organizational restructuring of
PLN's RE Management and Operational Units and supporting management and financial and other
systems necessary to operationalize such changes. In addition, about US$1.3 million is for policy support
for: (i) preparation of the Renewable Energy Development Plan (paras 2.37 and 2.38); and (ii)
preparation of up to two rural areas where responsibility for electricity distribution would be devolved
from PLN and taken over by a local organization under a Pola III scheme (para 3.16). Terms of reference
(TOR), for all but one of the TA components have been prepared and agreed to with PLN and MOC,
and are contained in the Project Management and Implementation Plan (PMIP) report (para 4.26). The
TOR for the RE-specific reorganization restructuring support for PLN are to be prepared based once the
findings and recommendations of the management consultants that are presently supporting PLN in the



31
Table 4.1: ALLOCAnON OF TECNICAL ASSISTANCE
Value
Category                        Component                   USS million La
PLN
1. Engineering/
Implemenaion Support    Project Management Unit                 0.99
Rural Business Services                6.81
Pilot Projects                         4.97
Mini-Hydro                             2.01
Mini-Geothermal                        3.05
17.83
2. Policy Support            Renewable Energy Development
Plan for Electrification               0.68
3. Institutional Development   Extension of RE Planning Capability  5.80
Organizational Restructuring of PLN's
RE Management and Operational Units    2.32
8.12
Subtot PLN                                                     26.63
MlOC
1. Implementation Support    Pola Program Implementation            1.54
2. Policy Support            Pola M Development                     0.66
Subtotal MOC                                                    2.20
Total
LA Including contingencies but excluding tax (VAT).



32
ongoing PLN Restructuring Plan (para 3.6), become available. In total, this technical assistance would
involve about ten foreign consultant contracts. During negotiations for the proposed project, agreement
was reached with PLN that the consultants for the various TA components, identified in Table 4.1, will
be appointed under terms-of-reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and by no later than the
corresponding dates identified in the Project Management and Implementation Plan (PMIP) report (para
4.26).
4.7        Productive uses - Rural Business Services (RBS). The proposed RBS component for
promoting productive uses of electricity draws from the lessons learnt with the small business services
(SBS) pilot component under the Bank's ongoing RE I project; and addresses the key productive use
constraints, on both the demand (business) and supply (PLN) sides, which at present continue to limit the
financial and economic benefits of rural electrification: (a) demand-side information constraints to
increased productive uses remain important. SBS demonstrates that these can be addressed effectively
through improved PLN marketing efforts. However, the high unit costs experienced, as anticipated,
under SBS would be reduced under RBS by using better targeting and more cost effective promotional
campaigns to be carried out by non-governmental organizations (NGOs); and (b) weaknesses in PLN's
corporate capabilities for SBS due to insufficient analysis, and gaps in the collection of financial and
economic data on productive uses, the newness of small business services in PLN, insufficient staffing
of the central SBS unit, and incomplete coordination between the provision of PLN distribution materials
and equipment and SBS marketing efforts have limited PLN's success in providing services to business
in rural areas. These weaknesses would be directly addressed within RBS, by further strengthening of
the present SBS unit within PLN, by the provision of a full-time RBS advisor, and by adjustments to and
further sharpening of the SBS program strategy, design and management. Annex 4.5 provides further
elaboration of the RBS program strategy and design, including a review of the experience to date with
the SBS program under the RE I project.
4.8        Pola program. The primary objective of the Pola Program component in the proposed
project is to enhance the efficiency of RE delivery and increase local participation, by substantially
expanding sub-contracting to KUDs and other local organizations, or by PLN out-sourcing or otherwise
devolving itself of as many distribution, operational and management functions that can be more
efficiently and cost effectively carried out by other providers. This component is designed to improve
upon and greatly multiply the benefits that are already being experienced under the ongoing Pola program
in the RE I project (paras 2.17 and 2.18). A key secondary objective is to select and prepare up to two
geographical areas for possible conversion to Pola IIls in RE III; possibly one in central Java, and another
in South Sulawesi (paras 2.20 and 3.16).
4.9        Details of the Pola Program design are elaborated in the PMIP report (para 4.26). Briefly,
the Pola Program targets call for a near doubling of the total number of Pola I&II and MSA schemes
(4400 by the end of FY 1997/98); with a five-fold increase in the MSA grid contracts from about 90
today to about 600 by the end of FY 1997/98. The major elements of the Pola Program design are aimed
at: (i) strengthening the weak skills base of KUD personnel through a nation-wide Pola I, II and MSA
training program to be facilitated by enhancing PLN's capacity to implement a training program
consistent with the target penetration levels; (ii) reducing the excessive delays in implementing Pola/MSA
schemes caused by administrative procedures at PLN, by incorporating more effective trouble-shooting
capability in the program management structure; (iii) enhancing MOC's ability to support KUDs by
providing program promotion orientation and management training at the Pusat, KANWIL and KANDEP
levels; (iv) implementing a revised and more flexible fee structure for Pola I, II and salary formula for
MSA activities in order to attract better qualified KUD personnel while simultaneously ensuring cost



33
effectiveness from PLN's perspective, with regional managers to have some flexibility in negotiating fees
appropriate to regional cost structures; and (v) transferring additional utility functions through a greater
emphasizes on MSA-grid arrangements in particular, including introduction of the bulk supply tariff to
facilitate Pola III conversions (paras 2.19 and 2.20).
4.10        Mini-hydro. The mini-hydro component of the project will support installations at five sites
in Sulawesi and Eastern Indonesia, with an aggregate generating capacity of 7.5 MW. All projects would
be connected to existing mini-diesel grids, thereby displacing diesel fuel. Individual projects range in size
from 0.86 MW to 2.6 MW, use a run-of-river design and require minimal pondage. Favorable site
conditions for installation, operation, and maintenance have been confirmed at each site. These include
good harbor access, adequate roads, and availability of local labor and supplies. A standard horizontal
Francis turbine-generator design would be used at four of the five sites resulting in considerable savings
from standardization in procurement, installation, training, operation and maintenance and spare parts
inventory management. Annex 4.10 provides more detailed data on the technical characteristics of the
five mini-hydro project sites.
4.11        Mini-geothermal test wells. The mini-geothermal component provides for well test drilling
at two sites in Eastern Indonesia: at Semablun in Lombok, and Tulehu in Ambon. The potential
generating capability at each site is estimated to be 10 MW; and in both instances the displaced fuel will
be diesel fuel. The objective of the mini-geothermal component is to: (i) confirm the power generating
capability of each field (MW, and life); (ii) estimate the cost of tapping such power and verify whether
it would be economic against alternative options; (iii) ascertain whether the power can be produced in
an environmentally sound manner; and (iv) prepare the field and power development programs. In order
to meet these objectives, it is proposed to drill two test holes in each field and monitor the steam and
other effluent for a period of about ten months (flow rates, temperatures, and fluid and gas composition);
on the basis of which the technical, economic and environmental feasibility of a mini-geothermal power
plant will be established for each site. If results are positive, this testing phase will also provide the
necessary data to develop detailed designs and cost estimates and bidding documents for the power plant
to be constructed as well as detail designs for environmental mitigation that is found to be necessary in
the specific context of each site.
4.12        Specific activities to be financed under the proposed project are: (i) preparation of detailed
engineering design and approach for test well drilling and monitoring, including the engineering design
of measures for monitoring, collecting and disposal of effluent in an environmentally acceptable manner;
(ii) test well drilling; (iii) well monitoring and testing; (iv) technical, economic and environmental
analysis of data collected from the monitoring phase; and (v) preparation of detailed cost estimates and
designs for field development and power plant construction and corresponding environmental and any
resettlement plans as appropriate, for implementation and possible financing in a follow-on Bank loan.
4.13        Interconnection  of captive power plants. This component provides for financing
interconnections with existing captive power plants and other small power producers that find it
financially attractive to sell any excess capacity and energy to a PLN regional grid supplying power to
rural areas. The pricing basis for such transactions would be the published small power purchase tariff
and standard contract that would be agreed to with PLN under the policy component of the proposed
project (paras 2.31 and 2.32).



34
Project Cost
4.14       The estimated project cost, inclusive of duties and taxes and physical and price
contingencies, is US$ 743 million. The total financing requirement, including interest during construction
(IDC) and financing charges on the Bank loan, amounts to about US$ 841 million; with US$ 465 million
in foreign exchange and US$ 376 million in local funds and assuming that PLN self-finances all local
currency costs instead of borrowing. Cost estimates are in December 1994 prices, and utilizing an
exchange rate of 2193. Price contingencies for foreign costs are assumed at 2.2 percent per year during
the project implementation period, and for local costs at 5.0 percent per year. The cost estimates, by
major program components are summarized in Table 4.2.
Financing Plan
4.15        The financing plan is summarized in Table 4.3. A proposed Bank loan of US$ 398.0
million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost
exclusive of interest during construction and taxes, and about 47 percent of the total financing required.
Of this loan amount, about US$ 2.2 million equivalent would be made available to MOC, and the balance
of US$ 395.8 million equivalent would be on lent to PLN. Agreement was reached with GOI during
negotiations for the proposed project that the GOI will on lend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan,
except for the $2.2 million for technical assistance to the Ministry of Cooperatives, to PLN under a
subsidiary loan agreement with a 20 year term includingfive years grace period. The subsidiary loan will
be denominated in foreign currency withdrawn and the onlending interest rate would be equal to the
Bank's standard variable interest rate plus 0.5 percent per annum. In addition, PLN will pay to GOI a
commitment charge of 0. 75 percent per annum or at such other percentage rate as the Government shall
pay to the Bank on the undisbursed amount of the Subsidiary Loan from time to time. The foreign
exchange risk will be borne by PLN. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and PLN,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. Agreement was also reached that
the Government would provide the necessary local funds to PLN to complete the project.



35
Table 4.2: PROJECT COST SUmmARY
Forern
(RD billion)        fusasI;n)        "5
Local Foreign Total  Local iFOreign Todd   of total
A. PLN Component
1. Distribution Schemes
Java RE Expansion             228.5  344.0  572.5 104.8 157.8  262.6   60
Java RE Intensification        26.7  41.2   67.9  12.2  18.9  31.2   61
Off Java RE Expansion         296.7  319.7  616.4 136.1 146.6  282.7   52
Off Java RE Intensification    18.8  21.2   40.0   8.6   9.7   18.4   53
Interconn. Of Captive Power     6.1   8.8   14.9  2.8   4.0   6.8   59
Subtotal Distribution            S76.7  734.9 1,311.7 264.5 337.1  601.7   56
2. Pilot Projects
SWER                            0.1   0.3    0.4   0.1   0.1    0.2   69
Low Tech Concras Pois           2.7   2.1    4.8   1.3   0.9   2.2   43
TaP Substation                  4.4   6.3   10.6  2.0   2.9   4.9   59
CA4C                            2.3   5.9    8.2   1.1  2.7    3.7   72
Subtotal RE m Pilots               9.5  14.5   24.0   4.4   6.6   11.0   60
3. Min-Hyrdro/Geothernul
Mini-Hydro                     17.3  20.1   37.4   8.0  9.2   17.2   54
Mini-Geothernal                10.0  15.1   25.1   4.6   7.0   11.6   60
Subtotal Mini-Hydro/Goo           27.3  35.2   62.5  12.5  16.1  28.7   56
4. Rural BusinS Sevices           11.0   3.2   14.1   5.0   1.5   6.5   23
5. PolaParom                      13.4    -      13.4  6.2   -      6.2      -
6. Other TA                        8.3  12.3   20.6   3.8   5.7   9.5   60
Base Cost PLN Component            646.2  800.1 1,4C6.3 296.4 367.1  663.5   55
Physical Contingencies            43.3  47.2   90.5  19.9  21.6  41.5   52
Price Contingencies              102.6  119.6  222.2  16.5  19.1  35.6   54
Total Project Cost (PLN)           792.2  9C6.8 1,759.0 332.8 407.8  740.6   55
Interet During Costruction        93.2  120.6  213.8  42.7  55.3  98.0   56
Total Financing Required (PLN)     NL  1,087.4 1972.8 37i -46U   D3L          Z
B. MOC Component
1. Pola Program Stupport           1.1   2.3    3.4   0.4   1.1   1.5   68
2. PolaIl Proaupaort               0.2   1.2    1.4  0.1   0.5    0.7   82
Base Cost MOC Component              1.3   3.5    4.8   0.6   1.6   2.2   72
Physical Contingencies             0.1   0.1    0.2   0.0   0.1   0.1   65
Price Contingencies                0.2   0.8    1.0   0.0  0.1   0.1   79
Total Project Cost (MOC)             1.6   4.4    6.0  0.7   1.8   2.4   72
Interest During Construction       0.0   0.5    0.5  0.0   0.2   0.2  100
Total Financing (MOC)                  f    LO    6i.   0L7   2.   L27    7
Total Project Base Costs           647.6  803.6 1,451.1 297.0 368.6  66S.7   55
Physical Contingencies            43.4  47.3   90.7  19.9  21.7  41.6   52
Prce Contingencies               102.8  120.4  223.2  16.5  19.2  35.7   54
Total Project Costs La                    l P2L  1,7CS.0 333.5 MUS  7243L  M
Interst During Construction         100.7  131.1  231.8  42.7  55.6  98.3   57
Total Finaaning Required           89. 1W   1.9C.8 376.2 4           l      MU
La Includes taxes and duties amounting to US$63.7 million equivalent.
Costs based on exchange rate - Rp 2,193.



36
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Local        Foreign      Total
-----(US$ million)-------
PLN Component
IBRD                       11.4        384.4         395.8
PLN/
GOI                       364.1         78.7         442.8
PLN Subtotal              375.5        463.1         838.6
MoC Component
IBRD                       0.5           1.7          2.2
GOI                        0.2           0.3          0.5
MOC subtotal               0.7           2.0          2.7
TOTAL FINANCING                  376.2        465.1        841.3
4.16       Financing for expansion of the productive uses program -- the Rural Businesses Services
component to be undertaken by PLN -- as well as financing for the Pola Program component of PLN -
is to be sourced from PLN's annual contribution to the Government's "PPELK fund" (Pembinaan
Pengusahaan Ekonomi Lemah dan Kooperasi); that is intended for the development of economically weak
enterprises and cooperatives. PLN's contributions to this fund are transferred from MOF to an account
in the name of MME; and disbursements are made by MME for pre-approved activities carried out by
PLN and that are consistent with the objectives of the PPELK fund. During negotiations for the proposed
project, agreement was reached with GOI thatfinancing for the Rural Business Services (RBS) program
as well as financing for the local costs of the Pola program component of PLN will be providedfrom the
PPELK fund; and to the extent that such funds turn out to be less than the required amount, the
Government would make up the shortfall.
Procurement
4.17       Procurement arrangements for the proposed project are summarized in Table 4.4. The Bank
loan would finance procurement of the following items: (a) equipment for distribution network extensions
and connecting new consumers; (b) concrete power line poles; (c) equipment for mini-hydro, mini-
geothermal and pilot project schemes; (d) drilling services for the mini-geothermal component; and (e)
consultancy services. All goods and house connection items to be financed under the Bank loan will be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines and utilizing the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) in their organization, format and



37
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT
(US$ million)
Procreten Method
International   Local
Competitive   Competitive                        Total
Bidding      Bidding    Other /a  N.B.F.lb     Cost
A. PLN Component
Line Mterials and Poles IS      197.7         67.6        3.6      24.4       293.3
(197.7)       (54.1)1t    (2.7)/e    -        (254.4)
Transformers and other Equipment  44.7         -         12.7Lf     -          57.4
(44.7)                  (10.7)                (55.4)
Construction (installation of     -            -          -       160.6       160.6
poles, power lines, etc.)
House Connections (including     48.5          -          -        24.0        72.5
constuction)                   (48.5)                                         (48.5)
Drilling Services and             -            -         10.8       7.8        18.6
CivilWolkss                                           (10.8)                 (10.8)
Technical Assistance
1. Implementation Support         -            -         17.8       -          17.8
(17.8)                (17.8)
2. Policy Support                 -            -          0.7       -           0.7
(0.7)                 (0.7
3. InstitutionalDevelopment       -            -          8.1       -           8.1
(8.1)                 (8.1)
Pola Trining Program              -            -          -         6.4         6.4
Engineering, Construction,        -            -          -        41.6        41.6
Supervision
Taxes                             -            -          -        63.5        63.5
Subtotal PLN                    290.9         67.6       53.7     328.4       740.6
(290.9)       (54.1)     (50.8)      -        (395.8)
B. MOC Component
Pola Training                     -            -          1.5       -           1.5
(1.5)                 (1.5)
Pola m Preparation                -0.7                              -           0.7
(0.7)                 (0.7)
Taxes                             -            -          -         0.2         0.2
Subtotal MOC                      -            -          2.2       0.2         2.4
(2.2)      -          (2.2)
Total                          2             C                                Zia
(290.9)       (54.1)     (53.0)               (398.0)
a Goods and services tob .pr        by limited intrnationa bidding or shopping procedures.
Not Bank-financed. Equipment and construction to be procured by local competitive biddin.
Includes insulators, LYand bare conductors and accessories, poles, pole hardware and mold and
fittins.
14 Out of the total of $67.6 million for concrete power line poles, the Bank will finance 80% (or $54.1
million).
/o Comrnpses equipmont for pilot proiects.
Comprisos oquipmnt for mini-hyd  prjects ($8.6 million), for pilot projects ($1.7 million), and
miscellaneous purchases ($2.4 million).
La Compriss two drilling services contract for mini-geothermal component.
Note: Figure in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed under the proposed IBRD loan.



38
language; with the following exceptions. Concrete power line poles would be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures in accordance with GOI guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
Because of the large quantities and weight involved in the transportation of raw materials and finished
product, foreign suppliers are not expected to be interested in supplying concrete power line poles;
however, under LCB procedures they would be allowed to bid if they are interested. Consulting services
for technical assistance (TA), will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Table 4.1 identifies the major consultancy components under the TA component. Eligible
local suppliers competing for the supply of goods under ICB procedures would be eligible for a
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever is lower. All bid packages for
goods as well as drilling services to be financed by the Bank loan estimated to cost over US$ 200,000
equivalent, which would cover over 95 percent of the procurement volume, would be subject to the
Bank's prior review. All consulting services above US$ 100,000 equivalent provided by firms, and above
US$ 50,000 equivalent to be provided by individuals would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
4.18       With respect to the procurement of concrete power line poles, understanding has been
reached with PLN, that the specifications in the tender documents will be sufficiently general so as to
include rectangular and/or verendiel concrete poles or other types of concrete poles that meet performance
standards, and this inclusion will be explicitly stated in the tender document. Further understanding was
reached with PLN that, in order to contain increases in the transportation costs of concrete poles and
increase more competition, the tenders for concrete power line poles would require the bidders to quote
two separate price components: (i) the ex-factory price of the pole; and (ii) transportation costs. During
the implementation stage, construction contractors will be advised of the pole suppliers ex-factory price
as well as the delivered price to site; and the construction contractors would be able to exercise the choice
of picking up the poles at the factory gate and transport the poles themselves, or have the poles delivered
at site.
4.19       Equipment for the mini-hydro projects would be procured through limited international
bidding procedures (LIB), and equipment for pilot projects would be procured through shopping
procedures permissible under Bank procurement guidelines; because of the specialized nature of some
equipment and the need for customization in certain cases. In the mini-hydro component, understanding
has been reached with PLN that procurement of the five standardized turbine/generators for Ulung
Peliang, Bambalo (2 sets), Kolondom and Werba would be done under a single equipment contract; with
a separate tender to be issued for the non-standard equipment at Lokomboro. Miscellaneous purchases
involving small lot sizes of materials and equipment, such as isolating transformers and wood moulds for
reinforced concrete power line poles, and not exceeding US$ 2,400,000 in aggregate, will be procured
through shopping procedures permissible under Bank procurement guidelines; with individual contracts
not exceeding US$ 200,000 in the case of international shopping and not exceeding US$ 50,000 in the
case of local shopping.
4.20       In the mini-geothermal component, understanding has been reached with PLN that an
integrated drilling services contract would be used at each site in place of PLN's conventional three
contract approach. This innovative approach would reduce development costs by consolidating
responsibility and control in a single head contractor with incentives for cost containment and adherence
to schedules. Because of the relative scarcity of geothermal drilling expertise, procurement for each of
the two integrated drilling services contract, one each for the two proposed sites, would be through
limited international bidding procedure permissible under Bank procurement guidelines.



39
Disbursement
4.21       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against approved contracts and is estimated to
cover: (a) 100% of cif (for imported), or ex-factory (for locally assembled) equipment and materials by
ICB; (b) 80% of ex-factory expenditures for concrete poles, which represents the estimated foreign
content; (c) 100% of expenditures for consultancy services and training under the technical assistance
component; (d) 65% of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and (e) 100% of the drilling
services in the mini-geothermal component. Table 4.5 shows the allocation of loan proceeds to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures to be financed in each Category. Withdrawl applications
would be fully documented for all expenditures against which loan disbursements would be made, except
for goods and drilling services contracts valued at less than US$ 200,000 and individual contracts valued
at less than US$ 50,000 and consulting firm contracts valued at less than US$ 100,000 which would be
disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). Documents supporting the SOEs would be
retained by respective project implementing units and made available for review as requested by Bank
missions.
4.22       In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in an amount of US$ 20 million was
proposed, this amount to be deposited in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. This
Special Account would be held in the name of Director General of Budget, Ministry of Finance,
following established procedures. The Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign and local
expenditures. Replenishment to the Special Account would be made on a monthly basis or when 20
percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever occurs first.
4.23       The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan is shown in Annex 4.3.
Disbursements against the proposed Bank loan are expected to be faster than the Bank profile for power
projects because of the high proportion of goods readily available in the market, the relatively short two-
year time-slice coverage of the project, and the fact that the loan would be disbursed mainly against
procurement of goods. Construction of civil works involved in the proposed project would be minimal.
Moreover, problems with slow disbursements encountered in the ongoing rural electrification project are
expected to be reduced significantly in the proposed project, because of the creation of a single point of
responsibility for the project in PLN -- the Project Management Unit (PMU) -- and a detailed Project
Management and Implementation Plan (PMIP) for closely monitoring the status of procurement and
disbursement on a full time basis and to take the necessary corrective actions (paras 4.26 and 4.27).
Implementation
4.24       PLN and MOC would be responsible for the implementation of their respective components.
After the completion of general plans for RE by PLN Headquarters, for each year and for each province,
the villages to be electrified will be finalized on an annual basis as a consequence of consultations
between PLN's regional offices in conjunction with local and central governments. The starting point for
the selection of villages would be the annual village electrification targets by region developed by the
ongoing RE Master Plan study that would be completed by June 1995. Next, villages within each region
would be ranked in accordance with a priority order established on the basis of economic criteria and
evaluation method acceptable to the Bank. The final list of villages to be electrified in a given year would
be drawn up from this rank ordered list, taking into account other developmental objectives; but with the
primary emphasis placed being on economic viability. During project preparation, an understanding was



40
Table 4.5: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PtOCEEDS
Amount of the               % of E:xpenditures
Category                   Loan Allocated               to be Flnanced La
(expressed in US$ nillion equivalent)
(1) Equipment and                      272.2                100% of foreign and
material excluding                                      100% of local (ex-
power line poles)                                       factory) expenditures,
65% of other items
procured locally
(2) Concrete poles                     54.1                 80% of local (ex-factory)
expenditures
(3) Civil Works                        10.8                 100% for min-geothermal
(4) Technical Assistance Lk            28.8                 100%
PLN                              26.6
MOC                               2.2
(5) Unallocated                        32.1
Total                            au
La Expenditures financed are exclusive of value-added-tax (VAT).
1 In addition, PLN itself finances $6.4 million equivalent TA for implementation of Pola
Programs and $41.6 million equivalent for engineering, construction supervision and 0 and A
expenses.



41
reached with PLN on the general thrust of such revisions to be undertaken to the village selection criteria
presently in use (paras 2.9 and 2.15). Agreement was reached during negotiations for the proposed
project that PLN shall select villages to be electrified each year under the project in accordance with
criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank. After the village list is finalized, PLN's regional offices
will prepare designs for each of the sub-projects within their jurisdictions, and prepare bills-of-quantities
of materials and equipment required for construction. This would be followed at the Headquarters by the
preparation of standard bid documents with the technical specifications for the items to be procured and
subsequently with the tendering process.
4.25       PLN would be responsible for project engineering and would construct RE sub-projects
financed under the proposed project through contractors. PLN would be responsible for construction
supervision carried out through its regional offices. Since construction of RE facilities by PLN is a
continuous process, PLN would start construction of the project as a continuation of its ongoing RE
construction, using materials and equipment available in its regional warehouses, should any delays occur
in delivery of Bank financed goods at the site. Due to the nature of the construction, some replenishment
of PLN's provincial warehouses is possible and would be acceptable to the Bank. A project
implementation schedule is contained in Annex 4.4; with detailed schedules for each component provided
in the PMIP report (para 4.26). To ensure timely implementation of the physical program, preparation
of activities related to tendering and procurement are already underway in advance of the expected date
of loan effectiveness in June 1995. In the case of pilot projects, TAs and the mini-geothermal and mini-
hydro and mini-geothermal components, detailed TORs have been finalized to enable contractor/consultant
selection process well in advance of the expected date of loan effectiveness.
Project Management and Monitoring
4.26       The project management and monitoring arrangements are detailed in a separate and
substantial report titled "RE II Project Management and Implementation Plan", February 1994 (PMIP).
This report is a part of the project file and is referenced in the loan documents. For each component of
the project, there is a chapter in the PMIP report which addresses the following principal elements: scope
and objectives, critical success factors, strategy and implementation plan, project management structure,
milestones and performance indicators, monitoring and reporting requirements, implementation schedule
and disbursement schedule. The report will serve as the key reference document for the line managers
in-charge of executing each component; identifying the basis on which the progress and success of each
component will be measured and for which they are responsible. The PMIP will also provide the
reference benchmarks for Bank supervision of the project components.
4.27       Project Management Unit (PMU) and Project Coordinator. A central feature of the
project implementation arrangements is the RE II Project Management Unit, located in PLN's RE
Division -- DIVDES. A detailed description of the PMU, its organization and staffing, and its role,
functions and responsibilities is contained in Chapter 2 of the PMIP. The PMU is headed by the RE II
Project Coordinator -- a senior and seasoned PLN manager -- who will act as the focal person
responsible for ensuring implementation of all components and sub-components of the project in
accordance with the project design and objectives and implementation plan and monitoring and evaluation
arrangements as elaborated in the PMIP report agreed to between PLN and the Bank. The Project
Coordinator and the PMU will be responsible for the project's progress and implementation from its
inception to its successful completion; and will be directly accountable to the Board of Directors and the
President Director. All concerned Division Heads, Wilayah Managers, and Heads of Districts and
Distribusi, and those responsible for conducting or supporting rural electrification, would be obliged --



42
under a official circular already issued by PLN's president Director -- to provide full administrative and
logistical support to the Project Coordinator and the PMU and in a responsive manner. As the focal
person, the Project Coordinator will oversee, monitor, and coordinate the activities of all PLN
Divisions/Departments directly and indirectly involved in implementation of the RE II project; and will
have the authority to recommend, initiate or otherwise facilitate and ensure that the relevant Division or
operating unit most directly involved in implementation of a given project component will undertake on
a timely basis the required corrective actions that may become necessary from time to time for ensuring
effective implementation of the project. The Project Coordinator will also be responsible for ensuring that
project implementation issues involving all external agencies such as DGEED, BAPPENAS, MOC, and
by contractors are addressed in a timely manner and are complied with as per the PMIP report. During
negotiations for the proposed project, agreement was reached with PLN that it shall maintain the project
Management Unit within its Rural Electrification Division with functions, powers, staff, and funds
necessary to coordinate and supervise and to ensure the implementation of the project.
4.28       Technical audit  The Bank would closely supervise project implementation status by
undertaking field missions. A tentative schedule for supervision activities and missions is summarized in
Annex 4.6. It would also be necessary to conduct a technical audit in order to verify on a sampling basis,
that the resources spent under the proposed loan are used efficiently and for their intended developmental
purposes. Inter alia, this technical audit would focus ex-post on quality assurance and efficiency as it
relates to program aspects such as hardware utilized, erection, inventory management, speed of customer
connections following village access to electricity, operations and maintenance procedures and actions to
ensure that the equipment performs to standards throughout its intended life, and report on the
performance of the environment and resettlement aspects where applicable. During negotiations for the
proposed project, agreement was reached with PLN that it shall: (a) by October 31, 1995, establish
principles and procedures for technical audit of Subprojects in consultation with the Bank: (b)
commencing in 1996, until completion of the Project, carry out an annual technical audit of the completed
parts of the project, through independent technical auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with
the principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank, focussing on the quality and standards of the
goods, works, and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan including effective utilization thereof,
operation and maintenance of the equipment, and the environmental and resettlement aspects of the
Subprojects; and (c) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in case not later than September 30
of each such year, the report of such technical audit by such auditors and such other information relating
thereto in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request.
Environment and Resettlement
4.29       The proposed project comprises of three physical components: (i) implementation of
distribution network schemes consisting of numerous very small sub-projects; (ii) construction of five
mini-hydro projects (about 7.25 MW) of generating capacity; and (iii) test-well drilling at two mini-
geothermal fields at Tulehu, Ambon and at Sembalun, Lombok.
4.30       The distribution component involves erection of about 28,000 kmc of MV (medium voltage-
20 kV) lines, 35,000 kmc of LV (low voltage-220/440 volts) lines, 1.3 million poles and 833 MVA of
secondary distribution transformer capacity. This component consists of several hundreds of very small
sub-projects, each involving MV line extensions to a few villages and LV lines connecting a few
consumers. The individual sub-project locations and designs will be developed subsequently and closer
to the time of implementation. Erection of these lines would involve staking power line poles, mostly



43
following existing infrastructure and in thinly populated areas, with the transformers mounted on pole
tops.
4.31       The distribution sub-projects are not expected to pose major or significant environmental
and resettlement (E&R) problems; while having the potential to cause minor and localized impact, these
would not be large enough to warrant major environmental concern. During negotiations for the proposed
project, agreement was reached with PLN: (i) the environmental and resettlement impacts of the
distribution sub-projects shall be established and documented in the Environment chapter of the design
reports for the sub-projects as per guidelines satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 4. 7); (ii) people affected by
any of the sub-projects will be compensated and resettled on the basis of the agreed resettlement policy
(Annex 4.8); and (iii) PLN shall maintain data and progress reports on implementation of land acquisition
and resettlement measures, and a summary report will be sent to the Bank annually for review and
comment.
4.32       The mini-hydro component consists of five sub-projects with individual projects ranging in
capacity from 900 kW to 2.6 MW. Favorable site conditions have been confirmed at each site. The
environmental impacts -- primarily land acquisition and physical resettlement -- are well defined and
understood and minor in each case. During negotiations for the proposed project, agreement was reached
that PLN shall complete, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 4.9), the environmental screening
for the mini-hydro plants and incorporate the mitigation measures for the plants design and/or
environmental management plan, before any disbursements would be approvedfor that component of the
project. These sub-projects will involve acquisition of an estimated 408,175 square meters of land, that
will require compensation and/or resettlement of about 60 families, of which 57 will be partially affected
and three families will be displaced. Annex 4.10 provides some data on the technical and physical
parameters for each sub-project; as well as the main parameters for land acquisition areas, and relocation
and compensation. PLN is capable of resolving all such issues in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with PLN that: (i) it will prepare and submit a report
summarizing, (a) the compensation rates offered by PLN and how these rates compare with the existing
NJOP (land tax) and market values in a given area, (b) data by household on the extent of impact -- the
amount and proportion of land and/or house affected -- and total compensation offered to affected
households, and (c) any resettlement measures developedfor affected persons by PLN. Clearance of this
report by the Bank will be a condition of disbursement on this component of the project; and (iii) all
affected households will be compensated at least two months prior to commencement of implementation
in accordance with the agreed resettlement policy (Annex 4.8).
4.33       In connection with the proposed project component which involves test-well drilling of four
geothermal test wells, during negotiations agreement was reached with PLN: (i) environmental screening
to identify all possible environmental impacts during drilling and testing operations will be conducted by
qualified consultants, acceptable to the Bank; (ii) following environmental screening, conceptual
engineering design documents, including all the required environmental mitigation measures will be
submittedfor Bank's approval; and (iii) completion of the preceding conditions, satisfactory to the Bank,
will be a condition for disbursement on this component.



44
5
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Operating Results and Financial Position
5.1         PLN's operating results and financial position for 1985/86 to 1992/93 are shown
in the financial statements in Annex 5.1. PLN's overall profitability as reflected in the rate-of-
return (ROR), has improved in recent years; as a consequence of timely tariff increases,
beginning with an average increase of about 25 percent in the electricity rates approved by the
Government, effective April 1, 1989, and subsequent increases in the rates by about 20 percent
effective August 1, 1991, about 13 percent effective February 1, 1993, and about 8 percent
effective November 1, 1994.
5.2         PLN's operating performance varies considerably at regional levels. PLN's Java
operations, which supply electricity through an interconnected system with power generated
by large and efficient power plants, are largely commercially-oriented and profitable. PLN's
outside-Java operations, which are mainly small-scale and dispersed over a large number of
islands and where power generation is largely oil-based and diesel power plants are commonly
employed, are mostly unprofitable, and have a negative impact on PLN's overall finances.
This situation in the case of the Outer Islands is further exacerbated by the relatively high share
of expenditure related to expansion of rural electrification coverage.
Financial Objectives
5.3         During the negotiations of the loan for the proposed project, it was agreed that
PLIN shall, from time to time, take all measures, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be required
for it to realize, for all its operations, forfiscal year 1995 and in each fiscal year thereafter,
an annual rate of return of not less than eight percent of the average net revalued fixed assets
in operation. The principal financial objectives underlying this revenue covenant are that PLN
should realize positive annual rates of return, meet its debt service requirements, maintain
adequate liquidity, self-finance over 25-30 percent of its annual capital expenditures, and rely
mostly on borrowings to finance the balance, confining the Government's contributions to
programs that involve the socially directed activities such as rural electrification, mainly
outside-Java.
Present and Future Performance
5.4         PLN's financial performance for 1993/94, the estimate for 1994/95 and
projections through 1999/2000 and related income statements for its Java and outside-Java
operations are summarized in Table 5.1. (Details are given in Annex 5.1; notes and



45
Table 5.1: PLN's FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
1992/93-1999/00
Actual   Estimate                          Proiection
Fiscal year            1992/93   1993/94   1994/95    1995/96   1996/97   1997/98    1998/99  1999/00
Tariff increase (%)      13.0        -       7.7        8.2       7.1      5.2       13.8        3.3
Average Revenue (Rp kWh)
PLN total              137.1    152.0    156.1       175.4    186.8    195.6       221.41     227.6
Increase (%)           6.2      10.9       2.7      12.4       6.5       4.7       13.2        2.8
Java                   135.7    149.1    153.1       172.0    183.2    191.8       217.2      223.3
Increase (%)           6.5       9.9       2.7      12.4       6.5       4.7       13.2        2.8
Outside-Java           142.5    163.1    167.3       187.9    199.8    209.1       236.7      243.0
Increase (%)           5.1      14.4       2.6      12.3       6.3       4.6       13.2       2.7
Enerev Sales (GWh)
PLN total              34,964    38,962   48,542     55,884    63,229    71,357    79,612    88,921
Java                   27,837    36,902    38,400    44,126    49,655    55,930    62,391    69,395
Outside-Java            7,127    8,060    10,143     11,758    13,574    15,427    17,221    19,526
Operatine Revenues (Rp billion)
PLN total               4,917    6,063     7,752     10,014    12,059    14,235    17,937    20,583
Java                    3,872    4,726    6,030       7,772    9,307    10,962     13,807    15,775
Outside-Java            1,046     1,337    1,723      2,242    2,752     3,273      4,131     4,808
Operating Expenses (Rp billion)
PLN total               4,246    5,356    6,049       7,773    9,186    10,701     13,738    15,867
Java                    2,739    3,357     3,909      5,218    6,240     7,104      9,620    11,112
Outside-Java            1,507     1,999    2,140      2,555    2,946     3,597      4,117     4,755
Operating Income (Rp billion)
PLN total                673       707     1,704      2,241    2,873     3,534      4,200     4,715
Java                    1,133     1,369    2,121      2,554     3,067    3,859      4,186     4,663
Outside-Java            (461)    (663)    (418)       (313)    (194)    (325)         13        53
Rate Base (Rp billion)
PLN total              13,787    17,341    21,297    28,009    35,913    44,175    52,496    58,942
Java                    9,445    12,255    15,247    20,826    26,262    31,187    36,310    38,684
Outside-Java            4,342    5,086     6,050      7,183    9,652    12,288     16,186    20,257
Rate of Return (%) /a
PLN total                4.9       4.1       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0
Java                     12.0      11.2     14.0       12.3     11.7      12.4       11.5      12.1
Outside-Java            (10.6)    (13.0)    (6.9)      (4.4)     (2.0)    (2.5)       0.1       0.3
Operatin2 Ratio (%)
PLN total                 86        88       78         78        76        75        77        77
Java                      71        71       65         67        67        65        70        70
Outside-Java             144       146       132       115       110       112       101        100
Ratios for PLN
Current ratio (times)     1.3      1.4       1.1        1.3      1.4       1.4        1.5       1.3
Debt/debt plus equity (%)Lb  40.9  39.5     47.1      53.3      54.6      54.6       54.1      53.8
Self-financing ratio (%)
Annual                 49.6      31.9     26.6       26.1      38.3      50.4      63.5      77.8
3-year average /c      60.9      25.8     32.9       25.5      37.9      49.1      58.9      76.2
Debt service coverage (times)  3.9  4.1      4.9       3.7       3.8       3.3        4.5      4.1
/a On revalued rate base.
/b Excluding revaluation surplus.
/c Based on average annual capital expenditure for three years comprising the test year, the next preceding year and the next
following year.



46
assumptions underlying the projections are given in Annex 5.2). In the financial projections,
for the Java and Outside Java operations, sales growth is based on PLN's demand projections
and generation expansion plans, and the capital expenditures are based on the proposed
investment program to be implemented by PLN, Rp 68,600 billion in current prices (Annexes
1.6 and 1.7), and exclude capital expenditures for generation projects proposed to be
implemented by private investors (paras. 1. 13 and 1. 14).
5.5         The financial projections are based on compliance with the proposed revenue
covenant in 1994/95 (para. 5.3). A tariff increase of about 7.7 percent, effective November
1, 1994, was approved by the Government. This increase would be sufficient to meet the 8%
ROR covenant, predicated on realization of forecast of total energy sales for the period April
1994 - March 31, 1995. Trends based wholly on actual 12 monthly energy sales -- over
period July 1993 through August 1994 -- show an average growth rate of 1.2% per month,
which, if continued, indicate that by March 31, 1995 PLN's energy sales would fall short of
projections by perhaps 6 percent. However, PLN's monthly sales for the five remaining
months of the above mentioned period are expected to grow at a higher rate than the 12-month
historical trend would suggest. Furthermore, under the recently implemented tariff structure,
the peak period tariff relative to off-peak period tariff has been reduced thereby greatly
reducing incentives for peak shaving by industrial customers. In addition, PLN is engaged in
load promotion activities, and the Bank was informed that recent sales data on daily sales for
Java-Bali indeed support this expectation. To maintain the annual rates of return in subsequent
years at the 8 percent level, annual tariff increases would be required mainly to compensate
for the variation in the input costs, (e.g., fuel and inflation), except in 1998 where a tariff
increase of about 14 percent would be required to compensate for substantial increases in the
cost of power purchases from private producers (para. 1.13). PLN's annual self-financing
ratios during 1994/95-1995/96 would be slightly over 25 percent, increasing to a 30-40 percent
range on a three-year average basis during the balance of the forecast period; because of
reduced PLN investment in later years in light of the expected increase in private investment
in generation capacity to supply PLN (paras. 1.13-1.14). The capital structure would remain
satisfactory; the debt as a percentage of debt plus equity (excluding revaluation surplus) would
rise from about 36 percent in 1992 to about 53 percent in 1996, and thereafter remain at that
level. PLN's debt service coverage ratio would be in excess of 3.0 throughout the projection
period. An existing covenant under the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project (Loan 3761-
IND), requires that PLN may not incur any additional debt unless a reasonable forecast of its
net revenues after expenditures for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall
be at least 1.5 times its projected debt service requirements. This covenant was also agreed
under the proposed project. PLN's current ratio is expected to be in the range of 1.3 to 1.5
through most of the projection period; this would provide adequate liquidity.
5.6         The financing plans assumed in the financial projections for the REPELITA V
(1989-1993) and REPELITA VI (1994-1998) are presented and compared to that for the
REPELITA IV (1984-1988) in Table 5.2. Details are given in Annex 5.1. In contrast to
REPELITA V, the financing plan of REPELITA VI assumes higher contributions from internal
sources (about 33 percent versus 19 percent) and borrowings by PLN (about 51 percent versus
42 percent), and reduced Government contribution (about 17 percent versus 39 percent). The
self-financing levels projected for REPELITA VI are higher than the levels PLN has achieved
historically and largely reflect the fact that private power projects account for substantial
investment during this period that would otherwise have been carried out by PLN (para. 1.13).
If PLN were to carry out all investment during the REPELITA VI period, its contribution to
investment would be about 27 percent, or about 6 percentage points lower for that period.



47
Table 5.2: COMPARISON OF FINANCING PLANS
REPELITA IV         REPELITA V           REPELITA VI
Fiscal year              1984-1988           1989-1993             1994-1998
Rp billion   (%)   Rp billion     (%)    Rp billion    (%)
Capital expenditures   8 051      100.0     21,081    100.0     50 743      100.0
Financed by:
Net internal sources /a   1,092  13.6       3,999     19.0     16,539      32.6
Borrowings           3,732       46.4       8,892     42.2     25,685      50.6
Government contribution 3,227    40.0       8,190     38.8      8,519      16.8
Total              8051       100.0     20 081    100.0     50 743      100.0
/a Including consumers' contributions and deposits, and adjusted for changes in working capital.
5.7         To ensure PLN's financial soundness and to facilitate private power entry into
the sector, the Government approved, together with the retail tariff increase in November
1994, a Periodic Tariff Adjustment Mechanism. This formula-based tariff adjustment only
passes through costs which are outside the control of PLN such as: changes in fuel prices,
power purchase prices, the local inflation rate, and the US dollar currency exchange rate
towards Indonesian Rupiah. Any changes needed to the base tariffs, would be reviewed by
the Government during updates of the base tariffs, at which time efficiency issues would be
addressed.
Tariffs
5.8         PLN's tariff schedules, which became effective November 1, 1994, comprise
24 consumer categories. For medium and large industrial consumers, large commercial
consumers, large social institutions, and for large office buildings, time-of-day pricing is in
effect. The 1993-94 tariff schedules are shown in Annex 5.3.
5.9         The Bank has reviewed PLN's LRMC study for Java-Bali that accounts for
about 80 percent of PLN sales. The study indicates that PLN's average revenue would be
about Rp 163/kWh in Indonesia as a whole, and Rp 154/kWh in Java, if the tariff to each
consumer category was set at the estimated LRMC of supply in Java. PLN's average revenue
of Rp 162/kWh in Java, based on the current tariffs (effective November 1, 1994) and not
including connection fees paid by consumers, is close to the average LRMC of supply in Java.
However, cross-subsidies exist between different consumer groups. To compensate for
subsidies to small consumers, electricity prices to large consumers in Java, (industrial,
commercial and residential), are higher than the economic cost of supply. Despite these
subsidies, the household electrification ratio remains low at about 35 percent. High lump sum
payments for the initial installation charge coupled with fixed monthly demand charges serve
as barriers to many new consumers and to increase in consumption by existing consumers.
Implementation of key elements of the sector policy and agenda - commercialization of PLN
operations, implementation of published bulk power purchase and supply tariffs, increased



48
participation of the private sector in electricity supply and distribution, and instituting a
uniform regulatory framework for PLN and the private sector - will ultimately bring about
conditions under which the need for substantially reducing tariff distortions will become
unavoidable; conditions under which the Government will also find it politically easier to allow
such changes.
5.10        During negotiations for the proposed project, it was agreed that PLN shall: (a)
by October 31 every year commencing in 1995 review its long run marginal costs with a view
to formulating its tariff structure; and (b) discuss the results of such review with the Borrower
and the Bank; and (c) thereafter, take appropriate steps to revise the tariffstructure taking into
account the views, if any, thereon of the Borrower and the Bank.
Overall Development Fund and Dividend Policy
5.11        PLN's corporate status changed from "Perum" to "Persero" effective August 1,
1994 under Government Regulation Number 23 of 1994. The dividend policy applicable to
PLN is currently under consideration by MOF but it is estimated that the decision would be
made by year-end 1994. A covenant was agreed with the executing agency, PLN, that would
limit PLN from declaring any dividend or making any other distribution with respect to its
share capital, unless, after such dividend has been paid or other distribution has been made,
the current assets of the Borrower would equal or exceed 1.0 times the current liabilities of the
Borrower. The dividends will be paid on a net profit after interest and corporate tax basis to
the stockholder (currently MOF/State Treasury). Under Perum status PLN was obliged to set
aside 55 percent of its annual net profit after corporate income tax for "Dana Pembangunan
Semesta" (DPS), or the Overall Development Fund, payable in five annual installments
commencing two years after the year in which the DPS obligation was incurred. PLN's
conversion to a Persero will not affect the remaining DPS installments due the State Treasury.
Under this project, a covenant was agreed that GOI will take all such actions as shall be
necessary to ensure that any payments from PLN to the DPS shall not prevent PLN from
inplementing its agreed investment program.
Financing Policy
5.12        PLN formulates its long-term investment program spanning a ten-year-horizon,
which is updated periodically. The plan is reviewed by the GOI and a five-year time-slice of
it is incorporated in the country's development plan, the next of which (REPELITA VI) is to
commence on April 1, 1994. Based on the approved framework of the five-year plan, PLN
prepares an annual plan and a budget, which is approved by the Government. In recent years,
the Government has shown a strong financial commitment towards these plans and has taken
steps to enable PLN to implement them (para. 5.6).
5.13        An existing covenant (Loan 3761-IND) relating to the long-term aspects of PLN's
financial planning was also agreed under the proposed project. This covenant requires, inter
alia, that, as part of its ongoing annual planning activities, PLN should prepare a rolling ten-
year financial forecast based on its proposed development plan, and also prepare for the first
five years of the forecast period a financing plan that should indicate the amount of external
financing and the appropriate mix of equity and debt, and if possible the potential sources of
financing. Technical assistance is being provided under the Power Sector Efficiency Project
(Loan 3097-IND) is helping to strengthen the financial planning capability in PLN.



49
5.14        PLN is authorized by its charter to borrow from local and foreign lenders and
to issue its own obligations. Until recently, PLN's local borrowings had been only from the
Government-owned Banks. By Government Regulation No. 60/192 dated September 19, 1992,
PLN has been authorized to issue bonds in stages up to a maximum amount totalling Rp 1.2
trillion, with the approval of the Minister of Finance. In September 1992, PLN issued in the
domestic capital market, the first annual tranche of such bonds amounting to Rp 300 billion,
which was oversubscribed. PLN raised a further Rp 600 billion through bond issuance in
September 1993. PLN would require extension of authority to issue bonds beyond the current
ceiling of Rp 1.2 trillion, since the practice of issuing bonds is expected to continue in later
years. To support the bond issue, PLN has strengthened its treasury functions and reduced
the time required to finalize the annual financial accounts and complete their audit (para. 3.12).
5.15        Under the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project (Loan 3761-IND), the Bank
proposed and the Government agreed that any proceeds of the proposed Bank loan be onlent
to PLN under a subsidiary loan agreement, be disbursed in the same currencies as those
disbursed from the Bank loan account, and their aggregate value denominated in US dollars,
with each withdrawal valued in the same manner as valued by the Bank. Repayment of the
subsidiary loan would be on the same terms and conditions as those for the repayment of the
Bank loan by the Government. The onlending interest rate would be the Bank's standard
variable interest rate plus 0.5 percent per annum. The same on-lending arrangements agreed
to under the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project was also agreed to under the proposed
project (para. 4.15).
Asset Revaluation
5.16        PLN's assets have been revalued periodically. The last detailed revaluation was
done in 1979 as required of all public corporations under instructions of the Ministry of
Finance. The revaluation was recorded in the books and was accepted by the Bank. Fixed
assets acquired after March 31, 1979 are appraised at cost.  Following the currency
devaluation in September 1986, the Government issued Regulation No. 45/1986 dated
October 2, 1986, providing for the revaluation of assets of businesses and public corporations,
acquired through September 12, 1986. The Regulation specifies the annual revaluation factors
for the years 1970 to 1986 for adjusting the asset values as of January 1, 1987. For purposes
of monitoring the proposed revenue covenant (para. 5.3) PLN has prepared a revaluation of
its assets for 1979/80-1986/87 based on the Regulation. The methodology used by PLN for
asset revaluation is satisfactory to the Bank. A covenant, under Loan 3761-IND, that requires
PLN to revalue annually its fixed assets (including work in progress and consumers'
contributions) and accumulated depreciation for the purposes of the rate of return calculations
under the revenue covenant was also agreed under the proposed project.



50
6
PROJECT JUSTIFCATION
Project Benefits
6.1        Support power sector reform agenda. The proposed project would support implementation
of the broader reforms for the power sector initiated under the Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project
(paras 1.21 through 1.34).
6.2        RE-specfic institutional change.  The proposed project would support the continued
development and implementation of an efficient RE program in Indonesia. The project will help to
address a primary constraint to further enhancing the efficiency of RE delivery as well as the long term
sustainability of the RE program; that is related centrally to the need for significant changes to PLN's
present organizational structure and management processes for the RE program. Such changes will help
to establish a mission-oriented institutional environment. With changed incentives, the RE line managers
would themselves become agents of change by being more imaginative in finding ways to reduce the unit
cost of RE delivery, aggressively seeking to reduce power generation costs by buying power from private
generators when it is cost effective to do so, vigorously promoting productive uses of electricity, and
proactively promoting local participation through Pola and MSA programs. The potential efficiency gains
from such a change will lead to cost reductions that will go beyond those reached from technical
modifications alone (paras 2.28 through 2.30 and para 3.5).
6.3        Meet demand, enhance the quality of life and increase productive uses. In addition, the
proposed project would help to extend the supply of electricity in rural areas in Indonesia during 1995-
1997; thereby contributing to a significant improvement in the quality of life of 2.1 million rural
households - with women and children being primary beneficiaries -- and more broadly contributing to
the development of rural areas, by facilitating economic opportunity through productive uses of electricity
and by making it feasible to start the process of technology change over a period of time (para 2.3).
6.4       Increase local and private participation. The proposed project builds upon the positive
experience of the ongoing rural electrification (RE I) project, the Bank's first lending operation in this
sub-sector, and aims to enhance the efficiency and benefits while reducing the cost of RE delivery by
greatly expanding the extent and scope of local and private sector participation in electricity delivery and
supply functions; by village cooperative organizations participating in the various Pola schemes and MSA
arrangernents (paras 2.17 through 2.19), and by private entrepreneurs (paras 2.31 through 2.35); as well
as by aggressively seeking and cost effectively promoting on a wide scale, with the help of NGOs,
productive uses of electricity by rural businesses (paras 2.21 through 2.23).
6.5        Cost reduction - present and future. The proposed project would reduce the unit costs of
electricity distribution through the revision and adoption of technical designs and standards for equipment
and construction that are appropriate in the RE context. The project would also set the stage -- through
the pilot project sub-components -- for significant cost reductions in the equipment and material costs as



51
well as reductions in construction management costs associated with implementation of the physical
program in the next stage or rural electrification.
6.6        Renewable energy development.  The project will promote the development of cost
effective indigenous and decentralized renewable energy resources and in an environmentally sound
manner; and simultaneously strengthen PLN's capability to plan, design and implement a longer-term
mini-hydro and mini-geothermal power development program that is integrated into RE planning. The
experience gained during the course of the proposed project will also pave the way for realizing cost
reductions that can be gained by standardization of equipment designs and power plant configurations and
by more streamlined contract management and supervision approaches.
Economic Rate of Return
6.7        Distribution component. The proposed two-year time slice RE investment would electrify
approximately 7,000 rural villages and connect about 2.1 million new consumers. Following completion
of this program in 1996/97, the household electrification ratio would stand at about 35%, well below the
two-thirds of the population that is estimated to be able to afford electricity at the economic cost of
supply; with the percentage of households that can afford to pay for electricity consumption for meeting
just their basic needs -- lighting -- being a much higher percentage yet. In the case of Indonesia, there
is no dearth of evidence to indicate that there is considerable amount of suppressed demand and backed
up by willingness to pay.
6.8        The two-year time slice distribution investment component of the proposed project is a
component of PLN's overall core development and investment program. The RE development plan --
number of villages and consumers to be electrified, unit material and equipment requirements and costs -
- is based upon the advance results available from the RE Master Plan development efforts. Economic
viability has been established by calculating the Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR), on the basis
of the incremental cost and benefit streams associated with the 1995/96-1996/97 time slice investment for
RE.
6.9        Capital costs for the economic analysis include the initial investments in the time slice for
distribution network, MV and LV, extensions and house connections; as well as corresponding investment
in later years for intensification for which the MV grid would already be in-place as a consequence of
the two year time-slice investment. These costs are exclusive of taxes and duties. Power supply costs are
based on the long run marginal costs of generation (LRMC) of bulk supply delivered to 20kV.
6.10       Benefits of the proposed distribution program have been estimated in terms of consumers'
willingness-to-pay for electricity estimated by the tariff plus consumer surplus. For non-residential
consumers, their willingness to pay is estimated by the cost of self generation from a captive diesel plant.
For residential consumers, their consumer surplus is estimated by two components: (a) consumer surplus
in the diverted market i.e, cost savings from the substitution of kerosene by electricity for lighting, and
(b) the incremental consumer surplus in the new market i.e., the benefit of increased consumption because
of the availability of lower cost electricity.
6.11       The IERR for the distribution investment component of the proposed project, on the basis
of the approach described above, was calculated to be about 21 percent. Further details of this analysis,
including sensitivity to increases in capital costs and reduced demand are given in Annex 6.1.



52
6.12       Mini-hydro and mini-geothermal. A least-cost analysis was performed for each of the five
mini-hydro projects and for each of the two mini-geothermal projects, comparing costs with and without
the project. The "with project" case assumed, respectively, a hybrid mini-hydro/diesel, mini-
geothermal/diesel powered grid compared to the "without project" case of supply by a diesel power plant.
The net present value of annual costs for operation with and without the mini-hydro/mini-geothermal plant
were calculated to establish that in each case the renewable project would be the least cost option for
generating electricity. Next, an internal economic rate of return (IERR) analysis was conducted for each
project, based on the costs and benefits specific to each project. The results indicate IERRs for each
project well above 12 percent;, even when capital costs were increased by 10 percent from the base case,
and when electricity demand growth rates were reduced by 50 percent from the base case. Annexes 6.2
and 6.3, respectively, provide further details of this analysis of the mini-hydro and mini-geothermal
project components.
Project Risks
6.13       No significant technical or implementation risks are foreseen with respect to the physical
network development program, that involves routine grid extensions and consumer connections. PLN
has consistently exceeded annual rural electrification targets and implementation schedules. The risk
associated with implementation of the mini-hydro is minimized by a technical design that places maximum
emphasis on standardization, and ensuring appointment of highly qualified construction management and
supervisory contractor in the case of mini-hydro; and in the case of the mini-geothermal component by
employing an internationally reputed firm under a single integrated drilling services contract. The risk
of inadequate private sector response to the published power purchase tariff is minimized by emphasizing
that a transparent, regulatory framework and effective regulator is in place, and by preparing for close
supervision. Risks associated with implementation of the overall policy reform agenda in general and
other elements of the policy component specific to RE -- institutional restructuring, and implementation
of the bulk supply tariff -- are minimal in view of the Government's and PLN's excellent record in
implementation once agreement is reached.



53
7
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMIENDATION
Agreements Reached with the Borrower
7.1         During the negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the Borrower:
(a)   The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, except for the $2.2
million for technical assistance to the Ministry of Cooperatives, to PLN under a subsidiary loan
agreement with a 20 year term including five years grace period. The subsidiary loan will be denominated
in foreign currency withdrawn and the onlending interest rate would be equal to the Bank's standard
variable interest rate plus 0.5 percent per annum. In addition, PLN will pay to GOI a commitment charge
of 0.75 percent per annum or at such other percentage rate as the Government shall pay to the Bank on
the undisbursed amount of the Subsidiary Loan from time to time. The foreign exchange risk will be
borne by PLN. In addition, the Government would provide the necessary local funds to PLN to complete
the project (para 4.15);
(b)   The Borrower shall permit financing for the Rural Business Services (RBS) program as well
as financing for the local costs of the Pola program component of PLN to provided from the PPELK
fund; and to the extent that such funds turn out to be less than the required amount, the Government
would make up the shortfall (para 4.16);
(c)   The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and, by June 30, 1995, adopt a policy regarding
implementation of the power purchase tariff and bulk supply tariff satisfactory to the Bank including
policies governing the granting of any subsidies related to implementation of the bulk supply tariff, rules
and procedures for determining such subsidies and how such subsidies are to financed and directed in a
transparent manner; and (b) draft, and by December 31, 1995, promulgate rules and regulations
concerning oversight of the power purchase tariff and bulk supply tariff implementation, in form
acceptable to the Bank (para 2.35);
(d)   The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31 each year commencing in 1995, (i) review with
the Bank (1) its power sector development program, (2) the least cost planning analysis used to formulate
the said program, (3) the roles of PLN and the private sector in the said program, and (4) the
transparency and appropriateness of the business environment for private sector participation; (ii) review
with the Bank, PLN's development and investment programs with respect to, (1) their consistency with
the power sector development program, (2) the balance among generation, transmission and distribution
investments, and (3) the balanced development of regions; and (b) ensure that PLN has access to
sufficient funds to finance capital expenditures for its investment program pursuant to the said reviews
(para 1.32);
(e)   The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and complete a study on private power development in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) upon completion of the said study,
furnish the same to, and discuss the results and recommendations thereof, with the Bank; and (c) based
on the said study's results and recommendations and subsequent review, comments and discussions



54
prepare draft rules and procedures to govern private sector participation including the solicitation and
evaluation of all forms of proposals for private power supply, furnish the said draft rules and procedures
for review and comments to the Bank, and (iii) by December 31, 1995, finalize, adopt and enforce the
same taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank (paras 1.25);
(f)   Borrower shall by June 30, 1995, establish a Directorate of Regulation within DGEED with
adequate staff and funds and necessary functions and power to administer and oversee compliance with
regulations (including pricing and technical regulations) regarding the electricity sector (para 1.29);
(g)   Borrower shall: (a) undertake and complete a study on regulatory reform in the power sector
in accordance with terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; (b) upon completion of
the said study, furnish the same for review and comments to, and discuss the results and
recommendations thereof with, the Bank; and (c) based on the said study's results and recommendations
and subsequent review, comments and discussions: (i) prepare draft regulations for the power sector, (ii)
furnish the said draft regulations for review and comments to the Bank, and (iii) by June 30, 1996,
finalize, adopt and enforce the same taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank (para
1.30); and
(h)   Borrower shall ensure that any transfer of profits from PLN to the DPS shall not prevent
PLN from implementing its agreed investment program (para 5.11).
Agreements Reached with PLN
7.2        During the negotiations, the following agreements were reached with PLN:
(a)   PLN shall: (a) by October 31 of each year commencing in 1995, until completion of the
project, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments PLN's draft annual electrification development
and investment plans; and (b) thereafter finalize the said development plans taking into account the
comments, if any, thereon by the Bank (para 4.4);
(b)   PLN shall select villages to be electrified each year under the project in accordance with
criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank (para 4.24);
(c)   PLN shall maintain the project Management Unit within its Rural Electrification Division
with functions, powers, staff, and funds necessary to coordinate and supervise and to ensure the
implementation of the project (para 4.27);
(d)   PLN shall, by June 30 (or such other date as may be agreed by the Bank) every year
commencing in 1995, revise and publish the small power purchase tariff schedule including the form of
the standard power purchase contract in accordance with the methodology agreed to by the Bank (para
2.32);
(e)   PLN shall, by June 30 (or such other date as may be agreed by the Bank) every year
commencing in 1995, revise and publish the bulk supply tariff schedule in accordance with the
methodology agreed to by the Bank (para 2.34);
(f)   PLN shall: (a) furnish to the Bank, (i) such periodic reports concerning the reorganization
of PLN as reasonably requested by the Bank, and (ii) a draft time bound corporate reorganization and



55
restructuring action plan, based on terms of reference agreed with the Bank, for PLN to operate according
to best utility practices (including an action plan for restructuring specific to rural electrification); (b)
discuss the said report(s) and draft action plan with the Bank; (c) finalize the said action plan taking into
account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank, and (d) by June 30, 1995, take appropriate steps to
implement the said action plan taking into consideration the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank (para
3.6);
(g)   PLN shall, from time to time, take all such measures, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be
required for it to realize, for all of its operations, for its fiscal year 1995 and in each fiscal year
thereafter, an annual rate of return of not less than eight percent of the average net revalued fixed assets
in operation (para 5.3);
(h)   PLN shall ensure that the consultants for the various TA components, identified in Table
4.1, will be appointed under terms-of-reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and by no later
than the corresponding dates identified in the Project Management and Implementation Plan (PMIP) report
(para 4.6);
(i)   PLN shall: (a) by October 31, 1995, establish principles and procedures for technical audit
of Subprojects in consultation with the Bank: (b) commencing in 1996, until completion of the Project,
carry out an annual technical audit of the completed parts of the project, through independent technical
auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank,
focussing on the quality and standards of the goods, works, and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan including effective utilization thereof, operation and maintenance of the equipment, and the
environmental and resettlement aspects of the Subprojects; and (c) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in case not later than September 30 of each such year, the report of such technical audit
by such auditors and such other information relating thereto in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request (para 4.28); and
(j)   PLN shall: (a) undertake environmental screening, and resettlement and rehabilitation
planning for subprojects to be financed under the Loan in accordance with criteria and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) submit, for Bank's approval, a proposal for each Subproject under the mini-
hydro and mini-geothermal component of the project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
including environmental mitigation and/or resettlement and rehabilitation measures therefor; (c) ensure
that during the execution of each subproject the environmental mitigation and resettlement and
rehabilitation measures therefor are carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (d) by April 30
every year commencing in 1996, furnish such information about the environmental mitigation and
resettlement and rehabilitation measures taken during the preceding fiscal year of the Borrower in such
detail as the Bank may reasonably request (paras 4.31, 4.32 and 4.33).
7.3         The following agreements with respect to PLN's financial performance, reached under the
Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project (Loan 3761-IND), were reaffirmed:
(a)   PLN shall submit audited accounts and reports no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (para 3.11);
(b)   PLN shall not incur any additional debt unless a reasonable forecast of its net revenues after
expenditures for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its
projected debt service requirements in such year on all debt of PLN including the debt to be incurred



56
(para 5.5);
(c)   PLN shall: (a) by October 31 every year commencing in 1995 review its long run marginal
costs with a view to formulating its tariff structure; and (b) discuss the results of such review with the
Borrower and the Bank; and (c) thereafter, take appropriate steps to revise the tariff structure taking into
account the views, if any, thereon of the Borrower and the Bank (para 5.10);
(d)   PLN shall prepare a rolling ten-year financial forecast and for the first five years of the
forecast, prepare a financing plan (para 5.13); and
(e)   PLN shall annually revalue its fixed assets and accumulated depreciation (para 5.17).
Condition of effectiveness
7.4        Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Borrower and PLN satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.15).
Actions to be Taken before Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
7.5        PLN shall complete, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, a report on the resettlement
impacts, measures and compensation rates for the projected affected persons in the mini-hydro
component, before any disbursements would be approved for a sub-project within that component of the
project (para 4.32); and
7.6        PLN shall complete, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the environmental screening and
conceptual engineering design documents including all required environmental mitigation measures for
well test drilling in the mini-geothermal component, before any disbursements would be approved for that
component of the project (para 4.33).
Recommendation
7.7        With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a loan of US$
398.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia, for a period of 20 years including a grace period
of 5 years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.






INDONESIA
SUMATERA AND KALIMANTAN POWER PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Mines and Energy
&Mofu   BD,ua d      ml      &  d      Btzui0l             Bud          dte      kpeebatece t
Nn"  NWTO     ~~Fiwa   Fms Coo.   Leo~ Nw  Eru.p m  ws             W                   aer                ap
~~~~G~~~~~gymir WdgyR8
WmGRm                                                                  O L?as
SwW
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*b  OlaedG as                                                  ll   1 wpm1
ftard*                                                  and                 { 9           {*
iec  ;ecti;eci Duu      i p~  ~                                 hh)~  ~                     F7 ~~WYJG8S ~UI1G8S Dibc l
RFlqg 01h d b-W  D  btecad
-~i ~wC&i                          CStri4 CS1                           i
mr L btkumiEm
P~ai~aa,a SaUT~    -    bi~ft~  ~  otq B~w  ~ ~     ~                       ~    p~, 
G I       I      
W"~~~~IyM



58                                         ANNEX 1.2
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
GROWTH OF PLN's CONSUMERS AND SALES
Fiscal            Number of Consumers                     Connected
Year                       ('000)                           Load                       Sales
(MVA)                      (GWh)
1975/76                      1,140.7                         1,426.4                     2,804
(5.0%)                         (13.0%)                     (14.7%)
1976/77                      1,208.5                         1,594.5                     3,082
(5.8%)                         (11.8%)                     (10.1%)
1977/78                      1,413.9                         1,939.2                     3,527
(17.0%)                        (21.6%)                     (14.6%)
1978/79                      1,783.2                        2,459.1                      4,287
(26.1%)                        (26.8%)                     (21.6%)
1979/80                      2,246.7                        3,063.4                      5,343
(26.0%)                        (24.6%)                     (24.6%)
1980/81                      2,745.2                        3,744.2                      6,523
(22.2%)                        (22.2%)                     (22.1%)
19S1/82                      3,232.1                        4,502.8                      7,845
(17.7%)                        (20.3%)                     (20.3%)
19S2/83                      3,802.4                        5,270.4                      9,101
(17.6%)                        (17.0%)                     (16.0%)
1983/14                      4,406.0                        6,126.7                      10,000
(15.9%)                        (16.3%)                      (9-9%)
1984/85                      5,133.2                        7,120.7                      11,041
(16.5%)                        (16.2%)                     (10.4%)
1985/86                      5,953.3                        8,149.9                      12,706
(16.0%)                        (14.5%)                     (15.1%)
1986187                     6,965.6                         9,282.1                      14,786
(17.0%)                        (13.9%)                     (16.4%)
1987/88                      8,203.3                        10,710.7                     17,077
(17.8%)                        (15.4%)                     (15.5%)
1988/89                      9,276.0                        12,233.7                     20,027
(13.1%)                        (14.2%)                     (17.3%)
1989/90                     10,316.9                        14,150.9                     23,435
(11.2%)                        (15.6%)                     (17.0%)
1990/91                     11,463.7                        16,117.6                    27,741
(11.1%)                        (13.9%)                     (18.4%)
1991/92                     12,396.7                        17,317.4                    31,481
(8.1%)                         (7.4%)                      (13.5%)
1992/93                     13,486.6                        18,762.8                     34,964
(8.8%)                         (8.3%)                      (11.4%)
1993/94                     14,973.3                        21,674.0                    41,675
(11.0%)                        (15.5%)                      (7.0%)



ANNEX-1-3
59
INDONE
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
ECI1crry CONSUmmON FoREcASSr: JAVA-BALI AND OUTER IAND
Java-Bali                    Outer Islands /a
Year                 Total     PLN    Captive       Total      PLN    Captive
Consump- Sales I  Power        Consump- Sales 1  Power
tion              Consumption  tion               Consumption
-TWh-
1991/92 (Actual)        34.5  25.6   9.0               19.5    5.9         13.5
1992/93 (Actual)        37.3  28.4   8.9               20.4    6.6        13.8
1993/94 (Estimate)      44.3  33.8  10.6               23.8    7.9        16.0
1994/95                 49.7  39.0  10.7               26.8    9.3        17.5
1995/96                 55.8  45.1  10.7               30.5   10.9        19.6
1996/97                 62.8  50.8  12.0               34.8   12.6        22.2
1997/98                 70.7  57.2  13.5               39.8   14.5        25.4
1998/99                 78.7  63.8  15.0               44.8   16.2        28.5
1999/2000               87.4  70.9  16.5               50.2   18.4        31.8
2000/01                 96.9  78.7  18.2               56.2   20.6         35.6
2001/02                106.7  86.6  20.1               62.8   23.0        39.8
2002/03                117.3  95.2  22.1               70.2   25.6        44.6
2003/04                128.7 104.5  24.2               78.3   28.4        50.0
la: Excluding Bali
&: Including energy purchased from private generating facilities.
Source: PLN Core Plan, December 1993.



ANNEX 1.
60                                               Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PEAK LOAD,PRODUCrION AND INSTALLED CAPACrrY
JAVA - BALI SYSTEM
1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/00 2000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003104
1. Sal                      (GWh)  33,777  33,974  45,027  50,706  57,103  63,693  70,645  73,601  36,526  95,093 104,344
Jncmas                       (%)       -    15.4   15.5    12.6    12.6   11.5    11.2   10.9   10.1    9.9    9.7
2. LAaes T&D                   (%)   4,U37   5,581   6,441   7,261   3,177   9,121  10,145  11.256  12,390  13,617  14,942
3. Sea out *nergy           (GWh)    12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    12.0    12.0   12.0    12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
4. Sttion us                   (%)  38,614  44,556  51,475  57,967  65,210  72,320  30,990  89,657  93,916 103,710 119,256
5. Gsoe geneation           (GCWh)    4.2    4.2    4.2        4.2     4.2     4.2    4.2      4.2     4.2     4.2    4.2
6. SYWem peak                (MW)  40,307  46,509  53,732  60,509  63,142  76,012  84,541  93,796 103,253 113,476 124,515
Incfues                      (%)   6,512   7,505   8,650   9,730  10,963  12,242  13,627  15,129  16,646  13,284  20,051
7. Sys mLP                     (%)    70.7   70.7   70.9   70.9    71.0   70.9   70.3    70.3   70.8   70.3   70.9
S. LaUled capcity            NMW)
Hydro Power Plai:
Basis                        2,023   2,023   2,014   2,014   2,014   2,014   2,014   2,014   2,014   2,014   2,014
TU'is                            .       -      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13
CoSu StageiB                     -       -       -       -    500      500     500     500     500    500    500
KFuamben                         -       -       -       -      33      33      33      33      33      33      33
Finamudaka                       -       -                       -       -       -       -       -       -      26
latiged'                                                 -       -       .       -                 
Pumped SU    e                           -       -       -       -       -       -       -   1,000   1,000   1,000
cimmindini                              -- -                     -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Ayung.                                                   .               -                               -       -
Manng                            -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Cbui                             -       -       -               -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Kali Oyo                                                                                         -       -       -
Subtota                      2.023   2.023   2.027   2.027   2.560   2.560   2.560   2.560   3.560   3.560   3.536
Diese Power Plad:
Basis                           36      S6      56      56      30      30      30      30      30      30      30
Subtoal                         36      36      56      56      30      30      30      30      30      30      30
Steam Powr Pln:
a. Residual Oil (MPO):
Basis                        1,500   1,500   1,400   1,400   1,400   1,400   1,400   1,400   1,400   1,300   1,200
Subtotal                     1.500   1.500   1.400   1.400   1.400   1.400   1.400   1.400   1.400   1.300   1.200
b. Naturnl Ga:
Banis                          400    400    400    400        400     400     400    400      400    400    400
Subtal                         400    400      4       400    400      400    400      400    400    400    400
c. Coa:
f:
Buis                          1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600
Paiton A1, #2                  400    300    800       800    300    800       300     300    800    300    S00
Suranlya 5-7                     -                           1,200   1,300   1,300   1,800   1,300   1,300   1,00
Paion J3, 14                     -       -       -                       -    400      800     300    300    300
Wee Java I 0347                  -               -               -                                             SW-  -  -  -    5C0
Wet Java H, I1-42                -                       -               -         -     -          -
pajon 543                        -       -       -               -       -       -
Wml ow--n--t
Subtoal                      2.000   2.400   2.400   2.400   3.600   4.200   4.600   5.000   5.000   5.000   5.S00



A        1.
61                                                      Pap2
1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98 199S/99 1999/00 2000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04
Paiton 7, 08                     -       -       -       -    600   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200
Paiton J5, #6                    -       -       -       -       -       -       -    600   1,200   1,200   1,200
Cernal Java #144                 -       -       -       -       -       -               -       -   1,200   1,200
Wer Java I 01, #2                        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -     600   1,20
Ciegon                           -       -       -       -       -    400    400    400        400    400    400
Subtotal                         -       -       -       -    600   1.600   1.600   2.200   2.800   4.600   6.400
Ga. Tiubin Pow Plant:
a. Destillate On (HSD):
Buis                           587    587    300    300    300    300          300    300    300    105         43
lx To a Prim                    60      60      60      60      60      60      60      60      60      60      60
Bali                             -      84      84      84      84      84      84      84      84      84      84
Java                             -       -       -    600      600    600        0     100    100    400    400
Subtotal                       647    731    444   1.044   1.044   1.044    444    544    544    649    587
b. Natural Ga
BOiAs                           SO      80      SO      gO      80      80      SO      80      SO      SO      40
Subtotal                        S0      S0      80      s0      s0      80      80      so      s0      S0      40
GOothennral Power Plant:
M:
Bais                           140    140    140    140    140    140          140    140    140    140    140
SaakIl, J2                       -    110    110       110     110    110    110    110    110         110    110
Drajat#l                         -      55      55      55      55      55      55      55      55      55      55
Kamojargl4,/5                    -       -       -       -      55     110     110    110      110     110    110
Salak n3                         -                       -      55      55      55      55      55      55      55
Drjat J2, J3                     -       -       -       -      55      55      55      55      55     110    110
Subtotal                       140    305    305    305    470    525    525    525    525    580    580
Prvate:
pauaW     d                      -       -       -       -       -      40      40      40      40      40     40
S-lk 04                          -       -       -       -                                                
Wayang Mfidu                     -       -       -       -       -      40      40      40      40      40     40
Di                               -       -       -       -       -      55      55     55      55      55      55
Subtotal                         -       -       -       -       -    135    135    135        135     135    135
Combined Cycle Power Plant:
mmN:
Gresik #143                   1,412   1,578   1,578   1,578   1,578   1,578   1,578   1,578   1,578   1,578   1,578
Muac RKar                      324    514    514    514        514     514    514    514    514    514    514
Priok Jl, #2                   780   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200
TaimbakLArokll                 324    324    514    514        514    514      514    514    514    514    514
TanbakLorok J2                   -       -    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    So0    S00
Grmbl 0                                  -    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500
Mua Twar #1                      -       -    500      500     500    500    500    500    500    500    50
Java                             -       -       -       -       -       -   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000
Subtotal                     2.640   3.616   5.306   5.306   5.306   5.306   6.306   6.306   6.306   6.306   6.306
Eat Java                         -       -       -       -       -       -       -    500    500    500        500
Serpong                          -       -       -       -    400    400    400    400    400    400    400
Subtot                           -       -      -       -      400    400    400    900    900    900    900
TOtal                        9.717  11.142  12.418  13.018  15.890  17.680  18.480  20.080  21.880  23.540  25.764



I   Faf a    i ESl'.'U''t   ''R'''R*."'S                                                        I s  RR'''S     talus.R 
g       |F      tr ;  3W80'                                           ...............            .................. l@l,,R*,,,,   R''l  R' 
S | F 0Xv~ nC                                                 138''''a'' 'm'  '3'!'''''.'  e@ @@ * *@*| RlRR
z                          3"       .. ................    ...............'g'R 
|~~ lt 1 [ Y          ' '|i-                                                                                                      wv
I        i                                                                                      I     t!I'' 13p3'It V  ...................'''''.a
z
IX  X                                                                                           3S    aq..                  535.. ... ..
| | | !l ~~~~._                                 .... . . . . .. . .  .  .  ..   .  .  .  .                   ....    .
M  Z      |     FOm er                      ...................                                                    ....  t  ....                  .
l   :    j bjJlh]          ....................................                                   ........
_ I       ',Id



I :wsRU336lSBR3R                           I! I nR^"'    l"   R 
|       li     |~*IS33*R    U           nR'' |  3! 1   SIN  '           a n  
I   ~    . * ^~***                          .. .s *-         a  > B e 
Cl       I                       a,W " ,   a.....   X.   . >_> R * u *   l   p n  
I      **''R't'                                          E  9''4'      ll|'Pn  f
I g              a                             IN.J''      3
|  .   w  a   n      n          fi '' |  ' '''  !!11~~~~~~~~
i j!L;ibfnhIiia I    ja11           i |31s   dl ji 1   iil 0 ii i,jjl  i    ji



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN's INVESTMN PROGRAM FOR JAVA-BALI SYSTEM
(Million US$ Constant 1993 prices)
Repelita VI                                       Repeita VnI
Projet Name              1993194 1994/95   1995/96  1996/97   1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02   2002/03    2003/04    Total
Steam Coal      Fc:    466.44   663.39   597.44  589.77  368.43    143.07  221.56   529.04  902.24   1,146.09   1,341.17   6,968.64
Lc:      73.58    115.21   143.96   127.99    77.66    38.30    81.22    159.48   235.84    304.12     341.35   1,698.72
Hydro           Fc:      33.29     36.58    85.71   111.28   90.55     94.52   112.25     99.82    78.05      81.30     207.21   1,030.54
Lc:       9.53     22.36    13.99    44.07   66.27     74.65    71.40    56.91    38.19      61.79      110.11    569.27
Gas Turbine     Fc:     35.53      0.73   123.55   185.33     0.00      0.00    0.00    123.55   205.92      30.89       0.00     705.49
Lc:       2.01      0.02    20.96    13.98    0.00      0.00     0.00     20.96    17.47      2.33        0.00     77.73
Geothermal      Fc:      88.72    118.10    50.40    15.97    5.99      12.98    26.95     6.99     2.99       1.00       0.00     330.07
Lc:      32.40     21.78    17.43    7.62     1.40      3.56     3.56      4.57     1.02      0.13        0.00     93.47
Combined Cycle  Fc:    701.56   747.93   308.35       0.00    0.00     70.18   163.76      0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00   1,991.78
Lc:      92.17    121.89    53.73    0.00    0.00      40.10   60.16       0.00     0.00      0.00        0.00    368.05
Transmission    Fc:    178.52   262.44   152.53    92.35   121.31       56.65    42.60    152.68   192.49    100.28     101.55   1,453.40
Lc:      55.83     57.96    32.62    40.00   41.01     14.92    29.49    75.85    62.66      30.40       30.02    470.76
Substation      Fc:    445.33    474.86   229.96    80.96    82.98     87.65   126.58    158.02  208.00      244.96     232.34   2,371.33
Lc:      69.82     57.98    22.18    10.38    10.76    13.39    18.53     23.32   29.58       32.90      28.40    317.16
Consumers       Fc:      34.80     76.29    77.06    76.63    75.96    74.76    73.33    71.51    69.14       66.35      63.75     759.56
Le :      6.94     15.22    15.37    15.28    15.15    14.91    14.63     14.26    13.79      13.23      12.72     151.50        X-
MV Line         Fc:    202.22   211.27  223.57  225.87  245.24    258.37  280.39    296.88  310.27           335.04     320.36   2,909.49
Lc:      56.02     59.51    61.69   63.48   68.32      72.34   78.52      82.62    86.84      93.76      86.88     809.98
LV Line         Fc:    162.81    168.59   177.16   178.57   193.72    204.48   222.18   235.07  244.88       263.49     259.44   2,310.38
Lc:      41.41     43.58    44.91    46.10   49.60     52.61    57.17    60.09   62.95        67.72      65.21     591.36
Trnsformers    Fc:    106.19    102.95   117.11   109.63   123.11    127.32   138.32    150.33   153.06      164.78     177.17   1,469.98
Le:      58.78     56.99    64.82    60.68   68.15     70.47   76.56      83.21    84.72      91.21      98.07     813.66
Total           Fc :2.40  2.83.13 2.142.83 1.666.35 1.307.29  1,129.97 1.487.61  1.823.88 2.367.05   2.434.18   2.702.98  22.380.67
Lc:    498.49    572.41   491.68  429.58   398.32    395.26  491.22    581.28   633.06      697.59      77Z2     5,961.65
TotalCn           :   2.953.89  3.435.5  2.634.51 2.09S.93 1.705.61  1.525.23 1.978.83  2.405.17 3000.11   3.317.77   3475.    28.342.32
Source: PLN Core Plan, December 1993.



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLNs bNEiNr PnoGaM FO OurEa SAND6 La
WfGo US$ Co_ant 1993 pro)
Projec Name             1993/94 1994/95  1995/96  1996/97   1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01 2001/02  2002/03   2003/04    Total
Diesel         Fc       63.63     87.58   82.43   72.04   64.81       46.25   35.51     25.02   30.41      53.01      24.67    586.15
Lc      26.14    46.53   58.78   50.54   45.91        31.12   26.68    19.46    18.63      34.39      15.22     373.39
Steam Coal      Pc     225.00    137.78   95.39   113.10   90.89      64.92   68.89   102.08   195.16    212.94      174.76   1,480.90
Lc       26.39    33.30   20.68   25.46   22.03       14.32   18.54    33.51    48.57      50.39      46.98    340.19
Hydro          Fc       114.70    123.80  100.04   111.79  134.00    173.56  264.52   351.65  316.00    276.88    226.02   2,192.95
Lc       48.38    62.62   69.12   69.54  100.49    111.54   153.26   182.56   154.98      136.00     140.56   1,229.06
Mini Hydro      Fc       6.08      8.07    7.86    9.52    7.82        3.68    0.95      1.70    11.87     16.31       8.81      82.66
Lc       11.57    14.23   14.17   17.81   15.21        7.12    1.45      2.60    18.87     26.24      14.25     143.62
Ga Turbine     Pc:       2.10      7.21   24.20   40.67   48.39    32.43   49.42    77.73   61.26          95.75     103.99     543.50
Lc       2.03      1.22    3.09    5.01    5.30        3.03    7.51      7.51    7.92      11.30      11.53      65.45
Geothernum      Fc:      2.66     14.71   18.13   16.40    8.14       4.33    9.76    16.41    13.51        6.25       3.43     113.72
Lc:      0.15      1.47    2.80    2.08    0.43        1.00    1.25      1.46     1.18      0.60       0.32      12.74
Combined Cycle  Pc      149.91    154.19   53.09   56.96   55.51    92.51    0.00        0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00     562.19   a'
Lc      36.94    22.92   13.72   37.52   31.72        15.86    0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00       0.00     158.68   LA
Tramnsmision    Pc       27.41    41.27   58.61   72.57   71.49       56.97   47.17    77.52   150.92     189.32     178.52    971.78
Lc       7.42     12.42   20.60   23.86   22.18    17.76   17.22    31.54   45.93          49.20      46.74     294.43
Substation      Pc      30.71     58.09   69.25   62.56   55.32       45.83    3.71     65.78   105.61     90.36     119.76     746.98
L:        5.75     9.60    10.05    9.06    7.78       6.59    6.71     12.64    14.77     14.44      19.37     116.76
Consnumrs      Fc       33.30     39.81   42.03   42.43   41.83      43.02   36.88    38.06   35.78        35.41      34.75    421.29
Lc:      6.64      7.94    8.38    8.46    8.34        8.58    7.36      7.19    7.14       7.06       6.93      84.03
MV Line         Pc:    123.33    135.82  137.19  148.28  159.80    172.05  186.35   197.80  208.76    225.01         263.95   1,958.36
Lc:     34.92    37.59   38.39   41.51   44.68    48.18   52.14    55.14   58.42           62.95      75.32    549.24
LV Line        Pc:      71.59     79.50   78.77   84.74   90.39    96.75  102.92    107.96   112.55       120.00     141.68   1,086.84
Lc:      18.70    20.14   20.27   21.75   23.24       24.84   26.43    27.62   28.91       30.81      37.25    279.95
Transformenr    Pc:     32.55     40.62   39.65   42.17   44.10    47.80   50.07    53.85   55.40          59.44      63.47    529.13
Lc:      18.02    22.48   21.95   23.34   24.41       26.46   27.71    29.81   30.67       32.90      35.30     292.U8
I3a1            Pc :     82.6   928.45  806.    873.21  872.48   880.10  896.15  1,114539 1297.2    1.380.67   1.343.81  11.276.09
Lc:    243.06   292.    301.    335.96  32j          316.40  346.27   411.03  435.97    4629    449.70   3.940.41
Totl              :   1.126.03  ,1220.91 1108.  1.209.17 1,224.   1.196.0 124241  152S4  1.733.19   1.836.96   1.793.I  I.216.S0
L   cluding Batam islandi.
Source: PIN Core Plan, Demh ber 1993



66                           ANNEX 1.8
Page 1
Government of Indonesia
Ministry of Mines and Energy
GOALS AND POLICEES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF
THE ELECTRIC POWER SUB-SECTOR
Dackuound
Indonesia's basic goals and policies for the future development of the energy sector are
described in the Outlines of State Policy (Garis-Garis Besar Haluan Negara or GBHN)
promulgated by the Peoples' Consultative Assembly (MPR) in March 1993 to guide the
formulation of the Sixth Medium-Term (Five-Year) Year Development Plan (REPEIUTA VI)
and Second Stage Long-Term (Twenty-Five Year) Development Strategy (PJPT-II). The GBHN
highlights the importance for Indonesia's sustained economic and social development of meeting
its rapidly growing energy needs efficiently--including through conservation and diversification
of primary energy sources and their more efficient utilization-and of minimizing the adverse
environmental and social impacts of energy use. In the electric power sub-sector, the GBHN
recognizes that an adequate, reliable and reasonably priced electricity supply is essential for the
country's continuing development, emphasizing its role in serving the needs of other productive
sectors and in contributing directly to improving the living stamdards of the people.
The recent development of Indonesia's power sub-sector is characterized by very rapid
growth in the demand for electricity and in the total capacity of the public power supply. Over
the last 15 years, the generating capacity owned and operated by the sole state-owned power
utility, Perum Listrik Negara (PLN). has increased from about 900 MW in 1975/76 to about
11,000 MW in 1992/93. Over this same period, the number of customers served by PLN has
grown by thirteen times. These impressive achievements have been made possible by the
continuing institutional development of PLN, and by a strong commitment on the part of
Government to ensuring that PLN obtained the necessary financial and other resources.
However, the very rapid pace of growth of power demand since the mid-1980s,
attributable to the success of the Govermment's economic policies, has-when coupled with the
country's archipelagic geography-posed challenges that have exceeded PLN's evolving
capacities. Thus while extensive power grids serve most areas of Java and Bali, the coverage
and quality of electricity supply in the outer islands generally remains very low while costs
remain stubbornly high. Moreover, even in Java and Bali, the rapid growth in industrial demand
for power has outstripped PLN's ability to supply, with the result that the capacity of privately-
owned autogeneration plant is now equivalent to around 30% of PLN's installed capacity. The
Government recognizes that the challenges confronting the power sub-sector will necessarily
intensify in the coming plan periods, and that this in turn will necessitate changes to the policies
that have guided its development in the past.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                  ~ -   -   - - - -   - - - - - - -_-- - - - - -



67                    ANNEX 1.8
PaSg 2
Policy Goals for REPELITA VI and PJPT-II
During REPELITA VI and PJPT-II the Government's policies for the electric power sub-
sector will be designed to:
(a)   improve  the  performance  of PLN, notably  through  decentralization,
commercialization and corporatization;
(b)   structure electricity tariffs so as to reflect more closely the economic costs of
supply;
(c)   reform and refine the regulatory and institutional framework so as to foster
competition and facilitate increased and more efficient private sector participation;
(d)   enable equal access to primary energy sources at market-determined prices for
publicly and privately owned power generators; and
(e)   develop and implement appropriate measures for inducing energy conservation
and improving environmental protection.
The broad policies for achieving these goals have been established as part of the process of
formulating REPELITA VI and are outlined below.
ImDroving PLN's Performance
The Government recognizes that improving the efficiency and quality of PLN's services
and equipping it to respond effectively to continuing rapid growth in demand for power will
necessitate significant changes to its present organization structure and corporate strategy. These
changes, which will be implemented in a number of carefully planned stages, will entail:
Decentralization: PLN's organization and management processes will be restructured and
decentralized so as to establish profit centers along functional (generation, transmission,
distribution) and geographical lines. Managers of profit centers will be given expanded and
more clearly defined decision-making responsibilities, and will be made accountable for their
performance. A system of contract-based objectives and incentives will be established to
encourage improvements in the operational performance of profit centers.
Commercialization: PLN will be required to function as a commercially oriented enterprise,
with individual profit centers planning and managing their activities in accordance with sound
commnercial principles. Cross-subsidy between commercial and non-commercial businesses will
be phased out, with Government providing explicit subsidies on a trasparent basis for rural
electrification and other social programs that are carefully targeted to benefit low income groups
or regions. The sub-sector regulatory and institutional framework will be enhanced, inter alia
to prevent exploitation of monopoly powers (see below).



ANNEX 1.8
68                                Page 3
Corporatization: PLN's corporate status and structure will be amended to reflect and reinforce
these initiatives and to enable it to compete on an equal basis with private power enterprises.
The present Perum entity will be converted progressively into a group of profit-oriented limited
liability companies (Perseros); these will be empowered to raise funds on the capital markets,
and private participation in their ownership will be sought as soon as their financial performance
permits. Such state-owned companies will be expected to compete in a market-oriented
environment, with Government exercising strategic control over them on an "arm's length" basis
through performance contracts that specify clear objectives and efficiency indicators.
Ructurinir Tariffs
The Government's policies on electricity tariffs are designed, inter alia, to ensure the
sustainable sound financial health of the power sub-sector and, in particular, its capacity to
respond effectively to the rapid growth in demand for electric power. As a first step towards
enabling PLN to play an expanded role in financing the needed massive investments in new and
replacement capacity, the average sales tariff will be increased to enable it to achieve at least
an 8% overall rate of return on revalued assets; this is expected to result in a self-financing ratio
of 30-35% for the period 1994-1999. To avoid erosion over time of the real value of the power
tariff, rates will be adjusted periodically to reflect changes in the costs of supply, with the
mechanism adopted being designed to promote efficiency improvements and tight control of
costs.
The present sales tariff structure will be simplified and the distortions inherent in it will
be progressively reduced so as to enable rates to reflect better the costs of supply. As part of
this process, the uniform national tariff policy will be reassessed during REPELITA VI with a
view to its replacement by a system of two or more regional tariffs. Cross-subsidies between
businesses and between consumer categories will be progressively phased out and replaced by
a transparent system of explicit Government subsidies for social programs or services that benefit
carefully targeted low income groups.
To facilitate increased private participation in the power sub-sector, the Government will
require PLN quickly to establish and publish rates for the purchase of power from small
generators through standard forms of contract, and to establish tariffs for the bulk supply of
power to distribution enterprises. The Government is currently examining mechanisms and
conditions for enabling 'third party access" to PLN transmission grids, and intends that PLN
should introduce a tariff for "power wheeling".
Reforming the Regulatora Framework and Promoting Private Participation
The Government is committed to expanding quickly private sector participation in the
power sub-sector, both to complement PLN's efforts to meet rapidly growing power demands
and to promote healthy competition that will produce improvements in efficiency and standards
of service.. It recognizes that this will require, on the one hand, a transparent, comprehensive
and consistent regulatory framework to define the rules under which state-owned and private
power enterprises will operate, and, on the other, an independent agency to oversee the
operation of these regulations and, in particular, to ensure that the natural monopoly elements



ANNEX 1.8
69                              Page 4
of the system are managed in a manner consistent with the public interest. The oversight agency
will be responsible for ensuring that regulations are administered and applied in a transparent,
timely, and consistent manner, and will be required and empowered to deal with appeals relating
to their implementation.
During 1994, the Government will review the current legal and regulatory framework
for the power sector and plans to formulate the revisions and additions that are needed to secure
the above goals. It will also initiate the establishment of a regulatory oversight agency under
the Ministry of Mining and Energy by separating those functions that relate to power sector
policy and planning from those that relate to the power industry's regulation and oversight. As
a first step, a separate Directorate of Regulation will be created within the Directorate General
of Electric Power and Energy Development. This will subsequently be converted to a higher
level agency with greater powers and independence.
The Government is currently refining its strategy for securing private participation in the
sub-sector, and is strengthening its procedures and capacities for promoting, evaluating, and
negotiating proposals from private entities. While the initial efforts in this area have focused
on the solicitation of proposals for large Build-Own-Operate (BOO) power generation projects,
the existing regulatory framework permits a much broader spectrum of private participation and
considerable attention is now being devoted to exploring other opportunities. Unsolicited
proposals for BOO generation projects are being encouraged, and several are now in preparation
under Letters of Preliminary Approval. Arrangements for permitting small independent power
generators to sell electricity to PLN at published tariffs through standard forms of contract are
being developed and will be finalized shortly. These arrangements are expected encourage more
efficient use of existing autogeneration capacity and to promote development of cogeneration
capacity by industrial plants.
Active consideration is now also being given to expanding the role of private enterprises
and cooperatives in the distribution / supply function, and to permitting private participation in
the shortly-to-be-corporatized elements of PLN. In addition, the Government intends also to
require PLN to provide "third party access" to its transmission grids for independent power
producers. The conditions and charges for such access will be clearly defined and their
implementation will be monitored by the regulatory oversight agency.
Enabling Egual Access to Primary Energy Sources
The Government recognizes that success in securing efficient private participation in large
scale power generation will be contingent on intending private power enterprises being able to
enjoy the same access to and prices for primary energy as are enjoyed by PLN. Accordingly
it intends to review and, where necessary, to revise its current policies in these areas,
particularly with respect to natural gas and geothermal steam, so as to make the markets for
primary energy resources open and transparent.



ANNEX 1.8
70                               Page S
Promoting Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection
Energy conservation is a central theme of the Government's energy policies, and it is
recognized that the appropriate pricing of primary energy and of electric power as outlined above
will play a key role in promoting the economically efficient use of scarce resources. The
Government's commitment to such pricing policies is reflected in the statement of the President,
made in January 1993, concerning the principles that will in future govern the pricing of refined
oil fuels for supply to the domestic market. It recognizes, however, that the proper pricing of
energy products will need to be complemented by other initiatives and measures designed to
encourage and induce sound energy use decisions, particularly on the part of industrial,
commercial, and transport enterprises. In the power sub-sector, the Government is now
developing a strategy for encouraging the more efficient utilization of electricity and the
implementation of this strategy will be accorded high priority during REPELITA VI.
Encouraging conservation and diversification in the use of energy resources is an
important element in the Government's strategy for reducing the adverse environmental and
social impacts of energy consumption. More generally, the Government recognizes that
safeguarding the environment is a prerequisite for sustainable development, and accordingly has
put in place the regulatory framework and institutions needed to achieve this.  During
REPELITA VI, considerable attention and resources will be directed to ensuring that these
regulations are implemented as intended. Within the electric power sub-sector, attention will
be focused on the careful planning and design of new generation, transmission and distribution
facilities so as to minimize and mitigate their impacts on the natural environment and adjacent
communities, and on effective monitoring designed to ensure proper compliance with applicable
standards and practices.
Implementadion
The Government will implement the above policies through a comprehensive and
carefully phased medium-term action plan whose preparation is being coordinated by the
Ministry of Mines and Energy. Other concerned institutions and agencies, most notably
representatives of the People's Representative Assembly and the Ministry of Finance, are being
consulted on those aspects of the action plan that extend beyond the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Mines and Energy. The action plan is conceived as an integral component of Ministry's
strategy for the development of the energy sector during REPELITA VI, and it is therefore
intended that its key elements will be finalized by the end of 1993.



INDONESIA
Second Rural Electrification Project
Historical Growth in Rural Electrification Coverage: Villages
70%  -                                                                                           Java-Bali    72%
60% -                                                                                           y    ,59%
0                                                                                                       Sulaw       51%
1  50%-5
0                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44%
X'  40%                                                                                                             traa  
CD 30%                                                                                            a     n Indone 1ia  /
20%{                                                                                                            %
Ka mantan
0%1                                           1
1978/79       1980/81       1982/83       1984/85       1986/87       1988/89       1990/91       1992/93
1Z Bali 700% Maluku 34 % Irian Jaya 18% West Nusa Tenggara 783 East Nusa Tenggara 1 7% East Timor 7 %



INDONESIA
Second Rural Electrification Project
40%           Historical Growth in Rural Electrification Coverage: Households
Java-Bali   38%
35%I
Indonesia
25% ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
30%-
22%                           a ma n1,24%
{                                                        <                                                         7 22%
|   0%                                              /gXf 5    a~~~~~~~~~~~0%tra 
0)4'                                                                          ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E rn nonesia '
10%
o%                                                                                                         t~~~~~~~~~~~~9
5%
1978/79       1980(81        1982/83        1984/85        1986/87        1988/89       1990/91        1992/93
.L  Bali 60%  Maluku 34 % Irian Jaya 12% West Nusa Tenggara 20% East Nusa Tenggara 8% East Timor 2%



73
ANNEX 2.3
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICAITON PROJECT
Power Subsector - List of IDA Credits and Bank Loans
Bank    Credit or         Date                  Project               Amount          PPAR/PCR
FY     Loan No.   Closed/Closing                Title                S Milion    Report No. Date
70   Creditl65          1975        Jakarta Power Distribution       15.81        2741    Nov 1979
72   Credit 334         1978        Jakarta Power Distribution II   40.00         2741    Nov 1979
73    Credit 399        1980        Thermal Power                   46.00         5104    May 1984
75   Loan 1127          1980        Power IV                        41.00         5104    May 1984
76   Loan 1259          1981        Power V                         90.00         5300    Oct 1984
77   Loan 1365          1984        Power VI                        116.00        6238    Jun 1986
78   Loan 1513          1985        Power VII                       78.40         6762    Apr 1987
79   Loan 1708           1986       Power VIII                      158.10        7902    Jun 1989
80   Loan 1872          1987        Power LX                       224.80         7902    Jun 1989
81    Loan 1950         1987        Power X                        250.00         7902    Jun 1989
82   Loan 2056          1988        Power XI                        167.00        8701   Jun 1990
83   Loan2214           1991        PowerXII                       278.63        11014   Sep 1992
83   Loan 2300          1990        Power XIII (Cirata)            270.32        11014   Sep 1992
84   Loan 2443          1991        Power XIV                      205.11        11014   Sep 1992
85   Loan 1950-1        1990        Power X Spplemental             49.20         7902   Jun 1989
87   Loan 2778          1992        Power Transmission & Distri.    222.81       PCR Under preparation
89   Loan 3097           1994/      Power Sector Efficiency        337.00
89   Loan 3098           1995/a     Paiton Thermal Power           354.00
90   Loan 3180           1995/a     Rural Electrification          329.00
91    Loan 3349          1996/a     Power Transmission             275.00
92   Loan 3501           1999/a     Suralaya Thermal Power         423.60
93   Loan 3602           1999/a     Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II  104.00
Total                       4D76.78
/& Ongoing project
M:\Joseph\RE2table.2-3



74
INDONESIA                                           ANNE 3.1
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Organization Chart of PLN
PLN Region 1
Special Area of Aceh
Th  3arJ of
Directors of
PLN                    _              PLN Region 11
Corporation                                                                       North Sumatra|
Inspectorate                                n_I
Directorate of         Directorate of                PLN Region III
Planning            Administration             West Sumatra and Riau
PLN Region IV
Directorate of        Directorate of]           South Sumatra, Lampung
Construction _     _    FinancsJambi and Banghulu
Main Project ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ innc
Genea_io andraPLN Region V
North SumatraDietoat o                                                     Ws Kliara
I OperatUions  _ ptKlimna
Main Project                                                                      PLN Region VI
Generation and Transmission                                                             Southa Central and
Noth Sumatra a                                                                     East Kalimantan
Main Project                                                                      PLN Region Vili
Generation and Transmission    _ S                                                      Nouth and CentralE
West Sumatra and Riau    lu                                                               Sulawesi
Main Project                                                                      PLN Region VII
Generation and Transmission - South                                                        Soutn and 'South-East
Sumatra, Lampung. Jambi and Bengkuiu                                                              Sulawesi
Maln Project                                                                       .      
Generation and Transmission                                                               PLN Regin IX
Sulawesi                                                                            Maluku
Main Project                                                                       PLN Reglon X
East Java and  i                                                                       Ian Jaysali
Main Project                                                                      PLN Region Xi
Thermal Power                                                                     Bali, West and East
East Java                                                                        Nusa Tenggara
Main Project                                                                      PLN Distributbon
Generation (Thermal) and      r                                                           East Java
Transmission - Central Java
Main Project                                                                      PLN Distribution
Hydro Power                                                                        Centrai Java
|        ~~~Central Java          r|CnrlJv
Main Project                                                                      PLN Distribution
Transmission West Java and Jakarta                                                             West Java
Raya - E H V Transmisslon and LDC
Main Project                                                                      PLN Distribution
Thermai Power                                                                Jakarta Raya and Tangerang
West Java and Jakarta Raya                                                    ________________
Main Project                                                              PLN Generation and Transmission
Hydro Power                                                                        Eastem Java
Engineering                              _
Services
Main Project                    Center                                    PLN Generation and Transmlsslon
Physical and Supporting Facllities   1     9[                                               Westem Java
Main Project                     sarhTannCetrJv-liLd
Generaton and Transmission                                 Tranigr  De Java-Bal Load
KalimantanDipthCne
|Mangement|I 
I  Services   1            |         PLN Speclai Region
|   Center   1           1              Pulau Batam             Ii



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN: NzroRmANcz INDICATORS
198I12       1o           1som4        Isom5        1oom6        1967         19613         1993        9loo          J3991        1991/62     19993
1.    kambd  gme   (                         3,032         3,406        3,935        4,515         5,AM5       4.00          4.421          i49        3941         9.113         9.189       10374
2.    PbA k     03W)                          1,O76        2,235       2X413         2,403         2,966       3,403         3.33         4354         5.1us          039         4.129         .414
3.    Cq iiy Moan    a(I)                     0.62          OA7          0.61         OJO          0       .53  0.55         0.60          0.54         6             646          0.           09
4.    BMW_       41 IOW                     10,13          11,347       13392        14,7Y7       16.899       19.455       22,305       25,2         29.567        34,3         3,7m         41,95
5.    San (G                                  7,45         9,101      10,000        11,041       1,X706        14,786       17,077       27           22,435        27.741       31,491       34,965
i      S  sW& ina.                            20.3          14.0          9.9         10.4          15.1         16.4         15.3         17.3          1720        ISA           13.          11.1
7.    La wad=1 um (S)                          22.6         23.2          25.3         25.3         24J         24.0          2D.4         21.J         27            20.4         11.7         16.7
1     -_ _                          13.7         19.1         201          20.4          19J          19.4         13.7         16.9         15.7          ISA          14.1         12.4
*.    N _ d          _ gin                3.22075      30,M421    4,406.047       5,133,21     S,953,293    9.65.J30      .203,349     975,931   10,31.945    11,4,736    12,39637         13,44556
(S Po-*                              (17.7)        (17.)        (15.9)       (1645)       (16.0)       (17.0)        (17.8)       (13.1)       (11.71       (11.)         p-1)         0
9.    V       _w Elowm&4 (4..)                                                        9,194       10,725       13,101       14.7Th       16,794        2490         2,545        25,714       23,36
(S)                          -             *5.0                                 17.5         21.4         27.4         3e.7         331          372           43.7         47.9
14.    Aas.p3 p.k W bh       m                 43.3          54.5         76.0         972          96.6         935          92.4          91.9        114.1        113.2        129.1         137.1
II.    A .pb i Wcmpa,Wha_                      16.2          23.4         s3J          49.4         54.4         4.3          506           49.4         45.3         SS.4         3.1          61.0
12.    TOWs1l_p   I    ua)                   35,791        39,949      44,909        49,6960 1                 51.571       51,203        5,27         51,319       52.812       53,832       55,737
13.    Ci          PK u_a                       90            9f            9o          103          114          135          160           I3I          199          217          230          242
14.    sanPK b)m asiOWNn                        219           m            m            m            243          2n7          334          391           452         m5            st4          49
I5.    Boobm  (9 .-                             976         1,213        1,497        I,9m         2,79         3,367        5093          6.45         *,919       10,422       l1.57        13.3
1.    D_W dt s        (S) f
biammsfis qs                           -1.9         .3.0         *0.9         .0.4         -0.3           3.4          0.2          0A           6.3           3.0          5.7          4.3
km       s                                -            -            -                          -          8.7          4.1          31           10.4          7.5         11.7         12.
17.    Opm_   d  (S)                           lOS           107          102          101           101           9l          101          Ie             so           go           34           96
1s.    cwXA  _d *n)                             3.4           2.4          2.2          2.5          2.1          1.3          1.1           0.9          1.2          1.4          1.3          1.3
19.    DAL%qmW  _h (s)                        14116         I7/T3        2nM          32/6         344         40/60         41/59         39/61        3S64         34/66        3            3464
23.    D*4 _o                                  10.3           41           3.           2.4           1.7          2.6          1.1          1.3          2. IJ                    2.9          2.6
O-)
21.    sou bu_n =do (S)
AainA                                 221          32.4          13.2          11.4         10.5         23A           6.9         15.2         323          30.7          21.5         10.9
3  "          _o rog                  29.9          30.3         D.3           13.3         10.7         23.4          7.1         16.3        2M             233          19.7         12.7
22. o0m   amas  -
m      ad (We .sa)                        74           65           U            53            51           4            47           46           40            3t           37           36
&0mm a  Wm  pao ma  f~ r 19a31.1964t63  km  1935/66 -   d bowaad  sop sman hvmm  for km Y~  6aqulh                          UK aw
ks1b pnwb  ye u         o mm  h.vhs jam.
sow=   P".
&   91.42



76
ANNEX 3.3
BUREAU OF
GENERAL AFFAIRS
|  BUREAU OF    1
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
_ ffi W    1 AW AND ORGANIZATION |
eO      t  ~~BUREAU OF FINANCE        Zt _         l_MCOSEME
m~~~~~~~ z                                       DIRtECTORATE OFC
BUREAU OF PERSONNEL                               N        RI
_UW             I     DIRECTRTE OF CNT
U,5 BUREAU OF PLANNING |                                                              ELECTRY
(=       W 0  Z                     COPRAIE                                            TRSALLDE
| * i S   UJ   ffi                                  t    [   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRECTORATE OF 
|-U) IOzNDX E W    l    d>JSCTNEPTRISSRRAIIN
zu.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J, - =   O t   _                           ^ 6 @         2   a~~~~~~~~~~~~DRECTORATE OF
Ul~~~~U                                                    L     re                TRADE
001                 g u             EDUCATION &TRAINING
EL j          0        O                  ESNE      
| U)  U)DIECMRAO> SMALLENTERPRISESF
co            |    S|$W                                              4      PAMSCELAEOUS SERVICEIS
COOPERATIVES a                        J   RECTO    OF
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z- W                                             l ET^ECRP
..15I c   (C                                               oI8               DIRECTORATE OFFS
0 ~ ~ |) wg||8$8|                                                     0WADAIA  U>O
n~~~~            7  0           ETRRIESGIONIVNINGl                          FINANCRIALSERVIES|
z U.Cw                          EDUCATREION& TRANIN
0 0          x 2~~~~  PRSGONNIE               |



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN REPELITA VI INVESTMENT PROGRAM FOR RE
(1994/1995 - 1998/1999; Million US$; 1993 Prices)
UNIT          REPELITA VI              199411995             199511996             199611997              199711998               199H11999
[       I O/JO9Java T /Java              tota  Java O/Java  Total J           DIJava  Total  JavI  O/Java  Total  Java  O/Java  Total
A.  Electrincafton Targets
1 Vilages                                                  5,065  13,554  18,619   909  2.432  3.341   926   2,480  3.406   990   2,649  3,639  1,118   2,992  4,110  1,122   3,001  4,123
2 Consumers                                      (10-6)      3-45    3 13    6 58    67    0.50   1.17  0 69    0 55   124  0.70    0.62   132   069    0.69   1.39   0.70    0.76   1 46
B. Physical Program
3 MV Line                                      1'OOO KMC       15       47      62      3       8     11      3       9     11      3       9      12      3       10     14       3      10     14
4 LV Line                                      1'000 KMC       50       54     105    10        9     18    10       10    2       10      11      21     10       12     22      10      13     24
5 Transformers                                    MVA       1,553   1,407   2,960   302    225    527   311    025    56    315           277    592    312       313   625   314        343   657
6 Diesel Plant                                    MW                    40      40              6      6              7                     8       8               9       9             10     10
7 Minihydro                                       MW                    10      10              2      2              2      2              2       2               2       2              2       2
C.  Estimated Expendltures tMinlon US S1              [MUSs]       647   1,028   1,67    124    171    295   127          183    311   130      202    332    132      229    361    133       243    376
8 MV Lines                                                     77     249      32      14      45     58    14       46     60    1 5      49      64     17       55     72      17      55     72
9 LV Lines                                                    187     202      390    36       32     69    37       36     73    38       40     78      38       45     83      38      50     88
10 Transformers                                                 92       83     175    18       13     31    18       15     33    19       16      35     18       18     37      19      20     39
11 Diesels                                                               22      22              3      3              4      4              4       4               5                      6      6
12 Minihydro                                                             11      11              2                     2      2              2       2               2      2               31     3
13 Constructon & Transport                                     132     336      468    25       55     80    26       60    86    27        66      93     27       75    102     27       80    107
14 House Connecton                                             159     144      303    31       23     5      32      25     57    325      28     60      32       32     64     32       35     6



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PLN REPELITA VI INVESTMENT PROGRAM FOR RE
(1994/1995 - 1998/1999; Million US$; 1993 Prices)
PHYSICAL PROGRAM                                             BUDGET                                          TOTAL
PLN         TOTAL    TOTAL       ~          ~        ~        ~      ~       _____                        _____    ____    ___HOUSE   TOTAL
REGION               PROVINCE          VILLA- CONSUMER  MVN V LINES         TRANS7 DIESELS M HYDRO    MV LINES          LV LNES I  IRANSI     DIESELS  IU HYDRO                 MAT.    CO TRA  CONNEC.
DES                                                                     CO            CO                CO       O                       20         21       TION   BUIDGET
6n-      k-.    UVA       mw       mw      MAT    A    MAT        &    MAT    &   MA7.   & MAT kAtRA   112                    I*3
________________    .1000)  1.10001                                   ~~~~~         ~~~~           ~~~~      ~       ~     ~      ~~TRA,  TRA  TCRA  TR&A  .4.166 *1S,7
1                      2              3         4       - 50        6                                  0     II    12    13        14    IS    16    17    18       19        20         21        2        23
REGION I                ACEH                    1,677      40.366      506a    0 84    la815     Iso      2 27  27 00   12 00   4 00                                                      31 00      12 00     1 66    44856
REDION I                HORTINSUMATERA          1.962     297.253      5895    4 95   133 75                    32 00   15 00  18 00    7 00   8 00   7 00                                58 00      28 00    13 67   100 67
REGION U                                        1.275     260.238      4 32    4 75   117 15     7 00           23 00   12 00  17 00   8 00   8 00   6 00   2 00  2 00                    50 00      30 00    11 87    81897
WEST SUMA1ERA            800      1018624      2 81    I186    45 75     3 50     2 94  5 00    7 00   8 00    3 00   3 00   30000  0D  100                      26 00      14 00     4607    43867
RIAU                     375      158.614     I1St    260   71140       3 50             a00    5 00  11 00   5 00   50DO   5 00  I100  I100                      25 00      le600     7230    48 30
REGION IV                                      2.181      616.272      7 48    8 05   233 65    7 10            40 00   150OD  30 00    7 00  12 00   7 00                                82 00      26 00    23 69   134 89
SCIUTSUMAATERA           835      287.822      386e    4 15   120 50     18 soIs00    5 00  15 00    5 00   7 00   5 00                                           37 00      Is500    12 32    64 32
JAMB                     481       83.916      1 59     1 30    37 75   2 00            100  500   5 CD S00           100                                         le600       5 00     3606    24 66
LAMPUN9G                 553      122.I5O      89      1 86    54 95   2 00            10 00    5 00   7 00    2 00  A400   2 00                                 31 00       900      5 62    35 62
BENGKUL&U                312       45.364      1 01    070    20 45      1 so            5 00          3 00                                                       a600                 209p   1009
RECION V                WEST KALIMANTAN         1.951     369.671      6 70    8 50   168 35    2 50            36 00   is800  30 00   16 00  50 00  12 00                                75 00      4600     17 00   138600
REGION NA                                      1.558       We665       612     7 68   228 00    950o            32 00   12 00  28 00   14 00  15 00  1700   3 00  4 00                    79 00      4700     23 31   149 31      
SOUIJTHKAL64AATAN        709      135.198      2 24    2 06    6085s    2 00            12 00   2 00   6 00    5 00   50OD  5 00                                  25 00      1200      6 22    43 22
CENTRAL KALWMAATAN4   439         13-4.454     1 94    2 04    OD050     2 50           1000    5 00   8 00    4 00   4 00   500                                  22 00      14 00     616    4218
EAST KALI4AA4TAN         410      237.006      1 95    356   10 665     500             1000    5 00  13 00    5 00   6 00   7 00   300  400                      32 00      3100     1090o   6390
REGION VI                                        636      133.216      228      16as   5995s     2 00           15 00    50OD   5 00          2 00   2 00                                 22300       7 00     613    3513
NORTHSULAWESI            190       39,204      0 59    0 55    765     05so      1 39   5 00                                                                      500                 I6      0a80
CENTRAL SILAAV4ESI       469       64.014      1 67     1 31    42 30    150o      2 40  10 00   5 00   5 00          2 00   2 00                                  17 00      7 00     4 32    28 32
REGION VU                                        482      254.055      1 74    3 35   114 30     19 sola00   0 01  II100   5 00   5 00   5 00                                             2600D      500     11609    52 69
SOUJTH SUA AWE Si        275      210.325      102     2 78    94865    0 60             S00    5 00  10 00   5 00   5 00   S00                                   20 00      1500      967    44 67
SOUTH EAST SIAWES    207           43.730      0 73    056    19 65     1 00             5 00          1 00                                                        600                 201      8 01
REGION IX               MALL8IKJ                 497      179.836      1 82    2 96    80 95    2 00            10 00    7 00  12 00    7 00   5 00   5 00                                2700D      900      627    54 27
REGION X                IRIAN JAYA               377      244.946      2 26    OS3  110 25      2 50            1200   12 00  25600   20 00   7 00  1200                                  44 00      4.400    11 27    89627
REGION XI                                        830      264.740      2 77    441   128 10     2 80            12 00    7 00  18 00   5 00   5 00               5 00                     33 00      1700     1310    63 10
BALI                      40       52.017      012     081I   23 40                                    3 00                                                        3 00                2 36     5 36
WFST NJSA TENGGARA    104          42.717      036     096s   16 20      030                            200                                                        2 00                18       396
EASTNUASA TENGGARA    676         180006       2 26    2 95    85 50    250       1 45  12 00    7 00  Is100   5 00   5 00               5 00                     2800D      17 00     874    5374.
EAST TIO"                169       36.114      06      056os   16 26     1so          I50  500 1 D I00             I6 00                                                      50 11I66    12 66
01.17543 JAVA                                  13.554    3.1I26.360   4717    5444 1.406865    40 00     10 451 253 001 12001 198600  89 001 77 00  75 00   5 00 11 00  11 00   8 001    544 00    306 00    143681   976981
DtST OF EAST JAVA      EASTJAVA                 1.627    1.166.042     5 30    17 28   524 70                   2700   10 00  64 00   19 00  31 00  20600                                122 00     49 00     53 64   224 64
DIST OFCENTRAL JAVA                             1.611     647.275      514    1228   381 35                     2700D  10 00  45 00   11 00  22300                                        94 00     2100      36807   153 97
CENTRALJAVA             1.761     762.500      496    11 05   343 20                    27.00  1000  4000  11 00  200                                             6700lo     21 00    35 06   143 06
YOGYA                     50       8477        015oi   1 23    36 15                                   5 00           2 00                                         7 00                3 90    0 9D
OM5 OF WEST JAVA       WEST JAVA                1.427    1,438.500     418    20 85   647 30                    22 00   0.00  7800  25 00  39 00  20 00                                 136 00     55 00     ad617   28017
957 OP JAYATItR        ON0 JAYVA
_ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                                                                                       I.u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- I  3.6
JAVA                                           5.085    3.451.820     14861   50802 1.S5335                     2600  30.00 187.00   55 00,92 001 40.00                                  355004    2900    196786367
INDONESIA                                      1661119    6,575.210   6178   10485s 2.960 20    4000     0.46 32900  150.01 36500D 144~00 16001D 80   500  1100  1100D    8.00         8860       45300   302,   I.619
p3.95 ~~~~~~~ 8a.m. ~~~~~~~~b.pe9~~~~~~o..1~~~~~.w9I                                                                                                       00.~~~~"' .9$o



ANNEX 4.2
79                                    Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Increasing Cost Effectiveness in Service Delivery
System Design Considerations and Pilot Projects
Distribution System Design Changes
1.    A primary technical challenge in RE implementation centers around the need for
continuous research and improvements in equipment and network designs in order to reduce the
cost burden. This means developing lighter and "low tech" equipment designs, and using
construction techniques and management approaches that provide strong incentives for
contractors to reduce the equipment and erection costs of distribution networks. A TA provided
under the RE I project -- on RE design standards and practices -- has paved the way for
introducing lighter and lower cost designs in the proposed project than those employed under
RE I. The major design changes described below, that were determined and agreed to with PLN
for full scale implementation in the proposed project, are conservatively estimated to yield
savings in materials and equipment of about US$40 million (excluding contingencies and taxes)
for the distribution component; for which the estimated material and equipment cost in the
proposed project is about US$350 million:
o     For concrete poles, the specifications in tender documents will be sufficiently
general so as nWt to preclude rectangular and/or Verendiel concrete poles or other
types of concrete poles that meet performance standards. This will be explicitly
stated in the tender document language.
o     For procurement of concrete poles, the option will exist for transport and erection
of such poles by either the construction contractor or the pole manufacture. Pole
manufacturers will be asked to bid ex-factory price and separately a fixed price
for delivery and erection in specific geographical areas. The pole supplier will
be contractually obligated to deliver and erect quantities later nominated by PLN
should this be required. During the construction stage, construction contractors
will be advised of suppliers price for delivery and erection and they would be
given the choice of bidding on the basis of poles already delivered and erected by
the pole supplier, or the construction contractor taking delivery at the factory gate
and erecting the poles themselves. PLN would accept the lower cost alternative.
o     For MV and LV lines, strict application of the ruling spans formula allowing an
increase in average span length from 45 to 50 meters and 40 to 50m respectively.



80
ANNEX 4.2
Page 2
o     Increase in the ratio of single phase overhead lines (OHL) to 3 phase OHL to
reduce conductor quantities.
o     For MV/LV substation transformers, the protection has been modified by using
less LBS's and more fuse cut outs on the MV as well as replacing LVCB's by
disconnecting switch fuses on the LV sides, ensuring reliability of supply and
adequate protection.
The following table summarizes and compares the technical particulars for key components used
in PLN's urban distribution operations and for RE operations.
Pilot Projects
3.    Several areas with potential for further and significant cost reduction were identified
during the course of RE I. While based on demonstrated experience elsewhere they no doubt
would yield cost savings, it was decided to first test and evaluate their adaptability to the
Indonesian environment and alongside advance the state of technical and management readiness
to adopt such measures, if proven to be successful in Indonesia. Specifically, five pilot projects
have been incorporated under PLN's component: (i) Single Wire Earth Return (SWER), (ii)
reinforced concrete (RCC) poles, (iii) low cost substation tap off, (iv) Contract Administration
Company (CAC) and (v) Wood poles.
5.    The SWER system. This pilot involves stringing one single wire for MV with a return
path through earth. Two applications will be tested in the pilot project: (i) low cost spur
extensions to hamlets which surround existing electrified villages (low cost "intensification");
and (ii) spur extension through remote, mountainous terrain with poor or no road access (low
cost "extensification"). The sites chosen for these are, respectively, in Bali and Sulawesi. It
is anticipated that the cost savings as compared with conventional single phase, two wire spurs
would be 50% and 44%, respectively.
6.    Reinforced concrete (RCC) poles. This pilot project involves the manufacture of
reinforced concrete poles in relocatable low cost factories temporally located close to the line
erection site, and using simple light wood moulds. Savings of between 10% and 15% are
expected as compared with poles manufactured in a central factory and then transported over
long distances to the line erection site.
7.    Low cost substation tap off. This pilot project involves the installation of 10MVA
150/20 kV power transformer substations with minimum acceptable protection and facilities and
located midway between conventional zone substations. Savings of about 20% as compared with
conventional substations are expected.
8.    Contract Administration Company (CAC). This pilot project involves letting one
contract for all the distribution construction in a large area -- to be erected to a specified



81
ANNEX 4.2
Page 3
standard and at a fixed price -- to a company which is well skilled in administering contracts.
This company (CAC) then subcontracts the work to smaller construction contractors on a design
and build basis; while guaranteeing the schedule, price and quality standards. This approach for
managing the design and construction puts strong commercial pressures on the CAC and the
construction contractors and would result in smarter (lower cost) designs being implemented as
well as reducing delays in construction. Savings of about 20% of total construction costs are
expected. Savings of between 30% and 40% have been experienced where this model has been
developed in other countries, where even procurement of materials is left to the CAC and/or the
construction contractor.
9.    Wood poles. The objective of this pilot project is to gauge  the feasibility of re-
establishment of a domestic wood power line pole supply industry; specifically as a low cost
alternative to steel poles that presently have to used where use of concrete poles is not feasible
because of access or transportation costs. For this purpose, PLN proposes to issue a small lot
tender for such poles. The expected savings are 60% as compared with steel poles.



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
DISTIMBUTION EQUIPMENT SPECIFICATION AND CoST DIFFERENCES FOR RE AND NON-RE OPERATIONS
% Cost Reduction
Items              Non-RE                RE I                     RE HI
____________       ____________         _________________            ~~~~~~Non-RE/RE   I  RE    I/RE   111
MV Lines:
- Conductors               150-240 mm2            35-70 m2                     35-70 mm2           53%             3%
Higher ratio single phase
- Poles                    22 poles/knic        22 poles/kmc                 20 polesAkmc           9%             2%
200-350 daN          200-350 daN                  200-350 daN
Spun round           Spun round        Performance based spec.        10%            10%
- Pin Insulators            57 pcs/kmc            51 pcs/kmc                   46 pcs/kmc
- Installation Cost              100%                   91%                          82%            9%             9%
Transfonners:                                                                                                                       o
- Installation             Pole mounted         Pole mounted                 Pole mounted          79%            10%
with platform   without platform to          without platform to
maximum 5OkVA               maximum 50 kVA
- Protection          LBS's and LVCB's    LBS's and LVCB's                Fuse cutouts and
disconnecting fuse switches
LV Lines:
- Conductors                 25-70 mm2            25-30 mm2                    25-35 mm2           25%               -
twisted cable            26 poles/imc          25 poles/knmc                20 poles/kmc
- Poles                    200-500 daN           100-200 daN                  100-200 daN          20%            30%
Spun round           Spun round        Performance based spec
-InstallationCost                 100%                  97%                         92%             9%            25%
Did ieasel                                                                                                                         J
- Power house                permanent        semi permanent               semi permanent          55%               -
- Power capcity      greater than lOOkW             20-100W                      28-1OOW                X_      _



83                      ANNEX 4.3
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Esrn.MTED IBuRSEWNT SCHEDULE
(USS million)
Disbursement            Cumulative
Bank FY         Semester      Semester     Cumulative       % of Loan
1995              I               0.0           0.0            0.0
II              4.0           4.0            1.0
1996              I               4.0           8.0            2.0
II             112.7         120.7          30.3
1997              I             112.7         233.4           58.6
II             75.5          308.9          77.6
1998              I              75.5         384.4           96.5
II              8.0         392.4           98.6
1999              I               5.6         398.0          100.0
Source: PLN.



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
tNDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR                          1995 11996                    1996/1997                  199711998                     199811t99
Month                   f IN ID IJ IF   A IAIJ IJ JA IS 10 IN ID IF       7ATJ I  s    IN ID I     IA PTIAs lo IN IDI
PLN Cormonent_
1. Distribution Scherme
Tendering                         _
Delivery of equipment             _                            ___
and materials
Construction and
consumer connections
2. Pilot Projects
Tendering and consultant
recruitment
Delivery of equipment                                                                                                                                co
Implementation                                                 _       _=____
Evaluation
Consultant services
3. Mini-Hydro/
Mini-Geothermd
Tendering and consultant
recruitment
Delivery of equipment                                         .                                             _
Implementation                                                                       ____
Consultant services                                            _ -                          -                                    -



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR                         1995 / 1996                  1996/ 1997                 1997 / 1998                   1998/1999
Month                    pIs 1 IN ID                                            is JOAIN ID IpT TM TIA IS 10 IN ID I                  I
4. Technical Assistance
Consultant recruitment
Services
MOC Comronent
Consultant recruitment
Services
CD3
tig



86                              ANNEX4.5
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRMICATION PROJECT
PRODUCTIVE USES COMPONENT
Introduction
1.    Productive use consumers are customers in rural electrification areas who use electricity to
produce marketable goods or services. The most common, intensive business consumers of energy are
in the food and beverages, light engineering, garments, and wood based industry sub-sectors, including
rice mills and enterprises producing soybean-based tahu and tempe foods, small tools and other metal
products, wooden furniture, bamboo and rattan products, handicrafts, and roof tiles and other building
materials. The businesses typically are family owned and operated, have less than twenty employees and
are based at the home or adjacent to the home. Most use electricity for lighting. However in many areas
businesses continue to use alternative sources of energy for driveshaft power and few use electrically
powered equipment. Results of surveys of more than 4,000 small businesses carried out in 1992 in the
grid supplied rural areas covered under SBS in North Sumatra, South Sulawesi and Central Java indicate
that their average monthly consumption of productive use energy is in the range of of 40 - 50 kWh, with
the consumption of the more intensive small industry units ranging up to 600 kWh per month. The
studies found that PLN currently supplies only 8 - 15% of this productive use energy market.
2.    Productive uses and sustainability of rural electrification. Productive uses are essential to
establish the long term viability of rural electrification investments and service in Indonesia, particularly
outside Java where the PLN cost structure is higher. Electrification of the poorer, more dispersed, less
densely populated rural areas is undertaken initially often for largely social and political reasons related
to equity concerns and nation building. It is capital intensive and, with the present tariff structure,
requires financial subsidies. Increased productive uses contributes both to lower costs and higher benefit
levels. On the PLN cost side, load development improvements within existing grid systems directly
improve the rate of return of rural electrification. More intensive use through increased productive uses,
which largely occur during daytime hours when residential demand is low, results in greater loads density
and load factors which lower the cost of electricity per kWh. However, while increased productive uses
and other measures may moderate the financial losses, without an overhaul of the tariff structure, revenue
will continue to be less than the LRMC for many rural areas. In this situation, the economic benefits of
expanded and new economic activities and of cost savings which accrue from using PLN for productive
uses provide a principal justification for rural electrification.
3.    This annex is organized as follows. This introduction is followed by a section on the status of
productive uses in rural Indonesia and of the constraints on achieving increases; including the experience
of the SBS component of RE I in promoting productive uses. The rationale, objectives, activities, targets,
costs, benefits and risks of the RBS component of RE II are described in the balance of the annex.



87                                ANNEX 4.S
Page 2
Small Business Services (SBS) Pilot Component of RE I
4.     PLN's share of the existing productive use energy market of small industries, although small, is
larger than indicated by PLN statistics. Admistratively PLN classifies almost all small industries to
residential tariff categories. The explanation appears to be that as PLN has been encouraged increasingly
to operate with a more commercial orientation it resists putting small industries into the I-1 category (450
VA to 2.2 kVA), which fits the great majority, as this is PLN's most subsidized tariff category. In 1993,
PLN reported 7.5 million rural customers of which 11,400 were in an industrial tariff category, of which
350 were classified as I-1. In 1989, PLN had estimated that 244,000 residential customers could be
reclassified to the I-1 tariff category. As PLN statistics on industrial consumers do not reflect actual
levels of small industry productive uses, monitoring under SBS and RBS of kWh consumption is done
for individual enterprises participating in the programs regardless of tariff classification.
5.     Constraints to productive uses. Achieving increases in productive uses in RE areas confronts
constraints on both the supply (PLN) and demand (business) side. On the PLN side, these have included:
(i) the selection criteria for rural electrification areaas, which do not explicitly include existing or
potential productive uses; (ii) the lack of 24 hour service in some isolated systems; (iii) service quality,
particularly outages and voltage fluctuations; (iv) delays in responding to business requests for
connections and upgrading of contracted power; (v) tariff administration, namely the reluctance to use
the I-1 tariff category; (vi) the tariff structure which hinders both initial entry to PLN and the expansion
of installed capacity (the initial deposit; the high charges and no installment payment arrangements for
new business connections and increases in contracted power; and the fixed demand charges); (vii) an
incentive structure which does not encourage PLN staff to promote productive uses; and (viii) the PLN
approach to marketing which emphasises administratively processing and classifing customer requests
rather than promoting PLN services.
6.     On the demand side, constraints include technology, skills, capital, markets, indeed the full range
of internal and extemal enterprise development constraints which hamper business entry and expansion.
The key demand side constraints are in important aspects information constraints (e.g., lack of
information available to potential users on equipment options and sources, PLN prices and connection
requirements, sources of skills training, small loan opportunities and business support services). Many
enterprises have an incomplete or incorrect understanding of what they might do with electricity, how
they might do it, and what it would cost. These information constraints arise given: (i) the passive
marketing of PLN, which has a financial disincentive to promote productive uses as its tariffs for small
productive users (1-1, I-2, R-1, R-2) do not recover even the operating financial costs of providing the
service; (ii) the weak development of supporting social infrastructure and complementary development
programs in many rural areas; and (iii) the absence of the agglomeration economies which occur in more
developed, usually urban areas with higher and more diverse concentrations of business units.
7.     Pilot program  experience todate with SBS, described below, suggests that demand side
information constraints are the key ones. Productive uses increase once they are addressed by active
marketing which communicates the competitiveness of PLN services and provides technical solutions for
customers.  This response is in line with international experience, for example the U.S. rural
electrification progam and more recently as reported for Thailand, which indicates that advertizing and
other promotional efforts can leverage significant increases in productive uses. The importance of
addressing other constraints would increase should the PLN tariff structure be overhauled so that the
energy charge rates paid by small productive users were raised by 15% - 20% to PLN's variable costs



88                             ANNEXA.5
Page 3
level. This would erode much of PLN's current price advantage over diesel (para. 12). In this situation,
in addition to continuing an active marketing program which would emphasise the quality and
convenience of PLN service along with providing technical solutions, it would be appropriate to reduce,
possibly subsidize, the cost of access to PLN by significantly lowering the deposit, the charges for new
connections and increases in contracted power, and the fixed demand charge. The objective would be
a balanced tariff structure with entry and expansion rates which were affordable by higher numbers of
businesses and operating rates which recovered the PLN variable cost of supply, and possibly more to
permit tariffs paid by small productive users to make a contribution to PLN's fixed costs.
8.    SBS strategy. Under the SBS component, PLN actively promotes productive uses of electricity
through the provision of price and technical information in Sibolga and Binjai in North Sumatra, Ujung
Pandung in South Sulawesi and Yogyakarta and Solo in Central Java. The proposition of SBS is that
addressing demand side information constraints through improved marketing by PLN will increase
productive uses of electricity by small businesses in rural areas. After delays in start-up, promotional
work began in early 1993 with field workers of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), through group
and individual techniques, providing potential and existing productive users with tariff and equipment
information, guidance on the comparative costs and other aspects of PLN and diesel power sources, and
demonstrations of appropriate electricity using equipment. The SBS program also provides information
on sources and some assistance in accessing credit and training and, in some areas, other business
development services.
9.    NGOs. PLN contracted with five NGOs to carry out the field level marketing activities of SBS.
This PLN - NGO collaboration has been an unusual aspect of SBS and an important factor in its success.
125 NGO field workers have worked on SBS activities. As expected, they have demonstrated solid
capabilities in informing, training and motivating small rural businesses, thus complementing the technical
skills of PLN staff. With very few exceptions, the NGOs have established good working relationships
with local level PLN staff and representatives of banks, equipment suppliers, and government agencies
involved in complementary rural development activities. Four of the NGOs have been effective in
promoting productive uses. The experience has been that the stronger the field capabilities of an NGO
and the more effective its coordination with local PLN staff, the more likely it is to be a useful partner
of PLN.
10.   SBS results. SBS has been successful in generating applications to PLN from productive users
for connections and increases in contracted kVA leading ultimately to higher kWh sales. The program
has involved 27,000 enterprises; during the first year more than 10,000 have been directly advised
through visits to the enterprise sites; if present trends continue, SBS will have generated more than 4,500
new productive users in less than two years, representing an increase of 5.4 million kWh in PLN annual
sales. In most of the areas the response to the active and effective provision of information has been
rapid; SBS activities in Central Java led in one year to a waiting list of more than a thousand for
connections and increases in contracted power. In one of the five SBS areas, the response has been
considerably slower due to performance and coordination problems within the field program and to the
more limited scope for business development in that area.



89                              ANNEX 4.
Page 4
SBS RESULTS AND TARGETS (based on data available 2/94)
Indicators                         2/93 - 1/94    2/94 - 12/94    Total -
results       target        target
Enterprises visited and advice       10,641         8,315        18,956
provided
Enterprises apply to PLN for new     2,375          2,670         5,045
connection
Enterprises apply to PLN for           592          1,065         1,657
increase in kVA
PLN makes new connection              1,367         1,841         3,208
PLN completes kVA increase             592          1,065         1,657
TOTAL - enterprises become new        1,610         2,933         4,543
productive users
Estimated increase in PLN kWh     1,932,000     3,519,600     5,451,600
sales per year
i1.   The SBS activities have been effective for a number of reason:
(i)    SBS promotes a very competitively priced service. Taking into account fuel, maintenance and
capital costs, PLN is the least expensive energy source for small rural industries. Comparative cost
studies are being completed during 1994 of businesses using PLN and diesel, the main alternative energy
source for which the government removed subsidies in January, 1993. Initial results indicate that at
current tariff rates PLN is 21% less expensive than diesel fuel (PLN at Rps 120/kWh, the estimated
average small business tariff paid; diesel at the current price of Rps 380/liter and a 0.381 liter per kWh
conversion rate costs Rps 145/kWh). Maintenance cost savings are estimated to be Rps 16/kWh using
PLN rather than diesel. Capital costs savings accrue in cases in which the cost of a diesel generator set
is avoided or in which the electric motor costs the firm less than the alternative diesel motor. These can
be substantial, ranging from Rps 107 to 428/kWh for the avoided cost of a generator set (Rps 3.5 millon
for an installed 7.5 HP unit, a common small industry size; 12% opportunity cost; 15 year life; 400 to
100 kWh per month).
(ii)   The business environment is which most small industries operate is very competitive. Many
enterprises have numerous existing competitors and for those who are in activities with few barriers to
entry, the threat of competition from possible new entrants is continual. The small woodworking
enterprise, for instance, which changes to power equipment is able to respond to orders for furniture
components more quickly, with finer and more accurate pieces, in greater volume and with less wastage



90                              ANNEX 4.5
Page 5
of raw material than the competitor who continues to use a combination of diesel and manual power.
Once such a technology change is made by one firm it raises the local standard of best practices to a new
level. The experience of SBS has been that a group of similar firms soon follows suit.
(iii) Institutional and human factors, including the management and coordination of PLN's SBS staff, the
guidance and assistance of the SBS Advisor who was contracted to provide technical support for SBS,
the field capabilities of the NGOs (para. 9), and the cooperation of the PLN regional, branch and sub-
branch officers who have been involved, have been important elements in SBS performance. The
appraisal of RE I had considered that one of the risks for the project was the uncertainty over whether
there would be adequate backing from PLN for the marketing activities of SBS. In the event, the backing
has been ample and the field level cooperation has been supportive of SBS success.
12.   Lessons learned. The experience with SBS indicates that: (i) productive uses can be increased
by effectively addressing information constraints through improved PLN marketing efforts focused on
promoting the changeover by small industries from diesel or manual power sources to PLN; (ii) other
constraints can be offset in many cases by effective marketing given the current overall price, quality and
convenience competitiveness of PLN; (iii) coordination is required between PLN - NGO marketing and
PLN operational functions to avoid situations in which PLN is not able to respond to service requests
generated by successful marketing, for example as occurred in Central Java due to a local shortage of
meters, miniature circuit breakers and twisted cables; (iv) promotional efforts should be mounted in areas
in which the technical attractiveness of PLN services is adequate and not limited by a high level of
outages and voltage fluctuations.
13.   Adjustments to strengthen implementation. SBS completed its first 12 month phase in January,
1994. An internal evaluation was completed at the end of 1993 and overall performance and results were
reviewed by the mission with PLN and NGO staff and officials. It was agreed that for its second phase,
which is scheduled to be completed before the end of 1994, in order to increase both effectiveness and
efficiency a series of internal operating adjustments would be incorporated so that SBS would: (i) be more
targeted on changeovers from diesel or manual energy sources and less on the start up of new business;
(ii) be more targeted on higher energy industry sector units and less on commercial and service sector
enterprises; (iii) use more efficient screening methods and thus spend less time with enterprises not likely
to changeover to PLN; (iv) use streamlined and simpler internal monitoring and reporting systems; (v)
include comparative studies of economic and social impacts; (vi) cover four rather than five areas; and
(vii) include more involvement by PLN field officials in field operations.
Rural Business Services component of RE II.
14.   Overview. Under the proposed project, the experience with SBS will be built upon to mount
programs to promote productive uses in each of PLN's 14 regions (11 wilayah and three distfibusi). A
particular emphasis will be to develop promotion approaches which can be effective in areas outside Java.
RBS is designed to be an advance on the experimental efforts of SBS in several ways. RBS would focus
on attracting the initial group of small industries in targeted sub-sectors in an area through short, intensive
information and advisory campaigns rather than, as under SBS, seeking to convert a high proportion of
the businesses in an area through a relatively long presence in each area. Secondly, the enterprise
selection criteria would emphasise industry sector units rather than all small businesses. Thirdly, RBS
is expected to have a stronger implementation capability as a result of greater involvement of PLN branch



91                              ANNEX 4.$
Page 6
and sub-branch staff, more refined enterprise targeting and screening, improved monitoring and reporting
methods, a simpler menu of services (i.e., avoiding trying to solve all business development problems),
standardization in promotional materials, and a central NGO training capability for NGO and PLN field
workers.
COMPARATIVE SCOPES OF SBS AND RBS
Total Indonesia       SBS              RBS
PLN regional areas              14                3                14
(wilayah/distribusi)
PLN branch areas                95                8                30
PLN rural ranting areas         350               40              150
SBSIRBS program areas           n.a               5                25
SBS/RBS participants            n.a.            27,000           65,000
Enterprise become new           n.a.            4,500            30,000
productive users
Annual increase in kWh          n.a.          5.4 m kWh       36.0 m kWh
sales
15.   RBS objective. The objective of RBS is to increase the productive use of electricity in rural
areas. Critical success indicators would be: (i) a 100% increase in the PLN share of the productive uses
kWh energy market of the rural industries in targeted sub-sectors within the program areas; and (ii)
30,000 rural industries assisted to start or enhance their use of PLN electricity for productive purposes.
The first indicator is intended to encourage the direction of RBS efforts to the more intensive energy
users; the second is intended to encourage the program to promote productive uses of electricity to a wide
number of potential and existing small industry units.
16.   Strategy. The RBS would: (i) address information constraints to productive uses by actively
advising customers and potential customers on price and technical aspects of PLN services and the
technology options for electric motors; (ii) reduce tariff administration barriers to increased productive
uses by correctly classifying or reclassifying small industries under the industry rather than residential
tariff categories; (iii) strengthen PLN corporate capabilities to provide services to rural business.; (iv)
monitor and report on results. The quality of PLN's services to rural businesses would continue to be
monitored under RBS. The approach of RBS is for PLN working with NGOs to direct marketing efforts
at selected industry sub-sectors in an estimated three rural sub-branch districts in each of up to 25 area,
11 in Java and Bali and 14 on other islands, covering all 14 PLN regions. This would be done through
six month promotional and advisory campaigns in each area.
17.   Activities. RBS implementation would comprise four main areas:



92                                 NNEX 4.5
Page 7
(i)    Marketing. A core theme of RBS would be to promote productive uses in low cost ways by:
-      using up to 25 locally based NGOs to provide PLN business customers and potential
customers with price and technical information on the use of PLN services for productive
purposes.
-      using one centrally based NGO to train field staff of local NGOs and participating cabang
and ranting level staff of PLN and to assist in carrying out preparations and guiding field
programs of local NGOs.
-      organizing intensive promotional campaigns carried out for short periods, say six months,
in each area.
-      using standardized marketing brochures, leaflets, advertisements, posters, training videos,
etc., and advisory instruments (e.g., comparative fuel costs and cash flows with and
without PLN).
-      using locally based mass communication techniques and indirect marketing channels (e.g.,
through equipment suppliers and Department of Small Industry) to attract businesses into
making contact with the program.
-      using group based and individual methods for advising businesses.
-      identifying and systematically executing in each area the preparation and implementation
of key marketing tasks, including: consultation with other agencies and review of PLN
data on electrification and productive uses leading to the detailed selection of specific
rantings as target areas and specific target industry sub-sectors; briefing of PLN field
staff and staff of other agencies; selection and contracting of local NGO through a
competitive process; training of PLN and NGO staff; carrying out of survey to establish
energy market baseline and targets; promotional activities; monthly reporting.
(ii)    Tariff administration. In addition to actively informing small industries of its pricing structure
and technical solutions, PLN would improve its attractiveness to productive users by:
providing clear and possibly revised guidance to field staff on the criteria to be applied
in classifying small industries under the II or I2 tariff code. The current practice is to
assign home-based industries an RI or R2 tariff code rather than the Il code specifically
provided for home based industries in PLN's official tariff structure.
correctly classifying new small industry customers under the ll or 12 tariff code.
reclassifying as Il or I2 small industries presently assigned an RlI/R2 tariff code.
using special promotional measures, including linking "PPELK" (PLN's program in line
with a broader national objectives to promote subcontracting between large and small
firms) with RBS activities.



93                               ANNEX4.5
Page 8
(iii)   Corporate capabilities. PLN's capabilities to provide rural business services would be increased
by:
-      contracting the services of an RBS advisor and providing the advisor with adequate
logistical, supplies, administrative, and other support.
-      staffing the PLN unit responsible for RBS with three full time PLN professionals.
-      training of PLN field staff, RBS staff and senior PLN staff. Training will be provided
for an estimated 10 PLN staff from each of the 25 areas for seven days at a PLN training
facility and for 11 PLN staff two months of overseas training.
-      issuing an operational directive setting out PLN's policies and promotional efforts for
rural businesses.
-      developing more data collection and analysis capabilities on productive uses.
-      increasing the internal PLN information flow about productive uses.
(iv)   Monitoring and reporting. During the implementation of SBS the monitoring and reporting
arrangements, after some uncertainty at the outset, were steadily improved. The arrangements for RBS
for monthly, quarterly and annual reports and annual plans would reflect further improvements by:
-      modifying as appropriate and using the management information system developed under
SBS to monitor RBS inputs and results performance.
-      using PLN computer system at wilayah and distribusi as key monitoring points.
-      setting clear targets and indicators and issuing standardized reporting formats and
software to local PLN officials and local NGOs.
-      adopting an evaluation plan and conducting three meetings of PLN and NGO participants
to systematically review progress and agree any changes in activities or direction which
may be warranted.
18.   Performance indicators. In addition to the critical success indicators (para. 15) of (i) achieving
a 100% increase in the PLN share of the productive uses kWh energy market in the selected sub-sectors
and tii) assisting 30,000 rural industries to become productive users of electricity, RBS performance
indicators would be: (iii) the number of enterprises advised, (iv) the number of enterprises assisted to
connect to PLN and to increase their contracted power, (v) the number assisted to become productive
users without the need for a new connection or increase in contracted power, and (vi) the number of
enterprises assisted to be reclassified from a residential to an industry tariff code. Also, the following
would be monitored: (vii) employment impacts in assisted enterprises; (viii) kWh sales to assisted
enterprises; (ix) service interruptions in the targeted areas; and (x) complaints of industry customers in
the targeted areas.



94                              ANNEX 4.5
Page 9
RBS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicators                10 areas on Java and   14 areas outside Java   Total
one in Bali
per area    total      per area     total
Enterprises visited and   4,000     44,000        1,500     21,000     65,000
advice provided
Enterprises apply for     2,000     22,000         600       8,400     30,400
new connections or
increased kVA
Enterprises receive       1,800     19,800         500       7,000     26,800
connections or increased
kVA
Enterprises become         1,500    16,500         400       5,600     22,100
productive users
Other enterprises           500      5,500         200       2,800      8,300
become productive users
without new connection
or kVA increase
Total new productive      2,000     22,000         600       8,400     30,400
users
Increase in annual kWh     2.4m       26.4m       0.72m      10.08m     36.48m
sales
Enterprises reclassified    500      5,500         250       8,400     13,900
from residential to
industry tariff
19.   Organization - From PLN Pusat RBS would be implemented by an RBS unit responsible for
overall management, technical direction, coordination and reporting, including selecting the target areas
and industry sub-sectors and contracting and supervising the participating NGOs. The RBS unit would
be composed of a Project Manager, a Deputy Project Manager, three professional assistants and four
support staff. The RBS unit would be advised and assisted by an RBS Advisor backed by at least one
support staff and occasional local and foreign short term consultants. The terms of reference of the
Advisor are attached. A central NGO with experience under SBS will be contracted to assist PLN with
the implementation of RBS. The central NGO will conduct training for local PLN staff and for staff of
the participating local NGOs, assist PLN in the preparatory, supervision and follow-up activities in each



ANNEX 4.5
95                                   Page 10
area, prepare and reproduce informational and mass communication materials. In each of the 25 RBS
areas, local PLN-RBS teamns composed of two professionals from the wilaya or distribusi office, three
from each participating branch and two from each participating sub-branch will coordinate the
implementation of RBS activities, including those of the local NGOs. They will be responsible for
implementing efforts to reclassify small industry consumers from residential to industry tariff categories,
assisting in the identification of target sub-branch areas and industry sub-sectors, monitoring results of
the programn and of PLN services to productive customers, increasing collaboration with other agencies
concerned with rural development, particularly with rural industries, and suggesting strategies and
adjustments to the RBS unit at PLN Pusat. Local NGOs will be contracted in the 25 areas to implement
the program including identifying constraints, carrying out baseline surveys, promoting productive uses
through activities which reduce information constraints, (for example, mass communications, group
sessions, individual counseling, comparative demonstrations, equipment demonstrations), and developing
links for enterprises with private and public sector entities to address skills and finance constraints. In
each area, there will be an NGO coordinator, three supervisors and field workers - 18 per program on
Java and Bali and 12 per program in other areas.
20.   Selection of RBS areas - Under RBS the strategy for area selection would be to concentrate on
areas which have been electrified with grid supply and which have a high potential for increasing
productive uses. High potential is defined as having a large concentration of business with the potential
to changeover from diesel or manual power to PLN. Low potential areas would be considered,
particularly off Java, on a case by case basis depending on the scope for introducing new uses. Rural
areas would be defined as rural rantings which have minimum 70% of customers and potential customers
residing in villages; which are grid supplied; and, which have a low load factor. Areas which have a low
waiting list for connections by rural businesses and in which PLN management in the area indicates
strong interest and support for promoting productive uses would be accorded special priority. RBS would
operate in areas in which PLN has the technical capability to respond to requests for connections and
increases in contracted kVA.
21.   Selection of businesses for participation in RBS. The strategy for participant selection is to
focus on existing or potential PLN customers who are operating businesses with high energy use
potential. An average 100 kWh per month consumption for productive purposes would define the target
category, as compared with an average productive use consumption for rural businesses of 40 - 50 kWh
(para. 4) Consideration would also be given to promoting new business development on a special basis
in high energy use activities. Efforts would be concentrated on businesses with high technical potential
to changeover from diesel or manual power to PLN, which are successful businesses, which have
potential for reclassification of tariff code, or which have a new use potential.  In rural areas, the
enterprises with high potential for productive uses of electricity are in the manufacturing sector, including
agro-industries, garments, wood products including furniture, and metal products sub-sectors.
22.   Scheduling. It is anticipated that SBS will be phased into RBS during the second half of 1994.
RBS would begin formally with the arrival of the RBS Advisor and the start of activities of the central
NGO in October, 1994. By February, 1995, after start-up and preparatory local training of NGOs, the
first five programs will be initiated, concluding by the end of September, 1995. Allowing for follow-up,
evaluation and redesign, ten additional programs would be carried out in calendar year 1996, and an
additional ten in 1997.
23.   Budget. The estimated cost of RBS is US$7.5 million before contingencies and other provisions.



96                              ANNEX 4.5
Page 11
RBS BUDGET SUMMARY 1994/95 - 1997/98 - US$
Items and units                    Quantities     Unit Cost         Total
Local NGO contracts -professional    3,800          1,110      4,218,000
staff months
PLN staff and field worker           5,250            120        630,000
training - days
Promotional materials - sets          250           1,600        400,000
Central NGO - professional staff       180         2,380         428,400
months incl. travel
RBS Advisor - person months            36         25,000         900,000
Technical assistance (TA) foreign -      3        25,000          75,000
person months
TA local - person months                6          4,000          24,000
Computer and printer - sets            27          4,000         108,000
Motorbikes - units                    150          2,000         300,000
Training foreign - person months       22         20,000         440,000
TOTAL                                                          7,523,400
24.   Risks. The risks with RBS are several. Implementation will take place in 14 PLN regions and
involve field workers of up to 25 NGOs. The implementation management risk is clear. The proposed
strengthening of the PLN Pusat unit responsible for RBS, the use of an experienced central NGO to train
the local NGO field workers and to assist PLN in guiding their field work, more standardized and
streamlined approaches to promotional activities and reporting, and closer supervision by PLN regional
officials to ensure that problems are spotted quickly and corrected, are measures introduced to assist PLN
meet this management challenge. Secondly, there is the risk that PLN field staff or the NGO field
workers might attempt to carry out too many tasks in trying to solve a wide range of problems
confronting businesses (e.g., credit, business management practices) and their communities. This
tendency, particularly of some NGOs which have a strong social orientation, to become an all purpose
rural development effort was apparent in some areas during the first phase of SBS. This risk has been
addressed by targeting RBS more sharply, by defining the role of the NGO field workers more clearly
and by supporting them better with training and promotional materials. Also, of course, PLN now has
experience in working with NGOs and is more skilled at managing these relationships. Thirdly, there
may be a tendency to use the services of the RBS Advisor for tasks such as administration, including
basic gathering, preliminary verification and review of information, and computer programming. When
this occurs, as it did during the first phase of SBS, it detracts from the overall guidance and analytical



97                               ANNEX4.5
Page 12
work required to be done by the Advisor to ensure that the program continues to learn and adjust to the
insights being generated and that the project contributes to increases in knowledge about the methods to
increase productive uses and their impacts. This has been addressed in discussions with PLN officials
as well as through the strengthening of the RBS unit at PLN Pusat. PLN's awareness of the need to
utilize effectively the services of the Advisor and their experiences with SBS are expected to contribute
to the Advisor being able to devote his time to his primary tasks.
25.   Benefits.  RBS would be implemented in areas which have been electrified and in which
productive uses appears to be low. It would encourage businesses, mainly small industries, to improve
their production technology by switching from manual or diesel based power to PLN electricity. It is
anticipated that most of the RBS enterprises will be switching from diesel to PLN, or will be selecting
PLN rather than diesel as they upgrade their energy source from manual. For businesses, the financial
benefits of using PLN rather than diesel are clear (para. 11). For PLN, while increased productive uses
means a more intensive use of the infrastructure, improved load factors and a lower cost per kWh, there
can be no net financial benefit of increasing service at the present subsidized rates.
26.   Economic benefits from  increased productive uses of electricity which result from  these
changeovers and upgradings include those represented by the net increase in value of production. Taking
the most conservative assumption, that a firm's output would be the same using an alternative source,
then the economic benefit would be the value of the avoided private cost of the alternative. However,
the economic benefits associated with switching to electricity go well beyond those quantified by this
approach. This technology change is an element in the structural transformation process of rural
development as communities adjust to changing competitive conditions and become more integrated in
the regional and wider economies. As anticipated based on experience in other countries, for many SBS
firms which have become PLN customers for the first time the benefits include longer working hours,
greater security, better work quality. For existing customers who formerly were using PLN only for
lighting and domestic use, the switch to electric equipment often has led to more efficient operations and
improved quality. Although in many cases there is apparently a labor productivity increase, with greater
capital investment per worker, there have been no reports of employment being reduced in the
participating enterprises as a result of adopting electricity for productive use. In sectors and areas where
there are growing markets, some enterprises report increasing their product range, employment, sales and
profits. Ultimately, these and other broad development impacts associated with the technology change
made possible by using electricity for productive purposes are a main justification of rural electrification.
While electricity on its own will not lead to a more productive rural economy, for most rural areas
development will not occur without it.
27.   Productive uses promotion. A long recognized issue in Indonesia is that the productive use of
PLN electricity in many rural areas is comparatively low. New uses do not appear to increase
substantially following electrification and existing productive users of alternative energy sources
changeover to PLN slowly or not at all. One of the constraints to productive uses has been that
insufficient information has been provided to users and potential users. This constraint was addressed
on a pilot basis by the Small Business Services (SBS) component under RE I with special promotion
programs in two of PLN's regions outside Java and in one region on Java. Working in collaboration with
NGOs, PLN actively informed existing and potential small business customers of the opportunities,
methods and advantages of using electricity for productive purposes. Results indicate that such marketing
efforts which provide price and technical information are effective in increasing the number of rural
productive users of PLN electricity. Under the Rural Business Services (RBS) component of RE H this



98                               ANNEX 4.S
Page 13
approach would be expanded to all 14 of PLN's regions using a more targeted and efficient approach
which draws upon the lessons learned under RE I.



99                           ANNEX  4.6
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFCATION PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Approximate                                                           Staff Input
Dates/                Activity - Major Focus             Skills       (Staff
Duration                                                  Needed      weeks)
6/95           Review of bid documents, project management   EC, PE,       12
2 wks          arrangements, consultant appointments,     RBS, RE,
monitoring PLN restructuring plan, RE Master   E&R
Plan, environmental supervision
11/95         Procurement status, review of bid evaluation  EC, PE,       12
3 wks          reports, RBS program startup, RE investment    RBS, RE
plan and village selection criteria, field visits to
Pola Program sites
6/96           Procurement status, disbursements, mid-project  EC, PE,     12
3 wks          review of all components, environmental    RBS, RE,
review.                                    E&R
11/96         Preliminary evaluation of pilot projects, field  EC, PE,    10
2 wks          visits to RBS sites, status of disbursements.  RBS, RE
2/97           Detail review of major TA components, Pola    EC, PE,       12
3 wks          Program, RBS component, mini-hydro and     RBS, RE,
mini-geothermal, RE-specific restructuring,  E&R
environmental aspects.
7/97           Review of TA components, pilot project      EC, PE,         8
2 wks          experience, RE-specific organizational      RBS, RE
restructuring
1/98           Supervision of RE-specific organizational  EC, PE,          8
2 wks          restructuring, review of TA and pilot projects,   RBS, RE
renewable component.
6/99           Implementation Completion Report (ICR)      EC, PE,         12
3 wks                                                     RBS, RE,
E&R
EC - Economist; PE - Power Distribution Engineer; RBS - Rural Business Specialist;
RE - Renewable Energy Specialist; E&R - Environmental/Resettlement Expert.



ANNEX4.7
100                       Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
GUIDELNE:S FOR TH  ENVIRONMNTAL CAnpER IN
TH  DJSRIUTON SUBPROJECr SURVEY REPoRn
1.          This annex identifies the points that would be reviewed in the
environmental chapter of the subproject feasibility report. It should be noted,
however, that they are often not an issue in the subproject. In those cases it should
be mentioned in the environmental chapter that these issues have been considered but
are not present in the subproject under review.
2.          Relevant Background Data.  It is assumed that the following
information is already present in the subproject feasibility report:
*     Project Plan with maps indicating route(s) and obstacles such as
mountains, forests, lakes, rivers, ravines, etc.
*     Land allotment, protected lands, protected forests and other protected
areas;
D     Project implementation including land clearing, excavation, and access
road construction;
D     List of heavy equipment if used in the project.
3.          Meteorological Data
(a)   Describe relevant meteorological data for wind direction, speed and
seasonality; Description of corridors used for the subproject and land
acquisition requirements;
(b)   List proposed crossings of forests, protected forests, natural parks,
protected areas and wetlands (including swamps);
(c)   List all corridors that are not situated along roadsides using public
owned land, such as corridors over agricultural land, over plantations,
and over other sensitive areas;
(d)   List corridor crossings of rivers, lakes and other waterways;



ANNEX 47
101                        Page 2
(e)   Indicate surface areas required for the right-of-way corridors through
the areas mentioned under paras. 4, 5 and 6.
(f)    Estimate number of trees that have to be cut in forests, protected forests
and natural parks for the right-of-way corridors. Indicate how these
corridors and the ones through protected areas and wetlands will be
maintained: if the use of herbicides cannot be avoided describe how
spraying will be done (spraying from airplanes should be avoided);
(g)   If corridors through wetlands are required indicate if mangrove forests
are touched and describe measures to prevent cutting mangrove trees;
(h)   Describe flooding risks if corridor crosses a flood area and indicate the
measures taken to minimize risk of damage on the subproject's system;
(i)    Describe transformer installations and indicate if land acquisition for
transformer stations is required and indicate which transformer fluids
will be used;
(j)    Describe all other land requirements for the subproject for switchyards,
substations, and others;
(k)   Describe the mitigation measures that are being proposed and have been
agreed upon to minimize environmental impacts on all environmental
sensitive areas such as forests, protected forests and areas, natural parks
and wetlands;
(1)    Describe measures taken to minimize the impact on agricultural land,
dwellings and communities;
(m)   Describe measures proposed to minimize impact on birds especially
migratory and rare species from river, lake and wetland corridor
crossings.
4.          Alternative Corridors. If construction of a power line requires a
corridor through environmentally sensitive areas; alternative corridors should be
discussed and evaluated, and definitive recommendations should be made for the
corridor that has the least environmental impact within reasonable economic limits.
5.          Land Acquisition
(a)   If land acquisition is required, data should be provided on: (i) the total
amount of land to be acquired and this should be disaggregated to show
both the type of land use and ownership; (ii) the number of people that



ANNEXV47
102                       Page 3
will need to be compensated and the number that will be displaced; and
(iii) the tenure status of and extent of impact on the affected people
(i.e., amount and proportion of land and/or house affected).
6.          Resettlement
(a)   It is assumed and should be confirmed in the environmental chapter that
no corridors shall go over domestic buildings (dwellings and others).
However, if this is unavoidable because no reasonable alternative
routing is available these families should be relocated: ;indicate the
number of families that have to be relocated or resettled;
(b)   Describe all arrangements for resettlement, and relocation taking into
account the framework for resettlement issues that has been agreed
between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank (Annex 4.8
to this document).
7.          Compensation for land, housing, lost crops. This section should
include: (a) estimates of compensation rates for land, different categories of buildings
and major crops in the area; and (b) description of procedures for compensation that
will be applied for non-land-owners that have rented lands.



103                       ANNEX 4.8
Page 1
INIONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
FRAMEWORK FOR PREPARATION OF
INVOLUNTARY REsIrEMEmF   CoMPoNENTs
The following basic principles and criteria have been agreed upon
between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank. Although in first instance
agreed for road projects they are sufficiently general to apply to any project requiring
involuntary resettlement. The agreed framework is that to be eligible for financing the
action plan for subprojects involving resettlement/relocation will meet the following
requirements:
(a)   Subprojects will be designed and selected in a manner which will help
minimize displacement and adverse effect on incomes of affected
people;
(b)   All subprojects requiring resettlement/relocation, even of a few people,
will provide for appropriate compensation for assets based on market
value (including logistical support for moving and relocation as
required);
(c)   Action plans will provide for all measures and compensation required
to restore the standard of living of all affected people, as fairly and
equally as possible, whether their land rights are customary or formal;
(d)   Preparation of these action plans will be based, inter alia, on
consultation of affected people, surveys of land titles and ownership of
dwellings and of affected residents;
(e)   The action plans will have a clear implementation time frame and
construction works will not start within or adjacent to the relocation
area before required resettlement has been completed;
(f)   The process will be transparent. Information relating tao the people
affected, the compensation they are entitled to, the available options or
alternatives and the grievance and appeals procedures will be provided
by the project manager and made readily available to the executing
agency and the World Bank;
(g)   The action plans will specify the organizational responsibilities for
implementation and supervision and measures needed to strengthen the



ANNEX 4.8
104                       Page 2
capabilities of agencies involved in accordance with the requirements of
the prevailing GOI laws and regulations;
(h)   The final subproject cost estimates will include all costs required for the
satisfactory implementation, and the management and monitoring of the
land acquisition and resettlement/relocation plans and the World Bank
approval will be subject to all necessary funds having been budgeted
for.



ANNEX 4.9
105                       Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
GUIDELINES FOR THE ENVIRONMETAL SCREENIG
As REQUnIED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS FOR M[IM-HYDRO PROJECTS
The annex identifies points that would be reviewed in the environmental
screening of mini-hydro projects, including related works on civil, mechanical and
electrical engineering to provide water diversion dams, powerhouses, water intake
structures, water conveyance structures, electrical systems, grid interconnection, etc.
Estimates of the areal extent of the proposed project should be included in the
environmental analysis as well.
SCOPE OF WORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Project Plan
1.    Provides a general project plan and its schedule and provide two maps drawn on
scale, one of the general area and one for the project area;
Climate
2.    Describe climate type, and meteorological data for temperature, rainfall
(seasonality), wind (direction, speed, seasonality);
Geology
3.    Describe land morphology, topography and geologic structure.  Is project-
locatedin an earthquake zone, if so, provide quantitative data for the frequency and
intensity of earthquakes;
Hydrology
4.    Provide river stream flow rates (monthly maxima and minima from historical
records);
5.    What data area available describing water availability in all seasons; and if
available give surface and groundwater quality data during all seasons, indicate
surface and groundwater recharge areas, all uses of water (including irrigation,
industrial and other uses), sources of water for drinking, bathing, clothes washing;
6.   If the water availability for the different uses is impaired by the project, describe
the impact and project, describe the impact and propose mitigation measures to
provide this water at the same quality;



106                        ANNEX 4.9
Page 2
7.    Describe river flow disruption during the dry season caused by the project.
Describe high sedimentation during construction and immediately after construction
and measures proposed to mitigate the situation. Describe the impacts on aquatic
organisms during construction (with high sedimentation) and after implementation
of the project;
Land and Soil
8.    Describe land stability, adaptability, layout and use, land allotment, protected lands
and soil types, structures and texture;
9.    Does the project has an impact on the land stability? If so, describe measures to
stabilize the land;
Flora and Fauna
10. Describe types of flora and fauna (land and water), and types of protected flora and
fauna;
11.   Describe impact of project on wildlife;
12.   Are surveys available describing endangered biological species that might be
threatened by the proposed MHPP?
Health
13.   What are local health facilities and are there surveys of communicable diseases in
the local communities that could be affected especially during the construction
phase of the project;
14.   Will imported labor force be checked on communicable diseases?
15.   What will be the impact of the project on water-borne diseases and parasites.
Especially for those sections of the rivers that will fall dry during periods that the
project will fully use all available river water.
Construction
16.   Provide a list of project activities, including construction, land clearing, land
excavation, access road construction, transmission line installation, etc.;
17.   Provide an estimate of the size of the area used for the project activities, including
the main structures, road, transmission lines, and penstocks;
18.   List the heavy equipment to be used in the project construction activities;



ANNEX 4.9
107                       Page 3
19.   Describe the impact of this equipment on exiting roads and measures to be taken
to repair any damage;
20.   Describe in a general way the various building materials to be used (type, quantity
or volume), where these materials are to be found and how collected, their means
of being transported to the site and their storage and the final disposal system for
any wastes generated;
21.   Describe the environmental impacts on the sites where these materials are collected,
or quarried;
22.   Describe how the MHP facilities will be operated, including any special
environmental management controls;
23.   Describe the types of equipment used in operating the generating systems, including
giving the plant's capacity rating;
24.   Describe fully the environmental impact of the construction activities;
25.   Describe the number of construction workers and the education and expertise
required, whether or not these workers can be hired locally, where they will reside
during construction and their ages and sex;
26.   Describe any training that will be given to workers;
27.  Describe the number of operating employees and the education and expertise
required, and whether some people can be hired locally;
28.   Describe any training that will be given to operators;
29.   Describe noise intensity around the power house, how much it is over ambient
noise levels and what measures will be taken to mitigate a noise problem;
30.   Describe any existing activities adjacent or near the project that could have a
positive or negative effect on the project;
31.   Do project plans provide for an adequate buffer between project (construction and
operation) and any conflicting adjacent land uses? What mitigation is planned for
such cases (vegetative screening)?
Cultural-socio-economic-aesthetic impacts
32.   Describe population profiles (age, sex, education, religion, income, health), attitude
and perception of the community toward development, condition of the socio-
cultural heritage and other relevant information.



ANNEX4.9
108                       Pogo 4
33.   Are there surveys for the area's archaeological, aesthetic and cultural resources that
might be threatened by the MHPP?
34.   Describe cultural impacts (including on local religion, on local archeological
treasures and loss of riparian vegetational used for artisan or nmdicinal purposes);
It should be noted that not all the impacts mentioned will be prsent in all
the MHP projects under consideration. If not existent the ES should mention this. Some
other impacts could also be quite positive.



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SUMMARY FEATURES OF PROPOSED Mi-HYDRO PRoJECrS
.Ulung Pefiang    Bambalo      Kolondom     Lokomboro       Werba
Wilayah                           VII            VII           VII           Xl            X
Tahuna         Poso        Toli-Toli    Waikabubak    Fak Fak
iCapacity (MW)                     1.09          2.6           1.5           0.9           1.5
Number of Turbines                 1             2             2              1            1
|_Head (M)                         64            64            70            40            70
Mean Flow (M/sec)                 2.1           2.4           1.29          2.6          2.57
Open Channel Length (M)            100           200           584            0           1,500
Penstock Length (M)               875            430           575           230          260                        o
Penstock Diameter (M)             1.15           1.7           1.15          1.3          1.15                  I
MV Line Length (kmn)               1.3.          0.1           6.0           6.0          6.0         Total
Total Land Area (nj              25,275        22,950        228,200       25,000        106,750     408,175
Access Roads (m2)
- to Power House                                              2,500         6,000        2,500        11,000
- to Dam                         5,000          3,500         5,000         5,000        7,500        26,000
Estimated Number of Families
- Compensate                       5             12            26            11            3           57
- Relocate                         3                                                                    3 - 
0b



ANNEX S.1
110                             Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRICATION PROJECT
PLN's FINANCiAL STATEMENTs - PAST RESULTS AND FoREcASrS
I. PLN - PASr FINANCIAL RESLTS
PLN - Income Statements
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year                   1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Sales increase (%)               15.1      16.4     15.5     17.3     17.0      18.5     13.5     11.1
Energy sales (GWh)             12,706   14,786   17,077   20,027   23,435   27,741   31,481   34,964
Averge revenue (Rp/kWh)          96.6     93.5      92.6     91.9    114.1    113.2    129.0    137.1
Energy revenue                  1,227    1,382    1,581    1,840    2,674    3,139    4,063    4,794
Other operating revenue            36       43       48        59       83       95       115      123
Total Revenues               126      1.42S   .L629    1.9        2.7S7    J2a4    4&2M      A217
Qerating Exoenses
Fuel/bulk power                 775       720      881    1,006    1,085    1,552    1,851    2,132
Operations                      237       251      320      375      469       623      810    1,148
Depreciation                    261       321      438      515      640       745      855      967
Total Expenses               L22      1    L       2   16IL9      224    2920    3 S1        4 247
Ooeratin2 Income                Q       133                                   a 3142
Other income (net)                (21)      (9)       (8)       1     (133)      22       25        29
Net Income Before Interest        (        124      (i          4      4222                2 67     9
Interest Charged to
Operations                       24        87      118      137      230       293      370      391
Net Income /a                 m         37       WM36    21                   in       12 
Rate base /b                    2,779    3,867    5,100    6,852    8,919   10,423   11,576   13,823
Rate of return (%)               (0.3)     3.4      (0.2)     0.0      6.3      3.0       5.7      4.8
Operating ratio (%)               101       91      101       100       80       90       84        86
/a Before taxes.
lb Based on revalued fixed assets.



ANNEX S.1
111                   ~~~~~Page 2
PLN - Balance Sheets
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year              1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in service          5,002    6,833     8,779    11,846    14,550    16,832    19,124   23,917
Less: Accumulated
depreciation          1,136     1,584    2,179     2,826     3,570    4,516     5,560    6,794
Net plant in service       3,866    5,249     6,600    9,020    10,980    12,316    13,564    17,123
Work in progress           2,503    3,192     4,112     3,806    3,116     3,670     6,057    9,395
Total Fixed Assets         6.369    8.441    10.712   12.826   14.096    15.986    19.621   26.518
Current Assets
Cash                       124       216      239       295      595       705       804       916
Inventories                280       146      210       244      292       332       409       477
Receivables                208       226      263       288       384      421       491       563
Other current assets        45        29       27        41        31       92       177       273
Total Current Assets        657      617       739       868        2     1.550     1.81       2.229
Other Assets                 20       69       143       180       99       118       153      611
TOTAL  ASSETS             70        27    11.594    13.87       1574 19    17.654   21.665   29.358
EOUITY AND LIABILITIES
Paid-in capital           3,000     3,422    4,282     5,245    5,890     6,690     8,964    11,694
Retained earnings          (193)    (152)    (288)    (421)    (221)    (218)          30     (207)
Revaluation reserve       1,439     2,120    2,912     3,563    3,890     4,692     5,391     6,394
Total Equity             .       5.39     6         L8        95       11.164    14.385    17.881
Long-term debt(net)       1,856    2,535     3,140     3,481    3,666     3,835     4,165    7,161
Current liabilities         312      465       695     1,023     1,025    1,132     1,497     1,723
Other liabilities La        632      737       853      983      1,247    1,523     1,608     2,593
TOTAL EOUITY AND
LIABLMES              7.4     2927   1l594    13.874   15497    17.654    21.665    2938
Debt % of debt + equity      36        40       41        39        36       34        30        36
Current ratio (times)        2.1      1.3       1.1      0.9       1.4       1.4       1.3      1.3
La Including consumers' contributions and deposits.
/b Including consumers' contributions, but excluding revaluation surplus.



ANNEX S.1
112                           Page 3
PLN - Funds Flow Statements
(Rp billion)
Fiscal year                   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92  1992/93
Internal Sources of Funds
Net income before interest
and tax                      (31)      124      (18)        4       430       292       687       699
Depreciation                  261       321       438      515       640       745       855       967
Consumers contributions
other adjustments             89       108      115       130       198       276        95       233
Total Internal Funds        319       553       535      649      1.268     1.313     1.637    1.89
Operational Reauirements
Variation working capital
and others                    19      (107)      (8)      (97)      (99)       48       191       410
Debt repayment                135        87       269      253       279       299       290       323
Interest charged to
operations                    24        87      118       137       267       294       242       307
Total Operational
Requirement               178        67       379      293       447       641       23      .104
Total capital investment      1,408     1,712    1,925     1,976     1,615     1,830     3,782     6,844
Balance to be Financed       1267      1.226     1.769    L12         794     1.158  2.6   5        L.
Financed by
Borrowings                     702       896      932       714       448       469       693     3,367
Government contributions       558      422       860       962       646       799     2,274     2,730
Total Capital Sources        1.260     1.318    1.792      1.676    1.094     1268      2.7       6097
Cash Increase/Decreas           ()       92        23        56       300       110        99      1la
Debt service coverage ratio
(times)                        1.7      2.6       1.1       1.3       2.0       1.8      2.9       2.6
Contribution to construction:
Annual (%)                    10.5     23.0       6.9      15.2      32.3     30.7      21.5      10.9
3-year average (%) /a         10.7     23.4       7.1      16.3      28.8     23.3      19.7      12.7
/a Based on average annual capital expenditure for three years comprising the test year, the next preceding year and the next
following year.



ANNEX 5.1
113                                    Page 4
EL P.N - FINANCIAL FORECASrS
Rp blon)
Fblac  Y                          19911/92    192193    1993/94    1994195    1995/96    1996/97    1997/19    199S/99    1999/00
BMW Sa   (Wb)                        31,481     34,964      33,962     48,542     5S,185      63,229      71,357     79,612      U,920
Sal"e im,   (S)                        13.5       11.1        11.4       24.6        15.1       13.1        12.9       11.6        11.7
TitlE hmue(%)                          20.0        13.0          -       7.61/        1.2        7.1         5.2        13.4        3.3
Avm. 4v.. (pkWW                       129.1      137.1       152.0      IS6.1       175.4      156.3       195.6      221.4       227.6
AvS. tawm_        . (S)                14.1        6.2        10.9        2.7        12.4        6.5         4.7       13.2         2.8
Eagy mysm                            4,063      4,794       S,922      7,576       9,799     11,810      13,954      17,627     20,240
Od.tapewpb we                          115        123         140        176        215         249         280        311         342
ItlZi                    Lilt        1 il LhO6            752          A.1      1=2         14.23       17.937     20.583
pea &  b*    eilft  an               1,829      2,132       2,713      2,804       3,71S      4,210       3,514      3,463       3,801
p-w-purmd                               22         20          47         15          73         73       1,337      3,309       4,121
P -.-i eNpme                           306        421        S4         624        752         167       1,020       1,203      1,399
Rapd1ri_ _l~m...                       340        497         562        596        467       1,042       1,265       1,591      1,830
!spxec&ada. s55                        S55        967       1,19S      1,700       2,116      2,609       3,137      3,693       4,198
Oeer sxp_s                             162        202         265        310        354         384         428        474         S18
lElw~ _M                            LM 4        5.36       L           Lm         L9M        10.701      13.7S      15.867
2ko ~                      In  671 707    1.7 0 2                                 3J7    mm34 40                     4.715
Noi_apesa     en                        154        202         184        209        261         268        307         371        458
NoS      _ _mftsxpe                     129        173         151        332        344         402        409         435        466
OdrwlQca~ I           -N             B,!    22   a                   4Ll         mil    L1              m            L           m
Not h700b   wMm                                n           740 1                  M  2.7 3 Lin3 4.13 4.708
IMaichbagdtlo    i_                     370        391        443         750        960       1,110       1,162      1,196       1,870
Not bw_ Bw
CommZ  aK               z                     Ju         222        tUI        12         1.62        LM2        L           2.838
Cmorpa" tax                               0          0           0          0           0          0           0          0           0
Qf.XaT                             316        309         297        831       1,198      1,629       2,269      2,940       2,838
Rle ban (mvabae                      11,576     13,822      17,341     21,297     21,009      35,913     44,175      52,496     58,942
RAW of rtut (%)                         5.7        4.9         4.1        8.0         8.0        8.0         8.0        8.0         8.0
Opeal igdo (S)                           34         86         a           73         71          76         75          77         77
/3 FY94/95 iseiff luua  be       *So    Nmbw 1, 1994.



ANNEX S.1
114                                 Page 5
PLN - Java Oteraions
Income Statenents
(Rp billion)
Actual              Esimlte                        Projection
Fiscal Year                     1991/92   1992/93   1993/94    1994/95   1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998199    1999/00
Bnergy Sales (GWh)                25,073    27,U37     30,902    33,400    44,126    49,655       55,930    62,391     69,395
Ssle increae(%)                     13.3       11.0      11.0       24.3      14.9       12.5       12.6      11.6       11.2
Tariff incree (%)                   20.0       13.0         -       7.68Lg     3.2        7.1        5.2      13.4        3.3
Average revue (RP/kWh)             127.6      135.7     149.1      153.1      172.0    13.2       191.3     217.2      223.3
Avg. reveue increse (%)             14.7       6.4        9.9        2.7      12.4        6.5        4.7      13.2        2.3
ODerating Reve
Energy revenue                    3,200      3,779     4,60S      5,879      7,590     9,096     10,729     13,551     15,495
Other opeating reveme                35        93        1IS        150       133        209        233       255        280
TOWl Rcveobe           3.285      32L       4.26       6.030    L7 T7         2 9.0              am96  I185
Opoerting Expense
Fuel & lubricaing oil              1,301     1,476      1,813     1,864      2,643     3,048      2,359      2,304     2,603
Power puasd                          22         19        46         15        36         36      1,073      2,911     3,647
Permonnl expense                    139        237       279        340       407        469        546       640        776
Repair/maintenance                  201        263       299        326       410        607        639       339        964
Depreciation                        553       613        754      1,173      1,503     1,351      2,136      2,543     2,305
Other expere                         73        126       165        136       210        229        251       277        316
Total ExDaue           2.351      2.739     3.357      3.909      52        62         7.104      9Q       1111
Overtirs Iliome                934      1ffi13    1.36       2.12      Lai        3.07       3.859     4^18       4.66
Nonoperatiogincome                    96       117        132        151       173        213       230        217        366
Nonoperating expene                   80        39        145       134        242        255       270        237        319
C)lher Income (Not)             16                  LU3 U122   L         21         " 11  L               (fi
Net Income Befone nt           95      J4j        L2.3 L24                        3.02       3.i81     4.1S       A
Interest charged to opeadot          233       215        360       466        826        933      1,015      1,041     1,475
Nlet Income Before
Comroortc TAx        6          67 87               996m                 &        L67 166  2.0 9 3"S3.3
Corporatetax                          0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0
CoporateTrx                    667       376        996      1,672      1,664     2,092      2,304     3,138      3,234
Rate bae (revalued)                7,967     9,468     12,255     15,247    20,826    26,262    31,137    36,310    38,634
Rate of return (%)                  11.7      12.0       11.2       13.9      12.3       11.7       12.4      11.5       12.1
Operatingr mtio (%)                   72        71         71        65         67        67         65         70         70
/a PY94/95 tariff increase became effective November 1, 1994.



ANNEX 5.1
115                                  Page 6
PLN - Outside-java O            deradonm
Income Statemnents
(Rp billion)
Actul                NEiwmh                          Probetion
FIl Year                         1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/19    199U99    1999100
Eegy Sal (OWh)                      6.403      7,127      2,060     10,143     11,751     13,574     15,427     17,221     19,526
Sale" inC   (%)                      12.4       11.3       13.1       25.1       15.9       15.4       13.7       11.6       13.4
Tariff inllC   (%)                   20.0       13.0          -       7.681A      1.2        7.1        5.2       13.4        3.3
Averp   m    (Rip/kWh)              134.7      142.5      163.1      167.3      187.3      199.1      209.1      236.7      243.0
Avg. revea inraa(%)                  11.7        5.8       14.4        2.6       12.3        6.3        4.6       13.2        2.7
Ooeadn R,eveme
Emugy mvm                            862      1,016      1,315      1,697      2,209      2,712      3,225      4,076      4,745
Other operating revenue               30         30         24         25         32         40         47         54         63
Total Rvenue              m        L[         13         17         2.4        27         3M         &I Z       4 80S
Ooeting Enmaes
Fuel &  ubratin oil                  528        656        970        940      I,061      1,163      1,155      1,165      1,198
Power purhaud                          0          1          1          1         33         31        265        321        474
Personel expen                       199        191        225        284        345        393        474        562        623
Repuir/_aimuemnce                    132        234        263        269        334        434        576        723        166
Depreciation                         297        349        441        522        608        753        952      1,150      1,393
Other expensea                        39         76        100        124        143        156        176        197        202
Total   E               1.6        LS07       1.99       L2.        2.5SS     2^9U        3.S97      41         4.
Nonoperating income                    53         33        52         S1         33         55         77          U4        93
Nonapeatinge pea                       49         34         5         191       102        147         139       147        146
Other bhcome (Ne       t         ) 2         1        47               ( L lAQ 
Not Inouw Be1bre ltuv   (40   (DSa QA                                               am         m           La
Inw    chuged to opatiom               87        106        U3        214        133        176        147        14S        395
NtIcofme eSr
Corporate tax                           0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Not  1om Af
Cor2hhLI                       (351)      (566)     (699)      (341)      (466)      (442)       (534)     (198)      (396)
Rate bane (revalued)                3,609      4,354      5,016      6,050      7,113      9,652     12,918     16,186     20,257
Rate of retun (%)                     (7.6)    (10.6)     (13.0)      (6.9)      (4.4)      (3.0)      (2.5)       0.1        0.3
Operatingr tion (%)                   131        144        146       132         115       110        112        101        100
/a FY94/95 tariff inocre bem  ffctive Noveiaber, 1994.



ANNEX S.1
Page 7
116
PLN - Indonesia Operations
Balance Sheets
(Rp billion)
Acba               EBima1                           Proiection
Fucal Year                      1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99    1999/00
Pat in sevice                  19,124    23,917    29,390    35,332       48,144     53,011     72,046    U3,192     94,729
Low: Accum. depreciaion         5,560      6,794     8,096     10,042     12,463     15,451     19,058    23,330     28,238
Opating plat                   1LS        12          L229     25.790    3561        46         52.988    S.M        66.491
Work in progs.                  6,057      9,395     11,175    17,359     16,732     18,588     16,342     17,304    19,297
TOW IrLxedAae                19.621    26a1       32.469     43.149     S2413     61.148     69.330     77.165     SLZ8
Cury Amue
Cash and bank                     304       916        353        639        772       365        920       1,114     1,296
Accounts receivable               412       477        659        754        975      1,175      1,389      1,754     2,014
Inwentorga                        409       563        772        553        716        799       732        769        S48
Ober currem aet_                  256       273         71         74         78         32        86         90         95
To1  Curred Aebm             Lu        2          2.355      2.020     L241       L.9        3.126      32ZZ7      4.W
Otberaaets                        152       611        691        334        998      1,216      1,293      1,653     2,156
TOTAL ASSETS                 21.654     938    3.S4    46.003            S9S      65.2       73.754     a.S4       2.197
EOtr AND LL4,BHlr=
Paid-in capital                 8,964    11,694      15,129    17,764     19,274     20,737     22,156     23,569    25,140
Retained eanings                   29       On0D       (332)     (406)      (634)       (58)      804       1,958     3,007
Revauation surplua              5,391      6,394      6,404     7,330      8,567     10,069     11,824     13,817     16,038
Commnon aock                        0         0          0          0          0        975      1,921      2,863     3,911
To4I Ekniit                  14.34      17.81     21.201    24.687      277        31-2      36.704    42.206 
Long-term debt (LTD) nd bonds    4,567     7,609      9,225    15,417    21,575      25,846     28,882    31,628    34,774
LmN: Currfe  poetin               402       448        467        520        578        729       696        976       1,513
Net long-em debt                4,165      7,161      8,758    14,897    20,997      25,117    28,186    30,652    33,261
Cum Lbbilitier
CurrentportionofL7,D              402       448        467        520        578        729       696        976      1,513
Accounts payable                  659       681       1,138     1,195      1,255      1,327      1,333      1,452     1,525
Other cuent liabilitie            436       594        103        113        119        125        131       138        144
To  Curra LL723                                    1.712      1.2        195       2.171       2         2.S6 L3 82
Contribution to DPS payable Li
and Dividendspayable               63       445        444        537        951       751        552        487        480
Comamera' conrtnbutions             924      1,076      2,023     2,462      2,991      3,424      3,775      4,033     4,336
Coamsr' deposits                    453       534        701        856      1,046      1,203      1,347      1,475      1,606
Other liabilities /                 163        538       669        736        310        891       980       1,073      1,185
TOTAL                                  29.3S      35.514 465.235                               2 73 2.54     6 92.19   7
Current ratio (im")                 1.3        1.3        1.4        1.1       1.3        1.4        1.4        1.5        1.3
Dek am%ofdebtplu equity           29.26       36.3       39.5      47.1       53.3       54.6       54.6       54.1      53.3
Accountareceivable (days)            37         36        36         36         36         36         36        36         36
Li DPS: Overall DevelopmentPund.
h  Including conmmsa' conuioa, but excluding revaluation surplus.



ANNEX 5.1
117                                Page 8
PLN - Indonesia Oeration.
Funds Flow Statements
(Rp billion)
Actual              ElWit                         Pioction
Fiscal Year                    1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/91    1993/99   1999/00
SOURCES OF FUNDS
IlemL Sources
Net income before int.          687       700        707     1,704      2,241     2,873     3,534      4,200     4,715
Depreciation                    S55      9967      1,149     1,700      2,116     2,609     3,137      3,693     4,198
Cons.' contributiona             41        152       353       372       454        342       247       193        179
Other                            54        31        201        33       107        27         37        64        124
Toul Internal Sources        16        1.900     2.409     La0       41         5 S5                 8.150     9.216
Debt Soervc
hIt. chgd. opeation             242       307        393       750       960      1,110     1,162      1,196     1,870
Debt repayment                  290       323        453       455       520        573     1,029       696        976
TotclDebtService              m 5                 847      L2        L4S0       16        221        l S92     28
C;ontribution to DCWEB /            1         12       139       307       406        527       704       893        S94
Contribution to DPS /&              7         7        141       506       605        726       903       959        901
Corporatetax                        0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0
Not Internal Sources          L       L097 L     II!2      17        2.426      L211      LL7       4.406      43575
Borrowins                       693      3,067       992     5,394      6,120     4,199     3,598      2,662     3,085
Bonds                             0       300        600     1,200       500         0        500       500        500
Govermmentequity               2,274     2,730     3,434     2,635      1,510     1,463      1,419     1,413     1,527
Commonequity                      0         0          0         0         0        975       946       942      1,048
--TOTALSOURCBS              Am        7.3        13       11.019    1          102.       20         29.92    10.735
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Exrenditure
Consction expead.             3,721     6,763     6,139    10,924      9,033     3,216     7,509      7,173     8,515
Interet during construction      61        76        350       469      1,030     1,536     1,952      2,247     1,960
Total CaDital Exedre        3.7S2     6 S55      6.8      1139       16         9442                          10.475
Changein workingcapital and other    282    504       (118)     (160)      355        204       105       309        122
TOTAL APPLICATIONS          40        761                 11.233      0423      95        2         29    10.597
Increae (Decr). in Cash        99       ju f                am         In         23         S4       194       138
Cacb atbeginningofyear            705        304       916       853       639        772       865       919      1,113
Casb at ed of year                804       916        853       639       772        365       919      1,113     1,251
Annual debt service coverge ratio (time) 2.9  2.6      2.9       3.2        3.3       3.5       3.2        4.3       2.9
Self-Financinr Ratio (%)
Annual                          21.5      10.9      22.6       19.0      19.3      26.3      31.7       41.4      30.5
3-yearmovingaver ge/r           19.5      12.7      17.8      23.2       13.6      26.3      31.4       39.9      48.3
/a DCWEB: Developmnt of Cooperativs snd Weak Economic Bunese.
/b DPS: Overmll Development Fund.
/c Based on avemrp annal capital expenditure for three yea, comnring the test year, the mut precing year and th next folowing year.



ANNEX 5.2
118                       Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
NoTES AND ASSumpTONS FOR THE FINANCIAL FoRzcAm
1.        Inflation and Rupiah to US dollar exchange rate have been taken into account
as follows:
(a)  for foreign costs (including indirect foreign costs, excluding fuels), 2.1 percent
per annum in 1991, 4.3 percent per annum in 1992, -0.6 percent per annum in
1993, and 2.2 percent per annum each year thereafter; and
(b)  for local costs (excluding indirect foreign costs and fuels) at 9.4 percent per
annum in 1991, 7.5 percent per annum in 1992, and 9.7 percent per annum in
1993 and 5.0 percent per annum each year thereafter.
(c)  a constant exchange rate of 2,155 was used throughout the forecast period.
2.        Separation of accounts of PLN's operations in Java and outsideJavaisbased
on individual accounts maintained by PLN for each of its regional units. These accounts are
separate except for overhead expenses, which, for the purposes of financial projections, have
been allocated proportionately on the basis of unit sales of energy.
3.        Energy sales are based on the sales forecasts in Annexes 2.5 and 2.6.
4.        Revenues for FY93 are based on the estimated average revenue per unit sold in
that year.
5.        Fuel/purchased power costs for FY93 are based on the estimated outcome for
that year, and for FY94 and beyond are derived from PLN's computer simulation of system
operation. The fuel costs are calculated on the basis of current domestic fuel prices
(established in July 1993) charged to PLN: fiel oil - Rp 240/1 plus transportation charges of
about Rp 24/1 for Java and Rp 34/1 for Outside Java; diesel - Rp 380/t plus transportation
charges of about Rp 27/1 for Java and about Rp 32./1 for Outside Java; coal - Rp 70/kg for
Java and Rp 59.2/kg for Outside Java; geothermui - Rp 53.76/kWh for plants at Kamojang,
Dieng and Outside Java, and US$0.047/kWh for plants at Salak and Drajat; and natural gas -
US$2.53/thousand standard cubic feet (MSCF) for Java and US$3.00/MSCF for Outside Java.
The fuel prices to PLN are assumed to remain at their current level throughout 1994; from
1995 onwards they are escalated on the assumption that prices for fuel oil, diesel and coal will
change in line with international prices and the prices for natural gas and geothermal will
remain constant in dollar terms. Purchase of power from private investors who would
construct generating plant in Indonesia on a 'Build, Own and Operate" (BOO) basis, which
is projected to commence from 1997, is assumed to be at US$0.082AkWh (in 1993/94 prices).



ANNEX 5.2
119                       Page 2
6.         PLN's diesel and fuel oil consumption in Java-Bali is expected to decrease from
about 2,080 thousand kiloliters (kl) and about 2,730 thousand id respectively in 1993 to 490
thousand Il and 880 thousand kl in 1994, due partly to the retiring of all diesel generators
(about 115 MW), and partly to the conversion of some gas turbine and combined cycle power
plants from oil to natural gas. This decrease is expected to be followed by a sharp increase
in diesel use in 1995 to 2,400 thousand kl, due to the commissioning of combined-cycle (1,500
MW) and gas turbine (600 MW) power plants, which will be temporarily operated on oil.
7.        Operating expenses, other than fuel and personnel expenses, have been forecast
taking into account the facilities expected to be in use each year, and subject to foreign and
local cost inflation, as appropriate. Personnel expenses are estimated to increase about
19 percent per annum to provide for inflation, volume growth and staff training. Repair and
maintenance expenses for PLN's Java and outside-Java operations are estimated at about
2.1 percent and about 3.5 percent of their respective gross fixed assets in operation during the
preceding fiscal year.
8.        Depreciation is based on the application of PLN's normal rates (straight-line
method) to assets revalued annually. For purposes of corporate income tax, the current
Indonesian tax code permits the use of the accelerated method of depreciation of assets in
operation instead of the straight-line method.
9.        Financing. Terms of foreign borrowings are assumed to be 20 years including
5 years' grace, at average interest rates of 13.5 percent per annum. Terms of local borrowings
are assumed to be 12 years including two years' grace, at interest rates of 20 percent per
annum; local bonds are assumed to be issued at similar interest rates with a maturity of five
years.
10.       Capital expenditures are based on PLN's investment program (Annexes 2.7 and
2.8), and exclude capital expenditures for generation projects proposed to be implemented by
private investors, and the costs of geothermal steam field development, which are assumed to
be incurred by other agencies. The 10 percent Value Added Tax (VAT) on the foreign
contracts is assumed to be borne by Government, and on the local contracts it is assumed to
by borne by PLN.
11.       Government equity contributions are assumed to be equal to about 23 percent
of PLN's capital expenditures in 1994/95, and to 15 percent of annual capital expenditures
from 1995/96 onwards.
12.       Gross fixed assets, work in progress and consumers' contributions are
revalued annually, up to FY86 according to Government Regulation No. 45/1986, dated
October 2, 1986, and from FY87 onwards, according to weighted annual escalation rates
(foreign and local). The rate base is the average of the revalued net fixed assets in operation,
less revalued consumers' contributions. The rate base does not include work in progress.
13.       Customer accounts receivables are assumed at about 36 days of energy revenues,
which is the current level.



ANNEX 5.2
120                       Page 3
14.       Transmission and Distribution (T&D) system losses are estimated to be about
12.2 percent for Java in FY93/94, and are assumed to decline to 12.0 percent in 1994/95 and
stabilize thereafter. T&D losses for outside-Java are estimated to be about 15 percent in
FY93/94, and are assumed to decline gradually to about 13 percent in FY98/99.
15.       In accordance with the prevailing Indonesian tax legislation effective since 1984,
PLN is subject to a 10 percent value added tax (VAT) and to corporate income tax. The
Government currently bears the VAT on the foreign contracts, and PLN bears it on the local
contracts; this policy is assumed to continue throughout the projection period. With respect
to corporate income tax, the current Indonesian tax code permits the use of accelerated
depreciation of assets in operation, instead of the straight-line method used by PLN in its
financial accounting. As a result, PLN does not expect to pay any corporate income tax for
its fiscal year 1992, and during the projection period up to 1997. In calculating the rate of
return, however, any income tax payments will be taken into account.
16.       By the Minister of Finance decree No. 1232/KMK.013/1989 dated November 11,
1989, PLN is required to contribute to a fund for the Development of Cooperatives and Weak
Economic Businesses (DCWEB) an amount equal to 5.0 percent of its annual net income after
corporate tax. Such contributions for DCWEB commenced from 1991.
17.       With the conversion of PLN from Perum to Persero on August 1, 1994, PLN is
no longer under the obligation to contribute 55 percent of its annual net income, after
contribution for DCWEB (para. 15) and corporate tax, to the Overall Development Fund
(DPS). However, since contributions to DPS due for 1990 onwards are paid in five equal
installments commencing two years after the year for which the payment to DPS is due, PLN
is still obliged to pay the remaining installments for DPS incurred before August 1, 1994 (until
FY2001). Following Government Regulation Number 12 of 1969, PLN as a "Persero" is
obliged to pay a dividend, the policy for which is to be determined by MOF by year-end 1994,
to its shareholders (currently MOF/State Treasury). A covenant was agreed that would limit
PLN from declaring any dividend or making any other distribution with respect to its share
capital, unless, after such dividend has been paid or other distribution has been made, the
current assets of the Borrower would equal or exceed 1.0 times the current liabilities of the
Borrower.



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRICATION PROJECT
PLN's TARIFF
EXPLANATION OF THE TARIFF CATEGORIES IN THE BASIc ELECTRICITY TARIFF SCHEDULE, 1993
Tariff
No.    Category           Contracted Power                       Explanation of the Tariff Categorv
1.    S-1/LV           Up to 60VA to 200 VA            Tariff S-1 for Snall Consumers (LV)
2.     S-2/LV          250 VA to 2,200 VA              Tariff S-2 for Small Social Institutions (LV)
3.     S-3/LV          2,201 VA to 200 kVA             Tarrif S-3 for Medium Social Institutions (LV)
4.    S-4/MV           201 kVA & above                 Tariff S-4 for Large Social Institutions (MV)
5.    SS-4/MV          201 kVA& above                  Tariff SS-4 for Large Commercialized Social Institutions (MV)
6.    R-l/LV           250 VA to 500 VA                Tariff R-1 for Small Residential Service (LV)
7.    R-2/LV           501 VA to 2,200 VA              Tariff R-2 for Small Residential Service (LV)
8.    R-3/LV           2,201 VA to 6,600 VA            Tariff R-3 for Medium Residential Service (LV)
9.    R-4/LV           6,601 VA & above                Tariff R-4 for Large Residential Service (LV)
10.    U-l/LV           250 VA to 2,200 VA              Tariff U-I for Small Commercial Service (LV)                     F
I1     U-2/LV           2,201 VA to 200 kVA             Tariff U-2 for Medium Commercial Service (LV)
12.    U-3/MV           201 kVA & above                 Tariff U-3 for Large Commercial Service (MV)
13.    U-41LV           -                               Tariff U-4 for Temporary Service (LV)
14.    H-1/LV           250 VA to 99 kVA                Tariff H-1 for Small Hotel Service (LV)
15.    H-2/LV           100 kVA to 200 kVA              Tariff H-2 for Medium Hotel Service (LV)
16.    H-3/MV           201 kVA & above                 Tariff H-3 for Large Hotel Service (MV)
17.    I-1/LV           450 VA to 2,200 VA              Tariff 1-1 for Home Industrial Service (LV)
18.    1-2/LV           2,201 VA to 13.9 kVA            Tariff 1-2 for Small Industrial Service (LV)
19.    I-3/LV           14 kVA to 200 kVA               Tariff I-3 for Medium Industrial Service (LV)
20.    1-4/MV           201 kVA & above                 Tariff 1-4 for Large Industrial Service (MV)
21.    I-5/HV           30,000 kVA & above              Tariff 1-5 for Large High Voltage Industrial Service (HV)
22.    G-1/LV           250 VA to 200 kVA               Tariff G-l for Small & Medium Government Office Service (LV)
23.    G-2/MV           201 kVA & above                 Tariff G-2 for Large Govermment Office Service (MV)
24.      J/LV                                           Tariff J for Street Lighting Service (LV)
Note: LV = Low Voltage; MV   Medium Voltage; HV = High Voltage.
Source: PLN Finance Department.



BAsic ELECTRICITY TARIFF SCHEDuLEs, 1993-1994
1993 (Febnrarv)                                                        1994 (November)
Tariff   Cootractr4  Demand Charge  Demand Charge  Ael'rice                                                                                        kflektgrgyy Chargeman C  A(C     rnc
No.if   Canmtegod             DPmv  Charge          Dea,i                  Atnergy Charge                                  Demad Carggyvet,wPn
No.    Category  Power     (kp/kVAIVe                                      ~~~~~~~(Rp/kWb)        (Rp/kWh)A/)                                        R/kh
1.       S-I/Ly           60 VA to200 VA                /a                               -            66.50                     /b                               -71.50
2.        S-V/LV         250 VA to 2.200 VA            3,T20                         52.00            75.80                  3 3w                            56.00                79.95
3.       S-3/LV          2,201 VAto 200 kVA           4,340                          21.00            115.53                 4,640                           76.00               121.51
4.       S-4/MV           201 kVA & above              4,860                    P = 245.00            171.95                 5.020                      P =158.50                183.05
OP =  98.'50                                                           OP=  117.50
S.       SS-4/MV          201 kVA & above              5.520                   P = 284.00             172.74                 6,060                      P =194.50                183.46
OP =  115.00                                                             OP =144.00
6.        R- I/LV         250 VA to 5OOVA              3,620           74.00 for < 60 hramo           118.68                   980             81.5Ofor < 60hrn/mo               127.32
99.50 for > 60 hra/mo                                                  109.50 for > 60hrn/mo
7 .      R-2/LV          501 VA 50 2,2D0 VA            3,660           88.00 for < 60 hrs/mio        142.53                  4,020             96.50 for < 60 hra/mo             154.61
133. 50 for > 60 hra/mo                                                 147.00 for > 60 bra/mo
8.       R-3/LV         2,201 VA to 6.600 VA          7.560                         212.50           271.51                  8,080                          227.50               281.38
9.       R-4/LV           6,601 VA & above             8.180                        289.00           347.65                  8,760                          309.00               367.71
10.       U-IILy          250 VA to2.200 VA            6.000                         172.00           223.55                  6,260                          179.50              229.04
IL.       U-2/LV         2.201 VA to 200 kVA           7,000                         229.00           292.62                  7.320                          239.50              309.89
12.       U-3/MV           201 kVA & above             4,940                     P = 370.00           218.68                  5,180                     P = 240.50               214.44
OP = 147.50                                                            OP =  178.00
13.       U-4/LV                  --                                                 585.00           585.00                      -                          622.00              622.00
14.       H-iy            250 VAto 99 kVA              4.180                         107.50           130.26                  4,600                          118.50              142.64
15.       H-2/LV          100 kVA to 200 kVA           5,700                         157.00           182.57                  6,220                          171.00               199.72
16.       H-3/MV           201 kVA & above             5.020                     P = 308.00           173.17                  5,400                      P = 212.00               186.65
OP = 123.00                                                            OP = 157.00
17.       1-1/LV         450 VA to 2,200 VA            3,860                          76.00           129.35                  4.080                           80.50              105.74
18.       1-2JLV         2.201 VA to 13.9 kVA          4,400                          86.50           138.46                  4.760                           93.50              141.67
19.       I-3iLV          14 kVA to 200 kVA            5,300                    P =250.00             164.41                  5.760                      P = 169.50               175.82    I
OP =101.50                                                               OP = 125.50                          N)i
20.       1-4/MV           201 kVA A above             4,680                    P =234.50             133.74                  5,060      P =142.00 for < 350 hra/mo               143.48    N1)
117.50 for > 350 bra/mo
OP=  94.'00                                                            OP =  117.50
21.       I-5IHV          30,000 kVA & abovve          4,440                    P =214.50             116.78                  4,780                          109.50               122.73
OP=   85.00
22.  G.1ILV  250 VA to 200kVA   7.920                         175.50 ~~~~~~~~~~------  245.06          850188.50                                           257.64
23.       G-2/MV           201 kVA & above             4,240                    P =271.50             167.66                  4,560                      P = 176.50               179.77
OP =108.50                                                               OP = 130.50
24.  JILV    -                      -                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~148.50  148.50       -165.00                                         165.00
Average                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~150.52                                                                161.59
Tariff S-I:                   Cootracftd           DeuaandChar,Se            Dekamd1Charg~e
75 VA                   2:550                     2:750
100 VA                  3.300                     3.550
125 VA                  4,200                     4,500
150 VA                  4.950                     5.300
175 VA                  5.700                     6.100                                                                                                       I
200 VA                  6.300                      6.750                                                                                                      t
Note:     P =Peak bour (18:00-22:00); OP =Off-peak hours (22:00. 18:00; LV =LAm Voltage; MV   Medium Voltage; HIV =High Voltage
Source: PLN Funane Depar1manL



BASIC ELECrICIcry TARimF SCIDm ULES, 1991
Tariff Contrcted      Demand Charge                          1221 AucEn
No.  Categwory         Power           (Rp/kVAM)        (Rp/kWh)             (pWh
1.    S-/LV      60 VA to 200 VA         /a                      -         57.50
2.     S-21LV    250 VA to 2,200 VA    2,700                  45.00        70.75
3.     S-3/LV   2,201 VA to 200 kVA    3,780099.04
4.     S-4/MV    201 kVA & above       4,2V0            P- 217.50         141.51
OP = 26.50
S.     SS-4/MV   201 kVA & above       4,420            P - 227.50        140.74
OP =  92.00
6.     R-1/LV    250 VA to 500 VA      3,160    63.50 for <60 bra/mo      104.28
86.00 for >60 hrm/mo
7.     R-2/LV   501 VA 50 2,200 VA     3,160    76.00 for <60 br/mo       123.78
115.50 for >60 hrm/mo
8.     R-3/LV  2,201 VA to 6,600 VA    6 600                 187.00       254.43
9.     R-4/LV    6,601 VA A above      7,200                 253.50       329.85
10.    U-1ILV   250 VA to 2,200 VA      5,520                158.50        205.68
11.    U-2/LV   2,201 VA to 200 kVA     6,420                210.00        279.49
12.    U-3/MV    201 kVA & above        4,500            P - 337.50        197.96
OP = 147.50
13.    U-4/LV            -                -                  520.00        520.W
14.    H-1/LV    250 VA to 99 kVA       3,820                 97.00        120.98
1S.    H-2/LV   100 kVA to 200 kVA      4,840                133.00        160.93
16.    H-3/MV    201 kVA & above        4,420            P - 274.00        149.39
OP = 123.00
17.    I-1ILV    450 VA to 2 200 VA     3,460                 68.00        113.29
18.    1-2/LV   2,201 VA to i3.9 kVA    3 800                 74.50        123.74
19.    1-3/LV    14 kVA to 200 kVA      4,500            P = 220.00        144.78
OP =  85.50
20.    I-4/MV     201 kVA & above       4,200            P - 212.00        122.42
OP = 84.00
21.    I-5/HV    30,000 kVA & above     3,960          OP = 188.50         106.92
OP    76.50
22.    G-1/LV    250 VA to 200 kVA      6,900                153.00        211.42
23.    G-2/MV    201 kVA & above        3,700            P = 236.00        146.58
OP 8  94.50
24.    J/LV              -                -                   123.50       123.50
Avcngc                                                134.52
TariffS1:            Contrcted      Demand Charze
PEO vA-         1,75^ 
7S VA           2,200
100 VA          2 850
125 VA          3,650
150 VA           4,300                                                                          u'
175 VA          4,950                                                                           La
200 VA           5,450
Note:  P - Peak hours (18:00-22:00); OP = Off-peak hours (22:00-18:00; LV = Low Volage; MV = Mcdium
Voltage; HV = High Voltage
Source: PLN Fmance Department.



PLN'S TAREFF
HISTRY OF TARiFF ADJUSTENS, 1982-1989
19S2 (Fd)                          1983 ffd)                              19S4  tAri                            19S6 (kAmutl                       19S9 (AvriIl
Tariff    1 m1    EVEwa          Averag      1_           Eirnru      Avrap        1t          Enrg        A  Eap       rFm A_                  Aveap       Dza1         Ezrrv       Avea.
-           arnrd   drp          prer.         mrID    drnrp          War    dc                duep        Pu          drP    drup              P1          d-p          dur          peu
t(Rp/kV) (pVW         WkWle)   (pkVA)    (Rp/Wh    (kWb)                 p/WVA) a ptW             pWh)        pkVA       )          (Up/kWh)    (*VA)    UpyWh)   (U/kW
s,     /a                                      /b                                -         -                                C            .      S.50          /d                    * -57.
S,     1,6S0        22ao         34.12      1,65D        35.0         43.22        2,1C0          43.0    60.57         2,100        43.5       65.62      2,11                45.00  t1.97
S,                   -                          -            -          -              -                                                                   3,160          P-136J.   94.92
R,     1,I         375          43.35      1,60         56.00        67.21        2,160          70.50    35.19        2,100       71.0        39.56      3,16 6130 fa < 6k/tr   103.
36.00 for > 6D hIvmo
F,     1,6D         45.50        55.76      1,6D         67.00        79.12        2,10D          34.      98.41        2,10         84.0        ODJum     3,16  76.00 fai < 63 bhr   119.74
1 s." IN >  3 hrmmo
P,    2,30D         63.50        36.03      2,S30        97.00        121.7S       3,60          126.5    I5624         3,60        126.5       159.6      5,53               155.50 202.96
R,    2,300         79.50        99.03      2,SO0       117.50        137,5        3,6S0         153.0    134.10        3,60        153.00      133.01     5,5s               196.50 239.91
U,    2,300         66.00        34.67      2,300        99.s0        121.04       3,60          1340D    160.10        3,60        134.00      167.37     5,S166.  fix < 150 krh, M9.5
133.00 far > 150 hrtmo
U,    2,300         7D.00        96.17      2,300       103.50        137.37       3,60          150.0D   1I9.73        3,60         SO1.      190.92     5.5206.s for < 150 Wine  244.4
149.50 fo > 150 brho
U,    1,750 WBP - 74.0D          63.46      1,750  P - 11.0           39.26        2300    P -Is3.         123.17       2,30    P - 153.00      113.75    3.460           P - 219.50  152.07
LVBP - 46.0                            OP - 70                                  OP - 99                            oP - 99.00                               OP - 109.50
U,    -            16.00         16.00                     .         MIAD                        300    387.-                       307.        3D7JD          -              400.00 40.0D
l,H    2,0         54.50        6.00           *            -          -              -              -                     -            *      91.43      3,461               37.0  112.45            F-
I,H    1,750        38.50        44.45          -            -          -                             -      -              -            -      3IS        3,46                95.00 114. st
I>H    -                .          -            -3-                     -       -              -          .                              -      73.44     34,160                94m00 10.5
1 1.75D WBP - 49.D               53.33      1,750   P - 31.5          76S65        2300    P - 106m        93.97        2,30     P - 97.s       90.s6      3,46D                6.00  105.91
LWBP-30.Mm                             OP-51.m                                  OP-66.0                             oP - 6.50
1.     1,75D WBP - 46-s          46.9       1,75D   P -77AD           67.15        2,300    P - IOD1 D     35.51        2,30     P - 92         3.46       3,46           P - 13.50  106.92
LWBP - 29.00                           OP - 43                                   OF - 650                           OP - n7D                                  oP - 70m
1,     160D  W? -44"DD          33.19       lw       P -6.50          56.4         2,100      p -96.5      75.          2,100    P - 9D50       73.3       3,16D          P - 134.00  95.
LWBP-25.5                              oP-43.0                                  OP-5a moP -56.sD                                                              oP- .0m
1.    I,5    WP -64D.D          34.0       1,50     P-5 3m           44.12        1,911      F-31.5       61.13        1.911    P - 77m        59.22      2,6D                122.5D  161.4
G,/MV  1,500 WBP -f46.            44.10      1,o   P -F72.00           64.02        1.91      P -99.0D      u4.92        1,917   P -s99.00       373       2,960           P - Is9.50  112.47
LWJP - 30AD                            O   - 470                                OP - 65.00                          or - 6sO                                  o   - 7950
I      *            41.D         41.0           -        56.5         56.5             -          76.50    76.5             *        76m        76s0           -               9s3.     98.D
Av_rop~                         53.91                                74.72                                 9332                                 92.65                                1
/a    Tff S,: 100 to m  VA -p 1,465 l        32,s3sh
I     Triff S,: 100 lo 280 VA - Up 2,010 to 4,bh
c    Tariff 8,: 100 o 20   VA -      2,50 o S Shmath
Id    Tariff 5,:  D Jo 203 VA - Up 1,75010 5,4%whb
Nia:  WBP - P - Pnk km  (1S322  )
LWBP -OP - Off.1,hak Iuaaa ( 0I3A0
Fat e933 do tariff gmy w   adaod to 17 aiff cadtepi. Ca_torha H  (mow            a          1/11)  d 1 H, IzE 1/i) fa kid curae  1    p van d io l, md 5,. un3adwly. For 1939, tb taiff c      y          (D
w_ epnd fin 17 to 21 _arioa. A n    tariff  garw (S,) wu inlailaxd fot Iarp MOda iulioaliC         h WM  M   ebagM , _ d mqrn  tarff  agari 0     1/H, 1,1V) -     eambbbd for b1d      _    wih
low   d m,idt  adlapa, wob     pwvktUy v-vqd -bh  nuani              at c ar-qimg vOhat (i,, 1, a  W. Tlo amp 'pA  dow               1936_ nb ts   tariff   uziaa   1939.
Sawy.:  PLN Financen D amL



PLN's TARIF
AVERAGE REVENUE FROM ELRICITY SOLD, BY MAOR CONSUMERS
(Rp/kWh)
Tariff category   1979/30   30/81   31/82   82/83   83/84   S4/S5    35/S6   S6/87   37/88   3S/89   89/90    90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
Reside"ial        29.55    49.43   49.50   64.09   35.01  102.15  102.59  102.35  102.64  102.45  123.60  123.33   125.32  128.33  144.37
Comnercial       33.99    63.92   63.45   90.17  123.73   167.66  163.99  167.77  165.77  165.07  202.96  203.64   223.60  227.92  239.79
Industrial       23.58    31.77   33.03   42.34   53.15   77.62   75.73   70.34   69.78   69.35   91.17   91.17   112.51   121.39  133.05
Buildinpg         27.40    42.59   43.7S   58.17   79.18   91.76   91.93   91.53   92.25   91.13  120.53  120.13   144.16  153.56  172.95
lightings        20.10    33.S4   35.13   44.90   59.56   78.02   77.33   78.17   73.07   30.33  100.59  101.27    93.73   131.42  153.51
U U
Source: PLN Finance Department.



126
ANNEX 6.1
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (IERR):
RE TIME SLICE INVESTMENT
Benefits
1.          Reddental Consumers. The methodology used to estimate economic benefits for
residential consumers can be explained with the help of Figure 1, which shows a demand
function for a household defined by two points. One end of the function is anchored by the
price-quantity pair (Q,,P,), where Q, denotes household consumption of electricity at PLN's
average price, P,, to this consumer class. To anchor the "upper end" of the demand function,
which represents consumer willingness to pay for higher valued uses of electricity, the price-
quantity pair (Q0,P0) is estimated assuming that kerosene would be used for lighting absent
availability of electricity. Household survey data on kerosene consumption and expenditure for
lighting and other data were utilized to establish the monthly kWh consumption (QD) that would
yield an equivalent amount of lighting intensity (lumens) prior to the availability of electricity;
as well as to convert the unit financial price of kerosene to an equivalent financial cost per kWh
of lighting (Pk). Thus, prior to electrification, Q0 units of kerosene (in kWh equivalence) are
consumed at a financial price of Pk. Following electrification, Q1 units of electricity are
consumed at a price of P,.
2.          The net economic benefit associated with released resources is estimated as (Pk,-
PIe)Q0, where Pk, represents the economic price of kerosene per kWh of equivalent lighting, P1,,
is the economic cost of electricity supply, and Q0 is defined above.
3.          The incremental consumer surplus on the diverted market is represented by the
shaded area in Figure 1. A linear demand function is postulated between the points (Ql, PI) and
(Q0, Pk) for the purpose of estimating the consumer surplus.  This specification tends to
underestimate the willingness to pay since it does not account for the additional value of the
higher quality of light obtained from electricity.
4.          Using the method outlined in the preceding paragraphs, the average willingness
to pay for residential consumers is estimated to be Rp. 401/kWh (19.04 UScents/kWh) in Java-
Bali, of which consumer surplus is estimated to be Rp. 275/kWh (13.05 c/kWh); and Rp.
395/kWh (18.76 c/kWh) Outside Java, of which consumer surplus is estimated to be Rp.
269/kWh (12.77 c/kWh). These estimates assume average monthly consumption of 45 kWh per
residential consumer in Java-Bali (540 kWh per year), and 40 kWh per residential consumer
(480 kWh per year) Outside Java.



127
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2
5.          Non-residential consumers. For non-residential consumers, the basis used for
establishing willingness to pay is the cost of self generation; which has been estimated to be Rp.
354/kWh (16.84 c/kWh) for Java-Bali, and Rp. 345/kWh (16.37 c/kWh) for Outside-Java. Non-
residential consumption is assumed to be 125 kWh per month.
Costs
6.          Supply cost. Energy supply cost are calculated on the basis of the economic cost
of bulk power delivered to the 20 kV network; and have been estimated on the basis of PLN's
LRMC study for Java-Bali, and the report of consultants hired by PLN to develop estimates of
PLN's avoided cost by region, for the purposes of developing the published small power
purchase tariff. For the Java-Bali system, the LRMC for power delivered to the 20 kV network
(excluding losses in the MV network), is 9.20 UScents/kWh for residential consumers, and 8.40
c/kWh for non-residential consumers. Corresponding estimates for the average LRMC of supply
from the seven regional grids in the Outer-Islands are, 10.40 c/kWh for residential consumers,
and 9.70 c/kWh for non-residential consumers. LRMCs for supply from mini-grids with diesel
generation only are estimated to be 12.60 c/kWh for residential consumers and 11.7 c/kWh for
non-residential consumers. O&M costs were provided by PLN based on experience.
7.          Based on the assumptions identified in the preceding, the IERR for the two-year
time slice investment for the distribution component of the proposed project has been estimated
to be 21.1 %. When electricity consumption for residential users was reduced to 42 kWh/month
(500 kWh per year) in Java-Bali, and to 37.5 kWh per month (450 kWh per year) in the Outer
islands, the IERR reduces to 19.1%. With cpital costs in the base case increased by 10%, the
IERR reduces to 19.6%.
I MWORKMREANX6. 1



128
ANE  6.1
Page 3
Figure 1: Household Electricity Demand Function
and Benefits from Electrification
RpAWh
I        K Area * Consumer surplus from incremental consumption
I                        l
I                        I
00                       k1 w/month
ksr/cvO53063



INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Calculatlon of Economic Rate of Return: INDONESIA
PLN's RE Investment Program 199511996 -199611997
[Billion Rp., 1993 Prlces)
COSTS                                                        BENEFITS
_________ ________           ________     Supply Cost                            Residential        Non Residential
Connection  Tnvetmel   0  . oSupply EHV  Cost EHIV   Supply    cost   TOTAL         Tariff  Revenue     Tariff Revenue  TOTAL  CFLO
YEAR   Istriutlo    Ct    Investmt O SC         R SpID S           ESEL CoIESEL   OCSIS  Energy Sales * Consumer   Energy    Consumer   TOTAL   FLOW
Cost  GRID  GRID    DIESEL   DIESEL   COSTS           ~~Surplus   sales     Surplus   BENEFITS
8Rp      BRP        BRp      BRp      GWh       BRp      GWh       BRp     BRp      GWh        BRp       GWh       BRp        BRp
19956    505.6     27.4      533.0    30.2    680.4    134.3       35.8      9.2    706.8    555.1      221.7      95.6      33.6      255.3     451.6
199s67   505.6     27.4      533.0    60.5    1.364.6   269.3      71.7     18.5    881.3   1,110.2    443.4      195.7      68.7      512.2    -369.2
1,7,198   23.8     2.5       26.4     62.1    1,422.5   280.7      75.1     19.4    388.6   1,160.9    463.6      208.3      73.1      536.8     148.2
196919   24.8      2.6       27.5     63.8    1,496.5   295.2      79.4     20.5    407.0   1,214.2    484.9      227.7      80.0      564.9     158.0
1955100    26.2    2.8       28.9     65.7    1,567.9   309.1      83.7     21.6    425.3   1,270.5    507.4      249.0      87.5      594.9     169.6
2000101    26.3    2.8       29.1      67.5    1,647.4   324.7     88.3     22.8    444.0   1,326.9    529.9      271.4      95.4      625.3     181.3           r
20D1 iD2    24.6   2.6       27.2      69.2    1,714.1    337.7    92.3     23.8    457.9   1,379.8    551.0       292.8     102.9     653.9     196.1           D
2002103   23.2     2.5       25.7      70.8    1,785.8   351.6     96.6     24.9    473.0   1,429.6    570.9       313.3     110.1     681.0     208.0
2003104   21.4     2.3       23.6      72.3    1,843.5   362.8    100.2    25.8    484.6   1,475.4    589.2       332.3      116.8     706.0     221.4
2004.05   17.7     1.9       19.6      73,5    1,898.1    373.5    103.5    26.7    493.3   1,513.2    604.3      348.3      122.4     726.7     233.4
2005 06   11.8     1.3       13.1     74.3    1,934.5   380.6    105.8    27.2    495.2   1,538.3    614.3        359.1      126.2     740.5     245.3
2006107    7.9     0.8        8.7      74.9    1,948.8   383.4    106.8    27.5    494.4   1,554.8    620.9       366.2      128.7     749.6     255.2
200710S    7.6     0.8        8.4     75.4    1,971.2   387.8    108.2    27.9    499.5   1,570.8    627.3         372.6     131.0     758.2     258.8
2006OW9    7.4     0.8        8.2      75.9    1,992.4   391.9    109.6    28.2    504.2   1,586.3    633.4        378.2     132.9     766.4     262.1
2006110    7.2     0.7        7.9      76.4    2,012.1    395.8    110.9    28.6    508.7   1,601.3    639.4       382.9     134.6     774.0     265.3
2010111    6.9     0.7        7.6      76.9    2,030.4   399.5    112.2    28.9    512.8   1,615.7    645.2        386.7     136.0     781.1     268.3
2011112    7.0     0.7        7.7     77.3    2,048.9   403.1    113.4    29.2    517.4   1,630.3    651.0        390.6      137.3     788.3     270.9
2012113    7.0     0.7        7.8      77.8    2,067.6   406.8    114.7    29.6    522.0   1,645.0    656.9        394.5     138.7     795.5     273.6
20131R4    7.1     0.7        7.9      78.3    2,086.4   410.6    116.0    29.9    526.6   1,659.9    662.8       398.4      140.1     802.9     276.2
2014115    7.2     0.8        8.0      78.8    2,105.5   414.3    117.3    30.2    531.3   1,675.0    668.8        402.4     141.5     810.3     278.9
2015116    7.3     0.8        8.0      79.3    2,124.8   418.2    118.7    30.6    536.1   1,690.2    674.9       406.5      142.9     817.8    ' 281.7
2016117    7.4     0.8        8.1     79.8    2,144.2   422.0    120.0    30.9    540.9   1,705.6    681.0        410.5      144.3     825.3     284.4
2017113    7.4     0.8        8.2     80.3    2,163.9   425.9    121.4    31.3    545.7   1,721.1       687.2     414.6      145.8     833.0     287.2
20111S    7.5      0.8        8.3     80.9    2,183.8   429.9    122.7    31.6    550.7   1,736.9    693.5        418.8      147.2     80.7      290.0
2011J20    76      08         8.4     814    22039       4338      124.1    32.0    555.6   1,752.8    6998       423.0      148.7     845       292.9
IERR: r    21.1%1         2
Bs C_ 4/3/m4



10
130                  ~~~~ANNEX 6.2
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRFICATION PROJECT
LEAST COST AND ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANALYSES
OF MINIHYDRO PROJECTS
1.    A least cost analysis was performed for each of the five minihydro projects comparing
costs with and without the project. The 'with project" case assumed a minihydro/diesel powered
grid compared to the "without project" case of a diesel powered grid. The net present value of
annual costs for operation with and without the minihydro plant were compared within this
analysis to identify the least cost option. The economic rate of return analysis is based on the
costs and benefits specific to each project.
Capital Costs
2.    Cost estimates account for the capital, O&M, and fuel costs within the 25 year time
period for the minihydro and diesel generators connected to the grid. Capital expenditures
within the first four years in the "with project" case reflect the capital costs of the minihydro
plant, including civil works, generating and switch yard equipment, medium voltage line
required for interconnection, indirect costs, a 10% contingency on consulting costs and a 15%
contingency on civil works and electro-mechanical equipment, and interest during construction
(IDC). These cost figures are based on engineering feasibility studies which were reviewed and
updated in early 19941. Price contingencies, tariffs, and taxes are excluded from the cost basis.
In the "with project" case capital expenses beyond the four year period reflect additional diesel
capacity which is required to keep pace with load growth. All capital expenses in the "without
project" case are for diesel capacity.
3.    Diesel capital costs are based on 1993 PLN estimates and are Indonesia-wide averages
including the engine/generator, enclosure, fuel tanks, and mechanical/electrical work. These
costs range from $1,780/kW for a 20 kW unit to $625/kW for 220 kW and larger diesels2.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
4.    Operations and maintenance (O&M) estimates account for all O&M associated with the
minihydro and diesel units as well as costs for transmission and distribution expansion and
maintenance. Minihydro O&M is dominated by maintenance personnel costs, with annual
'PLN data, January 1994.
2PLN RE Planning, Sector Program Loan V 1992/93, spreadsheet supporting data.



131                           ANNEX 6.2
Page 2
expenses ranging from 0.4% to 1.4% of system capital costs, depending on system size and
configuration of civil works. Diesel O&M expenses include PLN-paid maintenance personnel
salary and least 2 at each generation site. The staffing level increases with the number of diesels
at the site.  Diesel overhaul frequency is based on cumulative run living expenses
(-$3,000/person/year). PLN requires a maintenance staff of at hours for each year. PLN
performs major overhauls every 18,000 run hours at an approximate cost of $118/kW of
capacity. Overhauls will occur sooner and more frequently without the minihydro unit serving
the grid. Expenses for consumables such as oil and air filters are estimated at $0.0006 per kWh.
The minihydro units are conservatively assumed to operate with a capacity factor of 60%, based
on flow duration curve analysis. The long-run average incremental cost of grid expansion and
maintenance was estimated at $0.015/kWh, corresponding to networks with voltages of 20 kV
and below. Grid energy losses are conservatively estimated at 10% for all analyses.
Fuel Costs
5.    Diesel fuel economic costs of $0.19/liter and lube-oil costs of $1.38/liter are based on
1993 Indonesian prices and are assumed to remain constant. Fuel and lube-oil transportation
costs of up to $0.03/liter, were estimated from PLN Wilayah-level data. The specific fuel
consumption (SFC) and specific lube-oil consumption (SLC) were assumed to be .3 liters/kWh
and .003 liters/kWh respectively for all sites except Lokomboro. At Lokomboro, an SFC of .42
and an SLC of 0.006 were used to account for lower efficiency operation due to the lighter
loading of the smaller diesels on this grid.
Benefits
6.    For this analysis, energy sales from a project were assumed to be 85 % residential, at a
price of 5.99C/kWh and a consumer surplus of 12.77ClkWh; with commercial sales accounting
for the balance, with energy prices of 6.39C/kWh and a consumer surplus of 9.98C/kWh. Load
growth ranged from 5.8% to 8.9% based on historical data for each site.
Results and Sensitivity Analysis
7.    The summary tables below give the results of the least cost and project IERR analyses;
with the least cost analysis based on the net present value (NPV) with and without the project.
Base case values reflect the expected project conditions as described above. To test the
robustness of the economic viability of the proposed projects, cost estimates were increased from
the base case by 10%. In addition, load growth estimates were reduced by 50% (with all other
values at base case levels). In all cases, the 'with project" case is the least cost option and
project EIRRs remained well over 12%.



132                                ANNEX 6.2
Page 3
Least Cost Analysis
Net Present Value ($US millions)
Site Name
Bambalo      Kolondom       Werba       Lokomboro  Ulung Peliang
Base Case
With Project      11.4         11.9           7.5          5.1           10.3
Wiho-u-t          15.0    ---13 37  ----- 8.4------ 6.1T------  11.
Project ___ __________j_____________ ____________ ____________ __________,
Project_
Capital Cost +
10%
With Project      11.9         12.2           7.8          5.3           10.5
Project ___ ____________.____________ ____________ ____________ __________,
Project
50% of Base
Load Growth
With Project      8.3           8.7          5.1           3.3           7.3
Without           10.9          9.7           5.3          3.7           8.1
Project               .                               _
Economic Internal Rate of Return
Site Name 
Bambalo      Kolondom       Werba       Lokomboro   Ulung Peliang
Base Case        31.6          25.1          21.5          22.7         25.6
Capital Cost +
10%              29.2          23.2          20.0          21.0         23.5
50% of Base
Load Growth      29.7          25.1          18.9          19.8         25.6



133
ANNEX 6.3
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
LEAST COST AND ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
OF GEOTHERMAL PROJECTS
1.    The least cost and economic rate of return analyses of the two geothermal projects were
performed on the same basis as the minihydro projects (see Annex 6.2). The "with project" case
assumes a geothermal/diesel powered grid, the "without project" grid assumes the existing diesel
grid.
Costs and Performance Estinates
2.    Both the Sembalun and Tulehu geothermal projects are in the initial stages of
development. For this reason, cost and performance have been estimated based on expected
conditions at the sites. Capital costs include field testing (geoscientific field studies, exploratory
well drilling, well monitoring and testing), steam field development, power plant construction
(at $2000/kW for the first 5 MW and $1000/kW for the next 5 MW). Interest during
construction (IDC) is also included. Data from geoscientific studies and test well drilling will
be used to refine these estimates. A physical contingency of 25% is included in field testing
costs outlined above. Power plant and steam field costs are conservatively estimated, and
include a 10% contingency. The plants are assumed to operate in a baseload mode, with a
capacity factor of 80%. Operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 5% of plant capital
costs. The long-run average incremental cost of grid expansion and maintenance was estimated
at $0.015/kWh, corresponding to networks with voltages of 20 kV and below. Grid energy
losses are estimated at 10%. Diesel capital, O&M, and fuel costs are estimated as in the
minihydro analysis described above.
Results and Sensitivity Analysis
3.    Least cost and cost-benefit analysis summary tables, similar to those described in Annex
6.3 for the mini-hydro projects, are given below. To test the robustness of the economic
viability of the proposed projects, cost estimates were increased from the basecase by 10%. In
addition, load growth estimates were reduced by 50% (with all other values at base case levels).
Results for these also are given with the base case values in the tables below. In all cases, the
"with project" case is the least cost option and project EIRRs remained in well over 12%,
indicating the merit of pursuing these projects at least through the site investigation phase. Once
test drilling has been completed and more accurate cost and performance estimates are available,
the projects would be re-evaluated, and the economic viability re-estimated using the revised
data.



134
ANNEX 6.3
Page 2
Least Cost Analysis
Net Present Value ($US millions)
Site Name
Tulehu       Sombalun
Base Case
tWih Project      233.0         232.0    1
Without           242.0         239.6
Project
Capital Cost +
10%                             __ _
With Project      234.5         233.5
Without           242.0         239.6
Project
50% of Base
Lod Growth  ..   . .-_-
With Project      176.9         175.0
Without           185.3         183.4
Project      _
Economic Internal Rate of Retum
Site Name
Tulehu                 Sombalun
F- - -    - - -    - - -- - - - - - - ------   -  -- - -- - -  -   -  --
Base Case                          39.9                     39.7
Capital Coat + 10%                 38.0                     37.8
50% of Base Load Growth            39.9                     39.7
M A*uWsJLM



135
ANNEX 7.0
INDONESIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1. Electricity Act of 1985
2. Government Regulation No. 17/1990 dated May 28, 1990, concerning PLN
3. Policy Statement of GOI and Action Plan
4. Audit Report of PLN - 1993/94
5. Financial Statement of PLN - 1993/94
6. PLN's Scaled Down Program of Investment
7. Project Cost Estimates
8. Project Management and Implementation Plan (PMIP) Report






IBRD 25506R
-~~~                 1~~~~             INDONESIA
~~oodo A'd'  1~~AILAND ~SohCUA    c Sea 
d ? , eHI> lUPPINES  -                                       PLN REGIONS
MALAYSIA                                                                       LLY                                                               VII P, W1LAYMI NUMMO
%Mdn  KUALA                                                                             ,
LUMPUR                                                                                                                                              %AY LAOA U BONDARES
/                                                                  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAA HAQUARTERS
LAYSIA                                                               e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROVkJCE CAPITALS
1 X, . '- - \\ ( i MALAVSIA  j  aj / _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES
-rii-NGAFORE
V ,---INGAPORE          ,'   <              >                              ,      Vtl 0-0 - _        |        _ ow   0                              PACIFIC OCEAN
SLIMATERA    s---             Pon6bnokO                                                                          (     NAAHER          =
AX                                        VcIn i -                VIIa                                        |(Ui  IX   N  JAA >          v         -         10
/  REUTUN      D    j      >--'~--~                                                                                                          IRIAN OCEAN  ,AYU
endorsernent ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ a~ oro                          foaston  of't suhsunrio o                                            <r        5      UT4J 
I2Z~~~~~ ll.r                                          _                                                                                                                           z y19
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
TUNG                                                                                                                          RIAN JAYA ~  ~ -0FE
Ufjl.N  o90                             -                               ____________
sha'n  n tis  napd. -ot .snplVa  tlo  pan  f 'rho World Bank                                     SUp..ATIMOR
Qraap. -nYt Ijud'g-e o  the  -QIsau   fay territ-yN at any
MAY 199s



