Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12629
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2176-EGT)
DECEMBER 22, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Egyptian Pound (LE) = 100 Piasters = 1000 Miliemes
Exchange Rates'
(Egyptian Pound per US Dollar)
Official                        Market
Period                      End of Period                  Period Averag
1984                           0.7000                         0.8317
1985                           0.7000                         1.3009
1986                           0.7000                         1.3502
1987                           0.7000                         1.5015
1988                           0.7000                         2.2129
1989                           1.1000                         2.5171
1990                           2.0000                         2.7072
1991                           3.3000                         3.3000
1992                           3.3303                         3.3303
Jan. 1993                        3.3390                         3.3390
Fiscal Year
July I - June 30
Measures and Equivalents
i hectare (ha)= 10,000 m2 or 2.471 acres
List of Abbreviations
CBD         -  Central Business District
CG         -  Cairo Governorate
CGAO       -  Central Government Audit Organization
CTA        -  Cairo Transport Authority
ECA/MENA -  Europe & Central Asia/Middle East and North Africa Regions
ERR        -  Economic Rate of Return
GESBOF    -  Gisr El Suez Bus Overhaul Facility
GG         -  Giza Governorate
IBRD       -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        -  International Development Association
JICA        -  Japanese International Cooperation Agency
MENA       -  Middle East and North Africa Region
PA         -  Project Agreement
PCR         -  Project Completion Report
PPF        -  Project Preparation Facility
SAR        -  Staff Appraisal Report
SFD         -  Social Fund for Development
TMU         -  Traffic Management Unit
Source: International Financial Statistics, International Monetary Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 22, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Egypt
Greater Cairo Urban Development Project
(Loan 2176-EGT)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Egypt - Greater Cairo
Urban Development Project (Loan 2176-EGT)" prepared by the Infrastructure
Operations Division, Country Department II of the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. Part II contains the Borrower's perspective.
The project upgraded selected low income areas and improved the
operations of the public bus company. It failed to initiate an approach to urban
transport based on low-cost engineering and management measures, and to
strengthen the institutional capability of the participating governorates. Not
only was the project not successful in consolidating an urban transport strategy
based on low cost mechanisms, but it appears that the Cairo Central Government
has been implementing a strategy based on capital intensive projects.   The
explosive growth of traffic volume in Cairo, not contemplated in the project's
design, may have contributed to its lack of success.   The project  also
encountered problems due to the cessation of IDA lending to Egypt, which created
a difficult environment as well as a significant reduction in the support for the
project by Government. Additional factors that contributed to the project's lack
of accomplishment include (i) its complexity and the many integrated components
it included, (ii) the failure to identify at appraisal the limited absorption
capacity of the implementing agencies; and (iii) the lack of flexibility to
respond to the changing circumstances in the borrowing country, and to ensure
support for the project.   The technical assistance package included in the
original project was duplicated by a technical assistance package financed by
USAID. Thus, the institutional component included in the Project was canceled.
On balance, while the project outcome is rated as marginally
satisfactory due to the completion of a revised set of justified project
components after its restructuring, its institutional development impact is rated
as negligible and its sustainability as uncertain.
The Project Completion Report is of good quality. The project may
be audited.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PRO.ECT COMPLETION REPOR
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGP
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2176-EGT)
Table of Contents
Title                                                                                                        Page No.
PREFACE   .........
EVALUATION SUMMARY . i
PARTI ..............................
1. Project Identity ....................1
2. Background ....................1
3. Project Objectives and Description ...................                                                               3
4. Project Design and Organization ...................                                                                  4
5. Project Implementation ...................                                                                           5
6. Project Results ...................                                                                                 9
7. Economic Re-Evaluation and Rates of Return ........................ 10
8. Impact of the Project .................................                                                            11
9. Project Sustainability .................................                                                           11
10. Bank Performance .................................                                                                12
11. Borrower Performance .................................                                                            12
12. Bank - Borrower Relationship .................................  13
13. Consulting Services .................................                                                             13
14. Project Documentation and Data ................................. 13
15. Status of Covenants .................................                                                             13
16. Lessons Learned .................................                                                                 13
PART  H  ...........................                                      . . . . . . . . . . . 1s
(By Borrower/Implementing Agencies)
pAgT m ............................. 39
(By IBRD)
1. Related IBRD Loans/IDA Credits ............................... 39
2. Project Timetable .................................                                                                40
3. Loan Disbursements .................................                                                               41
4. Status of Covenants .................................                                                              42
5. Project Components .................................                                                               44
6. Appraisal and Actual Cost .................................     45
7. Appraisal and Actua Project Financing ........................... 48
8. Mission Data .................................                                                                     52
9. Rate of Return .................................                                                                   53
10. Financial Statements of CTA ................................. 55
Photos of some project components
Map: IBRD 24848
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROTECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2176-EGT)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Greater Cairo Urban Development
Project in the Arab Republic of Egypt, for which Loan 2176-EGT in the amount of US$ 59.0
million, was signed on October 26, 1982. The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, five
years behind original schedule, and the remaining undisbursed balance of US$1.13 million has
been cancelled in addition to the US$5.0 million cancelled on September 22, 1987.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepared: the Infrastructure Operations Division of MENA Regional
Office prepared the Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III; the Borrower, the
Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and the implementing agencies: the Cairo
Governorate (CG), the Giza Governorate (GG) and the Cairo Transport Authority (CTA)
prepared their respective Part UIs.
3.    Preparation of the PCR started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project
in January/February 1993 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and the Bank's internal memoranda and reports.






ii
PROTECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2176-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The primary objectives of the project were to initiate a revised approach to urban
transport based on low cost engineering and management measures, and to strengthen the
institutional ability of the governorates thereby enhancing their capacity to undertake further
urban development. The secondary objectives were to improve the living conditions of the urban
poor in the Greater Cairo region through upgrading selected low income areas, and to improve
the efficiency of the public bus company.
Implementafion ExDeice=
2.    The closing of the loan was delayed by five years as a result of various factors (para.
5.6). All components, as revised after project restructuring in October 1987, were completed.
The implementation of many of the studies' recommendations were either stalled through the
administrative process, not implemented, or implemented using the Government's own resources
(paras. 5.4 and 5.5).
3.    The Project encountered a major procurement issue concerning the Gisr El Suez Bus
Overhaul Facility (GESBOF), where the Bank expressed concern over the 'single responsibility"
contract preferred by CTA. Eventually, CTA went along with the Bank's recommendations of
splitting the equipment procurement into a number of different packages. This latter approach
proved to be troublesome to the Project since CTA was not accustomed to managing such
complex international contracting procedures (para. 5.8).
4.    The overall project cost, in nominal terms, without taking into consideration the changes
that occurred in the scope of the project, increased in LE by 35 percent, while the cost in US$
decreased by 22 percent (para. 5.9). If, however, the changes in the scope are taken into
consideration, the adjusted cost would have increased, in nominal terms, by 41 percent in LE,
attributed to the depreciation of the rate of exchange of the Egyptian Pound relative to the US
Dollar and other European currencies which accounted for a large part of equipment
procurement (para. 5.10).



iii
5.    The remaining undisbursed balance of US$ 1.13 million by the end of the 4-month grace
period beyond the closing date was cancelled in addition to the US Dollar 5.0 million cancelled
in September 1987 (para. 3.3).
6.    Audits received of project accounts were frequently late despite persistent reminders from
the Bank.
Results
7.    The main CTA component, GESBOF, was completed and commissioned in 1991.
However, the facility is operating below optimal capacity depriving CTA of potential revenues
that could curb its rising annual deficit. The rehabilitated Monib Training Center is providing
effective training for a range of specialist skills critical for the operational needs of CTA (paras.
6.1 and 6.2).
8.    For the CG, two of the principal physical components of the Project (the Opera and
Ataba Squares, multi-storey parking garages) were completed and have provided the Central
Business District (CBD) with much needed parking space (1,780 spaces) as well as a gross area
of 17,230 m2 for commercial space. The remaining components of the core program for CG
were never implemented because of changing priorities and a lack of counterpart funds and were
subsequently cancelled after restructuring the project in October 1987 (paras. 3.3 and 6.3).
9.    The GG has implemented all components although some small scale traffic improvement
measures were completed using its own resources (para. 6.5).
10.   The Project did not lead to the consolidation of a new approach to urban transport based
on low cost traffic engineering and management measures. Extraneous factors, however, such
as the unforeseen explosive growth of traffic volume in Cairo have contributed to the
Government's change in investment priorities (para. 8.2).
Sustainability
11.   The key to the sustainability of the investment in GESBOF, the largest component of this
Project, would have been for an autonomous management to run the facility on a commercially
sound basis. The current dependence of GESBOF on its financially strapped parent, CTA, will
ultimately jeopardize the bus transport system in Cairo and Alexandria affecting some 7 million
riders (para. 9.1).
12.   After Project restructuring, in October 1987, and the arrangement of attaching the core
institutional development components originally proposed under this project to the USAID's
LDII Project, the Bank's involvement in institutional development was limited to following up
through USAID (paras. 5.5 and 10.2).



iv
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.   The Project from the onset faced problems because due to the reclassification of Egypt's
borrowing status and the changing priorities of the Government, support for an already overly
complex project with funds borrowed at a high interest rate dropped sharply. This situation
proved to be costly since the Project never recovered its earlier momentum. It would have been
advisable to restructure the project at an earlier stage in consideration of the new situation. The
lessons learned are that the Bank should:
-     avoid complex projects with too many integrated components when the
implementing agencies have limited absorptive capacity and insufficient
exposure to the intricacies of complex international contracting procedures;
-     respond appropriately to the changing circumstances and needs of the
borrowers in order to maintain support for the project; and
-     ensure that conditions exist for the financial viability of public entities that
apply to the Bank for support, and that, related covenants are strictly adhered
to.






PRO.lCT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GRECATER!CAIRO URBAN DVLOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2176-EGT)
PART I: PROJECT REVIW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPE
1.    Proect Identity
Project Name                   Greater Cairo Urban Development Project
Loan Number                    2176-EGT
Loan Amount                    US$ 59.0 million
Loan Cancellation(s)           US$ 6.13 million
Regional Vice Presidential Unit   MENA
Country                        Arab Republic of Egypt
Sector                         Urban/Transport
2.    Background
Introduction
2.1  In 1981, Egypt had an estimated population of 43 million and was growing at an
annual rate exceeding 2.5 percent. Rural population growth was outstripping rural job
creation resulting in large scale rural-to-urban migration. Greater Cairo had about 8.5
million people and was growing at an alarming rate of 4 percent per annum with about 30
percent of all urban families having incomes below the Bank-defined poverty threshold of
US$715 per household per year in 1980 terms. The average gross population density was
high by all standards, at 40,000 per square km, reaching 100,000 in some older Cairo
districts. The sharp increase in urban population was not accompanied by a similar increase
in urban infrastructure provision. The Government had recognized the dimension and
severity of the growing urban problems, and had in response given them high priority in its
1978-82 Development Plan.
2.2   Discussions about an urban project in Cairo were held in parallel with the supeision
of the First Urban Development Project (Credit 831-EGT). The project was identified in
November 1978 and a feasibility study was prepared with financial assistance from the
Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom. Continuing discussions with
the Government resulted in what was thought of as an important shift in emphasis away from
construction of costly elevated roadworks and flyovers to relatively low-cost taffic
engineering and management schemes. Project preparation was reviewed by Bank missions
in June 1979, September 1979, and February 1980. The project was appraised in May 1980,



-2-
and as a result of the Government's subsequent proposal to substitute some components, the
project scope was further refined in follow-up discussions in Cairo in September 1980 and
January 1981. At the Government's request, the project was held in abeyance for a period
of time pending discussion of the lending terms. Negotiations were held in Washington in
April 1982 and the loan was approved on June 10, 1982. The loan was signed on October
26, 1982 and became effective on February 16, 1983.
Sector Development Objectives
2.3   The development objectives of this project took a synergetic approach to metropolitan
development in the form of an integrated project, similar to a third of the Bank's urban
development lending approved in the late 1970s and early 1980s. These projects combined
the provision of infrastructure, urban transport and solid waste management.
2.4   Transport problems of Cairo residents included severe congestion (characterized by
long delays and low moving speeds), high accident rates, extreme crowding in buses, bumpy
rides and obstructed sidewalks, chaotic parking habits seriously reducing traffic lanes
capacity and poor accessibility to any motorized mode of travel particularly for the residents
of several lower-income districts of Cairo. Behind these problems lay an array of
deficiencies on the supply side of urban transport. On the infrastructure side, these included
the poor state of paved roads, particularly bus routes, with a high proportion (60%) of the
road network without any surfacing or street lighting, precluding access to vital service
vehicles. On the traffic side, traffic signals were widely disobeyed and parking space was
scarce. Moreover there was an absence of trained staff, facilities and institutional
arrangements for the range of activities related to road traffic. On the local government side,
the three Governorates co-responsible for Greater Cairo were inadequately staffed and their
pay scales were too low to attract and/or retain technicians necessary to regulate and manage
various urban service systems at a time when sectoral ministries had started to transfer
responsibility for urban projects to the Governorates.
Policy Context
2.5   The approach for this project essentially applies strategies recommended by the World
Bank for populous urban areas in developing countries--Urban Transpr, published by the
World Bank in 1976 and later updated in 1986. The three principles that constitute the
conceptual framework that served as the basis of this policy are economic and financial
viability and efficiency. The principal policy focus of this project was on efforts to reshape
urban transport policy, notably to shift emphasis away from expensive construction of new
elevated roadways and flyovers in to the cost efficient area of traffic engineering and
management schemes. The project also addressed broader municipal management and
planning issues.



-3-
Linkages Between the Project and Macro Policy Objectives
2.6   The urban contribution to economic growth in Egypt is very large, particularly for
Greater Cairo and Alexandria. Cairo alone accounts for about one-quarter of the nation's
jobs, and in the last two decades twice as many jobs have been created there as in the rest of
the country. In the manufacturing sector Greater Cairo accounts for almost one-half of the
national output, and its share of manufacturing employment is almost as large.
2.7   The efficiency of economic activities in cities such as Cairo, therefore, affects the
overall efficiency of the economy, which would be clearly impaired by the difficulties of
moving goods and people around and by high transportation costs. The adverse impact of
housing and service deficiencies and pollution on productivity is more indirect, and perhaps
impossible to measure, but is real enough. Overall, the net agglomeration economies of
Greater Cairo were being eroded by decreased efficiencies of the urban infrastructure.
Actions to reduce these inefficiencies by sound investments, policy reform and improved
urban management would, by allowing net agglomeration economies to increase again, have
both direct and indirect effects on overall economic efficiency.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
Prject Qbjectives
3.1   The main objectives of the project, at appraisal, were to initiate a revised approach to
urban transport based on low cost measures, with special attention to the needs of lower
income groups; to improve the efficiency of public transport; and to strengthen Government
institutions, thereby developing their planning and management capabilities and enhancing
their capacity to undertake further urban development. In addition, the project sought to
alleviate the living and environmental conditions of Greater Cairo's urban poor through the
upgrading of selected low income areas.
Project Components
3.2   The project pursued the above objectives through an integrated package of measures.
This consisted of a four-year 'time-slice' of traffic engineering, road maintenance and traffic
management programs to improve the existing road network, pave new bus routes, and
reduce congestion in Cairo's Central Business District (CBD), together with associated policy
measures to enforce traffic regulations and parking controls. It also provided for institutional
improvements including a series of organizational and administrative measures, staff training,
related technical assistance and studies; a pilot area upgrading program; and improvements
in the operations of the Cairo Transport Authority (CTA). The major components at
appraisal were grouped into:
Traffic Engineering and Road Maintenance - (US$56 million, (48 percent of the total
estimated project cost)) consisting of the construction of two parling garages and a



-4-
series of traffic engineering measures along selected circulation corridors and access
loops in CG and GG and in the CBD.
Enforcement of Traffic Rules and Training - (US$4 million, (4 percent)) through
improved traffic police training programs and the purchase of course materials,
training aides, motorcycles and tow trucks.
Area lpgrading - (US$15 million, (13 percent)) consisting of the installation of street
lighting equipment, partial leveling and paving of secondary roads and footpaths,
partial rehabilitation of water and sewerage networks and a pilot program of solid
waste collection in four low-income neighborhoods in CG and GG.
Public Transport - (US$28 million, (24 percent)) consisting of completing the
construction of a bus overhaul facility at Gisr El-Suez (GESBOF) including the
provision of related equipment and spare parts, as well as the refurbishing and
equipping of the Monib training center for CTA drivers and maintenance staff.
Institutional Development - (US$13 million, (11 percent)) comprising a program of
organizational and administrative improvements necessary to facilitate more efficient
management of urban services in the CG and GG, as well as a program for improving
operational, financial and management procedures of the CTA.
3.3    In October 1987, the project was restructured because of lack of performance and
changing priorities of the CG and as such eleven components in that agency were cancelled
and one each in GG and the CTA. The funds released from the cancellation of these thirteen
components were reallocated to finance two additional components in Giza as well as the
higher than anticipated foreign exchange requirements of GESBOF.' Details of the various
components before and after restructuring are given in Table 5, Part IH.
4.     Project Desi2n and Organization
4.1    The project, as originally conceived, had two project preparation facilities (PPF)
totalling US$1 million to finance the preparation of the project which were granted to the
implementing agencies through the government on IDA terms because the project was
initially proposed to be financed with an IDA credit. However, because of the change in the
classification of Egypt's borrowing status (cessation of IDA lending to Egypt), detailed
design for the project was temporarily suspended. The net result was that only about 50
I/     On September 22, 1987, the Egyptian Government requested the cancellation of US Dollars 14.0 million from the loan alloced
to CO. However, on Novemnber 12, 1987, the Government requeded that the cancellation be limnited to US Dollr 5.0 million,
with the remaining US Dollars 9.0 million being allocated to 00 to enable it to extend the upgrdiag to Omania West and
Monirn West. However, as 00 was unable to obtain the necessary counterpart funding for thene two components, the
Governnent futher requested, on March 8, 1989, the reallocation of the US Dollars 9.0 million to the CTA to enable it to
comnplete GESBOF.



-5-
percent or US$370,000 of the second PPF advance was used by the time the loan ultimately
became effective.
4.2  In line with the policy of decentralization and transferring greater decision making
authority to the Governorates, in the early 1980s, the responsibility for project
implementation was given to CG, GG and CTA. Each of the implementing agencies was
completely responsible for the requisite programming, budgeting, design, bidding,
procurement, construction and supervision of their respective components. This arrangement
proved inadequate since the absorptive capacity of the implementing agencies was limited.
5.    Project Implementation
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up
5.1   Although the loan was approved on June 10, 1982, and signed on October 26, 1982,
it only became effective on February 16, 1983, almost three years after the original appraisal
date, due to uncertainties resulting from the change in the classification of Egypt's borrowing
status (para. 4.1). This created a difficult political environment as Government support for
the project dropped at a time when Government policy was directed against the utilization of
loan funds for municipal infrastructure projects. Reviving Government support for the
project was a lengthy process.
Construction
5.2   The components, as revised after project restructuring in October 1987, were
completed. The two composite real estate developments of offices and shops incorporating
multi-storey car parking space at Opera and Ataba Squares were completed satisfactorily,
although slightly behind schedule. The delay was mainly caused by a disgruntled
subcontractor who was eventually legally dismissed from the site after the Governorate's
intervention. The civil works construction of the GESBOF were completed satisfactorily;
however, there were several problems with procurement (para. 5.8).
5.3   The upgrading of the two areas in GG was completed after concerns about the initial
quality of the work carried out by the contractor. Some subcomponents, originally included
in the project but removed after the restructuring, were implemented by the Central
Government using its own resources (para. 6.4).
5.4  Implementation of many of the traffic engineering and road maintenance measures
was either stalled or not implemented for several reasons among which were the changing
priorities of the CG and fiscal constraints, and were subsequently cancelled after project
restructuring in October 1987.



-6-
Studies and Technical Assistance
5.5   The original technical assistance package, which was divided into four sub-
components (Strategic Action Plan, Urban Service Delivery Program, Infrastructure Survey
and Solid Waste Management Master Plan), was no longer needed since the technical
assistance package financed by USAID, in effect, paralleled the institutional component
included in the Project. Consequently, after October 1987, the Bank cancelled this
component and limited its involvement in institutional development to working indirectly with
USAID. The final report on the USAID project, Local Development II (LDII), is under
preparation, and is believed to indicate favorable results have been achieved.
Implementation Delays
5.6   The project was substantially completed by the end of 1991, after the commissioning
of GESBOF, about four years later than originally envisaged. The original project
completion date, set for December 31, 1987 (less than 5 years after the actual effectiveness
date) was unrealistic for such a complex project. The implementation profile for less
complex projects in Egypt is about nine years. Notwithstanding the over-optimistic
implementation schedule, the project incurred delays for a variety of reasons prominent
among which:
(i)   the reclassification of Egypt's borrowing status (from IDA to IBRD) created a
difficult political environment whereby the general perception among officials
was that the loan terms were very expensive for a non-productive sector
financing, coupled with a growing resistance to finance technical assistance
from external borrowings. Deliberations by Government as to whether to
proceed with project implementation or not took a long time, eventually
leading to considerable delays. This resistance was further exacerbated by a
series of declines in the Bank interest rates which did not affect the loan since
the interest was fixed at 11.6 percent per annum. Support for the project
waned and reviving it proved very lengthy;
(ii)   an attempt by a subcontractor to block the site of the two parking garages,
who had to be forcibly removed by a court order;
(iii)  the uncertainty of counterpart funds;
(iv)  the cumbersome bureaucratic procedures for bid evaluation and issuance of
letters of credit;
(v)   frequent changes in senior and project management teams accompanied by
changes in priorities for certain components;



-7-
(vi) inexperience with complex international contracting procedures such as
required by the GESBOF.
Closing Date Extensions and Completion
5.7   The closing date was extended four times to allow for the completion of the
construction works and equipment procurement. At the time the loan was closed all physical
works under the restructured project were completed. The institutional objectives were
carried out under the USAID project (para. 5.5).
Procurement
5.8   The project encountered a major procurement issue concerning the GESBOF. At the
time of preparation of the bidding documents for GESBOF, CTA felt that the award of a
"single responsibility" contract would serve their interest best because of the complexity and
risk involved with commissioning such a facility. The Bank went along with this approach
initially. However, because of concerns over the large overheads charged by single
responsibility contractors for coordinating a multitude of subcontractors, the Bank
subsequently insisted that the bidding documents be revised, splitting the equipment
procurement into eleven different packages to ensure a tighter and more competitive bidding.
The latter approach, however, neglected to consider the consequences and risks fraught with
such a complex task with which CTA was not accustomed. The resulting design
modifications to accommodate the different packages were expensive, cumbersome, time
consuming and at times confusing. Furthermore, as all the contracts were won by European
firms, delays in project implementation resulted in substantial increases in this component's
cost, due to the depreciation of the US Dollar against the European currencies.
Project Cost and Disbursement
5.9   Without taking into consideration the impact of changes that occurred in the scope of
the project, the total cost estimated at LE 94.5 million during appraisal increased to LE
128.0 million, or an overrun of about 35 percent. The total expenditure in US dollars, on
the other hand, decreased from the appraisal estimate of US$ 116.2 million to US$ 91.0
million, or an underrun of about 22 percent, mainly due to the depreciation in the rate of
exchange of the Egyptian pound relative to the U.S. Dollar (Table 1).



-8-
Table 1: Project cost by implementing agency
(in nominal USS million)
Implementing Agency    Appraisal Estimates      Actual         Total      Total
Appraisal   Actual
Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign
Governorate of Cairo     38.34      33.28    11.20      12.02      71.62   23.20('$
Govemorate of Giza        7.71       5.64    12.87       4.24      13.35   17.11
Cairo Transport Authority  9.84     21.43    13.10      37,60      31.27   50.70
TOTAL                    55.89      60.35    37.17      53.86     116.24   91.01
* SeveraL compmen were razclled after project ratnwwring (aee Tables 5 & 6, Part Ill).
5.10    In order to provide a meaningful comparison of costs, readjustments to the appraisal estimates
were introduced to reflect the impact of changes that took place in the scope of work during the
period of project implementation, i.e. cancellation of portions of the components related to
Traffic Engineering and Road Maintenance, Traffic Enforcement and Institutional Development
for both the Governorates of Cairo and Giza; and increases in the scope of work at CTA (Table
2). The changes in the scope of work were reflected through several amendments to the Loan
Agreement. Adjusted costs indicate an increase of LE 37.17 million, or about 41 percent,
attributed to the change in the rate of exchange of the Egyptian pound over the duration of the
project. The adjusted costs in terms of US$ decreased by US$ 1.46 million, or about 2 percent.
Table 2: Cost Adjustments due to change in scope of works
Cin nominal million currency units)
Appraisal Estimate          Actual
LE           USS         LE         USS
Appraisal and actual costs     94.52       116.24       127.99       91.01
Net adjustments to:                      _
Govemorate of Cairo            -26.95(     -33 .66°)
Govemonto of Giza              +0.73       +0.91
CTA                            +22.55      +8.98
Adjused Costs                  90.85       92.47        127.99       91.01
* Several comporel were rcelbd after project reaucuuing (see Tablws 5 mad 6, Part 111)
5.11    The disbursement of the loan took a little more than twice as long as that anticipated at
appraisal (Table 3, Part III). By the original closing date of December 1987, only about 40
percent of the loan proceeds had been drawn down. At the request of the government, an
amount of US$ 5.0 million was cancelled on September 22, 1987. (para 3.3) At the end of the



-9-
4-month grace period beyond the closing date an amount of US$ 1.13 million remained
undisbursed and was cancelled.
Audits and Reporting
5. 12 The project agreements required the three agencies involved in the project implementation
to provide the Bank with annual audits of their accounts as well as quarterly implementation
reports. The annual audits were frequently received late from the Central Government Audit
Organization (CGAO) despite persistent reminders from the Bank. The progress reports
received were short of disclosing full information on implementation, and the records kept by
some agencies were not comprehensive.
6.    Project Results
6.1   The main CTA component was implemented as envisaged, though with considerable
delays. GESBOF was commissioned in 1991 and is now one of the largest central bus overhaul
workshops in the world. Prior to completion of the GESBOF the maintenance practices and
procedures of CTA were fragmented, with poor production line techniques. The facility is
currently operating below optimal capacity because of the pervasive lack of qualified technicians
and spare parts. The financial viability of CTA has not been achieved, although there were
continuous attempts by CTA management to raise bus fares fixed by the Central Government:
CTA's annual deficits have an upward trend2; cumulative deficits for fiscal years 1989/90,
1990/91, and 1991/92 were LE 165 million, 230 million and 217 million respectively (Table 9,
Part III). In an effort to revise the downward slide, the Bank was able to convince CTA to
negotiate with a consulting firm a study for the privatization of GESBOF, however, CTA
reneged because of political pressure. Recently, the Social Fund for Development (SFD) has
revived the idea.
6.2   The Monib Training Center was completed and commissioned in 1985. The center offers
a wide range of training courses customized to the specific operational needs of CTA. In fiscal
year 1992, the center had a total enrollment of about 4,000 trainees, covering 124 courses
ranging from basic training to skill upgrading and refresher courses with an overall average cost
of LE 1,500 per trainee per course.
6.3   For the Cairo Governorate; two of the principal physical components of the project,
namely the two multi-storey garages at Opera and Ataba squares were successfully completed
and commissioned in April 1986. The garages provided parking space (1,130 spaces in Opera
Square and 650 in Ataba Square) and a gross area of 17,230 m2 for commercial space (11,730
m2 in Opera and 5,500 m2 in Ataba). The garages are being managed by private sector
companies, and parking charges have been set to recover full operating and capital costs with
average annual revenues to CG of around LE 873,000. Occupancy levels in the garages, on
I/    The deficit situation of CrA has been nade worne by the recent decision to merge the operations of the lou-making Heliopolis
Metro to CTA, thereby widening the gap between the revenues and expenditures.



-10-
average, have exceeded 90 percent of capacity. The commercial space is being leased out at
market rates through a competitive bidding procedure with a total revenue of LE 13.8 million
from lease contracts. Additionally, these garages have triggered the construction of other,
similar parking garages in other congested areas of Cairo by both the public and the private
sectors. The remaining components of the core program for CG (the improvements to the CBD,
the three access corridors to Cairo and the creation of a traffic management unit (TMU)) were
never implemented even though the tender documents for the traffic schemes were completed
and the decree establishing the TMU was signed into law, due to the lack of counterpart funds
and changing priorities.
6.4   Traffic Police Management: nine police officers received a total of 32 weeks of traffic
police training in the USA. Traffic enforcement equipment (250 motorcycles and 261 radios)
was purchased. The practice of enforcement is slowly improving. However, the traffic
management specialists on staff left after their initial two-year contracts expired and have since
not been replaced. The refurbishing of a training center and the construction of a motor vehicle
inspection center were left out.
6.5   The Giza Governorate implemented all components. Some small scale engineering
measures in Giza/Galaa/Dokki Squares were completed using its own resources. The upgrading
done in Old Giza and East Monira under the project have been successfully completed. The
current population of the two areas is estimated at 250,000 and 175,000 with an average annual
income per capita of LE 1200 and LE 1000 respectively. The Govemorate of Giza has achieved
an important objective of the project - replication: with funds from the Japanese International
Cooperation Agency (JICA), Giza city is now upgrading the area of West Omrania (designed
with loan proceeds) and has recently started discussions for funding the upgrading of West
Monira.
7.    Economic Re-Evaluation and Rates of Return
7.1   Due to the various problems encountered during its implementation the Project had to be
restructured (para 3.3). As a result, in the following re-evaluation only a limited use of the
appraisal analysis and data could be made. Therefore, a full ex-post calculation of the economic
rate of return (ERR) of the Project as it was implemented would require an extensive empirical
study to collect data and carry out a comparative analysis of the actual situation with what would
have prevailed without the Project. No such extensive data collection and analysis could be
carried out for the purposes of this PCR. The following re-evaluation, therefore, is limited only
to the financial performance of the two parking garages and the GESBOF which were created
under the Project. The financial return analysis carried out shows that the project components
that were completed have yielded satisfactory financial returns (Paras. 7.2 and 7.3). These
project components, the Opera and Ataba parking facilities and GESBOF, have also yielded
economic benefits to society which could not be quantified. In the case of the parking facilities
these benefits occurred, as a result of reduction in traffic congestion in the form of travel time
savings, savings in vehicle operating costs, and a reduction in air pollution by the CBD traffic



-11-
in Cairo. In the case of GESBOF, the benefits generated by the project accrued to the whole
economy in the form of savings in foreign exchange and vehicle operating costs.
7.2   The Opera and Ataba Parking Facilities: At the time of appraisal its was envisaged that
these two parking facilities would be combined with junction improvements, better traffic
management practices and on-street parking controls to improve traffic flow in the CBD.
However, as noted earlier, due to the implementation problems, only the parking facilities could
be realized. Based on solely the financial costs and revenues of these two facilities, the ex-post
financial return of this project component was estimated to be about 16 percent (Table 9, Part
III).
7.3   The GESBOF: Originally, the bus overhaul facilities were to be combined with various
other measures to improve CTA's operational efficiency and the overall quality of public
transport services. On this basis, at the time of appraisal, the ERR of this component of the
project was estimated at 26 percent. In the absence of these complementary measures, the re-
assessment of this project component was based solely on costs and benefits of the bus overhaul
facility. On this basis, the ex-post financial rate of return was estimated at 19 percent, (Table
9, Part III).
8.    Impact of the Project
8.1   The greatest impact of this project is felt by the five million Cairo residents who use the
bus fleet of CTA every day (estimated demand is about 8 million passenger trips per day) which
is maintained by the GESBOF. The two parking garages have tremendously reduced traffic
congestion (resulting from double and triple street parking) and air pollution in the area as well
as providing employment to several hundred citizens. Since the completion of the upgrading in
Old Giza and East Monira, business activity in the area has flourished because of the more
dependable services and easier circulation (see photos comparing the before and after
conditions).
8.2   The project was not successful in consolidating a new approach to urban transport based
on low cost traffic engineering and management measures. Quite the contrary, it appears that
the approach actually implemented in Cairo by the Central Government reaches first for the most
intensive capital investment projects (as demonstrated by projects like the Metro, the elevated
roads and viaducts) with marginal improvements to the traffic and public transport in contrast
to the understanding reached during project preparation. A justification offered for the latter
policy was the unforeseen explosive growth in the traffic volume (around 17 percent per annum)
in the early to mid 1980's as a result of the "open-door" policy initiated by the late President
Sadat.
9.    Project Sustainability
9.1   The GESBOF, which is the largest component of this project, is currently operating
below optimal capacity primarily because of a chronic shortage of spare parts and the lack of



-12-
autonomy of the management of the facility in making sound business decisions. These two
conditions, if not rectified, will have a negative impact on the operations of CTA which will
jeopardize the bus transport systems in Cairo and Alexandria. Moreover, if GESBOF is allowed
to operate at optimum capacity it could generate around LE 100 million annually (at current
prices) of net revenue for CTA thereby reducing its huge deficit which is threatening the
sustainability of CTA's operations.
9.2   The parking garages are being leased at market rates and are generating a net revenue
to the CG. This arrangement is expected to ensure sustainability provided that the facilities are
kept well maintained in the future.
10.   Bank Performance
10.1 The Bank did not assess correctly the limited absorptive and implementation capacity of
the three agencies responsible for implementing the project components. Also, in its desire to
achieve many priority objectives, the project was made excessively complex: one of the reasons
why the project had to be restructured. The Bank was overly optimistic in expecting that basic
changes would be made in existing Government institutions and their mode of operation. The
Bank also overestimated the capabilities of the Borrowers to implement such a complex multi-
component project, thus requiring very heavy supervision by the Bank (Table 7, Part III).
10.2 After the cancellation of the remaining physical components in CG, the vehicle for
maintaining dialogue between the Bank and CG was eliminated, especially when the core
institutional development components were attached to the USAID's LDII project. Subsequently
Bank supervision missions had to follow up on institutional matters through the work of USAID.
10.3 The Bank's decision to insist on splitting up the procurement of GESBOF's equipment
into several packages instead of the initially  agreed to 'single-responsibility' contract,
contributed to further delays, design complications and extra demands on CTA to coordinate the
complex task of managing these packages separately.
11. Borrower Performance
11.1 The Borrower's performance was also mixed. The Borrower delayed effectiveness as
a result of waning enthusiasm after a difficult political environment in which the Borrower's
support for the project dropped sharply. The implementing agencies were forced to suspend
project preparation because of the ensuing uncertainty at the central government level and the
absence of secure financing. Consequently the Borrower's priorities started changing and the
process of getting back the momentum to the project proved to be a difficult process.
11.2 The Borrower was not able to secure the necessary counterpart funds to implement
certain restructured components (upgrading of Monira West and Omrania West) which were
subsequently cancelled. The Borrower also did not apply pressure on the project implementing
agencies to adhere to the provisions of the audit covenants on several occasions, and refrained



-13-
from giving CTA the autonomy to set its own fare levels in order to strengthen its financial
position.
12.   Bank - Borrower Relationship
12.1 The relationship between the Bank's missions and the Government and its implementing
agencies remained cordial. The implementing agencies endeavored to provide the Bank with as
much requested information as possible.
13.   Consulting Services
13.1  The project relied on the inputs provided by several consultants for conducting studies,
design and supervision of the various project components. The consultants included foreign and
local firms as well as individual expatriates and local specialists who were employed by the
various implementing agencies to strengthen their in-house capabilities to supervise the design
and supervision.  All the project consultants provided good services throughout project
implementation.
14.   Project Documentation and Data
14.1 The legal documents were numerous and complicated (one loan agreement and three
project agreements) with five subsequent loan amendments. The appraisal report was generally
comprehensive but did not highlight specific monitoring indicators for all components to be
tracked during project implementation nor was there any supporting data for the economic
evaluation, making re-evaluation difficult. The data needed to prepare this report were difficult
to collect due to the long time that elapsed during project preparation and the changes in staff
assigned to supervise the project. The statistical data on the various components and project
expenditures were difficult to reconcile and often not available.
15.   Status of Covenants
15.1  Except for the covenants relating to Audits, and improving the revenues of CTA which
were subject to delays and partial implementation, other covenants were complied with or at
closing of the loan were under implementation.
16.   Lessons Learned
16.1  In retrospect, it seems that the project was overly complex, involving a large number of
integrated components. The reclassification of Egypt's borrowing status (cessation of IDA
lending to Egypt) created a difficult political environment for the project culminating in a sharp
drop in support for the project, which proved to be costly because the project never recovered
its earlier momentum. Under the circumstances, the Bank should have taken the initiative to
restructure the project, at an earlier stage, in line with the changing priorities of the



-14-
Govemment. The Bank should allow for possible policy changes in Governments and should
simplify institutional objectives of projects to ensure continuous support for them.
In retrospect, the Bank should attempt to:
-     avoid complex projects with too many integrated components when the
implementing agencies have limited absorption capacity and insufficient exposure
to the intricacies of complex international contracting procedures;
respond appropriately to the changing circumstances and needs of the borrowers
in order to maintain support for the project; and
ensure that conditions exist for the financial viability of public entities that apply
to the Bank for support and that related covenants are strictly adhered to.



-15-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2176-EGT)
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Text as submitted by Borrower without editing)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
By CAIRO TRANSPORT AUTHORITY (CTA)
(LOAN NO. 2176-EGT)
PREFACE
Within the plan of transport Development of Egypt, the Governorate of Cairo and the
Cairo Transport Authority (C.T.A.) of the Arab Republic Of Egypt have decided to erect a new
Bus overhaul Facility located in Gisr El Suez - Cairo.
This new bus workshop insures the complete overhauling of the present and future fleet
of the buses of Cairo.
For this Purpose the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt has received a loan from
the International Bank for Reconstruction and development the World Bank (loan 2176 EGT)
to finance the following projects:
1.    Gisr El Suez Workshop Facility
2.    Al Mounib Training Center
The disbursements of Al Mounib Training center Reached 1.3 million in U.S.D where
as the remaining Amount of the loan allocated for Gisr El Suez Bus overhaul facility (GESBOF)
as it is considered the main project of the loan.
Accordingly, the Project Completion Report (PCR) deals with:
-     Gisr El Suez Bus overhaul Facility
-     Al Mounib Training Center



-16-
FIRST: GISR EL SUEZ BUS OVERHAUL FACILITY (GESBOF)
1.    GENERAL ISSUES OF IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
1.1  Insufficiency Of Data Before The Implementation Of The Project
The data and information concerning the future expansion of the project were not
sufficient.
Cairo Transport Authority tried to prepare frequent studies with many parts such as the
studies between the Egyptian and Canadian sides.
C.T.A. seized the opportunity when the World Bank approved a loan for the Greater
Cairo Urban Development including Cairo Transport Authority to carry out this ambitious
project.
C.T.A. has taken the positive procedures for preparing the studies to get the approvals
of the concerned authorities. Unfortunately, the project size was Based on data which was not
realistic and led to a design of 5 production lines. After the commencement of the project and
the actual operation, C.T.A. realized that the volume of the project is larger than its actual needs
and there is now additional Capacity which is not yet used.
1.2   Modification of TOR For Tthe Project Led To Delay In Execution
The Bank approved the TOR for consultant's services and agreed to the contract
with Transurb Consultant prior to its conclusion.
Accordingly on 13/7/84 the consultants sent the TOR and the documents related
to a world adjudication concerning the project for all civil and procurement works on turnkey
basis.
A copy of these documents was sent to the World Bank to obtain its prior
approval.
Nevertheless, the Bank sent a telex on 3/7/84 to the consultant - with a copy to
the Borrower - requesting modification of the adjudication TOR on the basis of separation
between the civil works and the procurement works. The latter works should be divided into
11 categories, each one of them to be announced into a separate tender.
On 14/8/84 a joint meeting was held between the representative of the World
Bank, the borrower and the consultant. The mission of the Bank explained their point of view
in modifying the condition of the consultant contract. They confirmed the necessity of the a/m
modification of procedures. Otherwise, the Bank would not finance the procurement works



-17-
100% according to the loan agreement and would consider the whole project as civil work
financed by the Bank 37% only.
Therefore the consultant modified the TOR and separated the civil works from
the procurement works. Preparation of the terms of conditions of 11 tenders for procurement
works lasted the period from September 84 up to Feb 85. Preparation of the terms and
conditions for civil works was continued up to july 1985.
Such TOR were sent to the Bank and were revised and approved by them in Sept
85. Such modification procedures led to their postponement from 13/7/84 up to Sept 85 for a
period more than one year.
1.3  Insufficiency Of Amounts Allocation For Execution Of GESBOF
After agreement with the Bank on modification of the procedures concerning the
project works to be announced in separate tenders for civil works and procurement works, there
was a problem due to the insufficiency of the allocated amounts to cover the complete tenders.
Therefore, the borrower - in collaboration with the consultant analyzed the works
of the project in order to coordinate them with available allocated amounts. Such study resulted
the following modifications:
Civil works
Postponement of executing the works of administrative building, fire extinguishing
building and the shed for overhauled buses.
The execution of these works could be received after availability of necessary
allocation.
Procurement works
Postponement of the tender concerning the hand tools. Their supply would be
contracted in due time before the workshop operation.
During the visit of the World Bank mission to Cairo during 6 to 14 of nov., 88,
they warned C.T.A. from incompletion of the project in case of the none execution of the
postponed works and the insufficiency of the amount allocated for civil works, thus hindering
the Bank from covering the foreign currency portion for the executed works in accordance with
prices adjustment formula.
The mission also recommended the necessity of signing a management contract
with a group of experts satisfactory to the Bank for commissioning the works during the first



-18-
period, and the necessity of obtaining budgetary funds for adequate spare parts for the first two
years of commissioning the works.
Under such circumstances the Bank mission informed that there was an un
allocated amount in the loan amounting to 9 million u.s.d. They asked the borrower to take the
necessary steps in front of the Ministry of Planning and Ministry of International Cooperation
for the appropriate guarantees requested by the Bank, especially the approval of the Ministry of
Planning for reallocation of the a/m amounts in favor of the borrower including its counter value
in C.T.A. five Year Plan and confirming the availability of its counter - value in local currency.
Obtaining the necessary approvals for allocated the a/m lasted more than a year.
Such amount was approved on 10/1/90 resulting delay in paying due amounts to
some contractors.
The reallocated amount was destined to complementary the postponed civil and
procurement works and for contracting with London Transport International (LTI for
management during the first commissioning period.
In regard to the non availability of further amounts to procure necessary spare
parts for commissioning, the Bank mission which came to Cairo in Nov., 90, informed that there
was another unallocated amount of 5 million u.s.d. that can be specialized for the spare parts.
According to such advice, the borrower took the necessary steps in front of the Ministry of
Planning and the Ministry of International Cooperation, they approved the above mentioned
amount in favor of the Authority on 17/1/90'.
The borrower contacted the Bank for its reallocation, but the Bank asked for
signing a complementary contract with LTI to study and organize the administrative and financial
body of GESBOF.
As a result of the objection of some popular councils, the borrower was forced
to delay the procedures for signing the a/m complementary contract.
On 14/1/92 the Bank approved the reallocation of 5 million USD in favor of the
Borrower after the expiry of more than one year after the date of their advice of its availability.
A contract was signed to supply the spare parts necessary for commissioning the
workshop from Iveco - the manufacturer of buses operated in C.T.A.
The delay in reallocating 5 million u.s.d.in favor of the authority led to
termination of the withdrawal period from the loan before completion of supplying the spare
parts subject to the credit in favor of Iveco.
I/    January 1991.



-19-
2.    The Performance Evaluation
2.1   The Bank Performance
Following up from the World Bank was effective through its missions and written
reports which led to solving the problems and complaints of C.T.A. during the phases of
implementation of the project especially when the Bank mission - during their visit to cairo from
6 to 14/11/1988 - informed C.T.A. that there was an un allocated amount in the loan totalling
9 million U.S.D. which could be used to carry out the postponed works.
The Bank played a major role when its mission informed C.T.A. that there was
another unallocated amount totalling 5 million U.S.D. and could be used to purchase spare parts
needed for the project.
C.T.A. can't ignore the positive efforts of the Bank through the various phases
of the project to solve the complaints of the consultant and the problems of the contractors.
2.2   The Borrower Performance
When C.T.A. decided to carry out the terms and stipulations of the loan
agreement it formed a high committee to supervise the implementation of works. This
committee followed up the various stages of the project starting with signing a contract with
Belgium Consultant Office (TRANSURB) which made the sufficient studies in the primary
reports, drawings and the technical specifications of the procurement beside preparing all tender
doucments and took part in tender evaluation.
It is realized that changing the project's implementation from a turnkey project
to multi-contracts which requested modification of the adjudication terms of reference on bases
of separation between the civil works and the latter were divided into categories, that led to
delay in the project's implementation.
The project also faced a delay to obtain the approval of the concerned authority
to reallocate 9 million u.s.d., these factors led to prolonging the elapsing time to implement the
project.
C.T.A. was forced to form the high committee again to supervise and follow up
the project's achievements.
The separation between the civil works and procurement works led into 10
categories each one of them to be announced into a separate tender which needed to several
committees to study, examination and evaluation of these adjudications. This procedure resulted
in overestimation of some equipments or duplicating quantities of some equipment by putting
them into more than one parcel.



-20-
3.    Lessons Leaned
3.1   The members of Cairo Transport Authority had no experience in the field of such
projects, whereas the Bank mission members were highly qualified in this respective fields.
This factor resulted in the approval of C.T.A. to the most suggestions of the
mission members of the Bank some of these suggestions led to un satisfactory results especially
the suggestion of changing the projects implementation from a tun key basis to multi contracts.
This procedure from the Bank's side led to postponement of the project for more than one year,
besides the additional expenses which C.T.A. bears for the consultant's fees and other
disbursements.
The modification of the adjudication TOR on the basis of the separation between
civil works and procurement. works was not satisfactory because of some contractors have been
awarded more than one parcel, these contractors procured the equipment from more than one
place (or factory), this means that such a separation did not lead to the aimed objective, but on
the contrary C.T.A. suffered additional expenses beside delaying in the project's implementation.
3.2   The World Bank put expiry dates for the disbursements which were not suitable
for the contracted periods between C.T.A. and the contractors which led to the refusal of some
contractors to carry out their obligations unless the loan covered the period of achieving the
contract.
The communication's difficulties between C.T.A. and the World Bank forced the
authority so often to wait till it receives the responses of the Bank concerning the questions of
C.T.A., this led also to a delay of more than two years from the originally planned effective
date of the loan.
3.3   Unfortunately, the loan's currency was the American Dollar where as 90% of the
tenders were in other currencies namely the Dutch Mark and the Belgium Franc.
The postponement of works and the devaluation of the dollar led to reduce the
purchasing capabilities of the loan of more than 40% of its value which forced C.T.A. to
increase the loan's amounts to carry out the requirements the project.
The several negotiations between C.T.A. and the World Bank which lasted a long
period to assign a consultant to manage the project.
C.T.A. stopped the procedures of studying the bids of this adjudication in order
to find a local experience or companies with the same activity to give a hand to C.T.A. In this
respect. the a/m reasons led to the delay of Bank's approval to reallocate 9 million USD and
consequently to a delay in the starting up of the project i.e. from september 89 to second quarter
of 1991.



-21-
4.    Consulting Services
4.1   The Consultant made sufficient studies and reports, He also prepared all Tender
documents and took part in tender evaluation and also during the implementation CTA also
contracted with the consultant to work as the coordinator of the project.
4.2   The consultant did not take an active role in the commissioning of the project.
4.3   Operating the project revealed weak points in the design of the project, which can
be summarized as the following:-
Overestimation of some equipments (Jib cranes, lifters for buses),
duplicating quantity of some equipments by putting them in two parcels
(fiber glass m/Cs has been put in parcel 1 implemented by CFE and also
in parcel 11 implemented by Italwork).
Specification of some equipments was not suitable for their purposes
(Items P025, P055, P512) which made them not operable according to
their function.
No study was made to find the best use of the scrap materials detached
from the buses.
Areas and equipment in some stations of the assembly line and
manufacturing workshops were not adequate that was clear in the
following areas.
a)    Station no. 10 - repair of bus body - in the assembly line.
b)    Workshop for manufacturing of the body parts an dof the sheet
metal workshop.
c)    The fiberglass workshop.
d)    Machinery workshop.
Scrap stores area not suitable to the daily delivery of the scrap.
No place was put in the design to be used as a garage or park area for the staff
cars, buses and the lorries.
No available area for future expansion or when the need is found to establish
news section or workshops.



-22-
4.4   Fire fighting system was designed of 2" network which was not accepted by Fire
fighting department in Cairo, also putting workshops and Compressor & power stations in the
basement was not easily accepted by industrial safety and fire fighting department.
4.5   No internal broadcast system which can also be used as warning and calling
system in emergency cases.
4.6   No computerized managerial system was put to the workshop.
5.    The Recent Situation
5.1   CTA has contracted with London Transport international (LTI) Company to help
in the management and starting of the project. A team from LTI has worked in
managing the project with Egyptian managers from 5/8/90 until 31/12/1992.
5.2   Recruitment of workers started since January 1990 and continued gradually with
some experienced workers from the old workshops in CTA, and many new
workers. The work force now in GESBOF is
Direct workers                (783)
Technical Support workers     (430)
Administration Financial staff    (119)
Technical support activities includes; production engineers, workers in; production
planning and production control, quality control, maintenance, stores, drivers and general
services.
5.3   Production in the workshop had started in July 1991 with only one line for the
rebuilding of buses and it was at that month.
Bus                     (15)
Engine                  (45)
Transmission            (10)
Other bus component     (119)
The production now (March 1993) is
Bus                     (45)
Engine                  (64)
Transmission            (51)
Other bus component     (1467)
5.4   Lack of materials and spare parts resembles the main problem for the workshop.
This problem affects the production in quantity and quality.



-23-
5.5   The designed production capacity per day for the workshop is
Buses                   (5)
Engines                 (8)
Transmission            (8)
Other component         (96)
For several reasons the workshop utilizes now only 40% of this capacity, to make
the full use of the Capacity of the workshop it is necessary to:
Study the real capacity of the workshop after the experience gained in the
last Two years.
Study the various options to use the unused capacity of the workshop.
5.6   Since Starting the production in the workshop until March 31st the total
production of the workshop reached.
Bus                      (783)
Engine                   (1421)
Transmission             (867)
5.7   Average Cost of bus rebuilt is 120.000 L.E. and reaches 180.000 L.E. if the
workshop uses new Engine, Transmission & Steering in the assembly, this cost
includes Material, Spare Parts, Labor Cost and all overheads. The life time of
the rebuilt bus is expected to be 3 years, that to be compared with price 500.000
L.E. of new bus and life time 6 Year.
SECOND: THE MOUNIB TRAINING CENTER
As a result of the Open Economic Policy, Public Sector and the Government
Organizations suffered severely especially Cairo Transport Authority (C.T.A.) which complained
from the critical shortages in the skilled manpower.
This policy led to the immigration of C.T.A.'s workers because of the low
salaries to the investment projects which were created in the shadow of this policy.
This problem affected C.T.A. activity which is considered as the backbone of the
all projects in Cairo i.e. it affected especially in passengers transfer of Cairo Transport
Authority.



-24-
This severe shortages of skilled and technical manpower of C.T.A. especially in
bus drivers obliged the government to recruit 500 drivers from the armed forces to fill the gap
of C.T.A's shortage in drivers staff.
This number increased to 700 drivers in 1980 and reached 1200 in 1983.
We have to mention in this respect that those drivers didn't have the sufficient
experinece to drive C.T.A. fleet buses which resulted in poor operation. C.T.A. suffered from
the shortages of maintenance workers too.
These obstacles put C.T.A. at the crossroads helpless. This critical situation
forced the Authority to the self solution to find out an answer to solve the shortages of its skilled
manpower by allocating a part of Loan No. 2176 EGT to develop C.T.A. Training Center in
Mounib.
1.    Generalities
1.1   The project didn't face any problems during its execution because it was carried
out according to the assigned Time Schedule.
1.2   The project didn't face any financial problems at the various phases as it was
achieved at the beginning of the Loan. The low costs of the project led to money
availability to carry out it.
1.3   This facility depended basically on Consultant Services to develop the training
methods which represented the cornerstone of the project.  The consultant
activities had been executed according to the assigned Time Schedule.
1,4   The World Bank played a significant part in the contracting procedures for
consultant services to develop the training methods of the center.
2.    The Consultant Services:
C.T.A. signed a contract with the consultant societe Francaise d'Etudes et de Realisations
de Transports Urobans (SOFRETO) to carry out the contract according to the following phases:
Phase I: Preparatory work:
Review and analyze the existing structure and services available at the Mounib
Center, as well as all the relevant plans and studies.



-25-
Phase II: Preliminary Curriculum Development and Preliminary Engineering:
-     Develop preliminary curriculum  and provide a team  of experts to
undertake the task analyses for all occupational trades that would undergo
training in Mounib Center.
-     Develop requirements for relevant training equipments and teaching aids,
including preliminary specifications and cost estimates.
Phase III: Detailed Course Development and Engineering
Provide supervision and assist the C.T.A. training staff in developing a detailed
training curriculum including program structure, course objectives and content and teaching
methods.
Prepare bidding documents suitable for international competitive bidding.
Phase IV: Supervision
Advise the C.T.A. on bids, bidders and prices for supplying and installing equipments
for the Monuib Training Center.
Advise on the pareparation of the contracts, supervising, inspecting, testing and
commencing of the equipments provided.
Assist the C.T.A. in developing records and manuals necessary for operation and
maintenance of the equipments.
Supervise and inspect the minor construction works in the center in order to ensure their
compliance with the design.
Phase V: Training
Design and submit to the C.T.A. a draft of a detailed training program for C.T.A.
managers and staff working in the training field.
3.    The Recent Situation of the Center:
3.1   The Mounib Training Center has significant and positive role to raise the training
methods beside providing C.T.A. with the technical staff and the fleet manpower
required.
3.2   We enclose herewith numbers of trainees during the period of 84/85 up to 92/93.



-26-
Numbers of Technical Trainees from 85/86 up to 91/92
Practical Training           C.T.A.   Other Authorities
The Year                             Trainees            Trainees
85/86              189                 155                 199
86/87              234                 98                  197
87/88              224                 236                 323
88/89              268                 310                 303
89/90              270                 210                 362
90/91              299                 381                  696
91/92              322                 425                 423



-27-
The Practical and Raising the Performance from 84/85 to 92/93
THE PROGRAM                             84        85       86      87        88        89          90        91       92
--___________83      86       87       88        89        90         91        92       93
-PRACTICAL TEACHING
-Unlicensed bus drivers                          907      1542    1598    1095         582       853       1277       208      627
-Unlicensed lorry drivers                        389        144                                             198       209      236
-Fare Collectors                                 430       500      843      213       486        16        646       259      552
-From bus driver to road controller                                           37                  70        160       110       04
-Road Observer                                                                          29                   70
-Fare Collector to Controller                                                106                 121        177       121      155
-Supervisors                                                                                     183
-Road Cotrlkr                                                                 21        21        39
Raising the Performncee
-Bus driver Conduct                                                                    699       886        513       492      354
-Fare Collector Conduct                                                                731       616        370       516       46
-Drivers nuke Faults in Roads                                                           63       110        150       266      216
-Road Observer                                                                                               25        35       40
-Controller and bus gterminal clerk                                                               84         69        68       89
-Work distributer                                                                                  8         12        18       18
-Operation Chief                                                                                  10          8        10       17
-Tickets and Subscribing Clerk          I=                                                                    8                 22
-Operation and Supetvising Chief                                                                   0         13        10



-28-
GOVERNORATE OF CAIRO1
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY
SUMMARY REPORT PERTAINING TO GREATER CAIRO
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT LN. 2176-EGT
The total amount of the loan disbursed for the Cairo Govemorate projects is US$12,019,876.54.
This loan financed the following projects:
(A) Ataba and Opera Garages
(B) Upgrading of the Salah Salam, the Comich El-Nile, and the Shubra roads
(C) Bus route Paving
(D) Study of the Central Business District in downtown Cairo
(E) Upgrading of the Rod El Farag and the Abdeen regions
(F) The Sekeit El Wailli Street
(G) Study pertaining to the provision of services or the construction of houses
(H) Training of Traffic Police at the Interior Ministry
(I) (Missing)
(J) Import of equipment and machinery
PROJECT REVIEW
(A)   Ataba and Opera Garages:
1)    Project Objective:
The Ataba region is among the busiest areas in Cairo because of the high level of business and
trade concentration; thus, the issue of limited space forced area businesses to expand vertically
adding to the density of the area. The problem is compounded by the fact that this area is
adjacent to downtown Cairo. In addition, the issue is complicated by the public transportation
system (Buses and taxis) which has added to the traffic back up, especially across the streets
surrounding the Ataba area, creating traffic delays and increasing pollution. Thus the objective
of the Ataba and Opera Garages became a necessity for the following reasons:
a)    To secure traffic flow so as to shorten travel time
b)    To alleviate the level of air pollution
I/    Cairo Governorate's Report for Part II of the PCR was subritted to the Bank in Arabic, and was wbsequently trnslated into
English by the Bank.



- 29 -
2)    Completed Project Components and Expenditure:
Cost: Foreign Currency Equivalent LE 4,000,000
Local Currency             LE 7,973,200
TOTAL                     LE 11,973,200
a)    The Opera Garage is comprised of many floors with an area of 11,700 square meters and
has 1,130 parking spaces. The garage also contains administrative offices.
b)    The Ataba Garage is comprised of many floors with an area of 5,500 square meters and
has 500 parking spaces.
c)   In addition, the ground floor of the above mentioned two garages is used by busine
and also serves as a Bus Terminal. This project is completed.
3)    Reasons for the Non-Implementation of some Components of the Project:
None. The project is fully implemented.
4)    Project Shortcomings as per the Govemorate Assessment:
None.
5)    Achieved objective:
a)    Concerning traffic delays, these two garages met 40%  of the current demand. As for
public transportation station, the Ataba Garage met 50%.
b)    The project had some economic impact considering the benefits derived from leasing the
business stores and offices.  Furthermore,it facilitated the traffic flow and eased
congestion in the main downtown avenues. This has encouraged other agencies to build
other multi-storey garages on the Gamhuari and Busaan streets.
6)    Lessons Learned:
a)    This is a pilot project that helped resolve the issue of traffic congestion.  It has
encouraged authorities to build other garages in areas like Maaruf and AshasI
Aturgamaan in addition to what has been accomplished in the Gamhuria and Bustaan
streets.



- 30 -
7)    projects Benefits:
a)    Total returns from the Ataba and Opera Garages from June 1, 1986 to May 31, 1995
amounted to LE 7,870,108.
b)    Total profits from leasing the stores and offices in both garages as of December 12, 1992
amounted to as follows:
Ataba Garage                     LE 1,010,511
Opera Garage                     LE 4,878,799
TOTAL                            LE 13,759,418
c)    In addition, there are 2 offices and 2 floors at the Ataba Garage; and, 7 offices and 2
floors at the Opera Garage that are still not leased.
(B)   Salah Salem. Comich El-Nile. and Shubra Roads Development Upgrading Project
1)    Objectives:
To find solutions to improve traffic flows of these congested routes.
2)    Application of Funds and Completed Projects Components:
a)    Application of funds for study  US$ 431,363
b)    The Salah Salem suggested road upgrading is completed. As for the Cornich El-Nile,
there was a need for additional studies because of new factors. In the case of Shubra
Roads, the issue was the tramway; and efforts are underway to replace the various public
transport routes to facilitate the implementation of the first metro line linking Shubra El
Khima to Giza.
3)    Causes for the Non-Implementation of some Proiect Components:
There is a need for more studies as explained above (See 2) b)).
4)    Project Shortcomings as per the Governorate Assessment:
None.
5)    Projects Results:
The Salah Salem Street has become a pilot project and has helped in the course of the
studies pertaining to the Shubra Street.



- 31 -
6)    Lessons Leaend:
These studies can be utilized for other areas.
(C)   Bus Route Paving:
1)   Objectives:
To secure the traffic flows by removing obstacles such as potholes
and road bumps which constituted the cause for bus delays. Moreover,
there is an excessive amount of money spent to buy buses' necessary spare
parts.
2)   Completed Project Components and Expenditure:
Cost for completed studies    US$ 6,000
3)   Reasons for the Non-Implementation of some Components of the Project:
None.
4) Project Shortcomings as per the Governorate Assessment:
None.
5)   Achieved Objectives:
Efficient traffic flows achieved in the different areas.
6)   Lessons Lemed:
These kind of activities should be replicated.
(D)   Central Business District Study:
1)   Objective:
To undertake an upgrading of the areas formed by the Ramses, Ataba,
and Tahrir triangle so as to facilitate the traffic flow, to find an appropriate
alternative for pedestrian crossing, and to select some streets for pedestrians
only.



- 32 -
2)   Completed Projects Components and Expenditure:
a)   Cost for the full study  US$ 568,620
b) The Ramses street component of the pavement project has been fully
implemented. The remaining components of the study of street
upgrading is postponed until further decisions are made by the
Governorate.
3) Reasons for the Non-Implementation of Some Components of the Project:
As stated above at the end of section 2) b).
4)   Project Shortcomings as per the Govemorate Assessment:
None.
5)   Achieved objectives:
Efficient Traffic flows in the Ramses area.
6)   Lessons Learned:
To conduct further studies in other similar areas of the Cairo
Govemorate.
(E)   Upgrading of the Rod El Farag and Abdeen Areas:
1)   Objective:
To improve the life of the districts communities.
2)   Completed Project Component and Expenditure:
a)   Cost for Overall Studies    LE 235,000
b)   The project did not reach the implementation stage.
3)   Reasons for the Non-Implementation of some Project Components:
The lack of entering the implementation stage was dictated by the fact
that the Metro line (underground) crossing these districts(i.e., Shubra, El
Khima, and Giza) was under construction. This helped avoid the problem
of projects coordination.



- 33 -
4) Project Shortcomings as per the Govemorate Assessment:
None.
5)   Achieved Objectives:
Not achieved.
6)   Lessons learned:
None.
(F)   Sekeit El Wailli:
1)   Objective of the Study:
To find a principal corridor that connects mortorway and Shubra
through Ismael Alfangari, Abdelmagid Salim, Sekeit El Wailli streets to
Shubra Rod El Farag which has been built already so that the heavy traffic
takes place outside the heavily populated overpass area of Cairo.
2) Completed Projects Components and Expenditure:
a)   Cost of the study:    US$ 116,610
b)   The following are the achieved components of the project:
i)   Roads and flyovers financed by the state budget, at the
exception of the Al Farz Overpass currently under design so as
to fully achieve the project.
3)   Reasons for the Non-Implementation of some Project Components:
None.
4)   Eroject Shortcomings as per the Govemorate Assessment:
None.
5)   Achieved objectives:
The roads and bridges (and overpasses) have facilitated the traffic
flow in this corridor and decreased users travel time.



- 34 -
6) Lessons learned:
This corridor connects the eastern and the western parts of Cairo. The
study is useful if it can be replicated to find other corridors to connect other
districts.
(G)   Training of Traffic Police at the Ministry of Interior:
The training was undertaken by the ministry of interior.
(H) Provision of Urban Services:
1)   Project Objectives:
a)   Finding  government land appropriate  for urban development,
preparation of cadastre, and design of detailed projects.
b)   Establishing and developing an administrative organizational structure
for the support of these projects, and initiating development schemes
for these regions.
c)   Making all efforts to identify desert land belonging to the government
in the vicinity of inhabited areas.
d)   Attracting the informal housing sector to develop the project and to
manage it.
e)   Empowering the Governorate to retain the proceeds generated by
government land sale.
f)   Encouraging self-reliance so that the project generates its own
financing.
g)   Establishing a land management authority composed of experts and
technicians.
h)   Training and improving the institutional framework for these projects
by creating a land data bank to identify usable land so as to utilize it
for housing and construction projects.
i)   Setting up detailed plans for these projects. That is the case for the
two housing projects of Qatamia and Ayn Hilwan.



- 35 -
2) Completed Project and Expenditure:
a)   Cost: US$ 324,840
b)   This cost covers the preparation of detailed plans for the two above
mentioned projects of Oatami and Ayn Hilwan.
c)   The governor of Cairo enacted a 1990 Law No. 579 pertaining to the
use of the hills south of Cairo (south of Naser city). This law applies
to an area of 1600 feddan. The second phase of the project comprises
housing plans for the Oatamia region. The distribution of detailed
plans for the Ayn Hilwan area has been achieved and work is
underway.
3)   Reasons for the Non-Implementation of some Project Components:
None.
4)   Project Shortcomings as per the Governorate Assessment:
None.
5)   Achieved Objectives:
a)   Preparation of the final studies for the first component of the project.
b)   Setting up the general land development authority at the Govemorate
level.
c)   Awareness to provide self-financed projects.
6)   Lessons Learned:
This would have been a perfect pilot project if it had been financed.
It would have helped the Governorate receive proceeds from land
transactions within its jurisdiction.
(I)   (Missing) (sic)



- 36 -
(J)   Equipment and Machinery Imports:
1)   Objectives:
This will enable the districts to undertake necessary road upgrading
as well as other streets cleaning projects. It will also improve the traffic
flow due to the provision of motorcycles and radio/telephone equipment.
2) Completed Project Components and Expenditure:
a)   Cost of Imported Equipment        US$ 3,560,329
Custom duties                    LE 1,281,899
b)  Imported items:
2 Tow trucks
10 Handcarts
12 Steamrollers
1 Asphalt remover unit
1 Mobile bitumen sprayer
261 Base communication equipment
250 Motorcycles
2 Graders
Cleaning hand tools
Street lighting equipment
3) Reasons for the Non-Implementation of some Project Components:
None.
4) Project Shortcomings as per the Governorate Assessment:
None.
5)   Lessons Lened:
It is possible to use this pilot project in other districts of the city in
the areas of traffic flow and street cleaning.



- 37 -
GOVERNORATE OF GIZA
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR OF GIZA CITY
Greater Cairo Urban Development Project
Project Completion Report
(A)   Objectives of the Project:
A Project Agreement between the World Bank and Giza Governorate was signed on
October 26, 1982. The Project includes the following items:
1-    Upgrading of old Giza and East Mounira
2-    Bus Routes
3-    Equipment
3-a Street clearing equipment
3-b Street lighting equipment
3-c Street paving equipment
4-    L. A. Project (Land Assembly)
The objectives of the Project were most and foremost to help Giza Governorate in upgrading the
old, worn out and heavily populated areas, and providing them with basic needs and services to
improve their standard of living. In fact, no budget is available on the priority list of the Central
Government to meet such requirements.
(B)   Parts of the projects that were completed:
All the items mentioned in Section (A) were completed except the L. A. Project.
The basic studies for the L. A. Project already started, but due to some difficulties
related to the allocation of the required land for the Project, the studies were stopped.
(C)   Deficiencies of the Project as conceived:
As clarified before, almost all components of the Project were completed except the L.
A. Project. In our view, the L. A. Project is a very important and urgently needed one, judging
by the current situation in Giza Governorate, where the densely populated areas are deprived of



- 38 -
the basic utilities and facilities which are badly needed by the citizens of those areas to improve
their living conditions.
(D) Relations with the World Bank staff:
It was a relation of very close and remarkable cooperation. Giza Governorate received
very strong support from the World Bank staff. All mission members were extremely
cooperative and helpful, and always kindly gave us valuable, constructive recommendations.
(E)   Objectives attained:
I-    Old Giza and East Mounira were upgraded. Actually, any comparison drawn
between the existing situation and the previous one gives us a very clear
indication of the vital importance of such projects and their positive impact on the
lives of the inhabitants of those areas.
II-    The bus routes project helped in a very direct way to save trip-time in heavily
populated areas, and eventually facilitated life conditions with regard to this
important factor, definitely making them better.This, no doubt, reflects positively
and effectively on the social life of the people in those areas.
III-   Equipment:
The purchased equipment is still working, and helped in a very efficient way in
cleaning, paving and street lighting of heavily populated areas.
(F)   Lessons learned:
1-    The upgrading Projects, specially in non-formal areas, are very essential, and have
positive reflections on the social life and basic human needs of the citizens living in those areas.
Since such projects are directly related to the fundamental improvement urgently and
continuously required for those areas, they should be expanded, and self financing should be also
considered, in order to increase the number of projects to be studied, and to help these projects
to revolve and be repeated on their own.
2-    The presence of the World Bank, with all its capacities and potentialities, certainly gives
a positive refelction and ensures good and efficient control of the Project, through its various
technical, administrative or financial channels. In fact, the World Bank's direct supervision over
the Project had a tremendously positive effect which helped a great deal in bringing about the
Project in this successful and admirable way.



- 39 -
PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2176-EGn
PART m
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.      Related IBRD Loans/ADA Credits
Year of
Credit Title    Purpose                            Approval  Status       Comments
Cr. 831-EGT   *Provide shelter, employment and    06/1978    Closed       Project as implemented differed
First Urban    urban services for the lowest income            12/1984    greatly from the project as
Development  groups at affordable costs thus                              appraised. The project largely
Project       eliminating the need for direct                             achieved objectives related to
public subsidies and permitting the                        demonstating low-cost alternativ
project to be replicated on a larger                       approaches to resolving shelter and
scale.                                                     urban services problems. The
*Provide technical assistance in                           project, however, was not very
project implementation and                                 successful in meeting the long-term
institution building in the urban                          institutional development goals.
sector.
Source: ECA/MENA Information Center
Egypt: First Urban Development Project - Project Completion Report, June 1985.



- 40 -
2.     Proiect Timota
Planned         Revised            Actual
Item                                 Date             Date              Date
Identification                       1o078                               10/78
Preparation                          06/79                              06/79
Pro-appraisal                        o9/n9            io79               10/79
Apprairal                            1 179            05/80             05/80
Credit Negotiations                  04/80            11/80             04/82
Board Preaontation/Approval          06/80            01/81              06/82
Credit Signature                                                         10/82
Credit Effoctiveno.                                                     02/83
Credit Closing                       12/87            12/88
12/89
12/90
12/92             12/92
Source: Project Fleos



- 41 -
3.     Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
Semester
Ending      Disbursed    Cumulative    Percentage    Disbursed     Cumulative    Percentage
12/82       2.00         2.00           3.4          0.00          0.00           0.0
06/83       4.30         6.30           10.7         0.22          0.22           0.4
12/83       8.01         14.31         24.3          0.76          0.98           1.8
06/84       6.53         20.84          35.3         0.61           1.59          2.9
12/84       7.20        28.04          47.5          3.24          4.83           8.9
06/85       6.59         34.63          58.7         3.29           8.12         15.0
12/85       6.68        41.31          70.0          3.82          11.94         22.1
06/86       6.90         48.21          81.7         2.62          14.56         27.0
12/86       5.79        54.00           91.5         1.87          16.43         30.4
06/87       3.50         57.50          97.5          1.28         17.71         32.8
12/87       1.50        59.00          100.0         3.69          21.40         39.6
06/88                                                3.95          25.35         46.9
12/88                                                1.79          27.14         50.3
06/89                                                6.26          33.40         61.9
12/89                                                4.64          38.04         70.4
06/90                                                3.14          41.18         76.3
12/90                                                2.07          43.25         80.1
06/91                                                3.75          47.00         87.0
12/91                                                0.51          47.51         88.0
06/92                                                3.28          50.79         94.1
12/92                                                2.03          52.82         99.9
06/93                                                0.05          52.87(')      100.0
Source: Project Files and MIS data as of 02/09/93
Comments:
(1) USS 6.13 million were cancelled from the Loan.



- 42 -
PART III
Project Completion Report
Greater Cairo Urban Development Project (Loan 2176-EGT)
4.      Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant    Subject                                   Compliance           Status
Loan Agreement - Arab Republic of Egypt
LA 2.04     Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987.                       Extended to December 31, 1992.
LA 2.04     Government will relend US$37.0 million                         Met
to CTA over 20 years at %11.6.
Proiect Agreement - Cairo Governorate
PA 2.03     Cairo Govern. will establish sufficient                        Met
parking charges to recover operating and
capital costs of Ataba and Opera garages.
PA 2.04     Cairo Govern. will adequately staff and                        Not met, but component was
equip the traffic and parking control unit                     cancelled.
in CBD.
PA 2.04     Cairo Govern. will appoint 2 engineers, 4  11/83               Met, but unit has since been
technicians all with adequate qualifications                   dissolved.
by 03/83.
PA 2.05     Cairo Govern. will employ 2 engineering   03/83                Met, but advisors were released and
advisors by 11/82.                                             remaining project components were
cancelled.
PA 2.06     Cairo Govern. will establish and maintain                      Not met, but component was
a traffic investigation unit by 12/84.                         cancelled.
PA 2.11(d)  Cairo Govern. will prepare a project      06/93                Met.
completion report.
Proiect Agreement - Giza Governorate
PA 2.03     Giza Govern. will establish a traffic                          Not met, but component cancelled.
planning unit 3nd appoint it 2 engineers
and 3 technicians by 03/83.
PA 2.03     Giza Govern. will employ an engineering    11/83               Met, but unit is now dissolved.
advisor by 03/83.
PA 2.04     Giza Govern. will establish and maintain a                     Not met, but traffic component in
traffic investigation unit by 12/84.                           Giza was cancelled.
PA 2.08(d)  Giza Govern. will prepare a project                            Met.
completion report by 06/93.



- 43 -
PART m
Project Completion Report
Greater Cairo Urban Development Project (Loan 2176-EGT)
4.      Status of Covenants (continued)
Deadline for
Covenant    Subject                                    Compliance           Status
Proiect Aireement - Cairo Transwort Authority (CTA)
PA 2.05(d)  CTA will prepare a project completion                           Not met.
report by 06/93.
PA 3.01     CTA will continue to operate and develop                        Not met, although the consultanls
a system for monitoring through                                selected for plant management have
performance indicators by 06/88.                               submitted proposals related to Gisr
El-Suez Bus Overhaul Facility.
PA 4.03     CTA shall (a) take measures to increase                         Met partially.
revenues & decrease expenses (b)
exchange views with the Bank.
Source: Project Files



- 44 -
PART m
Project Completion Report
Greater Cairo Urban Development Project (Loan 2176-EGT)
S.      Project Components
List of project components in original Loan Agreement,  List of project components after project restrucmring,
October 1982                                            October 1987
I.   Traffic Engineering and Road Maintenance           I.  Traffic Engineering and Road Maintenance
1.  Improvement of several streets and junctions.      1. Design and supervision of improvements to three
2.  Construction of overpass at junction of Ramses         streets, the CBD and various upgrading and Land
Street and Misr-Sudan Street.                         Assembly areas.
3.  Carrying out of a feasibility study for widening   2. Construction of five parking garages and provision
Corniche El-Nile Street,                              of maintenance equipment.
4.  Paving selected bus routes in Giza and Cairo.
5.  Construction of access roads and paving streets
in Manshiet Naer and El Shuvabeyia.
6.  Improvement of the Ghamra Depot.
7. Construction of 2 parking garages in CBD.
8. Implementation of traffic engineering of
management measures along selected routes in
CBD.
II.  Enforcement of Traffic Rules: Training             H. Enforcement of Traffic Rules: Training
1.  Provision of vehicles, motorcycles, tow trucks     l. Provision of vehicles, motorcycles, tow trucks
and licensing and communication equipment.            and licensing and communication equipment.
2.  Improvement of an existing traffic police          2. Training of selected traffic police officers.
training center.
3.  Construction of Vehicle Inspection Center.
4.  Training of selected traffic police officers.
m. Institutional Development                            m. Instirutional Development
1.  Cairo:                                             1. Cairo:
(a) Preparation of a strategic action plan to         (All components included in a technical assistance
Greater Cairo.                                     package in a USAIO financed project: Local
(b) Review of urban services.                         Development 11).
(c) Survey of underground utilities in older       2.  CTA:
areas of Cairo.                                    (a) Formulation of plans to improve CTA
(d) Preparation of solid waste management                performance.
program for Cairo.                                 (b) Training.
2.  CTA:
(a) Formulation of plans to improve CTA
performance.
(b) Training.
IV. Area Uogradinr                                      IV. Area Uperading
1.  Cairo:                                             1. Giza:
(a) Rod El-Farg.                                      (a) Old Giza
(b) Abdine.                                           (b) Monira
2.  Giza:
(a) Old Giza.
(b) Monira.
V.  Public Transoort                                    V. Public Transwrt
1.  Construction of GESBOF.                            1. Construction of GESBOF.
2.  Rehabilitation of the Monib Training Center.       2. Rehabilitation of the Monib Training Center.
VI. Studv                                               VI. Study
1.  A study to identify a high capacity east-west      1. A study to identify a high capacity east-west road.
road.
iource: Legal Agreemnet and amendments.



- 45 -
6.      Appraisal and Actual Cost
CAIRO GOVERNORATE
(all values in million currency units)
Appraisal Esimtes         Reatnuuwd Project            Acu
(May 1985)               (October 1987)             ary 1993)
Total        Total         Total        Total       Total    Toal
Cost         Cost          Cost         Cost        Cost    Cost
OA__        (US$)          OA           (US$)       (LE)    (UsS)
Active Components
Traffic Engineering & Road Mainteance:
CBD Parking Garages                              10.49         12.90        11.31         13.73    11.97    14.53
Maintenance Equipment                             2.33         2.86          1.91          2.32     1.34     2.23
Traffic Enforcement:
Equipment                                         2.23          2.74          1.02         1.24     2.00     2.43
Traffic Officer Training                           1.88         2.31          0.85          1.03    0.84      1.02
Institutional Development:
Advisory Services                                 0.49          0.60          0354         0.65     0.46     0.55
Design & Supervision:
Traffic Engineering                               0.77         0.95          0.13          0.16     0.12     0.14
Land Assembly Project                             0.00         0.00          0.95          1.15     0.27    0.32
Sekeit El Wailli Feasibility Study                0.49         0.60          0.22         0.27      0.10    0.12
Central Business District                         0.23         0.28          1.05          1.23     0.64    0.73
Area Upgrading                                    0.29         0.36          0.13         0.16      0.24    0.29
Shoubra, Salah Salem and Corniche                 0.19         0.23          0.62         0.75      0.36    0.43
Supervision                                       0.28         0.35          0.29         0.35      0.29    0.35
Total Active Components        19.66        24.18         19.03         23.09    19.12   23.20
Inactive Components
Traffic Engineering & Road Maintenarne:
CBD Tnffic Circulation Schemne                    3.59         4.42          7.89          9.57     0.00    0.00
Others                                           22.20        27.31
Area Upgrading:
District of Rod Al Farag and Abdine              6.56          8.07         4.37          5.30     0.00     0.00
Traffic Enforcement:
Others                                            0.72         0.89          0.00          0.00     0.00     0.00
Institutional Development:
Traffic Management Unit                           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00     0.00     0.00
Others                                            4.92         6.05          0.00          0.00     0.00     0.00
Design and Supervision:                            0.57          0.70         0.00          0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Inactive ComponentU       38.57         47.44        12.25         14.87     0.00     0.00
GRAND TOTAL             58.23         71.62        31.28         37.96    19.12    23.20
Source:  Poject  es and



- 46 -
6.       Anraial and Actual Cost (continued)
GIZA GOVERNORATE
(all values in million currency unita)
Appraisal Edtimates       Rectubed Ptrect              Aca
(May 1985)               (October 1987)        (Pebary 1993)
Total        TOa           Total        Total       Total    Total
Cost         Cost          Cost         Cost        Cost    Cost
(LE)        (US$)         (LE)          (USS)       (LE)    (US$)
Active Comwonentr
Transpost Infirtucture:
Bus Route Paving                                   2.79         3.43          0.09         0.11      0.90     1.25
Maintenance Equipaenl                              1.49         1.83          0.6S         0.84      1.23     1.71
Area Upgrading:
Eas Mounir and Old iza                            4.94          6.08          9.20         11.32     9.42    13.09
Institutional Developmedt:
Advisory Services                                 0.46          0.56          0.24         0.30     0.11     0.16
Design and Supervision:                             0.48         0.59          0.80          0.99     0.38     0.52
Nw Con _ons:
Consulting Services for Monir West aNd
Omrmniyah West                                     0.00         0.00          0.57         0.70      0.27    0.37
Total Active Conponents         10.16        12.49         11.59         14.26    12.31    17.11
Inctive Comonent
Trnsport lJfrsuoture:
iWaa&la/Dokk Squares                              0.67          0.82          0.00         0.00     0.00     0.00
Design nd Supervision:                              0.03         0.04          0.00          0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Inactive Component          0.70         0.86          0.00         0.00      0.00    0.00
GRAND TOTAL              10.86         13.35        11.59         14.26    12.31    17.11
irce:  Project File ind aa



- 47 -
6.      AVtraisal and Achul Cott (continued)
CAIRO TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
(all values in million currency units)
Appraial Etimates         Restructured Project       Actual
(May 1985)              (October 1987)        (Febnaary 1993)
Total        TOa          Totl         Total      Total    TOal
Cost         Cost         Cost         Cost       Cost    Cost
(LE)        (US$)         (LE)         (USS)      (LE)    (USS)
Active CosnDonentr
Girr El-Suez Bus Oveasul Pcility:
Building Yard                                    7.15         8.80         8.31         10.22    35.86    19.32
Equipment and Parts                             14.23        17.50         10.51        12.93    46.45    25.30
Design and Superviaioe                           0.93         1.14          1.07         1.31    5.70     2.38
Project Managemet                                0.00         0.00         0.28          0.35    6.28     1.90
Monib Tmining Center:
Equipment                                        0.58         0.71         0.32          0.39     0.71    0.44
Vocationl development                            1.27         1.56           .85         1.05     4.56    1.36
Total Ave Compoent             24.16        29.71        21.34        26.25    96.56    50.70
Inactive Comtonents
Institutioral Development:                        1.27         1.56          0.00         0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Inctie Co _                1.27         1.56         0.00         0.00     0.00    0.00
tmrceo   Project FilAD Tnd CTA                     25.43         31.27        21.34        26.25    96.56    50.70



- 48 -
7.       Aomnitsl and Actual Proiect Financine
CAIRO GOVERNORATE
(all values in million currency units)
BANK Expenditure        Governnt Expenditure           Total
Appraisal                  Appraisl
Estimate      Actul        Etimate       Actual    Appraisal Actual
(USS)        (USS)         (USS)        (USS)      (USS)   (USS)
Active Conmoonents
Traffic Engineering h Road Maintenance:
CBD Parking Garages                                4.52         4.82          8.38          9.71    12.90    14.53
Maintenance Equipment                              2.79         1.55          0.07          0.68     2.86    2.23
Traffic Enforcement:
Equipment                                          2.74          2.01         0.00          0.43     2.74     2.43
Trmffic Officer Training                           1.73          1.02         0.58          0.00     2.31     1.02
Intitutional Development:
Advisory Services                                  0.45          0.55         0.15          0.00     0.60     0.55
Design & Supervision:
Traffic Engineering                                0.26         0.12          0.69          0.02     0.95     0.14
Lnd Assembly Project                                 -          0.19            -          0.14     0.00     0.32
Sekeit El Wailli Feasibility Study                 0.45         0.13          0.15         0.00      0.60    0.12
Central Business Disrict                           0.08         0.78          0.20         0.00      0.28    0.78
Area Upgrding                                      0.09         0.08          0.27         0.21      0.36    0 29
Shoubre, Salah Salem and Corniche                  0.06         0.41          0.17          0.02     0.23    0.43
Supervision                                        0.35         0.35         .000          0.00      0.35    0.35
Total Active Comnponents        13.52        12.02         10.66         11.20    24.18   23.20
letive Conmonents
Traffic Engineering & Road Maintenance:
CBD Trmffic Circulation Scheme                     1.55         0.00          2.87         0.00     4.42     0.00
Others                                            10.10         0.00         17.21         0.00    27.31     0.00
Area Upgrding:
District of Rod Al Farag and Abdine               2.82         0.00          5.25          0.00     8.07     0.00
Traffic Enforcement:
Othem                                              0.46         0.00          0.43         0.00     0.89     0.00
Institutional Development:
Others                                             4.55         0.00          1.50         0.00     6.05     0.00
Design and Supervision:                             0.28         0.00          0.42          0.00     0.70    0.00
Total Inactive Components        19.76         0.00         27.68         0.00    47.44     0.00
GRAND TOTAL              33.28         12.02        38.34         11.20    71.62    23.20
Sorce:  Project Files aknd CoI



- 49 -
7.       Aovraisal and Actual Proiect Financine (continued)
GIZA GOVERNORATE
(all values in million currency units)
BANK Expenditure         Government Expenditure         Total
Appraisal                  Appraisal
Estimate      Actual       Estimate       Actual    Appruisal  Actual
(USS)        (USS)         (USS)         (USS)      (USS)   (USS)
Active Conyonents
Transport Infrasdtucture:
Bus Route Paving                                   1.20          0.46          2.23          0.79     3.43     1.25
Maintenance Equipment                              1.43          1.42          0.40          0.29     1.83     1.71
Area Upgrading:
East Mounira and Old Giza                          2.13          1.30          3.95         11.79     6.08    13.09
Institutional Development:
Advisory Services                                  0.42          0.16          0.14          0.00     0.56     0.16
Design and Supervision:                            0.16          0.52          0.43          0.00     0.59     0.52
New Components:
Consulting Services for Monir West and
Omrniyah West                                         -          0.37            -           0.00     0.00     0.37
Total Active Components          5.34          4.24          6.72         12.87    12.49    17.11
Inactive Comnonents
Transport Infrastructure:
Giza/Gala/Dokki Squares                            0.29          0.00          0.53          0.00     0.82     0.00
Design and Supervision:                             0.01          0.00          0.03          0.00     0.04     0.00
Total Inactive Components         0.30          0.00          0.56          0.00     0.86     0.00
GRAND TOTAL               5.64          4.24          7.71         12.87    13.35    17.11
Source:  Project Files and GG



- 50 -
7.       Atmraisal and Actual Proiect Financine (continued)
CAIRO TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
(all values in million currency units)
BANK Expenditure        Government Expenditure         Total
Appraisal                  Appraisal
Estimate      Actual       Esimate       Actual    Appraisal  Actual
(US$)        (USS)         (US$)        (USS)       (USS)   (USS)
Active Comnonenta
Giar El-Suez Bus Overhaul Facility:
Building Yard                                     4.05          7.83          4.75         11.50     8.80    19.32
Equipment and Pars                                14.20        24.16          3.30          1.14    17.50    25.30
Design and Supervision                            0.32          2.38          0.82         0.00      1.14    2.38
Project Mangement                                    -          1.90          0.00         0.00     0.00     1.90
Monib Trmining Center:
Equipment                                         0.53          0.33          0.18         0.11     0.71     0.44
Vocational development                             1.17         1.01          0.39         0.35      1.56    1.36
Total Active Components         20.27        37.60          9.44         13.10    29.71    50.70
Inactive Conuonenu
Institutional Development:                          1.16         0.00          0.40          0.00     1.56     0.00
TotI Inactive Components          1.16         0.00          0.40          0.00     1.56     0.00
Projt File& and CT RAND TOrAL               21.43         37.60          9.84        13.10    31.27    50.70



- 51 -
7.       Appraisal and Actual Proiect Financing (continued)
SUMMARY OF BANK EXPENDITURES
(all values in million currency units)
APPRAISAL                   ACrUAL
Category                                          (USS)         (%)          (USS)         M(%
(I) Civil Works:
(a) CG                                          13.30           37          4.S2           33
(b) GG                                          2.50            37          1.76            12
(c) CTA                                         2.70            37          7.S3           40
(2) Materials and Equipment:
(a) Co                                          4.40           100          3.56           77
(b) GO                                           1.60          100          1.42           S3
(c) CTA                                         10.20          100         24.49            95
(3)Consultants' Services and Trining:
(a) CO                                          10.40          100          3.64           91
(b) GG                                          0.80           100          1.05           100
(c) CTA                                         3.60           100          5.29           94
(4) Unallocated:                                      10.50                       0.00
(5) Cancellations                                     0.00                        6.14
GRAND TOTAL             59.00                       59.00
Source:  Disbursements



- 52 -
8.       Mission Data
Type of Mission                                Mon/Yr  # of Persons   Days in Field Performance Rating Typeo of Problems
A- UP to Appraisal
Recornaissance                                 07/78    2              18          N/A
Identilication                                 11/78    4              17          N/A
Preparation                                    06/78    4             8            N/A
Preappraisal                                   10/79    6              13          N/A
Preappraisal                                   12/79    2             6            N/A
Preappraisal                                   02/80    5              16          N/A
i- Appraisal to Board Approval
Appraisal                                      09/80    6              19          N/A
Progress Review                                05/81    4              is          N/A
Progress Review                                09/81    1             3            N/A
Progress Review                                11/81    1             4            N/A
Post Appraisal                                 02/82    3              17          N/A
Super-ision I (prior to Board)                 05/82    5              12          N/A
C- Board Approval to Effectiveness
Supen ision 11 (prior to effectiveness)        06/82    2              13          N/A
Supervision III (prior to effectiveness)       10/82    4              20          N/A
Supervision IV (prior to effectiveness)         12/82    1             4           N/A
D- Effect ;veness to Completion
Supervision V                                  01/83    4              28          N/A
Supervision VI                                 04/83    3              16           1
Supervision VII                                07/83    2              11           1
Supervision VIII                                10/83    4             29           1
Supervision tX                                 01/84    3              16           1                 M,P
Supervision X                                  05/84    1              8           2                  M,P,T
Supervision Xl                                 07/84    1              9           2                  M,P,T
Supervision Xli                                08/84    1              8           2                  M,P,T
Supervision XII                                11/84    2              22          2                  M,P,T,I
Supervision XIV                                01185    1              7           2                  M
Supervision XV                                 07/85    1              9           2
Supervision XVI                                10/85    3              22          2                  F
Supervision XVLI                               02/86    1              11          2                  Pr
Supervision XVIII                              04/86    1              9           3                  Pr
Supervision XIX                                07/86    2              14          3                  Pr
Supervision XX                                  11/86    2             21          3
Supervisioji XXI                               02/87    2              12          3
Supervision XXII                               07/87    1              6            3
Supervision XXIII                              02/88    2              9           3                  M,l
Supervision XXIV                               04/88    2              16          4                  F
Supervis-on XXV                                01/89    1              22          4                  1
Supervision XXVI                               02/89    2              10          3                  1,F
Supervision XXVII                               10/89    2             10          3                  I,F
Supervision XXVIII                             01/90    2              N/A          3                 I,P
Supervision XXLX                               05/90    1              1            3                 M
SupervisionXXX                                  11/90    2             21           3                 M
Supervisioni XXXI                              06/91    2              37           3                 F
Supervision XXXII                              09/91    2              15           3
Supervision XXXII                              02/92    1              30           2
Supervision XXXIV                               11/92    1             9            2                 M
Supervision XXXV                               01/93    2              22           N/A
M: Managerial; P: Political: 1: Institutional; T: Technical; Pr: Procurement; F: Local Funding
Source: Project Files



Calcutadnoof be.crwsaAcmwdfrom  GEB08FOp9croa(is.  wLEi m42.1o991 prk'=)
(1)          (2)          (3)           (4)                       (3)        (        (7)      (5         9        (102       (II)         (12)       (23)     (14)       (15)        (26)      (17)         (28)
TOW          Tol                                  h.A2M                        04 D.    T.W Sm        N-        S.eAf       pow2                         04 E.g...       Taw_    NM            ScmA& 
C_          lmb            ow                      cq.sk      Dis      loI'm   Sd.    0wo              o.      h-5D         Cq-ay    Diu    I_ud            Sd 0_8o    Oo-k. So   ECi.       k1  Egm. 
Y            o            So.         Smibe                                  CCU      CAN  _uisC         CC        C1        Dmm.    ,qkcJyv          com      Cm                      Cm        Cm        0 b.1S
2954                      G.          -4.11                                                             0.00                                                                         0.08                                     _
"I5S        30.13         0.           17 .29.t5                                                        00                                                            .0
233   ItIS          LU          -17.99SA                                                         0.U                                                                           .0
196        1C5            .CO        .1190                                                             0.00                                                                         0.00                                      u      *D
9n9           A.19 "      G.AS        .2.19                                                             O.U                                                                          0 00
1"0         11.19         *oA         .11.19                                                            0.00                                                                         0.OD                                    C)
1991         1.45         3652        23.1                  '       00   2X44    22.0       24.0U      124    101.64        2U.40           GM      17.52    1.90         15.00     34.32     52.S0           7.92 
12"2           t1        03.52         1.50                        540    41.59    20.52    4120    111.31      l02.95       712,4          900    26.2      2.70         21.50     51.45     79.20          A I.6            O
196           253         "9ll         9121                        G00    52.U    25.12      41.0U    116.06    203.28        1.23            00   26.2U     2.70         22250     51.44     79.20          II.U            1M 
2994        2400          ".lo         15.O                        600    52.16     1.10    4s.00    1216.06    20W.l        V1.2           900    26.25     2.70         22.50     51.4U     79.20          I L2 23
299S5        U.OD        "A0           75.10                        Q     528 u     5.2     4u.0U    116.06    203.28        31.23          900    268       2.70         22.50     51.48     19.20          22.8u
196S         U.07        19 t       o  750                          0     52.1u    l3.1S    48.00    116.06    203.26        n7.23          900    26a2      2.70         22.50     51.48     19.20          22.U                     cr
I9"?        24u           9926         15.10                       GU    52.06    15.1      4S.00     1 6.04    201.28       03.23          900    26.28     2.70         22.50     513.4     7790           2 .u                           O
199S        24.00        "A0           75.6 No                            52.u    l5.2      48.00    122.06    203.2         87.23         9SO     26.2s     2.70         22.30     51.48     79.20          1 2.U
2996        2400          9620         15.10                       S0    32.u    15.1H      400       116.06    20128        87.23          900    26.2      2 70         22.50     32.48     79.20          11.U                          (
201          UO24D9       "            75.10                       MO2   s2.88    25a6    4600    22.606    203.2            81.23           90     26.20    2.70        n220       32.48     1920           2l.u
2002        24U00         "l2          75.26                       s00    s2.u1   15.12      4S.00    12.06    201.2S        8.23           900    28.28     2.70         22.50     52.48     19.20          22.u 6 5
202         24.00         9626         15.29                       60     52.65    25.26     48.00     26.606    203.2       67.2)          90    26.28      2.70         22.50     51.48      79.20         IL.u                      3   e           2
20m         2.400         19.2o       715.0                       6s      52.116 1 23.26     460      22.06    20328         01.23          9       26.2u    2.70         2250      32.48      19.20         2I.u                      D   1
ms          u2400         9.l          75.20                       4o    s2.       152.8     48.00    22.606    203228       n.23           90      26.20    2.70         22.50     32.4       79.20         226 1                          O1
20          249D          96           75.20                        2    52.8    15.18       4.00     2.06    203.28         6.2)           900    26.28     2.70         223.0     51.48      19.20          2.6 5
206         24.00         911oo        1.0                         G00    52 .u    253.      48.00    116.06    2031.2       0.23           900    26.28     2.70         22.       32.48     19.20          22.65
2013        UJ40          96.2         1.2l                         OD    n.uo    2           .o3 4800  226.06    203.2        .23 n.               26.28    2.10         22.50     51.48     19.20          Il.u
204         24.00         9.2o0        75.20                       40      2.11u   l5        48.00    226.06    203.2        01.25          900    26.28     2.70         22.50     51.48     79.20         I2.6 
20 10        24.CD        192 0.       705. 0                      6 oo    s2.65   23.23     48.00    22 *.04   202 2    u     v. u          900   2a.28     2.70         2n. 50    324       19n20           I2  .U                  r~
20201       24.901       229.20       2.9.2                       400    52.65    25.26I   48.001   226.061  203528          6 7.231        EU  26.20   2.10              22U.50    52Si481   19201          22L0                          0
NGGS             m    fleo lly-                            us9
Him
(.6  Tls v"  fW E    d ubf  Omanmai ubi a LE 23.OO ~i(IM9 prim).
04  The         _ at_do  *mM   sdoS       _s  hi20jine   . San.
(4  Aaw   0*Mm co, gm  b*A  dybuo h        e be 986.25   kowim    ma.
(4   U.smdmlW ,of dSo In    m  wom. is ead           a L33 U nm  (29621 Prim.) Tis is adiW i8s de2. NW   33t  (rsme46=  (1)) SO *A PMw 3010.                                                                                                  C
(.2 C_wA mb_
*   u,mimi   b__ 98ilm  _933hd .44  ris*                      Sdop                p.
(4l    d.pv   i                0.L              SmtX b U   _2.5            - qmm4 ws
(4  lb  Tml             ~d _                         _ 6m   i  o     S    mh   gh   ( ^(2)   26
5m eA



- 54 -
9.      Rate of Retum for the two Pardin
Garages and Commercial Soace at
Opera and Ataba Squares
(all values in LE million in 1987 prices)
Project
Cost    Benefit Streams   Net
__from
Year  Stream  Parking Commerci Benefits
al
1984    18.27   0.00      0.00  -18.27
1985    5.02   0.00       0.00   -5.02
1986    6.36    2.21      1.14  -3.02
1987    0.58    3.74      1.93   5.09
1988    0.58    3.74      1.93   5.09
1989    0.58    3.74      1.93   5.09
1990    0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
1991    0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
1992    0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
1993    0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
1994    0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
1995    0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
1996    0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
1997    0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
1998    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
1999    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2000    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2001    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2002     0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
2003    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2004    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2005    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2006    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2007    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2008     0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
2009    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2010    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2011     0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
2012     0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
2013     0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
2014    0.58    3.93       1.93   5.28
2015     0.58    3.93      1.93   5.28
2016     0.58    3.93     21.93   25.28
Rate or Return =        16%
Notes:
(a)    The value of land was LE 15.24 million (in 1987 prices).
(b)    The life of the two garages is assumed to be 30 years.
(c)    Annual O&M for the garages assumed at 4% of investment coat.
(d)    The residual value of land assumed to be LE 20.0 million.
(e)     Parking contracts are negotiated every 3 years and commercial apace contat every 20 yer.
Source: CG and Project Files.



- 55 -
10.     Financial Statements of CTA
Cairo Tranupott Autbority: Delao Shet 195 - 1992
(value     1000)
June 30     June 30     June 30     June 30     Jue 30      June 30     Jue 30      Jue 30
1985       1986        1987         1911        1939        1990        1991        1992
Curmnt Aseus:
Cash in bank                         71,S43      53,798      56,426      40,331      21,434       19,913      43.014      17,786
Accounts receivable-mt               19,221      15,550      14,311      14,411       16,635     I,960      22,564      65,543
Inventory of par and supplies        48,336      44,525      46,322      60,995       2,501      a6,872      111,307    210,617
139,400     113,872     117,066     115,737     110,620     125,116     176,536     293,946
Other Asuet:
Investment in GCBC, includes loans   34,033      40,960      48,720      67,600      33,15S     101,241      124,532    159,293
Defermd Expenees                      9,916       7,382       5,390       3,106       3,S64       2,125        1,690      6,395
Other invesments                         13          13          13          13          13          13          13          13
43,962      48,354     54,123       70,719      87,736     103,310     126,236     166204
Ftxed Assets:
LAnd                                  1,527       1,527       I,800       1,800       1,100        I,300       1,S00      1 ,02
Buildings & Furmiture                21,385      21,714      22,763      32,842      38,219       39,t22      56,404     155,553
Machinery                             6,086       6,612       7,042       7,668       8,924       9,952       12,156     74,456
Rolling Stock                       176,661     199,652     209,124     213,359     277,203      322,004     379,647    550,136
Construction in Progreu              21,363      37,531      43,452      92,353      128,700     181,574     191,240     73,207
Others                                                        4,409      22,320
234,022     267,036     289,291     370,142     454,346     555,153     641,247     155,354
AccumulatedoDepreciation            123,354     136,238     148,656     15S,169      195,734    218,705      259,667    3U3,145
110,668     130,798     140,635    212,673      259,111     336,448     381,580     472,709
Total Aets                             294,030     293,024     311,824     399,129     457,467     565,643     684,702     932,359
Current Liabilitie:
Bank Overdraft                        1,567         204       2,099        S11        2,612       3,443        1,212     67,668
Short Term Loans                                  2,228         333       1,297       8,123           a           I           I
Accounts Payable                     46,392      46,971      43,864      79,532 1    56,950      75,223      77,9SS     125,862
47,959      49,404      46,296      11,640      67,656      71,674      79,208     193,531
Foreign Loans-Lass Current Ponioc:
External Lendes                      25,107      32,725      19,801      36,031      29,917      20,68        9,724     101,013
World Bank                           14,494       1,940       3,006       S15,66                 45,004         1,374    S9,4S6
39,601      34,665     22,807      44,471       45,783      65,571      91,095     190,499
Loa  from ay. Bnk & MOF:               320,309     126,968     175,396     272,991     335,113     511 ,4Q3    652,805     650,637
Rmerves:                                39,13S      19,775      31,449      41,964      57,611      74,593      91,434     115,636
359,448     146,744     206,845     314,955     443,425     515,995     744,239     766,273
Capital:
Paid in                              16,532     142,166     142,166     142,166      142,166     142,166     142,166    301,413
Accumulated Deficit                (169,509)    (79,952)   (106,291)   (184,102)    241,593)   (306,763    (372 010)   (518,861'
(152,977)    62,214      35,876     (41,936)    (99,427)   (164,597      229 U4       7,44
Total Liabilities & Equity             294,030     293,027     311,824     39,129      457,467     565,643     684,701     932,S62
Souce: CTA



- 56 -
10.     Funacial Statemnts of ClA
Cairo Trsuport Authority: Income Sitaement 1985 - 1992
(vahies in E         1000)
June 30     June 30      June 30      Jun. 30     Jun. 30     June 30       June 30    June 30
St"at of R.vetu ae       Expe_m        1985         1986         1987         1988        1989        1990          1991       1992
Ravemie from Openhion:
Buses                                 52,123       65,033       91,668       98,292    107,123       114,981      107,789    126,060
Trtms                                  4,739        4,412        3,867        4.333      5,568         5,628        5,573     5,249
River Buses                              473         535           756         745         758           880         808        665
Mini-bus                                                                                                           26,228    31,374
Motto                                                                                                                         2,151
57,340      69,980        96,291     103,370    113,449       121,489      140,398    165,498
Other Revenues                          3,324        1,694         1,716       3,056      4,264         5,020        5,420     46,403
Toteal Rvetue                           60,664      71,674        98,007     106,426    117,713       126,509      145,818    211,902
Expesems
Dict Expene:
Wages                                 47,035       49,783       52,922       59,977     65,407        71,843      79,187     92,036
Fuel                                   4,817        5,344        5,956        8,133      9,289        12,426      20,078     40,450
Parts and Suppli"                     22,018       25,339       29,063       38,118     56,681        66,155      68,906    101,751
73,870      80,466        87,942     106,228    131,377       150,424      168,172    234,236
Faxed Expenes:
GeanrIl Expens                        21,938       18,755       18,410       22,303     23,216        26,904      30,941     77,691
Iturg                                 23,730       12,943       13,345       12,025     15,833        24,232      27,708     53,611
Depreciatzia                          26,640       31,287       32,130       31,288     41,663        48,562      62,772     96,506
72,307      62,985        63,885      65,616     80,712        99,698      121,421    227,809
Total Expene                           146,177     143,451       151,827     171,844    212,089       250,122      289,593    462,046
Net LA                                (85,513)    (71,777)      (53,820)    (65,419)   (94,376)     (123,614)    (143,775)  (250,144)
Gooverment Opetting Subsidy              61,840      61,926        44,107      29,258      40,028       61,187       83,540    122,056
Toul Subsidy                             61.840       61,926       44,107      29,258      40,028       61,187       83,540    122,056
NJt Operatig Lou                        (23,673)      (9,851)      (9,713)    (36,161)   (54,348)       (62,426)    (60,235)  (128,088)
Not Current Tmesl                         1,897       (4,743)      (5,615)     (6,230)    (2,901)       (2,744)       (3,001)     (737)
Net CUrOr  Income (Los)                 (2,775)      (14,594)     (15,328)    (42,390)   (57,249)       (65,170)1    (63,l236)  (128,825)
Source: CTA






I



IBRD 2484E
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUB COMPONENTS COMPLETED                                                              BUILT . UP AREAS
AREAS UPGRADED                                                                             ROADS
CENTRAL BUS NESS DISTRICT                                                                  RAILROADS
*    GISR EL SUEZ BUS OVERHAUL FACILITY                                                 . . * . U-NDERGROUND METRO
A    OFF STREET MULTI-STOREf CAR PARKS AND OFF CE                                               TRAFFIC FLOW
BUILDINGS AT OPERA SOUARE AND ATTABA SQUARE                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
!~~~ S.,..                  '                                                                                                               ..
iAYTFC J
AMJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YA~~~~~CPU
,   \ ae  2  # _  l  L   Y                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th,s mop h.,be   leoe     
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h W-1 ,                                                   ' 8-._W



