Document of                   C.
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                          q      I 0t
Report No. 3327-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 14, 1982
EMENA/Urban Projects Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                = US$1.43
1 US Dollar ($)                      = LE 0.70
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                = US$1.20
1 US Dollar ($)                      = LE 0.84
-,                        MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                                   =  39.37 inches (in)
I square meter (m2)                           =  10.8 square feet (sq. ft)
1 cubic meter (cu. m)                         =  35.3 cubic feet (cu. ft)
1 kilometer (km)                              =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                                =  10,000 m2 or 2.471 acres
1 acre                                        =  4,047 2 or 0.405 1
liter per capita per day (lcd)                =  0.264 US gallon per capita
per day (gpcd)
1 kilogram (kg)                               =  2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 pound (lb)                                  =  0.454 kg
1 ton (short)                                 =  2,000 lbs or 907 kg
I tonne (metric)                              =  2,205 lbs or 1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBD       - Central Business District
LIHDU     - Low Income Housing Development Unit
MOP       -  Ministry of Planning
MRHR      -  Ministry for Reconstruction, Housing and Land
Reclamation
GOPP      -  General Organization for Physical Planning
CTD       -  Central Traffic Department
TPA       -  Transport Planning Authority
CTA       -  Cairo Transport Authority
NOPWASD   -  National Organization for Potable Water and Sanitary
Drainage
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A.  Country Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  Transport Development Issues of Greater Cairo. .   4
C.  Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector . . . . . .   8
D.  Review of the First Urban Project. . . . . . . .   8
II.  THE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
A.  The Concept and Key Features of the Project. . .   10
B.  Origin and Status of Preparation . . . . . . . .  12
C.  Project Description. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
III. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING PLAN AND
LOAN ADMINISTRATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
A. Cost Estimates ................  .   24
B.  Financing Plan ................  .   25
C.  Procurement and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . .  25
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT. . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
A. Programming  ..................   27
B.  Organizational Structure of the Governorates . .  28
C.  Detailed Implementation Procedures . . . . . . .  29
D.  The Cairo Transport Autbority. . . . . . . . . .  31
E.  Supervision .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
A.  Local Government Finance . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
B.  The Cairo Transport Autbority. . . . . . . . . .  35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Cairo in May 1980. The mission consisted of A. Pellegrini (Mission
Leader), R. Anson, D. Cook (Bank), R. Edwards, W. Henry, and J. Kirke
(Consultants). Field work #as completed by R. C. Wildeman (Mission Leader)
and D. Cook (Bank), J. Kirke, A. El Sherif and P. Spinner (Consultants) in
January 1981. Project costs were updated in March 1982 by R.C. Wildeman
(Mission Leader) and D. Cook (Bank).Tbis report was prepared by R. C.
Wildeman.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
A.  Introduction ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   41
B. Summary of Benefits by Major Components. . . .   42
C.  Summary Economic Results  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  44
D.  Distribution of Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
E.  Impact on the Urban Poor . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
F.  Energy Impact ................. .  45
G.  Land Use and Environmental Impact . . . . . . . .  45
H.  Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
VII. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS MADE .46
TABLES
Table 3.1;  Project Cost Estimates Summary. . . . . . . . .   24
Table 3.2;  Financing Plan (USb million). . . . . . . . . .  25
Table 3.3;  Estimate Disbursement Schedule. . . . . . . . .  27
Table 5.1:  Greater Cairo -- Consolidated Statement of
Revenues and Expenditures (LE millions) 1977-80 33
Table 5.2:  Greater Cairo -- Urban Investments (LE millions)
1979, 1980 ................. .  34
Table 5.3:  Greater Cairo -- Transportion Expenditures by
Category (LE millions) 1979, 1980 .34
Table 5.4:  Average Fare for Passenger (Piasters) 1977-82 .  36
Table 5.5:  Key Performance Indicators 1982-1985 .37
Table 5.6;  Revenue Impact Statement (LE millions) 1983-87.   38
Table 5.7;  Subsidy Requirements (LE millions) 1980-84. .       39
Table 5.8;  Financing Plan 1981-84 (TF. and US$, millions) .  41
ANNEXES
Annex   I;  Cost Estimates
Annex  II;  Implementation Scbedule
Annex III;  Organization Cbarts
Annex  IV:  Detailed Financial Projections
Annex   V:  Typical Traffic Engineering Measures
Annex  VI:   Selected Documents and Data
Available in Project File
MAPS
15403: Greater Cairo Existing Road and Rail Network
15404: Principal Transport Corridors and Project Locations
15405: Central Business District



GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Country Background
National Urban Strategies
1.01     The inhabitable area of Egypt is restricted to only about 39,000
square kilometers located along the banks of the Nile and its delta. Popu-
lation pressure on this land is severe, with an average density of about
1,100 people per square kilometer of usable land. The population is
currently estimated at 43 million and is growing at a rate exceeding 2.5%
per year. Rural population growth is outstripping rural job creation.
This has resulted in large scale rural-to-urban migration, where the urban
growth is now averaging 3.3% per year compared to 1.6% per year in rural
areas. About 45% of the population, or 19 million people live in urban
areas (communities of more than 20,000 people).
1.02     The urban structure of Egypt exhibits a striking degree of
primacy, with about half of the urban population concentrated in Greater
Cairo. As part of a national urban strategy aimed at redirecting growth
away from Greater Cairo and from agricultural land, the Egyptian Government:
has embarked on an ambitious program to construct new cities in the desert
at Sadat City, Tenth of Ramadan City and King Khalid City. However, the
economy of Egypt relies heavily on a diversified range of activities per-
formed by the central Government. These activities are heavily centralized
in Cairo, which is the most significant urban center. Its position as the
national seat of Government and the principal social, educational and
cultural center further increases its attractiveness to the most talented
professionals who are reluctant to locate outside of Cairo because of the
less attractive conditions existing there. These conditions are causing
problems in the development of a national hierarchy of cities, with the
result that the importance of Cairo is unlikely to diminish in the near
future.
Urban Poverty and Access to Basic Services
1.03     Some 30% of all urban families fall below the Bank-defined 1980
relative urban poverty threshold of LE 500 (US$615) per household per
year.   There is also evidence of marked inequality in income distribution
and access to services. In Greater Cairo, for example, bnly about 65% of
the population has access to public potable water supply, and less than
half is connected to public sewerage systems. Moreover, most of the exist--
ing sewerage system was designed to serve only a fraction of existing
demand. This, plus the lack of streetcleaning and solid waste collection



- 2 -
leads to frequent blockages and overspills. High housing standards,
rapidly rising construction costs, and limited construction capacity have
exacerbated the critical housing shortage. Recent areas surveyed by the
Ministry of Housing in the higher-density neighborhoods of the city show
overcrowded living space and the lack of basic sanitary facilities as a
critical feature of the living conditions of both poor and middle income
families. This is shown by the high infant mortality rate which is about
85 per 1,000 inhabitants. Although no detailed surveys exist, the condi-
tions are probably similar in other urban centers throughout the country.
1.04     The Government's tariff and pricing policies have prevented
authorities responsible for urban services from raising enough revenues
to adequately maintain existing facilities and respond to new demands.
Tariffs and charges bear little relation to production and operating
costs. Sewerage services are provided free and the water tariff is only
about 10 to 20 percent of the cost of supply. Correspondingly, electricity
charges are increasingly inadequate and fare revenues in public transport
usually do not cover more than a fraction of operating costs.
Impact of National Policies on Local Government
1.05     For planning and administrative purposes, Egypt is divided into
26 governorates, each headed by a governor appointed by the President.
Recently, however, the Government has instituted a national policy to
increase local autonomy. Following the amendment in 1980 by the Peoples'
Assembly of Law 52 on the Local Government System, Governorates are now, in
principle, responsible for planning, design and implementation of invest-
ments within the Governorates. However, control over fiscal management,
taxation, regional and national planning remained with the central Govern-
ment, so that the administration of the governorates is still closely
linked to national policies.
1.06     In addition to the above, the governorates do not have well-
defined planning or coordination responsibilities over the activities of
other ministries or agencies responsible for major public works such as
water and sewerage infrastructure, or the provision of basic urban services
such as health and education. Although many of the governorates have
planning offices, their staffs are small and often perform tasks beyond
their professional competence.
1.07     The staffing difficulties of the governorates are widely acknow-
ledged. Wages are so low that employees of the governorates often are not
expected to perform even routine duties without receiving some sort of
bonus payment. Under these circumstances, officials of the governorates
are reluctant to hire additional staff because of their inability to
attract and keep qualified staff.   The governorates are concerned also
about their ability to manage staff and to achieve effective performance
from them, and concerned that once hired, it is almost impossible to elim-
inate staff from the payroll.   This has led to widespread inefficiencies
in providing the municipal services for which the governorates are directly
responsible. These services include the construction and maintenance of
city streets, traffic management and enforcement, and street cleaning.



-3-
Agencies Concerned with Urban Growth
1.08     The central Ministry of Local Government (MLG) sets general
policies and guidelines in line with national development plans and coor-
dinates the actions of local government units with central ministries.
Within the urban sector, ther& are several overlapping jurisdictions. Few
of the agencies have a really clear mandate.
(a) The Ministry of Planning (MOP) is responsible for approving
budgetary appropriations for all central ministries, public
authorities and the governorates, and also undertakes regional
planning studies. Recommendations arising out of these studies,
however, must be approved by a High Level Committee which includes
a representative from the MOP and the local governors;
(b) The Ministry for Reconstruction, Housing, and Land Reclamation
(MRHR) is responsible for reconstruction, new town development,
housing, public utilities, and the development of desert land.
While the role of the MRHR in funding low-income housing schemes
has diminished as a consequence of decentralization of
responsibility to the governorates, it would continue to be used
by the governorates as a national coordinating agency and would
provide assistance to the governorates in the implementation of
certain large scale projects;
(c) The General Organization for Physical Planning (GOPP) was created
in 1973 and is responsible for coordinating the spatial develop-
ment, including the preparation of urban master plans, for each of
the major cities. The role of the GOPP relative to the new decen-
tralization policy is still evolving;
(d) The Central Traffic Department (CTD), of the Ministry of Interior
is responsible for training of traffic police, for coordination of
traffic police functions among local governorates and for driver
vehicle testing and licensing. It provides the technical advice
to local traffic police departments in the governorates;
(e) The Transport Planning Authority (TPA) of the Ministry of Trans-
port is responsible for longer term transport planning, both for
urban and non-urban areas, and for providing technical advice to
the governorates;
(f) The National Organization For Potable Water and Sanitary Drainage
(NOPWASD), owns and operates facilities throughout the country,
except in Cairo, Alexandria, and the Suez Canal Region, where the
provision of potable water, sewerage and drainage facilities are
provided by municipal agencies.



-4-
B. Transport Development Issues of Greater Cairo
The Setting
1.09     The City of Cairo, the capital of Egypt, is the largest city in
Africa and the Middle East. About 50% of the urban population (22% of the
total population) or 9.5 million people are concentrated in Greater Cairo,
which includes the Governorate of Cairo, the cities of Giza and Imbaba in
the Governorate of Giza located to the west of the Nile River, and the City
of Shoubra El Kheima in the Governorate of Kalyubia to the north of Cairo.
The population in Greater Cairo is growing at an annual rate of 4% compared
to the national urban rate of 3.3%, and at this pace will reach 16 million
by the year 2000.
1.10     The extremely rapid growth in population of Greater Cairo has
resulted in a very high average population density of 40,000 persons per
Km2 compared to 26,000 persons per Km2 in Manhattan and 21,000 persons
per Km2 in Bangkok. In some of the older districts, such as Rod El Farag
and Bab El Sharia, population densities averaging 100,000 persons per Km0
are common. The newer residential areas of Nasr City and Heliopolis, how-
ever, have been developed with very low densities, and the population is of
the order of 9,000 persons per Km2.
1.11     Commercial activities are generally located along the major
axes.   The main commercial centers are the Central Business District (CBD)
in which most of the banking and service industries are concentrated, and
to the east of this area, Mouski in which most of the traditional trades
are located. These two areas provide about 210,000 jobs. The industrial
activities within the CBD specifically, and throughout the city generally,
are small scale - 3 to 4 employee firms are common. The principal manu-
facturing areas are located to the north of the city at Shoubra El Kheima
and to the south of the city at Helwan, which is the major center for
steel, automotive, and chemical industries.
Travel Patterns
1.12     The rapid pace of urbanization in Cairo has triggered an even
faster growth of demand for urban transport. Daily trips by all modes have
increased by about 7% per year during the 1971-78 period, to about 5.5 mil-
lion.   By the end of 1978 the CBD, for example, was estimated to generate
about 600 person trips per hour per hectare compared with 139 person trips
per hour per hectare in Central London. Some 63% of person trips are made
by using public transport (including taxis and shared taxis), 23% are by
walking, and 14% by private cars and motorcycles. About 90% of peak hour



motorized trips are made on buses and other high occupancy vehicles.
Private car ownership is low at around 20 per thousand inhabitants versus
300 to 450 for many European and North American cities.  However, it has
recently been growing at the rate of 17% per annum, more than four times
the rate of urban growth.
1.13     Given the rapid rate of increase in car ownership, it is likely
that in the long-term it will be necesary to introduce measures that will
directly restrain unnecessary, inefficient or unproductive use of the
automobile. Altnough a variety of restraint alternatives are available,
one of the most effective is a program of graduated increases in the price
of motor fuel. Significant achievement in this direction is likely to be
complicated by the structure of the Egyptian economy, which is character-
ized by a system of price controls and price subsidies that virtually
covers all goods and services, including petroleum products. However, the
domestic price of gasoline has been increased in the last three years and
is now about 60% of world prices in comparison to diesel and fuel oil
prices which average 20% and 6% respectively of world prices.
1.14     The Bank has already raised the issue of gasoline pricing with the
Government in the context of the energy sector lending program. The
Government has stated its intention to bring domtestic energy prices more
closely in line with international levels. A continuing dialogue is being
maintained with the Government on the appropriate measures to be introduced.
The Road Network and Traffic Management
1.15     About 25% of Greater Cairo's total urbanized area is road space.
However, the practical traffic carrying capacity of these roads is approxi-
mately 25% less than that achieved in developed countries where maintenance
standards are higher and driver vehicle performance are better. The severe
transport infrastructure problems of Greater Cairo, therefore, are not
attributable to a lack of total space devoted to road use, excessive
vehicle densities or low vehicle occupancy rates, but are more a function
of a high percentage of unsurfaced roads in the city's secondary and
tertiary network; bottlenecks in the existing primary road network and in
its repair and maintenance; rapid and unmanaged growth in private car
ownership; and the absence of parking restraint and other traffic manage-
ment measures. These conditions are exacerbated by Cairo's high average
population density. The existing road network is shown in Map 15403.
1.16     With the notable exceptions of certain high income suburbs
(Heliopolis, Maadi and Dokki), the general state of repair of roads and
footpaths in Greater Cairo is extremely poor. The CBD area is illustrative
of Cairo's overall transport problems. The footpaths are frequently unsur-
faced and blocked by building materials and parked vehicles, thus forcing
pedestrians into the streets. The resultant conflict of moving vehicles



witb pedestrians and parked vehicles is both dangerous and inefficient.
Inadequate parking control, the low standards of traffic signs and signals,
and the lack of resources for control and enforcement aggravate the traffic
problem. Many of the existing traffic signal installations operate poorly
and are in need of repair. Drivers do not generally expect signals to work
and therefore ignore them frequently, often encouraged by traffic police
who direct traffic independently of the signals. Acute shortages of
trained staff and facilities preclude driver and vebicle testing procedures
from being anything but cursory and there are no established facilities for
driver education and training. Accident rates in Cairo currently rank
among the highest in the world at 80 fatalities and 600 injuries per 10,000
vehicles. This level is 20 times that of the U.K. or the U.S.A.
Street Conditions in Residential Areas
1.17     In many heavily built up low income sections of the city, there
are effectively no secondary roads, and where they exist they are unpaved.
According to consultant reports, at least 60% of the area of Greater Cairo
has no surfaced road network. This includes well-establisbed districts
where three to six story apartment buildings house up to 150,000 people per
square kilometer. The lack of surfacing results in problems of solid waste
removal, emergency vehicle access, flooding, silting and blockage of sewer
lines.  Such problems are strongly interrelated.  Until the streets are
reasontiably surfaced, solid waste collection vebicles cannot gain access to
the houses.
1.18     Cairo has no system of solid waste management in the sense usually
understood in industrialized countries. The cleaning of streets and public
markets, for example, is the responsibility of the governorates. There is
no municipal responsibility for collection of household and business
waste. Families who desire solid waste collection services make arrange-
ments tbrough a unique system of brokers, who function as "middlemen"
operating a type of franchise system in wbich access to the zones is
awarded to the Zabbaleen, a community whicb earns its livelihood from
garbage collection. The Zabbaleen work for the brokers free of charge,
collecting the garbage by going door-to-door in donkey-drawn carts.
Recycling the solid waste into pig feed and other reusable commodities is
the main incentive for the Zabbaleen in providing this service.
1.19     The solid waste is a recycling resource to the Zabbaleen.  Because
they are paid nothing to haul it, a rough and ready type of sorting occurs
at the pick up point. Those items of little or no value are discarded on
the streets.  The worst effects are in the approximately 60% of the city,
generally the lower income areas, where the residents do not for one reason
or another arrange for this service, or where the solid waste is perceived
by the Zabbaleen to be of negligible "recyclable value" and who therefore
do not collect it. Preliminary data indicate that of the approximately
3000 tons of solid waste generated daily in Cairo, about 1800 tons are
collected by the Zabbaleen, 900 tons are collected by the municipal street
sweepers, while the remaining 300 tons are left uncollected. The problem
is further aggravated by capacity constraints -- there simply are not
enough Zabbaleen to handle the accelerating volume of garbage generated by
the growth of the city.



1.20     Because of the lack of surfacing and lack of street cleaning and
solid waste management, public health problems in sucb areas are severe.
Children, who usually go barefoot in the dirt streets and alleys, are at
particular risk. In one section of the Imbaba District of Giza, street
conditions are so bad that there is no access for public transport within a
five square km area, and officials responsible for emergency services
stated that they could not gain access to the whole area for ambulances or
fire engines. The absence of street-lighting in these bigh density areas
adds further to the difficulties of living there.
Public Transport
1.21     The Cairo transit situation is characterized by extremely high
ridership and a strong individual dependency upon public transit as a mode
of travel within Greater Cairo. The bulk of public transport is provided
by the Cairo Transport Authority (CTA) which operates buses, trams, and
river buses, and its subsidiary, the Greater Cairo Bus Company (GCBC),
wbicb operates a newer fleet of buses on selected routes at bigher fares.
The total vebicle stock of the CTA bus operations, and its subsidiary, the
GCBC comprises about 2300 vehicles. Operating speeds range from 28 kph to
7 kpb depending on location and lengtb of route. Passenger loadings on the
buses are extremely bigh with up to 2100 passengers per unit per day.
1.22     On a typical day about 32% of the operational fleet is not avail-
able for service because of various operational and engineering reasons.
The poor operating performance is shown by CTA's overall vehicle kilo-
meters, which peaked in 1970-72, and then fell sharply to a ten-year low in
1974. Since then, bowever, the CTA has succeeded in reversing the trend
and vehicle kilometers have been increasing gradually and in 1977 were back
to the 1967/68 level. The full reasons for these sharp variations are not
completely known, though it was noted that 1974 marked the beginning of
substantial new levels of financial aid to the CTA from the central govern-
ment.
1.23     Public transport services are also provided by the Heliopolis
Metro System, the Egyptian State Railways and by about 37,000 taxis and 800
larger fixed route shared taxis. Especially noteworthy is the fixed route
shared taxi system in wbicb 12-seat minibuses operate on specified routes.
This service is a relatively new pbenomenon in Cairo, but it is supported
by the Central Traffic Police and by a well-organized drivers' union.
Since its introduction two years ago it has grown at a rapid rate, and now
accounts for at least 1% of public passenger trips. Growth in this service
should relieve some of the strain on buses and trams but, given the exist-
ing bigh share of passenger trips made on buses and trams and the fare
differential between subsidized public transport and privately operated
minibuses, it is likely that for the medium-term, buses and trams will
continue to dominate the public transport sector.



- 8 -
C. Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
1.24     The general Bank strategy for Egypt is to promote a wide range of
projects in the productive and social sectors and in infrastructure.   The
overriding consideration of this strategy is the positive developmental
impact of the institution building and sector policy aspects of the Bank's
operational work. Urban sector work has also been recently initiated with
a view to an improved understanding of demographic trends and sectoral
priorities at the national level and for greater Cairo.
1.25     A loan for a Water Supply Project in Alexandria was approved in
December 1977 and a Water Supply Engineering Credit approved in 1978 led to
the development of a water supply project in Beheira through which a number
of institutional and financial policy questions associated with the water
supply sector are being addressed. The First and Second Population
Projects provide improved family planning and health care services in
several low income urban areas. Another three credits have been provided
in the education sector to meet a variety of training and educational needs
of the urban poor. The first project is now complete, and implementation
of the other two is proceeding well. Other urban related projects that are
programmed for Bank Group consideration include Education IV, and Urban
Development III. An expanded involvement in comprehensive urban
development over th-e long-term is proposed for Egypt.
D. Review of the First Urban Project
1.26     An initial step towards supporting the Government's urban program
is the First Urban Project (Credit 831-EGT) which includes pilot schemes in
sites and services, slum upgrading and solid waste management (including
upgrading one of the Zabbaleen settlements). It also provides funds for
emergency rehabilitation of water and sewer works in Assiut and funds for
consultant services to assist in training and institutional development.
The project is innovative in terms of its target group (the lower 40% of
the income distribution) and in testing cost-effective solutions to low-
income housing and solid waste disposal problems. The project operates in
three governorates--Cairo, Alexandria, and Assiut. The Governorates are
responsible for designing and implementing their components, with coordina-
tion provided by the Low Income Housing Development Unit (LIHDU) in the
Executive Agency for Joint Projects, an agency within the MRHR which
handles technical assistance and lending programs in low income housing.
1.27     Implementation has been slower than expected at the time of
appraisal. There are several reasons for this, including a lack of under-
standing of the concepts underlying the shelter components in the
governorates and the MRHR, major changes in the institutions responsible
for the project, changes in project designs following credit signature,
discontinuities in personnel, and especially an acute shortage of



- 9 -
experienced and competent personnel in the MRHR and the Governorates to
design and implement the shelter components. Due to the appointment of a
particularly well-qualified solid waste consultant in Cairo, the solid
waste component in that city is progressing better than the other project
components, although it is not trouble free.
1.28     Given inadequate government personnel policies, including
extremely low staff remuneration, it is unlikely that any governorate will
soon acquire the ability to design and implement its components without
substantial outside technical assistance. On the other hand, the governor-
ates do have a lot of "junior" staff of limited ability but who can do
designs if well supervised. The basic strategy for the project is,
therefore, to encourage LIHDU to equip itself with staff of sufficient
experience and competence to provide needed guidance to the governorates.
Governorates are also being encouraged to engage consultants for tasks for
which their own staff are insufficient although replicability requires that
maximum use be made of governorate's office staffs. IDA is also
supervising this project intensively, with the view to expedite physical
implementation or to reformulate the project.
1.29     During the course of identification of the proposed project, it
was agreed with the Government to delay consideration of further shelter
related components until substantial progress was achieved in the first
project. Rather, it was decided to develop a project that would deal with
the question of appropriate standards and costs in urban development in
another manner. The seriousness of the urban transport problems in Cairo,
which has long been a high priority concern to the Government, seemed to
provide an appropriate mechanism. It was also felt that the proposed
project should be oriented toward broader municipal management and planning
issues.
1.30     Among the key factors causing delay in the first project were lack
of detailed designs and lack of experienced Governorate personnel for
project implementation. Safeguards built into the second project included
the preparation of detailed designs and contract documents by the time of
negotiations for about 33% of the project, i.e. that part of the project to
be implemented in the first year (paras. 2.10-2.11). The project includes
substantial provisions for hiring local consulting firms to undertake
detailed design work of specialized items that cannot be done by
Governorate staff (para. 2.04).



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
A.  The Concept and Key Features of the Project
Concept
2.01     The heavy concentration of population in Greater Cairo and the
magnitude and intensity of its problems firmly establish the city as a
major focus of urban development policies. This is accentuated by the
recent devolution of responsibility to the governorate level. The Proj-
ect concept recognizes this and is based on the premise that programs and
projects for Cairo, to be successful, must be tailored to the limited
implementation capacity of the local administration, must be sequential
within the context of the total urban services delivery needs and resources
available, and must be designed so that existing capacity can be gradually
built upon.
2.02     The main objectives of the project are to initiate a revised
approach to urban transport based on low cost engineering and management
measures, improve the efficiency of public transport, and to strengtben
Government institutions thereby developing their management and planning
capabilities and enhancing their capacity to undertake further urban devel-
opment.  In addition, the project seeks to improve the living conditions of
Greater Cairo's urban poor througb upgrading of selected low income areas.
Key Features and Summary Description
2.03     Special attention has been given to developing a revised urban
transport strategy that explicitly focuses on low cost traffic engineering
measures and the paving of bus routes in poor areas, emphasizing the use of
minimal design standards and low-cost materials. To better manage traffic
circulation, to help ensure that non-essential traffic is discouraged from
entering the congested commercial areas, to gradually increase on-street
parking control, and to provide protection, safety and comfort to the
pedestrian, special emphasis has been placed on traffic management
measures, including revised circulation schemes and the enforcement of
traffic regulations and parking controls.
2.04     The traffic engineering road maintenance component, which would
serve as the prototype for streamlining other governorate operations,
represents a four-year "time-slice" of low cost physical investments and
accounts for about 50% of the governorates planned expenditures on roads.
This component, together with the traffic enforcement component is also
closely linked to the institutional component, which would provide the
structural, organizational and procedural improvements necessary to
facilitate the efficient execution of the physical works. The component is
aimed at a series of associated policy and administrative measures, includ-
ing the training of managers, technical staff and technicians in project
agencies, and feasibility studies for possible future investments.



- 11 -
2.05     Given the size and growth rate of the City of Cairo, the general
conditions of the low income areas, and the competing demands for
resources, the Bank has encouraged the Government to focus as much as
possible on low-cost approacbes to improving the conditions of the urban
poor. Witb this in mind, a pilot street cleaning and solid waste collec-
tion component bas been designed to focus on four low-income neigbbor-
hoods. This pilot scbeme will be based on the experience in solid waste
management gained under the first urban project. The component, which also
includes road paving and installation of street lights, would not only
produce important immediate benefits to the urban poor in these areas, but
would also serve as a prototype for developing a larger scale program that
could be considered for assistance in future projects.
2.06     The fifth component, public transport, is centered on those steps
that the CTA should take now to achieve measurable institutional improve-
ments, and to bring CTA to the point where a substantial lending operation
could be considered in a future project. Efforts witb the CTA, therefore,
are focused on limited financial measures and on operational performance,
especially maintenance, wbich is considered an essential first step in a
program of institutional reform.  The approach is based on the premise that
an improved level of service is a prerequisite for obtaining public and
political support for future financial reforms. This has resulted in the
inclusion of substantial technical assistance for management, training and
maintenance and also finance for the completion of a major bus overhaul
center.
2.07     The project locations are shown in Map 15404.  The total estimated
cost of the Project is US$116 million including design and supervision,
physical, and price contingencies. The following is a summary description
of the Project:
(a) Traffic Engineering and Road Maintenance - (US$56 million) would
be implemented along selected primary and secondary routes, and
within the CBD and would include resurfacing of roads and repair
and widening of footpatbs, construction and paving of key bus
routes and reserved bus lanes, limited expansion of automatic
traffic signals, channelization at junctions, improved signs and
road markings, street lighting on selected major corridors,
vebicles, equipment for road surfacing, improvements to the
traffic, circulation plan within the CBD, construction of
pedestrian only rights of way, and construction of two off-street
parking garages;
(b) Traffic Enforcement - (US$4 million), includes the purchase of
motorcycles, tow-trucks and driver training automobiles,
refurbishing an existing training center, and the provision of
materials and training aides;
(c) Institutional Development - (US$13 million) includes components
for improving the organization, procedures and training of
governorate staff; improving the operational, financial and
management procedures of the CTA; developing an improved



- 12 -
strategic action plan for Greater Cairo; and preparation of
selected studies and surveys for possible future urban development
projects;
(d) Area Upgrading - (US$15 million), would be undertaken in four
lower income areas of the city, and would include the removal of
refuse, levelling and paving of roads and footpatbs, installation
of street-lighting, and the provision of street cleaning and solid
waste disposal on a pilot basis;
(e) Public Transport - (US$28 million), includes the completion of a
bus overhaul center, installation of maintenance equipment, provi-
sion of service trucks and a limited radio-telepbone system,
refurbisbing and equipping of an in-bouse training center for
drivers and the maintenance staff;
B. Origin and Status of Preparation
2.08     Discussions about the Project were held in parallel with the
supervision of the First Urban Development Project (CR831-EGT). The Proj-
ect was identified in November 1978. During Project preparation, the Bank
had an extensive dialogue with Government officials at botb the local and
national levels on the possible mix of components. A large proportion of
the discussions was devoted to reshaping urban transport policy. This
regulted in positive changes in the governorates' transport program, most
notably a shift in emphasis away from construction of new elevated roadways
and flyovers in the direction of traffic engineering and road maintenance.
This approacb resulted in important modifications and cost savings.
2.09     Project preparation was the responsibility of a Technical Working
Group whicb was coordinated by the TPA, and wbich included representatives
of local and central Government agencies involved with traffic and trans-
port in Greater Cairo. Consultants who prepared key elements of the proj-
ect worked under a grant from the Britisb Government. An early conclusion
of the consultants was that the Traffic and Transport Plan in Greater
Cairo, produced by SOFRETU in 1973, and accepted by the Government in 1974,
provided an overall framework witbin whicb to plan and implement traffic
engineering and management measures in the city.
2.10     Because of the nature of the small-scale works involved, it would
be inappropriate to attempt to complete detailed designs for all sucb works
too far in advance of scheduled implementation. It was agreed witb the
governorates that prior to negotiations, detailed or functional designs as
the case may be would be prepared for works to be started during the first
year of project implementation, and that detailed designs of otber com-
ponents would be scheduled according to the year of implementation. Should
actual costs of the traffic engineering and road maintenance and the area
upgrading subprojects prove to be more or less than appraisal estimates,



- 13 -
quantities would be adjusted (e.g. the extent of footpaths to be recon-
structed, or roads to be resurfaced) to fit within the budget.
2.11     Works currently scheduled for implementation in the first year for
which detailed designs and tender documents have been completed include;
Misr Sudan Flyover, Sharikat St., Manshiet Nasser Entrance, and the
Shurabeya Bus Route. Functional designs were completed for the Galaa,
Dokki and Giza Squares, the Monira Upgrading Area, the Ghamra Depot and the
Gisr Suez Workshop including proposals for productivity increases at the
workshop. In addition, specifications and draft tender documents for
vehicles and equipment to be used by the Cairo Governorate and the traffic
police, and for training equipment to be used by the CTA have also been
completed. These items account for approximately 33% of total project
costs. These designs were partially financed through advances from the
Association's Project Preparation Facility.
C. Project Description
Traffic Engineering and Road Maintenance Component
2.12     Background.  To improve bus operating conditions, traffic flows
and road capacities, thus providing attractive alternatives for non-
essential vehicles currently using the CBD roads as through routes, traffic
engineering and road maintenance works would be implemented along several
primary and secondary routes which are currently unable to meet traffic
needs (see Map 15404 for route locations). Typical traffic engineering
measures are shown in Annex V. The component is divided into thirteen
sub-projects which are described below.
2.13     Salah Salem Sub-Project.  This corridor is an outer peripheral
route connecting the Cairo International Airport through Heliopolis and
then running in a south-westerly direction through Old Cairo where it
merges with the Autostrade and becomes Al Ahram Street, crossing the Nile
River at the Giza Bridge. It is a divided three-lane roadway throughout,
but improvement works are required on a 10.4 Km stretch between Oruba
Square and Giza Bridge to make better use of this existing facility, and
provide an attractive alternative to routing traffic through the CBD. The
proposed works, which are estimated to cost US$2.7 million, would consist
of:
(i)   channelization of six junctions and installation of automated
traffic signals;
(ii)   installation of advance warning and route signs;
(iii)   road resurfacing and footpath repair and construction;



- 14 -
(iv)   construction of two lanes for slower moving vehicles to improve
operating conditions on the steep gradients on either side of the
Citadel; and
(v)   construction of a pedestrian footbridge.
2.14     Misr Sudan Flyover Sub-Project.  The main east-west route serving
and by-passing the CBD is the Ramses Street corridor. Major junction
improvements have already taken place at Ramses Square and Abbassia Square
and a north-south overpass has been completed at Oruba Square. However,
heavy traffic congestion exists at the junction of Ramses and Misr Sudan
Street. To eliminate the congestion, a three lane overpass, estimated to
cost US$5.0 million, would be constructed.
2.15     Giza, Gala and Dokki Squares Sub-Project.  The route connecting
the squares is a dual two or three-lane roadway which is in generally
satisfactory condition. Junctions and traffic signing in the squares,
however, are inadequate. Estimated to cost US$0.9 million, the sub-project
would consist of:
(i)   junction improvements comprising the installation of automated
signals, channelization of lanes, marking the approaches to the
junctions, and generally streamlining the road space at Giza, Gala
and Dokki Squares; and
(ii)   implementation of a traffic management scheme in Giza Square.
2.16     Port Said Street Sub-Project.  Port Said Street, an inner
peripheral route to the east of the CBD, runs from the Ismalia Canal Road
in a south-westerly direction crossing Ramses Street, Sh. El Gheish, Sh. Al
Azhar, Sh. El Qalaa, and El Saad El Barrani Street to connect with Kasr El
Aini and the Corniche El Nile at the Saqyas Aquaduct area. El Saad El
Barrani Street is a single roadway about 14 meters wide of which only eight
meters are available for traffic. The proposed works, which are estimated
to cost US$4.3 million would consist of:
(i)    the renovation and resurfacing of about 10.0 km of Port Said
Street and footpaths, and a total of about 5.1 km of Sh. El
Gheish, El Qalaa, El Azhar El Zahir Streets; and
(ii)    improvements to 16 major junctions.
2.17     Corniche El Nile Corridor Sub-Project.  The Corniche is an impor-
tant north-south route servicing long-distance through traffic, inter urban
traffic and city traffic. At the north end of Greater Cairo, it links with
the agricultural roads to Alexandria and with Tanta to the south. In addi-
tion to acting as the main commuting facility from Maadi and Helwan it
connects with the main road to upper Egypt. North of the 26th July Bridge
and south of the Giza Bridge the Corniche is a dual roadway facility.
Between these two bridges, it operates as a mixture of one way systems,



- 15 -
dual roadways and single roadways. The objective is to upgrade it to
primary road standards. The physical works, which are estimated to cost
US$2.7 million, would consist of:
(i)   channelization of junctions and installations of automated traffic
signals;
(ii)   road paving; and
(iii)   a feasibility study to recommend additional grade separated
junctions and additional road widening schemes.
2.18     Secondary Routes.  To improve access to major through routes, and
to increase bus penetration in industrial and low income residential areas,
similar traffic engineering measures and road maintenance works would be
implemented along the secondary routes described below.
2.19     Shari Shubra Route Sub-Project.  Shubra Street is the main access
from the northern side of the CBD serving large residential areas in the
north of the city. The total route length is 7.2 km and contains six
major junctions and 40 minor access junctions. North of Rod El Farag,
Shubra Street is a divided roadway with the tram lines located in a
separated central median.   Each roadway is approximately 12 meters wide,
but because of the roadside activities the effective width of each roadway
is nine meters. South of Rod El Farag, Shubra Street and El Tera't El
Boulaqeyah Street operate as a one-way system with Shubra Street carrying
the south-bound traffic. Both streets are single roadways with the two-way
tram lines running down the center of Shubra Street. The proposed works,
which are estimated to cost US$1.9 million, would consist of:
(i)   major and minor junction and access road improvements;
(ii)   resurfacing of roads and footpaths; and
(iii)   relocation of tram lines.
2.20     Manshiet Nasr and Shurabeyia Access Roads Sub-Project.  Manshiet
Nasr is situated on the Eastern edge of Cairo's built up area between the
City of Dead and the Mokattam Hills. It houses approximately 70,000 people
of which 15,000 form the largest Zabbaleen settlement in Cairo. Some funds
for upgrading this area were included in the First Urban Project, but
additional funds will be required to provide adequate bus routes.
Shurabeyia is an area to the north of Ramses Street bounded to the east and
west by railway lines. Because of the poor condition of the roads, it is
not served by public transport. The physical works are estimated to cost
US$1.8 million, and would consist of the construction of access roads and
street-paving.



- 16 -
2.21     Sharikat Route Sub-Project.  This road connects the northern
entrance of the Baghos Tunnel (and h'ence Ramses Street) with the Ismalia
Canal Road. The route is 4.5 km long and contains four major junctions
and 20 minor and access road junctions. The roadway width ranges from 12
to 20 m.   The proposed works, which are estimated to cost US$1.8 million,
would consist of:
(i)   renovation and resurfacing of the route;
(ii)   improvements and channelization of junctions; and
(iii)   construction of footpaths.
2.22     Bus Routes Sub-Project.  In general, most roads providing access
to low-income areas are in extremely poor condition because of lack of
maintenance, and in some cases are unpaved and undrained. Bus penetration
into these areas is generally difficult, and in many instances impossible.
The objective of this component is to improve this situation by means of a
road resurfacing and paving program to allow bus penetration into the low
income areas and improve access to affordable means of transport for lower-
income groups. The bus route paving program will be carried out over a
length of approximately 16 Km on routes selected by the CTA and agreed with
the Cairo and Giza Governorates. The physical works are estimated to cost
US$10.8 million, and will consist of basic drainage and road paving.
2.23     Road Maintenance and Street-Lighting Sub-Project.  To improve the
efficiency of the Governorates' ongoing road maintenance and street light-
ing program, facilities for preventative maintenance and routine inspection
of asphalt trucks, rollers and other equipment, as well as offices,
canteen, an. toilets would be provided.  Access roads to the Ghamra Asphalt
plant also would be improved.
2.24     The sub-project, which is estimated to cost US$6.1 million, would
consist of:
(i) the construction of a maintenance workshop;
(ii) the purchase of plant equipment, a weighbridge, canteen and
hardstandings;
(iii) the purchase of trucks, rollers, watersprayers, and pickups for
highway maintenance;
(iv) the purchase of jeeps, flatbed trucks, and hydraulic platform
vehicles for the maintenance of street lighting installations; and
(v)   hand carts and miscellaneous equipment for street cleaning.



- 17 -
2.25     CBD Traffic Management Sub-Project.  The CBD covers an area of
approximately 2 km' of mixed land use including hotels, residential
offices, small-scale business, insurance and banking interests. It is
bounded by four squares: Ramses, Ataba, Gunhuriya and Tahrir. Approx-
imately 112,000 people work in the CBD while 68,000 residents live in the
area. There are 150,000 private vehicle movements per day, and because of
a lack of off-street parking facilities (about 5,000 spaces are provided),
more than 17,000 vehicles are parked wherever they can find space. Most of
these vehicles are double and triple parked on the existing roads and many
are parked on the sidewalks.
2.26     The sub-project follows a strategy aimed at restricting and dis-
couraging traffic which has no reason to be in the CBD. It concentrates on
a reallocation and reorganization of the existing street space in order to
gain benefits for pedestrians and to give priority to essential users by
controlling the movement and parking of vehicles (see Map 15405 for
details). On street parking will be allowed to the extent that it does not
interfere with pedestrians or the smooth flow of traffic.  Total existing
on street parking will be reduced by about 3,370 spaces with the introduc--
tion of traffic engineering and management measures. The Governorate is
encouraging the development of additional parking spaces, particularly in
new buildings currently under construction. In addition to the foregoing,
the project includes the construction of a 400-600 space car park over the
existing Ataba Square bus station, and an 800-1000 space car park at Opera
Square. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that parking
charges would be set to recover all costs, both capital and operating.
2.27     However, there are still difficulties in attempting to enforce
parking control, and measures to enhance effective enforcement will be
undertaken. First, the traffic police will be strengthening an existing
central traffic unit (para. 4.12) to enforce parking in the CBD. Second,
the authorities have already introduced legislation to raise the current
level of fines for parking violations; this is expected to be a further
deterrent to violators.
2.28     The proposed works, estimated to cost US$l8.2 million, would
consist of:
(i)   curb realignments, road and footpath construction, barriers, roa(d
markings and traffic signs along 15 km of circulation corridors
and access loops, together with improvements to 25-30 major
junctions;
(ii)   construction of a 400-600 space parking garage over the existing
Ataba Square bus station and an 800-1000 space car park at Opera
Square.
(iii)   footpath construction, barriers, road markings and traffic signs
near the Bab El Luk Metro Terminal.



- 18 -
Traffic Enforcement Component
2.29     The objective of this component is to promote the safe and orderly
flow of traffic by providing a conspicuous traffic police presence, by
setting an example of good driver behaviour to other road users, and by
enforcement of the traffic laws. The improvement of road use behaviour is,
therefore, a particularly important aspect of the police traffic role.  In
order to improve the effectiveness of the traffic police, suitable vehicles
with good communications and traffic equipment would be provided.
2.30     To further strengthen the enforcement of traffic regulations, an
existing police training center would be refurbished, and equipment and
training aids would be installed. Priority would be given to training and
retraining officers, constables and lower rank patrolmen who are directly
involved in traffic operations and control. The training would be directed
towards improving the police image, performance of duty and practical
solutions to present traffic problems. All basic police training courses
would include instruction in road traffic law, control, enforcement and
road accident procedures.
2.31      This component, whose estimated cost is US$3.8 million would
consist of.
(i)  the purchase of 178 motorcycles, 11 tow trucks, and 12 driver
training automobiles;
(ii)  the construction and installation of 17 vehicle inspection
centers, a drivers' training track, drivers' licensing equipment
and base communications equipment; and
(iii) refurbishing an existing training center, including the provision
of materials and teaching aides.
Institutional Development Component
2.32     An immediate priority of the Project is to develop a basis for a
continuing policy dialogue with the Government, and to work with the key
agencies in strengthening the weaker parts of their operation given the
limited absorptive capacity of the institutions concerned. Organizational
and financial reforms such as the development of appropriate revenue pro-
ducing mechanisms that might include property tax, land value tax, better-
ment or user charges to generate funds for an expanded programme of urban
development are considered to be outside the implementation capacity of the
governorates at this time. Wbile these reforms would be taken up in the
context of possible future projects, the groundwork for such initiatives is
being developed through the proposed component. The component, estimated
to cost US$13.3 million, is divided into eight sub-projects described below.
2.33     City of Cairo Strategic Action Plan.  This sub-project, estimated
to cost US$2.5 million, will provide about 220 man-montbs of consulting
services to the Cairo Governorate to develop specific physical, socio-



- 19 -
economic, financial, legal and institutional measures whicb together can be
recommended as a strategic action plan for Cairo. Terms of reference for
the plan with detailed task descriptions bave been drafted and are being
reviewed by the Government and the Bank. The plan will take the form of
the preparation of policies and programs for the city with particular
empbasis on:
(i)  designated areas of strategic importance witbin the existing and
proposed area of Greater Cairo;
(ii) recommendations for specific policies, projects, and programs by
sector witbin such areas;
(iii) the priority to be given to sucb projects and programs based on an
evaluation of their potential to affect desirable change and
improvement;
(iv)  the program of investments consistent with the City's resources
and implementation capacity to carry out the policies, plans, and
programs identified;
(v)  the institutional and organizational requirements to support sucb
projects and programs, and the need for improvements in the
capacity of existing institutions; and
(vi)  the resource requirements to support sucb programs and the need to
devise measures for increasing the current resources by fiscal or
administrative arrangements.
2.34     Urban Service Delivery Mechanisms.  This sub-project, estimated to
cost US$1.1 million, will be implemented by the Governorate of Cairo in
tandem with the Strategic Action Plan, and will provide about 80 man-montbs
of consulting service to assist the Cairo Governorate to;
(i)  prepare an inventory of existing manpower and equipment resources
and an inventory of historical levels of expenditure for each
category of service;
(ii)  recommend and seek agreement of appropriate service levels for
maintenance, including the development of detailed operational
manuals and standards;
(iii) develop detailed operational manuals, outline standards, and
operating procedures to achieve the agreed service levels,
together with a review of alternative methods of providing the
services including contract services;
(iv)  propose the manpower, equipment and material requirements together
witb the level and scale of logistical support; and
(v)  review staff compensation policy, identify training needs, and
indicate how these needs can be met.



- 20 -
2.35     Infrastructure Survey.  This sub-project, estimated to cost US$2.5
million, will provide technical services to the Cairo Governorate to con-
duct a survey of underground utilities in older areas in Cairo.
2.36     Solid-Waste Management.  This sub-project, estimated to cost
US$0.6 million, will provide about 40 man-months of consulting services to
the Cairo Governorate, and would utilize data gathered under a study
financed by the First Urban Project (Credit 831-EGT) together with addi-
tional surveys and pilot programs that would provide a detailed solid waste
management program for the City of Cairo.
2.37     Advisory Services.  This sub-project, estimated to cost
US$0.6 million, will provide funds to the Cairo and Giza Governorates to
establish an implementation unit consisting of two full-time advisers for
Cairo and one for Giza for a term of about four years each, together with
the requisite office equipment and support staff. The advisors will help
oversee project designs and implementation, and will assist the governor-
ates in establishing a traffic management unit and the basics of a city
engineering department. The advisers will also assist in the development
of traffic engineering design parameters, the preparation of a traffic sign
manual, and the development of street lighting and specification standards,
including those for the construction and maintenance of roads and footpaths.
2.38     Sekeit El Wailli Route Location Study.  This sub-project, esti-
mated to cost US$0.6 million will provide about 40 man-months of consultant
services to the Governorate of Cairo to identify a high capacity east-west
road.
2.39     Traffic Management.  This sub-project, estimated to cost
US$2.3 million, will provide training needs to the traffic police. The
component will consist of a program aimed at training a cadre of about 10
officers at an overseas training center in general traffic operations and
management. These officers will become traffic instructors in Cairo. The
program would provide training in traffic records, commercial vehicle
enforcement, supervision of traffic police personnel, on-scene accident
investigation, traffic engineering, driver licensing and testing, traffic
law enforcement, public information and traffic operations.
2.40     Cairo Transport Authority.  This sub-project, estimated to cost
US$3.1 million, will provide about 160 man-months of consulting services to
assist the Cairo Transport Authority to develop specific policies, plans
and programs for the CTA and to allow for overseas training visits for CTA
personnel. Particular emphasis will be placed on the following:
(i)  the role of trams;
(ii)  the types of buses required to meet operational requirements, in-
cluding production specifications of chassis and body components;
(iii)  long-term maintenance requirements and the design of the technical
training syllabus and examinations;



- 21 -
(iv)  the operational control of vehicles (buses and trams), including
on-the-road inspections, crewing, and fare box collection proce-
dures;
(v)  administrative and financial procedures, including materials man-
agement, purcbasing procedures, budget development, cash manage-
ment, and development of a revised fare structure;
(vi) financial and statistical reporting, including monitoring proce-
dures for current traffic operations, performance indicators, and
routes and schedules.
(vii)  training center support;
(viii)  production engineering and two senior technicians for operational
support during first 15 months of Gizr-Suez workshop operations;
(ix) feasibility studies, including identification and initial prepara-
tion of a possible future project; and
(x)  fellowships for overseas training.
Area Upgrading Component
2.41      Solid waste collection is provided only in bigher income areas,
and it is estimated that the amount collected is only some 45% of all
household waste. The public street cleaning service is understaffed and
ill-equipped to clean even the surfaced roads and as a result refuse accu-
mulates, especially in the lower income areas. In some areas of Central
Cairo and Giza this refuse may be up to balf a meter deep witb some streets
completely blocked by it and by builders' materials.
2.42      The objective of the component is to develop a pilot program for
solid waste management and for upgrading selected low-income areas of the
city, the aim being to use it as a prototype for developing larger scale
programs.  Based on discussions witb the Cairo and Giza Governorates the
following four areas were chosen:
Govern-   Approximate   Approximate   Area of Roads
Name       orate      Total Area    Population    and Footpatbs
km2                               m2
Rod El Farag   Cairo            0.8           65,000           240,000
Abdine          Cairo           0.5          40,000            150,000
Old Giza        Giza            0.8           65,000           250,000
Monira          Giza            0.5           40,000           200,000
Total                 2.6         210,000           840,000



- 22 -
2.43     The compacted refuse will be removed and the roads will be up-
graded to minimum standards by hauling in fill where necessary, and grading
and compacting to a suitable profile. After compaction the roads will be
sprayed witb either a heavy oil or a bitumen cut back witb a volatile
solvent so that it penetrates the surface of the soil and inhibits dust.
Street lighting would be installed where required. Funds will be provided
under the project for salaries and equipment required to finance the solid
waste collection and street cleaning. To ensure the long-term success of
the component, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Cairo
and Giza Governorates would continue the solid waste collection and street
cleaning services in the designated areas.
2.44     The component, which is estimated to cost US$l4.8 million, would
consist of;
(i)  development of an approved plan for streets and sidewalks, public
transport routes, and pedestrian and market areas;
(ii) removal of refuse;
(iii) levelling and paving of roads and footpatbs;
(iv) installation of street lighting; and
(v)  wages or contract fees for solid waste collection and street
cleaning.
Public Transport Component
2.45     The CTA maintenance system has a four zone structure, nortb,
south, east and west. All engineering functions are controlled by a garage
engineer reporting to a garage manager. There are four principal worksbops
located at Nasr, Ameriya, Koba and Boulak. With the exception of Nasr,
whicb was built in 1970 as a composite workshop for engine, body and
chassis overhaul, the others are small areas in converted garages. In
addition, there are four engine overhaul sbops--at Nasr (east zone), Imbaba
(west zone), Mezalet (north zone), and Basatin (south zone). The engine
overhaul shops are equipped with a variety of machine tools, some of wbicb
are of recent origin.
2.46     A review of the maintenance practices and procedures of the CTA
has highlighted the following deficiences;
(i) workshop functions are fragmented with major unit overhauls being
undertaken in garages as well as workshops;
(ii) workshops are characterized by underutilization of space, badly
laid out shops and equipment, and poor production line techniques;



- 23 -
(iii)  poor quality of engine overhaul--the best engine overhaul has an
average life of 16 months, while the average is five montbs. This
compares with an overhaul life in European countries of two years;
(iv) poor quality of chassis and body overhaul--which is done bi-yearly
compared with once every six years in European cities;
(v) inadequate storekeeping and purchasing methods as evidenced by
extensive stocks of redundant materials; and
(vi) a shortage of skilled and semi-skilled labor aggravated by the
lack of adequate training facilities.
2.47     The total capacity for body and unit overhaul of the principal
workshops is 80 vehicles per month. With an operating fleet of about 2000
buses, and with an overhaul cycle of two years, there is a requirement to
overhaul 1000 buses per year. In theory, the requirement matches the
capacity. In practice the capacity to undertake complete overhauls is
seriously inadequate and there is always a backlog of work. Unit
overhauls, for example, presently take ten days excluding assembly.
2.48     The component would finance the construction of a composite over-
baul center where engine, chassis and body repairs can be done under one
roof. The work can then be undertaken using production techniques with
inspection and testing at each stage to controlled standards with the aid
of appropriate equipment and skilled manpower. The overhaul center will be
located at the existing Gisr Suez facility, which is already partly con-
structed. It has a ground floor of 33,000 m2 with a similar underground
basement area. Preliminary designs and revised cost estimates were made
available prior to negotiations. The overhaul center would replace tbree
inefficient existing garages.
2.49     Technical training will be provided at the existing Monib Training
Center which is currently being remodelled and extended. The training will
consist of full and part-time courses, with practical training at the
garages. A training workshop will be constructed under an existing con-
tract, but equipment has been included in the Project. Specifications for
the equipment were made available prior to negotiations.
2.50     The component, which is estimated to cost US$28.1 million, would
consist of:
(i) the construction of a 33,000 m2 lightweight industrial structure
on top of an existing concrete deck, estimated to cost
USWll.2 million;
(ii) purchase and installation of machines tools, radio equipment, and
service trucks, estimated to cost US$9.9 million;



- 24 -
(iii) purchase of spare parts and other inventory items, estimated to
cost US$6.2 million; and
(i-) purchase and installation of equipment for the Monib Training
Center, estimated to cost US$0.8 million.
III. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING PLAN AND LOAN ADMINISTRATION
A. Cost Estimates
3.01     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$116 million, of
which US$60 million or 52% represents the foreign exchange component. Base
cost estimates which exclude taxes, are expressed in prices of March 1982
and are based on preliminary designs for most project components. A
physical contingency of 10% on base costs was allowed on all components
except for technical assistance. Total price increases are etimated at 31%
of base costs plus physical contingencies and allow for expected price
inflation of 14% in 1982, and 13% thereafter on all local cost items
including physical contingencies, and 8% in 1982 and 1983, decreasing to
7.5% in 1984 and 7.0% thereafter on all foreign cost items including
physical contingencies. Total contingencies are estimated to be about 41%
of base costs. The project contains about 400 man-months of consulting
services to assist in the preparation of engineering drawings,
specifications and construction supervision, and about 500 man-months for
technical assistance.  The average estimated cost of these services in
prices of March, 1982 is US$10,200 per man-month including travel and
subsistence. The summary cost estimates are shown in Table 3.1, while the
detailed cost estimates and other supplementary data are shown in Annex I.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES SUMMARY
LE Million             US$ Million         Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Exchange
A. Traffic Engineering and
Road Maintenance          17.13  12.36   29.49  21.07  15.20   36.27         42
B. Traffic Enforcement           0.31   2.15    2.46   0.36   2.66    3.02        88
C. Institutional Development   2.00   6.01    8.01   2.46   7.39    9.85          75
D. Area Upgrading                5.14   2.77    7.91   6.32   3.41    9.73        35
E. Public Transport              4.70  10.50   15.20   5.78  12.92   18.70        69
F. Design and Supervision        2.72   1.01    3.73   3.35   1.24    4.59        27
Base Costs                32.00  34.80   66.80  39.34  42.82   82.16         52
Physical Contingencies           2.82   2.68    5.50   3.47   3.29    6.76        49
Price Contingencies             11.17  11.02   22.19  13.42  13.89   27.31         51
Total Project Cost        45.99  48.50   94.49  56.23  60.00  116.23         52



- 25 -
B. Financing Plan
3.02     Advances totalling US$1 million have already been granted from the
Association's Project Preparation Facility (PPF). This credit will be
repaid over a 5 year period at 3/4%. In order to cover the full foreign
exchange cost of the project (estimated at US$60 million) a Bank loan of
US$59 million is proposed. The loan will be made to the Arab Republic of
Egypt for a term of 20 years, including five years of grace at the
prevailing Bank interest rate. Of the remaining US$56 million or 48% of
total project costs, US$11 million would be financed by the CTA, and US$45
million would be financed by the national government in the form of
budgetary transfers. Transfers of this kind are in line with government
policy to strengthen the capacity of local governments to undertake and
implement municipal infrastructure investments.
3.03     Of the total loan of US$59 million, about US$20.5 million would be
on-lent to the CTA. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk
on this loan. In order to establish the principle that on-lending rates
should be equitable and conducive to the efficient mobilization and
allocation of financial resources, assurances were obtained during loan
negotiations that the funds on-lent by the government to the CTA will be
under the same terms as the Bank loan. Execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Table 3.2; FINANCING PLAN
US$ million
Ban _L
Implementing Agency      Total   Group    %    Government    %    CTA    %
Cairo Governorate        73.21   33.60    46        39.61       55    -       -
Giza Governorate         11.75    5.90    50         5.85       50    -       -
CTA                      31.27   20.50    66          -          -  10.77   34
116.23   60.00    52       45.46       39  10.77   10
1/ Includes PPF advances totalling US$1 million
C. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.04     Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials valued at
US$250,000 or more and estimated to total about US$10.0 million will be
awarded through international competitive bidding procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Contracts under US$250,000, open also to foreign
contractors, will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank. For bid evaluation purposes under
international competitive bidding, a margin of perference equal to 15% or
the applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, will be allowed for
materials and equipment manufactured in Egypt.



- 26 -
3.05     Contracts for civil works valued at US$1.5 million or more will be
awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Civil works contracts under US$1.5 million will be awarded
through local competitive bidding open also to foreign contractors, using
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Because of a large number
of local contractors, it is expected that all such contracts will be won by
local bidders.
3.06     All civil works contracts valued at US$1.5 million or more and
equipment, materials and technical assistance contracts valued at
US$250,000 or more will be subject to the prior review of procurement
documentation by the Bank. These represent about 15% of the contracts and
will result in coverage of about 20% of the estimated value of contracts.
The balance of the contracts will be subject to post review after contract
signature on a selective basis.
Disbursements
3.07     The proceeds of the proposed loan amount of US$59 million will be
disbursed as follows:
Allocation of Loan                   % of
In US$ Millions                Expenditures
Category                    Cairo  Giza  CTA  Total           To be Financed
Materials and Equipment    4.4    1.6  10.2  16.2  100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory
and 75% of local
expenditures
Civil Works                 12.3    2.5   2.7  17.5  37%
Consulting and Training
Services                  10.4    0.8   3.6  14.8  100%
Unallocated                  5.5    1.0   4.0  10.5
32.6    5.9  20.5  59.0
3.08     Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$400,000 is
recommended for expenditures incurred from June 30, 1982, for hiring of
consultants and preliminary work on selected smaller items.
3.09     As shown in Table 3.3, the estimated disbursement profile of the
project is 5.5 years, against an average disbursement profile for Urban
Projects within the EMENA Region of 6.0 years. The shorter than average
disbursement profile is justified because of the advanced state of
preparation of several of the project components. The closing date will be
December 31, 1987.



- 27 -
Table 3.3: ESTIMATE DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Disbursements   Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year   Quarter Ending          (US$ million)         (US$ million)
83          December 31, 1982           2.00                 2.00
March 31, 1983              2.25                 4.25
June 30, 1983               2.05                 6.30
84          September 30, 1983          3.86                10.16
December 31, 1983           4.15                 14.31
March 31, 1984              3.42                17.73
June 30, 1984               3.11                20.84
85          September 30, 1984          3.80                24.64
December 31, 1984           3.40                28.04
March 31, 1985              3.42                31.46
June 30, 1985               3.17                34.63
86          September 30, 1985          3.25                37.88
December 31, 1985           3.43                41.31
March 31, 1986              3.60                44.91
June 30, 1986               3.30                48.21
87          September 30, 1986          3.72                51.93
December 31, 1986           2.07                54.00
March 31, 1987              1.70                 55.70
June 30, 1987               1.80                57.50
88          September 30, 1987          1.00                58.50
December 31, 1987           0.50                59.00
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Programming
Agency Responsibility
4.01     In line with the recent policy to transfer greater decision making
authority to the Governorates, responsibility for project implementation
will be primarily at the local level. Three agencies will have key imple-
mentation responsibilities. The Governorate of Cairo will be responsible
for the largest share, about 63% of the total, while the Giza Governorate
and the CTA will be responsible for 10% and 27% respectively. Agency
responsibility for each project component is shown in Annex I, while the
implementation plan is shown in Annex II.



- 28 -
4.02     Each of the implementing agencies will be responsible for all of
the requisite programming and budgeting of their respective components,
including design, bidding, procurement and construction. The Governorates
would be responsible for the implementation of all road maintenance and
traffic engineering measures. These measures, which are small scale and
disaggregated, include road resurfacing and paving; curb re-alignments;
small-scale roadway, footway and lay-by construction and repair; removal
and resiting of street lighting, traffic signs, signals and other street
furniture; road markings; traffic sign manufacture and installation; and
pedestrian barriers, etc. Works of this nature are within the implementa-
tion capacity of the Governorates.
B. Organizational Structure of the Governorates
The Cairo Governorate
4.03     Overall municipal policy is determined by the Cairo City Council,
which consists of 130 members each elected for a period of four years.
Appointed by the President, the Governor is the Chief Executive Officer of
the City, and in this capacity, is also Chairman of the City Council.
There are four Assistant Governors; three of them act as general coor-
dinators while one is responsible for city operations. The Governorate
employs a total staff of about 129,000 people, of which 37,000 work in city
operations, 1,200 work in housing and reconstruction, 62,000 work in educa-
tion, 19,000 work in health, 5,000 work in social affairs and 4,800 work in
administration.
4.04     All city operations are organized into three functional depart-
ments: (i) solid waste, electrical and mechanical services; (ii) roads and
bridges; and (iii) planning and construction. Twelve district offices are
located throughout the city. Each district office, where appropriate, is
responsible for one or more of the departmental activities. Coordination
of traffic enforcement and public information is provided by the Ministry
of Interior, Central Traffic Department, (para. 1.08), but functional
responsibility is controlled by the Governorate under the direction of the
Manager of Traffic Police. The cost of traffic police operations is
charged to the Governorate budget. The organization chart is shown in
Annex III.
4.05     The Traffic Management and Planning Unit, which is located in the
Planning and Construction Department, consists of three engineers, two
architects, and three assistants.  A major thrust of the project is to
strengthen this unit, which is currently unable to discharge its respon-
sibilities efficiently. Despite the use of consultants, however, the
existing staff needs to be augmented. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations, therefore that in addition to the existing staff, two
engineers and four technicians would be hired and in place by March 31,
1983.



- 29 -
Giza Governorate
4.06     The organizational structure of the Giza Governorate is very much
like that of Cairo. Overall policy is determined by the City Council,
which consists of 21 members, each elected for a term of four years. The
Governor is appointed by the President. City operations are organized by
seven functional departments consisting of housing, finance, administra-
tion, planning, roads and bridges, workshops and street lighting, and three
district councils (which consist of the west, north and south districts).
Employing a total staff of about 5,200 people, 20 work in housing, 380 work
in finance and administration, 4,000 work in roads and bridges, and 800
work in workshops and street lighting. Of the total staff, about 3,800
work in the district councils. Traffic enforcement and public information
are coordinated by the Ministry of the Interior, but managed and financed
in the same manner as the Cairo Governorate. The organization chart is
shown in Annex III.
4.07     At the present time there is no traffic planning and management
unit. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that two engineers
and three technicians will be appointed to the Planning Department by March
31, 1983 to form the basis of a new traffic planning unit.
C. Detailed Implementation Procedures
Special Use of Advisors for Project Implementation
4.08     Given the staffing difficulties of local government units, the
governorates have adopted a policy of contracting out most specialized
technical work to qualified local consultants and engineering firms. As a
result, project implementation will rely heavily upon consultants. Working
as an integral part of the management team of the Cairo and Giza Governor-
ates, the consultants will prepare the detailed designs and contract docu-
ments and supervise construction. However, notwithstanding the use of
consultants, considerable assistance is required at the governorate level
to help in establishing the traffic planning units, including the develop-
ment of standard procedures for the recording and analysis of traffic data
and accident statistics for the planning, design and procurement of major
civil works, in managing and supervising the work of the design consul-
tants, and in training local staff. This work would be carried out by
three senior advisors--two for Cairo and one for Giza. These advisors
would form the core of the implementation unit. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that three advisors under job descriptions and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank would be hired and in place by
November 30, 1982 and would continue in that capacity during the
implementation period of the project. Two potential advisors with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank have already been identified.



- 30 -
4.09     While the design consultants are expected to be primarily local
consultancy firms, it is possible that the senior advisors may be foreign.
It has been agreed, however, that the Governorates will first try to find
local candidates, but that if suitable local candidates are not found
foreign advisors will be hired.
Accident Investigation
4.10     The Cairo and Giza Governorates would develop specialized units
capable of dealing with the extraordinary problem of traffic accidents in
Greater Cairo. These units would be functionally responsible to the
Central Traffic Department under the direction of the Manager of Traffic
Police. The units would include trained specialists to investigate serious
and fatal accidents and be the front line force to deal with most
accidents.
4.11     Each of the traffic police authorities would designate officers
and constables for specialized training to enable them to undertake the
defined role of the unit. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that adequately staffed and equipped units would be in place by December
31, 1984 and maintained thereafter. It is estimated that the additional
manpower required would be:
Cairo                         Giza              Total
5 officers               2 officers             7 officers
70 constables            40 constables         110 constables
Traffic Enforcement and Parking Control
4.12     The implementation of the CBD traffic management proposals will
require the strengthening of the traffic enforcement and parking control
unit to enforce the regulations and traffic management measures.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Cairo Traffic
Department, would maintain and adequately staff and equip its traffic
enforcement and parking control unit. It is estimated that the additional
manpower requirements would be:
1983              1984                  1985             Total
2 officers        3 officers            4 officers            9 officers
5 constables      9 constables         12 constables         26 constables
100 soldiers      170 soldiers          220 soldiers          490 soldiers



- 31 -
D. The Cairo Transport Authority
4.13     The CTA is governed by a six person Board of Directors, including
the Chairman. Activities are divided into nine functional areas, eacb with
a department bead reporting directly to the Chairman.  The CTA employs a
total staff of about 27,000. The organization chart is shown in Annex
III. The majority of management level employees are qualified engineers
who are competent to implement the physical aspects of the project.
However, their ability to make inroads into the operational problems of the
CTA is constrained by the lack of qualified supervisors. Therefore, and as
mentioned earlier, substantial technical assistance and training is planned
to strengtben the operational capacity of the CTA.
4.14     Recent surveys have revealed a large number of fundamental
problems in the operations of the CTA. Maintenance systems and associated
logistics, for example, are characterized by extraordinarily complex
procurement procedures, irrational criteria for determining spares
quantities, a lack of quality control and an inadequate understanding of
preventative maintenance. In the area of financial and management informa-
tion, there is essentially no cost control system (very few cost centers
bave been establisbed) and budgeting and budget planning procedures are
primitive. Operating objectives, for the most part, are unspecified or
unclear. Vehicle procurement practices aggravate the maintenance problem
by considering first cost instead of the life-cycle cost in making procure-
ment decisions, wbile the resulting diversity of vehicle makes and models
greatly complicates the maintenance and parts supply problem.
4.15     Politically determined low fares have beld revenues in check
during a period when costs bave been rising sharply. The lack of in-
ternally generated funds, coupled with insufficient government subsidies,
have resulted in reduced maintenance levels as a means of balancing the
cash flow. The low level of daily buses available for revenue service is
due almost entirely to maintenance related problems. Thus, the phenomenon
of high ridership is furtber complicated by the shortage of assigned
vehicles. Severe overcrowding results, and this contributes to inadequate
fare collection procedures and to the wear and tear of the fleet whicb, in
turn, exceeds the capacity of the maintenance function. The level of man-
power in the maintenance department is higb, but it consists primarily of
unskilled labor whicb contributes to high manning ratios and a low level of
manpower efficiency. Compounding the problem, the streets of Cairo are
extremely crowded, and this results in a low operating speed and reduced
efficiency of the CTA fleet.
4.16     The combination of these factors has resulted in a transit system
wbich is in need of improved techniques for planning and controlling the
maintenance activities so that fleet availability and manpower efficiency
can be improved.  If the actual useful life of each bus, for example, were
increased even fro.m five to seven years (tbe length of the depreciation
cycle), the fleet availability would improve, and the need for new vehicle



- 32 -
purchases would be reduced. Increased vehicle availability would serve to
reduce the ridership per vehicle, wbich would in turn reduce the rapid rate
of deterioration brought about by the heavy passenger loads.
4.17     Between 1978 and 1979 a total of 400 specially manufactured buses
were put into service with the GCBC, which was established to operate on
selected routes at higber fares. The structural and electrical designs of
the buses, bowever proved to be inadequate for the Cairo conditions, and as
a result the average daily operating fleet is now less than 180 units.
Financial performance has been less than expected, and operating losses
have been high. Because the CTA management is contemplating closing down
the GCBC, these operating deficits have not been consolidated into the CTA
financial results analyzed in Chapter V.
E.  Supervision
4.18     Particularly in its early stages, the project would require inten-
sive supervision. An estimated 48 person-weeks of Bank staff and consult-
ing time would be needed for the first year of the project, 36 person-weeks
for the second, and 24 person-weeks for each of the third and fourth years.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Local Government Finance
Introduction
5.01     Of the three implementing agencies for the project--the Cairo
Covernorate, the Giza Governorate, and the Cairo Transport Autbority
(CTA)--only the CTA is potentially a commercially oriented undertaking.
Since the governorates function as subdivisions of the national government
with limited budgetary flexibility, their financial structure is only
briefly described below.  A fuller financial analysis has been prepared for
the CTA.
Greater Cairo-Municipal Finances
5.02     The three governorates of Greater Cairo--Cairo, Giza, and
Kalyubia--have only limited responsibility for the provision of urban
services. Until recently they were concerned mostly witb street construc-
tion and maintenance. However, in line with the recent transfer of respon-
sibilities to the local level, the governorates are now responsible for
housing. Public utility services sucb as public transportation, water,
sewerage, street drainage, electricity and telepbones are provided by other
agencies (para. 1.08). There is no publicly controlled or managed solid
waste management system for Greater Cairo (paras. 1.18-1.19). As shown by
the table below, the local revenue base is weak: the governorates rely on
the central government for about 80% of their resources.



- 33 -
GREATER CAIRO
Table 5.1; CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
(In LE Millions)
1977         1978         1979         1980
LE    %      LE    %      LE    %      LE    %
Revenues
Locally Generated Revenues
Land Tax                             1.2    1    1.2    1    1.2    1    1.3    1
Automobile Tax                       7.5    7    8.6    7   10.4    6   11.5    4
Building Tax                         3.3    3    2.8    2    3.0    2    3.4    1
Entertainment & Utility Tax         21.2   21   24.8   19   23.2   14   32.7   13
33.2   32   37.4   29   37.8   23   48.9   19
Externally Generated Revenues
Subsidies                          66.7   68   91.7   70  113.0   69  151.0   59
Credit Facilities Grants            -       -    1.8    1   12.6    8   19.3    8
Public Housing Grants               -       -    -       -    -       -   36.6   14
99.9  100  130.2  100  163.4  100  255.8  100
Expenditures
Salaries                            71.3   71   93.4   72  120.0   73  134.7   53
Current Expenditures                 19.7   20   21.7   16   22.9   14   26.8   10
Capital Investments                   7.1    7   13.0   10   17.6   11   90.8   36
Capital Transfers                     1.8    2    2.1    2    2.9    2    3.5    1
99.9  100  130.2  100  163.4  100  255.8  100
5.03     In addition to the subsidies and grants provided by the central
government, T-incipal sources of municipal revenues are land tax, auto-
mobile tax, building tax and an entertainment tax. As other sources of tax
revenues are Limited, land taxes are potentially the most important sources
of revenues. The expenditure classifications of eacb of the governorates
are roughly the same. Salaries are the largest single expenditure,
accounting for about 53% of the total. The next largest item is capital
investments, whicb bave increased from an average of 10% of expenditures
during the 1977/79 period to 36% in 1980. The increase is mostly the
result of the recent government devolution policy in wbich the governorates
will directly undertake a larger proportion of capital works.
Greater Cairo Urban Expenditures
5.04     The total capital expenditures in the Greater Cairo area amounted
to LE 1066 million during 1980, or LE 125 per person per year. As sbown by
the table below, more than 90% of the investments chanelled into the urban
sector originate outside the governorate budgets. Table 5.2 sbows the
breakdown by category for 1979 and 1980.



- 34 -
Table 5;2: GREATER CAIRO - LRBAN INVESTMENTS
(In LE Millions)
Expenditure                1979                                 1980
Cen-                Kalyu-          Cen-                Kalyu-
tral  Cairo  Giza   bia   Total   tral  Cairo  Giza   bia   Total
Municipal Services        -    2.5    1.7    -        4.2      -    4.7    1.1    -        5.8
Industry              264.8    -        -     -    264.8  313.2    -         -     -    313.2
Electricity             31.8   0.4    0.6   0.3    33.1   54.9   0.9    1.2   0.6    57.6
Otber Services          91.9   1.1    0.6   0.5    94.1   82.3   1.5    1.0   0.8    85.6
Housing                44.5    -        -     -      44.5   32.8  30.0    5.1   2.0    69.9
Water and Sewerage    88.1    -         -     -      88.1  161.2    -       1.4   2.8   165.4
Transportation        145.5   2.4    2.4   0.5   150.8  183.7  20.5    5.4   2.5   212.1
Telecommunications    31.6    -         -     -      31.6   61.1    -        -     -      61.1
Other                  69.4   1.1    0.9   0.5    71.9   90.7   3.6    0.7   0.6    95.6
767.6   7.5    6.2   1.8   783.1  979.9  61.2   15.9   9.3  1066.3
5.05     Of the total expenditures in 1980, about 20% or LE 212 million
were transportation related. For Greater Cairo, these expenditures in-
cluded LE 17.1 million for roads and streets and LE 28.2 million for
bridges and flyovers, accounting for about 8% and 13% respectively of the
total. Included in these figures are expenditures for road maintenance and
resurfacing done by contract. Salaries wbich cover maintenance done by
municipal staff are included in separate governorate budgets, but this
primarily involved patching potboles. Because the governorates' budgetary
system does not segregate capital expenditures from road maintenance costs,
it is not possible to determine precisely what proportion of the trans-
portation budget is used for maintenance. Table 5.3 shows the transporta-
tion expenditures by category.
GREATER CAIRO
Table 5.3; TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY
(In LE millions)
1979                                1980
Expenditure                Government                           Government
Cen-                Kalyu-          Cen-                 Kalyu-
tral  Cairo  Giza   bia   Total   tral  Cairo  Giza   bia   Total
Roads and Streets        8.4   2.4    1.2   0.5    12.5   10.3   3.2    2.8   0.8    17.1
Bridges & Flyovers    13.6    -        0.1    -      13.7   10.8  15.5    0.3   1.6    28.2
Area Traffic Contral    -       -      1.1    -       1.1      -    1.9      -     -       1.9
Road Equipment            -             -     -        -       -    1.4    0.4   0.1       1.9
Sub-Total            22.0   2.4    2.4   0.5    27.3   21.1  22.0    3.5   2.5    49.1
Operating Subsidies  123.5    -         -     -    123.5  162.6   0.4        -     -    163.0
etc.
145.5   2.4    2.4   0.5   150.8  183.7  22.4    3.5   2.5   212.1



- 35 -
Impact of the Project on Governorate Finances
5.06     Given the inadequate financial base of the governorates, the
financing of the project has been structured in sucb a fashion it fits
within trends in governorates' capital expenditures. However, one of the
key objectives of the project is to shift the composition of these expendi-
tures to increase the proportion spent on maintenance and traffic manage-
ment contracts (which the governorates' budgeting system is including under
capital expenditures). New paving, particularly in the upgrading areas,
will require additional maintenance expenditures. At the level of the
pilot schemes included in the Project these additional expenditures would
be relatively minor. Sbould a major program be developed as a consequence
of the success of the pilot schemes, additional financial measures would be
required. The impact of the project will be monitored closely during
project implementation.
B. The Cairo Transport Authority
Financial Structure
5.07     As shown in Annex (IV), the CTA is quite large, having, as of
December 31, 1979, US$229 million in total assets. However, total liabili-
ties and capital of the enterprise amounted to USt346 million as of the
same date, thus reflecting an accumulated deficit of US$117 million. Of
the total liabilities, and capital, 59% or US$204 million is owed to the
Government.  This debt reflects CTA policy of showing the accumulted
effect of the Government subsidies (wbich consist of an operating subsidy;
debtservice subsidy; and capital subsidy) as a liability on the balancE
sheet, even though the CTA does not have the financial capacity to repay
the debt. Because of this, these transactions may be regarded, for all
practical purposes, as contributed capital. The remaining US$142 million
consists of US$68 million owed to equipment suppliers, US$31 million to
banks and unsecured creditors, wbile USt43 million is in the form of
reserves and capital.
Operating Performance
5.08     While the CTA is a public utility and should be perceived of as
a commercially oriented undertaking, it should be recognized that until
recently fares have remained largely unchanged. As a result, it has always
operated at a loss, never generating sufficient funds to meet day-today
expenses nor to cover its debt service requirements, working capital needs,
or the contributions required to finance new works. Thus, the CTA bas
become accustomed to operating as a highly subsidized institution, and its
management philosophy and practices have been deeply engrained along these
lines.
5.09     The overall financial performance of the CTA is poor, which can be
largely attributed to the low regulated fares. Fare increases require the



- 36 -
consent of the Peoples Assembly. However, in 1978, the CTA implemented an
innovative program that resulted in higher average fares within the same
fare structure. Essentially, the program consisted of reducing the number
of second class seats on each bus in favor of higher fare first class
seats. As shown by the figures below, this resulted in average bus fares
increasing from 1.6 piasters in 1977 to 5.0 piasters in 1982. For buses,
this meant fare increases of 8%, 29%, 36%, 41%, and 19% for the years 1978,
1979, 1980, 1981, and 1982 respectively, and somewhat bigher percentages
for trams and river buses.
Table 5.4; AVERAGE FARE PER PASSENGER
(in Piasters)
Fares
Travel Mode                1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Buses                      1.56    1.69      2.18    2.97    4.20       5.00
Trams and Trolleys         1.11    1.56      2.10    2.86    4.20       4.50
River Buses                1.19    1.69      2.14    3.20    5.20       5.20
5.10     Mostly as a result of the fare increases during the 1978-80
period, and possibly as a result of shifting some of the losses into the
GCBC, the operating subsidies payable by the Government to the CTA bave
remained relatively constant, at about LE 23 million (US$33 million) per
annum (see Annex IV for details). The debt service and capital subsidies,
together, averaged about LE 29 million (US$42 million) per annum during the
same period, so that the total annual subsidy averaged about LE 52 million
(US$75 million). This figure is expected to escalate during the 1981-84
period. The increasing dependence on Government subsidies is accentuated
by the increasirg gap between variable expenses (the direct costs incurred,
excluding depreciation and interest charges, to keep a vehicle on the road)
and total revenues.
Background of the Project
5.11     During Project preparation, the Bank bad been asked to consider
making a sizeable loan to the CTA and to expand CTA's fleet size. It was
concluded, however, that CTA's current technical performance, especially
poor maintenance and low fare structure, precluded consideration of such an
operation without substantial financial reforms.  It was agreed witb the
Government, therefore, that Bank involvement witb the CTA at this point
would be limited in scope, and essentially would be aimed at assisting the
enterprise develop an improved level of service as a first step in a
program of institutional reform (wbich would necessarily include substan-
tial fare increases), and to bring the CTA to the point wbere a future
lending operation could be considered. Wbile financial viability for the
CTA is a desirable objective, it is not considered acbievable in the
sbort-term. Therefore, significant fare increases were not considered
appropriate in the context of the proposed Project.



- 37 -
5.12     This conclusion was based on the following considerations.  First,
the public has for years accepted that the CTA provides a poor public
service, with overloaded and badly maintained buses, at low fares. Second,
token or hastily improvised fare increases would only give the appearance
of a solution and raise expectations of improved performance far beyond the
capacity of CTA to achieve. Third, the fare increases necessary to begin a
program of financial improvement will mean changing the whole operating
culture of an important public sector institution. Lessons learned from
other similar situations suggest that public reaction to such changes is
unpredictable. It could range all the way from passive acceptance to
physical violence. Fourth, if substantial fare increases are implemented
too hastily, only to be later rescinded because of public pressure, the
credibility of the CTA, already low, would be completely destroyed. Then,
as a consequence, any futher attempts at restoring financial viability
would have to be shelved indefinitely.
Impact of the Project
5.13     Thus a decision has been made to concentrate on improvements in
bus operating efficiency which will be achieved through more effective out-
shedding, increases in kilometers run per bus, and reductions in the
manning ratios. As shown in Table 5.5, effective outshedding, defined as a
percentage of the total fleet completing its route schedule, is expected to
increase from its present level of 68% to 77% by the end of 1985. Effec-
tive outshedding will increase through the project mostly as a result of a
reduction in breakdowns originating from better maintenance and improved
supporting physical facilities financed by the project.  The number of
kilometers run per bus per day would also increase from its 1979 average of
207 to 21- by the end of 1985 and the manning ratio would decrease from 20
employees per bus in 1979 to 16 by 1985. Moreover, the average life of a
bus is expected to increase from the present life of five years to seven
years by the end of 1984.
Table 5.5: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1982      1983      1984      1985
Effective Outshedding                            71%       73%       75%       77%
Kilometers Run Per Bus Per Day                  219       219       219       219
Daily Passenger Trips (millions)               3.20      3.45      3.62      3.80
Manning Ratio                                    19        18        17         16
5.14     Assurances were obtained during negotiations that CTA's
performance in achieving its operational and financial objectives will be
monitored through key performance indicators acceptable to the Bank.
Understandings were reached that the CTA will reach the performance
indicators shown in Table 5.5. Further indicators such as bus headways on
selected runs, peak hour operating speeds for buses and ratios of
passengers to seating capacity will be developed when the data becomes



- 38 -
available. This data is expected to be a by-product of the traffic and
route rationaliza- tion measures to be undertaken as part of the
institutional development component.
5.15      The improvements in bus operating efficiency are expected to have
a positive impact on the revenues generated by the enterprise. For
example, improved outshedding and route rationalization measures are
expected to increase revenues by LE 3.0 million (US$3.7 million) by the end
of 1985. Improved fare collection procedures, partly a function of the
increased operating efficiency, and partly a result of the institutional
development measures will yield an additional LE 2.2 million (US$2.7 mil-
lion) in revenues by the end of 1985. Savings generated from reduced
capital expenditures are expected to total about LE 6.9 million
(US$8.5 million ) by the end of 1985. Table 5.6 summarizes, in prices of
1982, the revenue impact of the project.
Table 5.6: REVENUE IMPACT STATEMENT
(LE Millions)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Increase in Revenues:
Productivity Improvements                1.89    1.93       3.02    3.02    3.02
Fare Collection                           .58    1.40       2.15    2.15    2.15
2.47    3.33       5.17    5.17    5.17
Capital Savings                             -        -         -       6.90    6.90
2.47    3.33       5.17   12.07   12.07
US$ Equivalent                             3.04    4.10       6.36   14.85   14.85
5.16     Despite the the revenue increases obtained during the 1978-80
period, and the additional revenues generated under the project, variable
operating costs per kilometer run exceed the average revenue per kilometer
run.  Because the operational improvements planned will increase the number
of buses to the road at any given time, the efficiency improvements will in
the short term further widen the gap between revenues and operating costs.
This gap is aggravated by the adverse impact on the CTA of recent prices
increases in the cost of rolling stock. As a result, subsidy requirements
are expected to increase from LE 50 million per annum (US$72 million) by
the end of 1980 to LE 169 million per annum (US$202 million) by the end of
1984, totalling about LE 493 million (US$609 million) during the 1981-84
period. It is noteworthy that 75% of the total subsidy requirements com-
prise capital and debt services subsidies (directly related to new equip-
ment purchases), while the remaining 25% consists of operating subsidies.
Table 5.7 below summarizes the estimated subsidy requirements. Details are
shown in the financial projections attached as Annex IV.



- 39 -
Table 5.7: SUBSIDY REQUIREMENTS
(LE Millions)
1980     1981      19 82     1983      1984      1982-84
Operating Subsidy        22.7      24.8      28.6     31.5      37.0       121.9
Capital Subsidy          13.0      27.1     42.5      44.4      43.8       157.8
Debt Service Subsidy   14.6        25.0      37.4     62.5      87.9       212.8
50.3     76.9    108.5    138.4    168.7          492.5
US$ Equivalent           71.9    109.9    130.2    166.1    202.4          608.6
5.17     While it is recognized that the formulation of a comprehensive
strategy to improve CTA's financial situation must await the findings and
recommendations of the consultants CTA is planning to hire under the proj-
ect, the need for suitable interim measures to narrow the gap between costs
and revenues has become acute. Therefore, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that CTA shall (i) continue to take measures to increase its
revenues and reduce its operating expenses in order to improve its
financial position; and (ii) exchange views regularly with the Bank with
respect to such measures to be taken by CTA and the time schedule for the
implementation thereof. Preparation of a plan satisfactory to the Bank
regarding the measures to be taken by CTA to increase its revenues and
reduce its operating expenses has been specified as a condition of
disbursement on the CTA component. Pending the outcome of the above
studies, the Bank intends to continue its dialogue with the Government with
the view to stabilizing the capital and debt service subsidies of the CTA.
5.18     Although fare increases per se have not been stipulated as a
condition of the project, the sensitivity of the fare question does not,
however, diminish its importance. A suitable strategy for financial
improvement must have planned fare increases as its centerpiece. Such
increases should be:
(a)  introduced gradually, according to a carefully planned strategy;
(b)  coupled with perceived improvements in service to the public;
(c)  implemented with a firmness of resolve, and good judgement regard-
ing their level and timing so as to ensure public acceptance;
(d)  related to financial objectives established by agreement between
the Bank and the CTA;
(e)  related to planned and achieved increases in productivity and
efficiency; and
(f)  be associated with a well-planned program of public relations and
public education.
5.19     CTA recognizes the need to develop a comprehensive strategy to
improve their financial situation.  Preliminary ideas under consideration
by the enterprise include consolidation of route structure, owner/driver



- 40 -
plans for certain types of operations and establishing subsidiary companies
for premium service, both to the travelling public and to tourists. Future
fare increases are expected to be developed in this context. Obviously,
some measures will need further study before they can be introduced, while
the introduction of others might need to be phased, so that significant
improvements to CTA's financial position will take some time to achieve.
5.20     As mentioned earlier, inefficiency and low fares are the main
contributing factors to CTA's growing deficits. Bank involvement with the
CTA at this time is based on the premise that the inefficiencies would be
addressed within the context of the proposed project, while future fare
increases would be addressed within the context of a possible future proj-
ect. The CTA has expressed interest in Bank participation in a project
dealing exclusively with the enterprise, and discussions are currently
underway to determine the scope of such an undertaking. In this regard,
the Government is expected to define its policy to bring about a gradual
real increase in average fares, so as to significantly reduce the gap
between revenues and expenses (including depreciation).
5.21      Given the low public sector wage levels, perhaps the most critical
aspect to the future success of the CTA lies with the incentive wage
program which has been introduced in the last few years. The incentive
wage program gives maintenance employees, bus drivers, and conductors an
opportunity to significantly increase their monthly earnings, thereby
making their total wage package somewhat competitive with the private
market place. Illustrative of the incentive scheme, a bus driver currently
earning LE 40 per month can increase his earnings to LE 80 per month.
Essentially, the scheme is a Lonus for re'uced absenteeism and sick leave.
'While there is no guarantee that the introduction of the incentive scheme
will reduce turnover and increase productivity, the fact that wage levels
are now closer to the private sector should induce more skilled workers to
seek employment with the CTA.
Future Finances
5.22      Looking forward, the financing requirements of the CTA during the
1981-84 period, including the ceiling on operating subsidies are estimated
at US$1221.5 million. This amount includes US$122.8 million for cash
operating losses, US$35.4 million for working capital needs,
US$261.7 million for debt service, US$791.8 million for fixed assets (which
includes the proposed sub-project), and US$9.8 million for investments in
the GCBC. About 47% of requirements, or US$578.6 million, would be
financed by Government subsidies, while the remaining 53% or US$642.9
million would be financed by long-term debt. Table 5.8 summarizes the
financing requirements.



- 41 -
Table 5.8; FINANCING PLAN 1981-84
(in millions)
LE         US$          %
Application of Funds
Cash Operating Losses                 99.8        122.8       10
Working Capital Requirements          28.8         35.4        3
Debt Service                         212.8        261.7       21
341.4       TE97.        1W
Rolling Stock                        352.0        433.0       36
Building and Equipment               291.7        358.8       29
Investments in G.C.B.C.                8.0          9.8        1
Total Application of Funds        993.1      1221.5       100
Source of Funds
Government Subsidies:
Operating                             99.8        122.8       10
Debt Service                         212.8        261.7       21
Capital                              157.8        194.1       16
470.4        78.6        77
Long-Term Debt                       522.7        642.9       53
993.1      1221.5       100
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Introduction
Objectives
6.01     The proposed project's objectives are to initiate and implement
a revised urban transport strategy (including an improved institutional
capability) wbich will make more efficient use of existing transport
facilities in Greater Cairo. More specifically, the project aims to
improve the population's mobility, particularly the public transport and
pedestrian facilities by: (i) introducing cost-effective traffic engineer-
ing and management measures that would increase the road capacity and
access to public transport users and pedestrians; (ii) improving the
effectiveness of the traffic police; (iii) providing road maintenance
facilities; (iv) improving the operational and maintenance efficiency of
the Cairo Transit Authority; and (v) providing technical assistance to the
major implementing agencies.



- 42 -
Evaluation Methodology
6.02     An economic rate of return (ERR) and net present value (NPV)
were calculated for the project components for which quantification was
possible--this represented about 70% of the total project cost. The
evaluation is based on estimates of incremental costs and benefits based on
a "without project case" and "with project case." Although the benefits of
some components were not possible to isolate and quantify (i.e., police
enforcement, technical assistance), their costs were included in the
economic analysis because they were considered important elements in gene-
rating the benefits, especially in the corridor and public transport
improvements. The area upgrading and road maintenance schemes are not
interdependent with other project elements.  In these cases where the bene-
fits were not quantifiable, they were evaluated on least-cost and qualita-
tive criteria in order to assure maximum net benefits and consistency with
the project's objectives.
B. Sunmary of Benefits by Major Components
6.03     Benefits from Corridor Improvement Schemes.  Traffic engineering
and management actions over Cairo's major and most strategic primary,
secondary and access corridors will improve the traffic flows and capaci-
ties of these congested routes. In addition, the provisions of these route
alternatives from the CBD to through traffic, will improve the pedestrian
movement, will reduce congestion in the CBD, and will improve public
transport penetration. These increases in speed and mobility will produce
substantial benefits in tenns of vehicle operating cost savings and time
value savings for all modes of transport. The economic rate of return
(ERR) of these schemes, which comprise about 18% of total project costs, is
42%. It is noteworthy that public transport passengers are expected to
reap about 62% of the schemes' total benefits.
6.04     Benefits from Central Business District.  Junction improvement,
ancillary traffic management and parking control measures in the highly
congested CBD area are expected to discourage non-essential traffic (i.e.,
through traffic and illegal parking), and therefore improve the mobility
and travelling speeds of essential vehicle traffic and pedestrians. The
refurbishing of footpaths along key streets is expected to provide the
pedestrian with added safety and comfort. The provision of two parking
garages is the first stage of an innovative parking policy, which will help
achieve a balance between demand for parking and demand of other activities
which need road space. The economic rate of return is 18% for the CBD
street and pedestrian improvements and 20% for the offstreet parking
garages. These latter estimates are probably minimum figures based on
estimates of the parking financial revenues which would accrue to the Cairo
Governorate, and do not account for benefits obtained from more efficient
use of road space.



- 43 -
6.05     Benefits from the Upgrading Scheme.  The rehabilitation of the
secondary and access roads in selected densely populated low income
neighborhoods--by the removal of refuse, levelling and paving of roads and
footpaths, and the provision of street lighting and a street cleaning
service--would provide substantial improvements in public health, access
for emergency vehicles, traffic flow and general environmental conditions.
The urban poor are expected to be the primary beneficiaries. Although the
conceptual and empirical difficulties of evaluating this component make it
difficult to quantify these benefits, they are considered a critical phase
to improving the living conditions of Cairo's population. In addition,
these improvements are expected to increase the land prices of the areas
affected (perhaps by as much as 10%). Rent control and the scarcity of
housing, however, make evaluation of available data unreliable, and
probably will limit the market transactions that may potentially result
from these improvements.
6.06     Therefore, it is not appropriate to estimate an ERR on this
component. The major justifications are the social benefits and the low
cost design to producing these benefits within the context and strategy of
the proposed project.
6.07     Benefits From the Maintenance and Street Cleaning and Lighting
Equipment. The provision of trucks, equipment and technical assistance
should lead to a considerable improvement in the maintenance of Cairo's
deteriorating road network, especially of its secondary and access roads.
6.08     The pilot street cleaning and solid waste collection programs in
the selected low-income areas (including the areas in the upgrading scheme)
should improve the access to pedestrians and general living conditions of
the surrounding population. The provision of equipment will improve the
maintenance of street lighting, especially along the non-primary roads.
Although these benefits are difficult to quantify, they are expected to
improve the mobility of Cairo's travellers.
6.09     Benefits From Improved Police Equipment.  The project's expected
improvements in traffic flows will depend partly on the success of the
project's proposed police enforcement measures--provision of motorcycles,
tow trucks, and technical assistance and training for the various police
departments. These benefits are assumed to be included in the vehicle
operating cost savings and the time attributed to the corridor improvements.
6.10     Benefits From Public Transport.  The equipment for the Monib
training center, the centralization of the bus overhaul function at Gizr-
Suez workshop, the installation of the radio/telephone equipment, the up-
graded wage-incentive program and the operationally-oriented technical
assistance activities, taken together as an integrated package, are
expected to improve CTA's operational efficiency and quality of bus ser-
vice. The ERR of these activities, including the related maintenance
costs, and 100% of the technical assistance costs, is 26%. Perhaps the
more important benefits are related to helping CTA lay the foundation and



- 44 -
first phase of an efficient bus operation and strategy for future improve-
ments. The benefits are assumed to include the time value savings and
delayed investment due to increased vehicle life, as well as increased bus
revenues due to improved outshedding, better fare collection, increased bus
mileage, and improved response time.
C. Summary Economic Results
6.11     The ERR of the various components range from 18% to over 157%, and
of the overall project, is approximately 29%; the results not only confirm
that the project is economically justified, but also show that low-cost
transport investments, with a strong orientation toward traffic management,
could produce high benefits within a short-period of time.
6.12     Some of the specific components that may be vulnerable to changes
in benefits and/or costs are: the off street parking garages, which still
depend on the parking charges and/or the values assigned to the foregone
rental income for the space being used; the traffic forecasts for Misr
Sudan Streets, and the effects of the project's CTA maintenance improve-
ments on producing net incremental revenues and benefits.  These com-
ponents, in particular, should be monitored closely during the project's
implementation period. Finally, the value of time savings (estimated at
one-third the wage rate) comprise about 67% of the project's total
quantifiable benefits. If, however, the value of time savings were
decreased by 50%, therefore assuming that non-work related person trips are
valued only by one-sixth the wage rate, and capital costs were increased by
20%pthen the overall project ERR would drop to about 24%.
D. Distribution of Benefits
6.13     The proposed project, by increasing the efficiency in the use of
the road capacity and of the existing public transport fleet, is expected
to benefit all classes of travellers. A substantial portion of the proj-
ect's benefits for each component will accrue to public transport vehicles
and users, and therefore, is generally consistent with the project's objec-
tives. Approximately 68% of the project's total quantifiable benefits are
expected to benefit public transport vehicles, and passengers; time value
savings comprise most of these benefits, although the increased speeds
should help the operating costs of the buses and increase their effective
miles operated per day. Thus, the frequency of bus service should
increase. Approximately 22% of the project's economic benefits are esti-
mated to accrue to private automobiles and taxis, primarily in terms of
decreased vehicle operating costs. The project's proposed parking controls
in the CBD are expected to disbenefit those vehicles that have been parking
illegally and/or free at the expense of pedestrians and essential vehicle
traffic.



- 45 -
E. Impact on the Urban Poor
6.14     The lack of data regarding the socioeconomic profile of the bene-
fitting areas and passengers makes it difficult to assess accurately the
project's impact on the urban poor.  Bank estimates show that about 30% of
Cairo's population is classified as being below the absolute level of
poverty. Given the relatively low bus fares, the poor spend probably less
than 5% of their total household income for this item.  Moreover, Cairo's
housing shortage and limited employment opportunities are additional
factors suggesting that the poor rely on public transport as their major
means of transport. The project plans to improve CTA's geographical cover-
age, especially its penetration in low income and unserviced areas. Thus,
approximately 22% of the project's costs will be directed to the urban
poor. The major components contributing to this poverty impact, to varying
degrees, include the corridor improvements, area upgrading, pedestrian
walkways, maintenance and street-cleaning improvements and the CTA project
actions. Similarly, about 20% of the project's quantifiable benefits are
expected to accrue directly to the urban poor, particularly in terms of the
value of time savings and improved street cleaning services.
F. Energy Impact
6.15     One of the project's major benefits will be to increase the
operating speeds of the various modes of transport in Greater Cairo. Based
on an estimated relationship between vehicle operating costs and speed by
mode of transport, and based on the proportion of vehicle operating costs
comprised by fuel (valued at world market prices) for the various vehicle
types, approximately 40% of the vehicle operating costs are estimated to be
fuel savings. Based on the project's estimated vehicle operating costs
(expressed in terms of NPV), these fuel savings over the next 25 years are
equivalent to about LE 8.6 million. This estimate assumes 1980 prices, a
constant price of fuel, and assume that the vehicle mileage - excluding
buses - remains constant.
G. Land-Use and Environmental Impact
6.16     The project was designed to be consistent with Cairo's existing
land-use plans and to minimize any possible negative environmental
effects. The project's financing of a strategic action plan will provide a
needed framework for guiding land-use patterns and the delivery of urban
services in Greater Cairo. The specific dimensions and location of major
schemes have been designed to protect some of Cairo's major antiquities.
In addition, the project's police enforcement measures are expected to
reduce traffic noise and air pollution from exhaust fumes.



- 46 -
H. Project Risks
6.17     The proposed project carries the risks inherent to any program
involving more than one implementing agency. Other risk elements are also
present. First, there is the risk that the low public sector pay scales
which make it difficult to attract qualified staff may permanently con-
strain the implementation capacity of the various agencies. The second
risk concerns actions that the governorates are required to take to comple-
ment the physical measures. These include enforcing parking regulations
and modifying bus routes. Positive factors making these risks acceptable
are the use of technical experts in project implementation, and emphasis
placed on institution building. Perhaps the most positive factor of all is
that the project is the first comprehensive attempt at improving urban
efficiency through low-cost technology, and will form the basis for con-
tinuing policy dialogue with the government to develop and implement future
organizational and financial reforms.
6.18     The third risk concerns the additional financial resources
required by the CTA to keep vehicle maintenance standards at appropriate
levels.  Presently, the CTA depends heavily on Government subsidies.  In
the absence of substantial tariff increases, these subsidies will increase
significantly. Resistance by the Government to providing increased sub-
sidies would negate the benefits of the CTA subproject. However, there has
been no indication of decreasing government commitment to public transport
in Greater Cairo. In fact, as noted earlier in this report (para. 1.22),
1974 marked the beginning of substantial new levels of financial aid from
the central government to the CTA. This risk is, therefore considered
acceptable.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS MADE
7.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
A. CAIRO GOVERNORATE
(i)  Parking charges for off-street parking financed under project will
be set to recover all costs, both capital and operating (para.
2.26);
(ii) Subsequent to completion of the project, solid waste collection
and street cleaning services would continue and would be financed
through the resources of the Governorate (para. 2.43);
(iii) The staff of the Traffic Management and Planning Unit will be
increased by two engineers and four technicians by March 31, 1983
(para. 4.05);



- 47 -
(iv)  Two senior engineering advisors under job descriptions and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank will be appointed by
November 30, 1982 (para. 4.08);
(v)  An accident investigation unit would be established by
December 31, 1984 and maintained (para. 4.11); and
(vi)  The traffic enforcement and parking control unit would be
maintained and adequately staffed and equipped (para 4.12).
B. GIZA GOVERNORATE
(i) Subsequent to completion of the project, solid waste collection
and street cleaning services would continue and would be financed
through the resources of the Governorate (para. 2.43);
(ii) Appointment of two engineers and three technicians to the Giza
Planning Department by March 31, 1983 to form the core of a new
Traffic Management and Planning Unit (para. 4.07);
(iii) Appointment of one engineering advisor by November 30, 1982 under
a job description and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.08); and
(iv)  An accident investigation unit would be established by December
31, 1984 and maintained (para. 4.11).
C. CTA
(i)  Funds would be on-lent by the Government to the CTA at a rate
equal to Bank's interest rate (para. 3.03);
(ii)  Performance in achieving operational and financial objectives will
be monitored through key performance indicators (para. 5.14); and
(iii) Measures would be taken to increase revenues and reduce expenses
and exchange views with the Bank with respect to such measures and
their timetable for implementation (para. 5.17).
7.02     Preparation of a plan satisfactory to the Bank regarding the
measures to be taken by CTA to increase its revenues and decrease its
operating expenses has been specified as a condition of disbursement on the
CTA component (para. 5.17).
7.03     The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and CTA has been specified as a condition of effectiveness (para
3.03).
7.04     With the assurance and conditions indicated above, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$59 million equivalent.



--  ---F4REINN             ESNION 240   NONE INOSISso  SUE                                     PRICE   40440    4SN                                              -                                                 -          --~~~-- ---   --------  ---------------
oNOOL  9451104   MOTh    LICA~~~L -OETSTT-                                       10545                   LP-INO               IS            SOIlS    4ORA                   54950                      FOI.-1                             o              1          21I                             L
1.N4004NA,E9  000  009           INN            0.74           ,9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  50        49                          SlI             ILl            OIO            1.75           .I7            140            370            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1774   SO               140.00                       0101 II  I    1
4MINRSONN1IFIS44ON                           440             144~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 40            I                                                                           A0  0  4  4    471            44              10              37            IN 
4N115250LE455501505555                            5,5 0 1 5 0 0 0 5 ----S---i---                              --              .1--                                         ----0           00--          0---            -4-01                         07--                           0000              -1           '0.04400                                      ----
S.N4RNIOSN                                       004~~~~~~~~~~~~--                             --- 40 57      04-            ----                                                                                        ---- 00 0 4  4  0.74          -.1-           --N             01----00'                                                                    ---0.4
PS R454IN N T R ES4  1 0 5   0 4 4  4 4 0     IS O           170            41,4              30                          4 1 5           OlO           4 1 4           2 7 4             10          4 9 0          4 4 4           0 9 4          4 4 4           4   0  0   0  0   0           4 4 4           5 4 4~  ~  ~   ~
59                  000                     RO               4              1                 9                           5              7              0             091            4.14    I4 5                  901'   1109                    4A 7                              0             1
SECANOANS SONRIA4NS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                                    --              -
S    N410N15NL4114  500  040  144        474            03~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  10?         5                         0>77            114            OIl               09          QOS            ISO             040           INS             142            014             010            444             044~~~~~~~~~~~. I~1-1  I~1.  ls    A
7.950NOIERNANNERNNNNO42500E3IN                   070--           SN--            1             -70 -          04-0--- NO                                                                       4            1            ---                           ----IS         ---             ---4                          ----0            010-          ----0
4  9I0M149                                            "I           03 1 9AM10                                                  09                0                             .0            OI            CN              07             04             IO                4             5                      0       0               0              0               4
P     EO44O        ES-4I042 4                                                   11             S I            00             10             42                  944                                       S -           0 0               4                0          N4               4               0              4               9                             0               0
IS.   EUNROOTEN-41P4                  ISO             COT            445            ItO~~~~~~~A    2.0             14                 904                                       10             0 0            41               7              9               9            '9             20                0             ..0 444
404  1040  9 4  494  0.4         45                           07o           9   o           040             01 N        1Io             1445             000          4400            170             0N'1            SlO            004             00
1490IE9N40401E4L1P9   00190   0EPNR           000            140~         ~~~~           ~~ 14  O           .0I4                           0                           4.R             11                Il           19              0             II  94         149            150 A9                         04             044            0.04
l9.9000FNOINS-001100N90R  0.04     0.10           .110           000            041             0.10              40                          041             OIl           04i            0.10            0.01           014            0.11           014             000            040 0Ill110                    000            000A 1~  II  2.  ~A.  .   .
IOSMOEAROLENNIN0NO010MSNNM-001R0      0.40            04!            709            449            049~~~~~--   0--   0-             42--4                                       094-          0.04           01               --00                                                        ---000-14      400            04000                          000-
070-              .         II4NI4:1                                      I 4I4497 31   19                    0901                                       0                4              40            OI             4 9            0                               9       0       4       0       90                   0      4
tEE T4A1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I0 P040409000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~1 
20  259N9154&PE019T91000099         1 9 9 1 1 0 0 7 7                            140            0.'R O    49                     14              =           041            044            70.             200            II'            404            477            304             470            000             400            004            440~~~~2" 
01.   AENI4.EEON7E9EIMALSPOROINT                  440-            ----           ----           IN               ---           ---                                                                                                                                                                                                    ----4 .4  9 l S 000040S   0  4  004-  ----
A1               .0          00                 0              4.           09                 4                             9           4 97            40            100              01           1477l           0192            09            11                 0                  4       0       0       0
904-ToTOLO    0I07           ISOl            40071711~~. I                  .10           24                   400                                     10                                4    7    11               49.70          90441           411            9 0                R            44              0 0A0
%MRAPFOANFOAAIMEA
O  RO44NOOOLEO440RROC0EOORON  005  200  744  040         004            004             1.10               =           494174                       414             OIl            449            440             4.49447                       049            040             400            040            4.00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA  2 
0.    RRAININONEN9E9                  9 0            040            440             000            021            4                141               N          001            440-4.0 ----4----00---0.10                                                                                 0.40           00-00-0-00
I  0N194040E0N04049  '4  404         501             102204                         0 4 4 7 9 1.1                                0.00           400            004            302             ITO            940            720            900             079            441            0.91            000             040~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IT  I11  1  ~11  1.  . .
0  4I004049490R04N  0 0 0 0 0 0 4 4 1            004            073             OSS               79          ==              0.oN            COS            004            014             014049                        0 9 9 9 0 4 0 9 1                             4.04           4c04           4.40            440~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---  ---  ---  ---  ----------
4  01E9N0I.MROFIT1EFOETE1O            0 4 0 1 2 5 1 0 7                            44             1.04            110                99          =,             404             17000                        l0o             094            144              01            100 4A1                        3 04004I000                                   00
O  4-Y4                                                        170N              1 009          10            E0 .0                        10                 1                             I                I           0      0      4                7              0              121          0                     4       0       0       0                  0               0
4904194                            ONo            040               44           071717                       1.07               39                          401             1I4            OIl               09~~~~~~IL     A 0         I4 12           10            01              4 14                           I     104000                   00
4 .    - 4    -04110                                           01 9            ILL1           41  2         10               10              0                 900                                       20             02                1               .     0     7                   0      7      04 0                        414                    0      0                 4
940009010                                    142            241                                          I 47   0 4  .7    7               I4                            49            44             A.0             4 9            40            10               4'               4              4               0              9               4              0
TN4 0=     010-       J019-      4 N50100                      04               44            477           . 123          " 104           ~ 329             00                            4 1          2        1       4        4        3           0 0              9               0             .0            0.00                     0        4        0        0        4
4.  1E00340709401149EN4                093             4 0 1 1 0 4 1 2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~---          3--                  0         99--                                            9 9             09--9--1                                     24 o-0.0--0                                                   3               00040                         000
..I34TOIITORNOANNF40NIT,405                  441~--         034-           104                                         ---279 14       --47                                            10             41-1-4                                        11             14              0                               0              .4              0               3
940     144           - 141              4              5             09                0                              4            47               4          l b               9              14           21                  0              .    7    .    9
0    A0I0-         1p9F9                                          19            4 4 0           1 2 0 2.11                     0             .0                7                                0       0        4       09                                   1       0       0       0                 0              0                  4       0        0       0                 4
-TI.-NLM1                                           I3044 119                      194 01         004               14              0                            0   5214                            1    0         0             I 1           0    4           0          0 03                             0              4                 420
PRICE 00041E404'I04              13 40    17 47'7  27    ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~1117  ~   11 04                        0410                9                                          00.190 19    47 141   -                                                                                                     ,1~~  1 
0443070900  9024    0002   11024    0504    4001    4400                                          91                                        9454                          0494 ~~~~~~~~~~~~4.50   110.44    3400    7140                                                999            1179-----      4042- -----
----   -------  ~      ~         ~        ~         =    44     040000                                                                                                                                                            --------       -------
P0901T 411 TOTAL                                          0               1            10              0                1           1000040   9   1101 1N                                                                                                                        0               40                                                  0       74
----   ------                                                                                                                                                          ------         ------~~40    994400    20004
---  ----  ----                                                  ..        ..      .......453140   ..92919----



-49-
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Category                                                     LE
Cairo and Giza Governorates
Ghamra Asphalt Plant (line A-ll)
Weighbridge                                                              50,000
Canteen and toilets                                                      30,000
Office improvements and equipment                                        20,000
Workshop and equipment                                                  200,000
Telephones and communications equipment                                  10,000
Training facilities and equipment                                       130,000
440,000
Maintenance Equipment-Cairo Depot (line A-13)
10- 7/10 ton dump trucks at LE40,000 each                               400,000
12- 8/10 ton smooth wheel rollers at LE30,000 each                      360,000
1 - rubber tire surface finisher                                         70,000
2 - jeeps or land rovers at LE17,500 each                                35,000
2 - graders (medium size) at LE50,000 each                              100,000
I - mobile bitumen sprayer                                               35,000
1 - heating and planing machine                                          70,000
1,070,000
Maintenance Equipment-Giza Depot (line A-14)
5 - 7/10 ton dump trucks at LE40,000 each                               200,000
3 - 8/10 ton smooth wheel rollers at LE30,000 each                       90,000
3 - 3/5 ton smooth wheel rollers at LE25,000 each                        75,000
2 - 1/2 ton pick-up trucks at LE20,000 each                              40,000
3 - rubber tire front end loaders at LE45,000 each                      135,000
2 - tractor mounted compressors witb jack hammers at
LE25,000 each                                                        50,000
Handearts (unspecified amount)                                           10,000
Tools and shop maintenance equipment                                    250,000
850,000
Street Cleaning Equipment-Cairo (line A-16)
Handcarts and other equipment                                           250,000
Street Cleaning Equipment-Giza (line A-17)
Handcarts and other equipment                                           250,000
Street Lighting Equipment-Cairo (line A-18)
10 platform trucks with 15 meter reach
hydraulic lift at LE45,000 each                                       450,000
Street Lighting Equipment-Giza (line A-17)
3 platform trucks with 15 meter reach
hydraulic lift at LE45,000 each                                       135,000
Ministry of Interior
Motorcycles Tow Trucks and Autos (line B-1)
178 - heavy duty motorcycles at LE7,500 each                          1,335,000
11 - tow trucks at LE20,000 each                                        220,000
12 - training sedans at LE12,000 each                                   144,000
Drivers licensing Equipment                                             110,000
Base Communications Equipment                                            30,000
1,839,000
Training Center (Line B-2)
Refurbishing Training Center                                            145,000
Publication of Highway Code                                              60,000
205,000
Inspection Centers and Track (Line B-3)
17 Vehicle Inspection Centers                                           110,000
Training Track                                                          300,000
410,000
Institutional Development (Line C-3)
Road Safety Education                                                   200,000
Traffic Control Team                                                    175,000
Consulting Services                                                     450,000
Middle Management Officer Training                                      410,000
Senior Management Officer Training                                       70,000
Traffic Management Officer Training                                      50,000
1,355,000



EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1981                       1982                        1983                       1984                        1985                        1986
A. PIMAY AN  SEONDRY CRRIORS 1               2      3    4        1    2        3   4        1      27    3       4      1   2      3        4      1      2               4    1       |2     |3    4
A. PRIMARY AND SECONDARY CORRIDORS 
AND ROAD MAINTENANCE
Salah Salem                                                                                * _ I *  = -          9
Misr Sudan Flyover                                                                                       .... __        _
Giza/G.Ia/D.Ikki Sqoares                                                                                              Iol  o
Corniche                                                                                                         I
Port Said Street                                                                                  E           f       I  I     I_  
Shari Kat                                                                                             L                11      _ 
Manschiet Nasr and Shurabeyia
B-s Routes                                                                                       **NI * I,,'_  _      11_ 1_
Ohamro Depot                                                                                logo                                             - |- 
Strent Cleaning Equipment                                                                                      I m    mmiii
Maintenance Equipmer,t ttll
Street Lighting Equipment                                             l             |lil MINI
B. CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
Streets, Junctions and Footpath                                                                          I l   M_t_
Bu- Ter-inal/Parking                                                                      0 t                INS
Opera Square Parking                                                                                       _
C. TRIAFFIC ENFORCEMENT
Motorcycles and Tow Trucks                                                          s       ui-
Training School and Police Training                                                       m              Role  movie
Equipnnent
D. PUBLIC TRANSPORT
Gizt Suez Workshop
Building                                                                               N           m  |i     + 111|        i_lI
Equipmnent                                                                         m             mm
Spares
Training Center, Eqaipmenl                                                  tloss |                      lil           l                          i
Radios and Communications
Sernice Trucks and Garage
Cleaning Equipment
E. AREA UPGRADING
Shsbra Rod El Farag                                                                       I       |Lt_
Abdine                                          l                                            m #    W   l
OM.nGwi ( Giz.)                                                                    AM                  Is _   2 t=$                                      =              > 
Uld Gisa 
F  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Cairo/Giza Go-ernorates                                                                                                                                                                                                   ti
Traffic Police                                                                                                                                                                                                           Do
CTA                                                                         j                                                                                                                                              I|
I   II                   I      i     X      I             I      I      II                                                                    gF-   xI
LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                          World Bank-22468            
*       Design                                                                                                                                                                                                             to
osmomsi Bidding
Supply of Equipment



-51-                           Annex II
Page 2 of 2
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED TIMETABLE FOR APPOINTMENT OF CONSULTANTS
Approximate Date
Cairo Governorate                                      of Appointment
Salab Salem                                       September 30, 1982
Misr Sudan Flyover                                Appointed
Corniche                                          September 30, 1982
Port Said Street                                  December 31, 1982
Sbari Kat Street                                  December 31, 1982
Manschiet Nasr and Sburabeyia                     Appointed
Bus Routes                                        September 30, 1982
Central Business District                         December 31, 1982
Rod El Farag                                      June 30, 1982
Abdine                                            June 30, 1982
Strategic Action Plan                             December 31, 1982
Urban Service Delivery                            December 31, 1982
Infrastructure Survey                             December 31, 1982
Solid Waste Management                            June 30, 1982
Sekeit El Wailli                                  December 31, 1982
Giza Governorate
Giza/Gala/Dokki Squares                           Appointed
Bus Routes                                        September 30, 1982
Monira                                            Appointed
Old Giza                                          September 30, 1982
Ministry of Interior
Traffic Management                                December 31, 1984
CTA
Gisr-Suez Worksbop                                December 31, 1982
Institutional Assistance                          June 30, 1983



CAIRO GOVERNORATE
CITY OPERATIONS
S   Governor of
|  Cairo        l
SssWstant
Special                   Governor                     Special
Assistant                    City                      Projects
Opeations
Mechanical                      Roads and                                               Planning and
and Electrical                    Bridges                                                Construction                                         Manager
Department                      Department                                               Department                                           fPti
1-  l l _ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
l   _                                                            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
_         l         Roads              Bridgeoas             Planning                  Social                  Housing                   Trffic
E 7 lDcrict|ic
S.,  ngnesSuvyn
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Maaeen   
World Bank - 22575               1-|X
O 0



-53-                                                                                AAnnex III
Page 2 of 3
CITY OF GIZA
(A DIVISION OF THE GIZA GOVERNORATE)
Governor of
Giza
Giza City
Council
Polce --|    Mayor
r  I I   I     I            I              II           I       I_.
Property          investment             Pub c               Citien                                                                Legal
Management          Management            Relat ons                                                                               Department
|  Planning                                     Engineering                                                              htin
Department                                     Department                                                  | Dprment |
PrnProsed          Panng             DvlmetRasnd                                              Garages and                                             Streetc
Traffic Unit        Cont              aorkshops                                                                  LSignals 
| SBecretary  |                                            |   District
General                                                _     Councils
Wvest
Depa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nrthet 
Stf                     Administration  |          Finance             Comunty 
Relations                  Admiistrtro
Department                    Department             Department             Department                     Roa
Recruitment         Assignments            C            
r and Transfers              Af|r                                                                   Cleanin
|  SeOrCiiaes r  qPromotions           Reeva|n                  Casier                                           Garden
Services~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aae
World Bank-22576



ag3 f 3
THE CAIRO TRAPIfCPORTATION AUTHORITY
T- -AO ,jA,,k
-EEH] -E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~F."                                                                                                           C~Aj~
TfFACAA~~~~~  ROank  F,,,,P,,~~~~~~~~~,g  A,OACFI,,,Fg  SC>,,~~~~~~~~~~~~OFjn  TOPFAOI CCAA  TAFAPAI,O  PAAACACAAA,A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T,1 tO,1
-E~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~lp,CO                              Pp 0,                   O~O       ~       POP,               O~,f               ,000 O                                                  O,PeA,n,~ -
FL     O              APOOSo, rIPM                                                                                                       P,  P,,o            Moavf,,
I~p0fO    T            LEO0   EE ],        ~        n         ...        S,,Pp0                                                  OA                 I,j,              OOCP                Oi



455-                                                                                              Aoses IV
rate I of 2
CAIRO TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
PIN7ANCEIa  RESULTS
AS AT-DECEMER 31
(ILE O0O's)
Ac-tual                        EEijgt                                  Forecast
1977            1978            1979            1980  _ _       1981           _1982            1983            1984
BALANCE SHEET
Curret AssetsI:
BAa  Ce Bun                                             833            1051          4967              4-400           4600            4800            5000            3200          I      astedue tru-  the   siaaal
uAu-nts   . lOni-blo-Net IA                            21399           27592         23809             26000           280,00           30000           32000           34000               Ganrenet sdits  i..teue-
Inventory Pats. and SupplIes                           24780           30613         36888             41000           47000           54000           62000           72000                tolicle..
4652            59336         65664             71400           79600           880             990            11120
Jhb   Represetsa  inn-t-at in u
Other Ass..ts                                                                                                                                                                                  ano...snidoted ehollp  owned
i-t-osent in CCBC l~b                                     26           25683         16983             18008           70000           22000           24000            26000               saheidisry, the Greter C.ai-
Bus Ca-pany (C.C.R.C.).
Pined Assts
Railin~g-Stonk Jo                                      38283           64269         80023            116000          138880          242080          327000          4180003          /    Dep-etsoia  and  -nnusaSt.d
Baildinge aed Equip-eo.t                               17415           16976         17107             16000           88000          113000          238000          321700                depeecostian  is bs-d as the
Cant-totioo In PeagRO.../d                             18014           74103         34627             11627           29627           92627           36627            37677               straight liae enthd of lIT
_                   ~~~~~~~93722   103308        131837             183627          273627          447627          621627          777327                farbuses and 10% far anh-r
Annunelotod Dopr-niatianl                              39337           44090         34783             64422           83522           125472          267222          234322               rolling stools  hildings anA
_                   3~~~~     ~    ~~~4385  29218  77574            119203          190103          322205          434403          342805                oquips..nt.
Tonal Ae...ot                                   100923          144239        160223            208603          288703          430005           377400          60000           /d   Can..ists nE builditgs and
eajotena te  ailittBosonder
Carrant Lihbilitiee                                                                                                                                                                            --ot-utit..
Bank L..n.                                             14468            9830          3962              5000            3600            6008             6400            6800
A.....ota Psyohie                                      13612           56r 26        10104             22800           23600            27708           20900           32300          jo   Term   of esisting lone.
CretPrtti.n-L.og Tees Dbht                         8100           01200         11407              13944           02557           40467           56831           71031                nsg   rs3 to 7 Peers,
36180           37411        33473              420-46          16857           74167           923M103                               e iole  nen  etso
57. to 0%.  Se-  loot  for
Long-Tnnn inhe                            ~~~~~~          ~~~~~26600  49950  47438         84033          150087          270330          303264          470332                fi...etong hab aqistln
Lone Currat PantOne 7                                   85200          11280         11407             13946           212 57          40467           54831           71031                hsvo bean o...-d up ton 8.61
18101           38755        36030              70087          124330          230043          329233          399501                onnr 7 y-r..
Dan to Loveer-et /f                                      48248           90052        142054            103176          270024           378338         316909           605703
Osneen-                                                   0201           19057         12942              13142           17342           19343           21742           23942          JE      P BA.p..et. a.....   ac .inga
Conoeol                                                                                                                                                                                        -subidy tro-Oer.  Loos  ore
Paid-On                                                16032           16532         16332             16032           16332           16532            16532          165331               ir tonet  feon with atepnifi.d
Annnmalotad DAfiato                                   (46738)         (63060)       (016101I         (128370)        (1914807        (203037)         (399382)        (155804)               atarlty date..
Tanol Liohilitiee nod Capina1                   100923          144239        160223            700603          20870           433001           527003          60000           /        tInOroe   ofte  oos
STATEOENT OP REVENUES hND EXPENSES                                                                                                                                                            annual Inesn  of p.e.eogore
R-.-                                                                                                                                           t..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~egieg froeh 5% to 111, sod
Bun-  La                                               13289           16888         20860             29275           34217           30239           43344           47632                30o5     anOueos
Iteno   and Te-11ays                                    1311            2075          3078              4620            5686            6769             7820            8029
tRne  Snor                                               107             219           264               394             440             462              406             509          :4   is the noeofte   neae
16717           19193        24203              34209           40343           45490           51650           37190          -     p_eod  aet taste  soree
Varia_l        CatsI                                                                                                                                                                       rn   d inolode eapseted
Reve  and 0usd-otoe  WeRe-                        6570            0133          0852              9623           11B90           1270B            14600           16730               oeaa  prioeit .e.r.se  of
fuel                                                  2206            2461          3066              3367            4085            4692            3205            5043                I0% tar drines, shoe sagas
BAerh-d                                               _317             242         _280                319             350             303             420             463                and nnrrhesd  ond a6m en
910.1          10836        12208              13309           15525           17B17           20225           22940                prltre        reu   In the
V-eiable Oltna-...e  Cast  IA                                                                                                                                                               prita of fuel.
Shop tWies                                            6445            7335          7946              8367            9900           11403           13160           11160
Patsad Sapplies                                   6687            9773        11266              14397           16870           19769           22161           25693          If   T.ntheto.  o..f the foe..s.t
BAseheod                                                70             116           137               152             166             183             201              221               peniad, uetsee.....s..s..a..
22383           28080        31557              36425           42461           49170           55747           64014                Inorss  of 12. tee nopeotd
Centrel Seenitee /I                                     1200            1281          1447              1664            1030            2013             2215            2436               peue -ersse...
Adi.itetrotias /I                                      10287           12478         16471             18942           20036           22820            23215           27732
Iat eest                                                 -               -             -                31Sf           11019           11644           22020           31920          I)   Soabidpre.qibed nton-e   tash
Dep-eiotiae                                            10812           11698         13031             20868           31300           30105           60010           871005. oprttog  ose...
Total Inpen..e                                   44682           13537         625B6             61837          107446           135847          163705          213602
/k   Sabsidpe-quieed to toner
Set Lots                                               27965           34344         30303             4676            6710            90337          113551           136412               working napits1 ie-...e. and
-                                                                            o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th-e tuneseesne  not fSnanoed
CHANGES IN FINANCIAL CONDITION                                                                                                                                                                by looo-tesn  debt.
PFi-nalOnoaoo  Worn Proide.d By:
.-oroooa        raitog BbsidyJ                         17153           22646         25272             22742           24784           28613           31330           36892           /1   Sobsidy required te ounn
lononmet Capital Snbaidy JO                                            29003         12468             13013           07100           42000           44400           43000                ptinoipa1 and intlnre.o pey ..nte
Conoe_=ot Debt Seevion Suhaidy Li                       9130           11000         14200             14363           24964           37401           62495            87931               no.bg-teem deAn.
6 2649              31940             30322            76848          108514          138423          168743
Long Tare DAbt  0                                                      22935         15854             48855           800080         146200          133200           141300         Jo   On oh e        oas fa the Boen...ss
-     85.584        67704              98322         1308             234714          293623          310043                peId,nw  u  poenase ohon
Ooht S_ion                                                                                                                                                                                  peer ato out of LE90,000
Ptinnlpal                                             7000            8100        11200              11407           13945           25737           40467           56031                -sh.
Inneenat                               ~~~~~           ~~~~~~2100  2500  3000           3150           1019            11444           22028           31970
r1             11000         14200             14563           24964            3740            62493           8791
Cesh Opanaltiof Losen                                  17153           22646         25272             22742           24784           20413           31530            36992
Waning Capinu                                             -            146 93        10473                -              3180            6700            7600            8400
1- sset--  In GCBC                                       .             23639         10700)             1013            2000            2000             2000            2000
Paohso-  ofRtolling Stank  /e-                                          5976         13834             44000           50000           92000          101000          109000
Buildin  and Equip-ot                                                   (479)          171             39000           32000           20000          143000            63700
Con.strutiun In Progn-a-                                                6009         10324            (23000)          18000           63000          (540009            1000
-     853584        C7 7-94            98322          15_684_8        234_714         293625          310043
KEY INDICATORS-BUS OPERATIONS
Revenue Poe Kiilaeoto  (Ks) Ron                            14.3            i5.i         19.2               27529.3                         30.3            31.9            32.7
Varlshl. Casts Per Os Run                                  16.8           21.1          232                27.9            29.7            31.5            33.4            34.5
Pi-sd Coote Poe K. Rae                                     20.2            22.7         26.7               33.3            47.7            31.2            64.2            60.9
Negotie Renenne Cast Spread                                22.7           27.9          30.                30.9            47.9            52.4            67.7            70.7
Effective Datohedding                                      64              48           69                 60              60              71              73              75
So.  of Iaaeee/ /A                                      2100            2140          1940               1960           2040             1040            20130           1990
SNo. of K is . Oo/B.e/y                                  229              220          220                201             219             219             219             219
Roonico Ranin (Buse)                                       22              22           20                 20              20              19              10              17



-56-                                            Annex IV
CAfRO TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
FINANCIAL RESULTS
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
1977          1978          1979          1980          1981          1982           1983          1984
SCHEDULE OF EXPENSES (In LE 000's)
Drivers and Conductors Wages
Buses                                                5091           6347          7064          7731          9010          10452         12086         13962
Trams & Trolleys                                     1470           1761          1762           1864          2050          2255          2480          2730
River Buses                                            17             25             26            28            30            33            35            38
6578           8133          8852          9623         11O90         12740          14601         16730
Fuel
Buses                                                2013           2137          2722           2989          3669          4234          4701          5191
Trams & Trolleys                                      258            300           314            345           380           418           460           506
River Buses                                            15             24            30             33            36            40            44            48
2286           2461          3066          3367          4085          4692           5205          5745
Overhead-Road Costs
Buses                                                 301            237           283            311           342           376           410           454
Trams & Trolleys                                       15             -              -             -             -             -             -             -
River Buses                                             1              5              7             8             8             9            10            11
317            242           290           319           350           385            420           465
Shop Wages
Buses                                                4827           5412          5644          6081           7004          8049          9224         10571
Trams & Trolleys                                     1540           1828          2178          2352           2751          3200          3767          4407
River Buses                                            78            115           124            134           145           156           169           182
6445           7355          7946          8567          9900          _IW5          _3160         15160
Parts and Supplies
Buses                                                5703           8310          9516         12472          14367         16508         18919         20168
Trams & Trolleys                                      978           1452          1701          1871           2444          3192          4170          5446
River Buses                                             6             11            49             54            59            65            72            79
687            9773                       14397         16870          19765         23161         25693
Overhead-Maintenance
Buses                                                  29             15            35             39            43            47            52            57
Trams & Trolleys                                       32             92            67             74            81            89            98           108
River Buses                                             9              9            35             39            42            47            51            56
70             116            137           15            16            183           201           22
DeprefIation-Rolling Stock                                                         1              53            1
Buses                                                9730O         10006         10734         A5368          19100         23700         29000         34200
Trams & Trolleys                                      346            888          1464          2100           3800          9200         14900         20700
River Buses                                            25             54            73            100           100           100           100           100
10101          10948         12271         17568         23000         33000          44000         55000
Depreciation-Buildings and Equipment
Buses                                                 361            363           359          2290           7700         11590         19690         20490
Trams and Trolleys                                    347            384           398           1000           590          5500          6300          7100
River Buses                                             3              3              3            10            10            10            10            10
711            750           760          3300          8300         17100          _6000         27600
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING STATISTICS
Total Passenger Trips/Year
Buses                                              978676         995861        956994        985704        1076000       1170000       1260000       1320000
Trams and Trolleys                                 104104         132806        146860        161546        177700         195700        215700        236700
River Buses                                          8999          12927         12346          12300         12300         12300         12300         12300
1091779        1141594       1116200      M159550        1266000       1378000        1488000       1569000
Average Fare/Passenger(In Millemes)
Buses                                                  15.6           16.9           21.8          29.7          31.8          32.7          34.4           36.1
Trams & Trolleys                                       11.1           15.6           21.0          28.6          30.0          31.5          33.0          34.7
River Buses                                            11.9           16.9           21.4          12.0          33,6          35.3          37.1          38.4
Bus Fleet Operations
Total Size                                           1990           1866          1943          2029           2130          2230          2330          2430
Effective Size                                       1273           1277          1351           1378          1450          1575          1700          1825
Total Kilometers Run/Year (000's)                  106809         106382        108747        106278         116000        126000        136000        146000
No. of Kilometers Run/Bus/Year                      83900          83300         80500         77125          80000         80000         80000         80000
Effective Size/Total Size (b)                         64             68            69             68            68            71            73            75
Number of Employees
Drivers                                              5558           5545          5458          5742           6030          6310          6590          6870
Conductors                                           5923           6041          6208          6240           6520          6800          7080          7360
Vehicle Maintenance                                  7461           7429          7046          7345           7720          8100          8470          8845
Inspectors                                            969            952          1013           954            995          1040          1080          1125
Administrative & Clerical                            4167           4189           3979         4143           4200          4200          4200          4200
Other                                                3748           3614          3474           2834          2900          2900          2900          2900
27826          27770         27178         27258         28365         29350          30320         31300
Bas Fleet Unit Operating Costs
Revenue/Kilometer(Km) Run                              14.3           15.9           19.2          27.5          29.5          30.4          31.9           32.6
Drivers & Conductors Wages/Km Run                       4.7            5.9            6.5           7.3           7-.8          8.3           8.9           9.6
Fuel/lOm Run                                            1.9            2.0            2.5           2.8           3.2           3.4           3.5           3.6
Shop Wages/Km.Run                                       4.5            5.1           5.2            5.7           6.0           6.4           6.8           7.2
Parts and Supplies/Km Run                               5.3             7.8           8.7          11.7          12.4          13.1          13.9          14.0



-57-
EGYPT                                                  Annex V
CAIRO TRANSPORT PROJECT                                              Page 1 of 2
TYPICAL TRAFFIC ENGINEERING MEASURES
Pedestrian
}          ~~~~Barrier
Controlled       /X               /      /    /
Pedestrian    s   /     /      k       ,P t
Crossing     s<        t    f 
/ %2     wC                                      -           _            Ped~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~estrian
Priority Street
j\Moving Vehicle
Priority Street
Organized Parking
\          W /  X   Xe VVidening
Minor Access           4       \     /X       @ 
Street         )\  \\X 5"gtExisting Curb
7 : i1   '0   /    ~Controlled Pedestrian
S   ;1      /   /   s             ~~~~~~~~Crossing
/   ;t       //   / [~~~~~~~Pedestrian Barrier
>  /  s      /;  /   Z    ~~~~~Pedestrian
>  / :=<    /./ /   >         ~~~~~Priority
{  >     //    //               ~~~~~~~~Street
Typical traffic engineering and management re-organization on pedestrian
priority street system.
Note: Typical representation not to scale or engineering accuracy.                   World Bank - 22209



-58-
EGYPT                                        ~~~~~~Annex V
EGYPT                                                         Page 2 of 2
CAIRO TRANSPORT PORJECT
TYPICAL TRAFFICE ENGINEERING MEASURES
/ Pr    aking
Controlled              / /             * S
Pedestrian
cross ained
Note:Tyicalreresentaionnottoscl or en-ineerin  accuracy  World Ba Pedestrian
/    - /  //      tr                   \   \    P~~~~~~~~~~riority Street
Footway Wideni'ng // /  
/ / S ,> Pedest~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rian
/ /ot #          >/   >~~~~~~Footvvay                                                    Street
/  +     /     /       /           ~~~~~~Widening
Pedestri'an
<               ~~~~~Barrier
_ / ~~~~Pedestrian Priority
_          S      e      e~~~~~~~~~Stets
Note: Typical representation not to scale or engineering accuracy.                    VVorld Bank -22210



-59-
Annex VI
EGYPT
CAIRO TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Cairo Urban Transport Project, Jamieson Mackay and Partners Preparation
Report, July 1980.
CTA Workshops Study, Development Research and Technological Planning
Center, February 1981.
Socio-Economic Report on Service Areas, Es-Parsons, December 1979.
Cairo Transport Project Preparation, Deloitte Haskins & Sells Associates,
March 1980.
Public Transport in Cairo, The Urban Institute, March 1979.
Urbanization in the Arab Republic of Egypt, Peter Gordon, May 1980.
Development and Infrastructure in the Greater Cairo Region, William C. Wheaton,
March 1980.
The General Population and Housing Census, Arab Republic of Egypt, 1976.
Study of the Zabbaleen in Cairo, 'OXFAM', March 1979.



________                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15403
31, c,                7                                                                       r4C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVEMBER 98O
Wt A 10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300,
ZBE SHALAAN                                 QA,X9;     
%/H ALA                                \ >   iN0DANL                        CAIRO  TRANSPORT PROJECT
RAGE                                                    ASHFINX                                                                                   3D 10<GREAT ER  CAIRO
a    |         \-    t                                     RA~~~~~~~~~~TR                  Existing Road and Rail Network
|  t             t                              A    ii\0000\   <~~~~~~~~~ MAJOR  ROADS
I    \\         X\\                           'M  's5t;S tES :; t? t \                          ~~~~~~~~SECONDARY  ROAD;
EL  ALAGUNPAVED  ROADS
f                <<    \@c                       223\\  j0-V:49 :000 it; :? 00 \ S;5 ii   t: ;;; tttBUILT-UP AREAS
2954 ' S tA 000 0 0 \0 0 tf~~~~~~~~~~~~-     UNDERGROUND RAIL LINK IN
ISCtid Mi/.ogEr,-anearv; QERATiYIN Tofi0 000 0itt T WlECSARRABN   Z   \              (ftiS \ fN  030 d000 ;i; f.005 t0: VeR 
L~~~ ~~ BYA          BAAI                         BAPO     <1                
C H A D   |                 )       0  zsn50DAHSHUR U   E  DA./d
S      D  A N            t->J                                            .                          :
s__________   '__________ _ __________                                    bl    o {tBe-,,  Suee'/  i    g    :i\;  :  ;    31'20



___________________________                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15404
2'0          cc       YRIAN                      X                                                                                                                    NOVEMBEO  980O
'/"v1i9d/forrar' 5eo LBBAEt .                              .     '.E G  Y  P T
30'1 '-/-'. iSBA                                            \, '\'X CAIRO  TRANSPORT PROJECT
I  ARAB t%$AAuR>ABD  l \                            \      "\          X      PRINCIPAL  TRANSPORT  CORRIDORS                    / /
pARAB    ~ ARABIA
I BYA   IRE U                    \I,
i\'    I       \ 'D
~.S U C A N
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rmr Corior on Jonct ons
\0   _A'                                                                                                                 EZ 1o or' '  Schemes J-der Construction /r abouto
1        N         \ , - -- oS   11CITADEL,
\\   \   l    I   lig  0                            \                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT SUBCOMPONENTS:
)x   \   I   I   11l  t                     $    -  \                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr-mcwy Comrdo,s and Junctlons
Z'// Tvrn       tXf                    G1l                                                                                         Secondcry Co-rdo,s
1  6y-  G,zo      G e6 I SG5XUZAAR   J            - *                                                '.Es R-R a                             tes
f 5*bdfS -  V        \   0           i ~~~Am. Ibn   Ars-                                                         Area UpgradLng Schemnes
-$t I 5 zL , */rn V 1t s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co-ence
C,,       i    '                                           2EXIST NG
,-'f Ra; ways
iX X | . ,, i o ,e ; 1 ,, V,~f a                        r  L               BAuilt-op Area



IB3RD 15405
NOVMEC zE E R 9
|                                                                 ~~~~~~~E GY PT 
CAIRO TRANSPORT PROJECT
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
L    __   __    ___   _     ___________            _   ________
MASIC RESTRICEED  MHROUGH ROUTERSTRATEGY  |            IMMEDIATE ACTIONPLAN|AN
BMJRTAFCCRULATIO ROUTSL CADQ    J AO MPRO MN OK
210
-    MINOR TRAFFIC CIRCULATION ROUTESLLL,PEETIAARIRT  STREETSAN
-:-:::-: :-: MAJORPEDESTRIA  ACTIVITYLPB 20ATAOTRLEDPRKNAZN
LA  IR                                                                                  56 OTBrA
*6AO   QAE                 ocrostRS                                                            BR/DOEMLISOYPR   GGRG
1/    3E0'A/iRI D&N-
M/On        A4c 'ARAB               ARABIA
0 ~~~HR ~  BYA          LEBAO PP.                                                              5ONI
MAJOR T     C         I    ROUTES                           HADr                                                MAJOR IMPROVEMES T WORKS
BU!La-UP ARABIA M                                                                                     PEDETRIAN AREAS
ABDIN -e6 LIBYA odsmRet on thEPbdal s>; t oF anr  mmr     DMOR SQUARES
20~~~ ~~  -J                     IMM~~~ EMONSTERACTION    PLEA N



