Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3329-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 19, 1982
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents May not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank uthorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)          US $1.43
1 US Dollar  $)=               LE 0.70
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   =      US $1.20
1 US Dollar (4)          =     LE 0.84
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBD    -  Central Business District
CTA    -  Cairo Transport Authority
CTD    -  Central Traffic Department
GCBC   -  Greater Cairo Bus Company
TMPU   -  Traffic Management and Planning Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:       Cairo Governorate
Giza Governorate
Cairo Transport Authority (CTA)
Amount:              US459 million equivalent
Terms:               20 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 11.6 percent per annum.
Onlending Terms:    The Government would onLend the equivalent of US§20.5
million to CTA for 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum.  The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:        The project aims at initiating a revised approach to
urban transport in Greater Cairo based on low cost
traffic engineering and management practices; at
improving the efficiency of its public transport system;
and at strengthening institutional capabilities for
urban planning, management and service delivery in the
area. In addition, it seeks to alLeviate the living and
environmental conditions of some of Greater Cairo's
urban poor and increase their access to public
transport.  To accomplish these objectives, the project
includes: traffic engineering and management measures
along key routes and in Cairo's Central Business
District, road paving for new bus routes, the enforce-
ment of traffic regulations and parking controls,
improvements in the efficiency of the public bus
service, pilot street cleaning, solid waste management,
road and footpath paving in low income areas, requisite
technical assistance and training, and feasibility
studies.  Programs accounting for some 25 percent of
project costs would benefit low income urban groups
directly. Although the limited experience and capacity
of the executing agencies as well as public acceptance
of entorcement measures are recognized as major risks,
the commitment of the Government, the increases in staff
and the expert assistance and training to be provided
unrder the project should limit these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project                                    Local    Foreign    Total
Costs: 1/                                             (US$ Million Equivalent)
Traffic Engineering and Road Maintenance              21.1        15.2      36.3
Traffic Enforcement                                    0.4         2.7       3.0
Institutional Development                              2.4         7.4       9.8
Area Upgrading                                         6.3         3.4       9.7
Public Transport                                       5.8        12.9      18.7
Design and Supervision                                 3.3         1.2 l4.6
Base Costs                                            39.3        42.8      82.1
Physical Contingencies                                 3.5         3.3       6.8
Price Contingencies                                   13.4        13.9      27.3
Total (net of duties and taxes)                       56.2        60.0    116.2
Financing                                            Local    Foreign    Total
Plan.                                                 (USe Million Equivalent)
Covernment                                            45.4         -        45.4
Cairo Transport Authority (CTA)                       10.8         -        10.8
Bank                                                   -          59.0      59.0
PPF Advances 2/                                        -           1.0       1.0
Total                                                 56.2        60.0    116.2
Estimated                  FY    83        84       85      86        87       88
Disbursements:                      (USe Million Equivalent)
Annual                      6.3    14.5    13.8    13.6          9.3      1.5
Cumulative                  6.3    20.8    34.6    48.2         57.5    59.0
Estimated Rate
of Return:           29 percent on 70 percent of project costs for which
benefits have been quantified.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 3327-EGT dated May 14, 1982
1/  The front-end-fee is not applicable because the Notice of Intention to
Negotiate the proposed loan was issued before January 5, 1982.
2/  Commitments against these advances to be allowed until June 30, 1982;
disbursements to be allowed until loan effectiveness; the undisbursed
portion as of that date to be cancelled; and the disbursed portion to
be repaid over 5 years with a service charge of 3/4 of 1 percent per
annum.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A GREATER CAIRO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab RepubLic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$59 million to help
finance the costs of a Greater Cairo Urban Development project. The proposed
loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 11.6 percent per annum. The Government would relend the equivalent of
US$20.5 million of the loan proceeds to the Cairo Transport Authority for 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. This section updates the economic situation and outlook
discussed in that report; revised country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       The last ten years have been a period of rapid growth for the
Egyptian economy.  Foliowitin dn extended period of inward-looking and
centralist economic policies, the late President Sadat in 1974 announced a new
"Open Dcor" policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development
by liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. Parallel to the changes in economic strategy, there was progress
towards peace which brought with it expectations of rapid economic expansion
and greater prosperity.
4.       Throughout the second half of the 1970's, external circumstances
as well as domestic developments were on the whole favorable to the economy.
The emergence of a strong petroleum sector with a substantial exportable
surplus, large flows of workers' remittances, the successful reopening of the
Suez Canal and the growth of the tourism industry, complemented by substantial
long-term capital inflows, allowed Egypt to reduce considerably the stringent
resource shortages of the early 1970's. Egypt entered the 1980's with a much
stronger resource base and a somewhat smaller current account deficit; but the
needs of the rapidly growing population remained and are still immense. At
present, 43 million people have only 39,000 km2 of usable land. While
Egypt's population has doubled in the last three decades, the cultivated area
has increased by less than 5 percent. Moreover, the physical and social
infrastructure of the country has suffered from long years of insufficient
investment, inadequate maintenance and the effects of war. Low productivity
and underemployment affect many parts of the economy and the consumption
capacity of the poor has improved marginally. Maintaining rapid growth will
require sustained efforts aimed at overcoming these constraints.  In
particular, continued progress depends crucially on: (i) the mobilization



- 2 -
of large national and foreign resources to finance high levels of investment;
(ii) substantial increases in the productivity of capital and labor based on
institutional reforms and effective investment planning; and (iii) an
equitable distribution of the sacrifices and benefits associated with
economic growth.
5.       After taking office in October of [981, President Mubarak expressed
his firm intention to accord top priority to economic issues.  The outward-
looking "Open Door" strategy favorable to foreign investment wiLl be
maintained. The process of liberalization is to be complemented, however,
by increased emphasis on population and human resource planning, the
rationalization of consumption with a view to ensuring greater social equity,
and a more comprehensive process of investment planning designed to economize
resources and channel a greater share of investment into domestic agriculture
and industry in order to foster increased productivity and employment. These
are some of the key concluaions emerging from a special economic conference
convened by the President in February 1982.  The new Cabinet, appointed in
January 1982, has begun the task of drawing up an economic program aimed at
achieving these objectives and meeting the difficult challenges that lie ahead.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Recent economic trends may be separated into two successive phases
with quite different characteristics: (i) a period of unprecedented resource
growth starting in 1975 and peaking in 1979/80, and (ii) starting in the
summer of 1981, a period of re-emerging resource shortages triggered by the
decline in oil prices and an apparent decline in workers' remittances.
7.       From 1975 to 1980 inclusive, overall GDP growth averaged about 10
percent in constant (80/81) prices. This very high growth rate reflects the
emergence of the petroleum sector, and rapid growth in industry, transporta-
tion, trade, finance and Suez Canal traffic.  Agricultural growth remained
very modest at around 2.2 percent, but overall performance in agriculture
improved compared to the 1965-1975 period when growth had averaged only 1.5
percent per year. Egypt's severe land constraint makes rapid agricultural
growth a very difficult task.
8.       Production of crude petroleum in 1980 averaged close to 600,000 b/d
(30 million tons a year), compared to 220,000 b/d in 1975 and 420,000 b/d in
1977, with the Egyptian share of exports (net of partner companies' share)
reaching 240,000 b/d by the end of 1980.  This very rapid growth in output
coincided with sharp rises in spot prices on the world market, leading to
large increases in export revenues, from US$289 million in 1975 to US$2.7
billion in 1980.
9.       During the same period, workers' remittances also grew at unprece-
dented rates, reaching US$2.7 billion in 1980, compared to US$366 million in
1975 and US$897 million in 1977. Moreover, Suez Canal earnings and tourism
revenues reached US$663 million and US4775 million respectively, compared to
US$85 million and US$322 million in 1975. As a result, and despite large
increases in imports (US$8.1 billion in 1980 compared to US$4.6 billion in
1975), the current account deficit narrowed to less than 7.4 percent of CDP
(US$1.6 biLlion) in 1980, compared to 18.8 percent in 1975.



- 3 -
10.      While the balance of payments improved steadily during this period,
the fiscal situation remained relatively more precarious and showed greater
fluctuations.  The overall public sector resource gap which was 23.2 percent
of GDP in 1975, narrowed to 12.8 percent in 1977, widened to 17.5 percent in
1979, before declining again to 12.8 percent in 1980/81. At the same time,
inflation emerged as a principal policy concern. Prior to 1975, Egypt was
essentially a fixed price economy, and resource allocation and investment
decisions were centrally determined. Moreover, international and domestic
inflation was low, so that while relative prices may have been out of line
with world prices, price rigidity did not create undue macroeconomic
imbalance. The situation has since changed radically. The opening of the
economy coincided with an acceleration in world inflation. At the same time,
labor migration and the rapid expansion of the economy led to supply
bottlenecks in several key sectors, such as construction and related
activities and parts of agriculture. Effective demand, especially for
consumer goods, also rose sharply following the income gains that resulted
from the growth of tourism, remittances and other receipts. All these factors
have exerted sharp upward pressure on domestic prices.  In a country
unaccustomed to inflation and flexible prices, and where there are no easily
functioning mechanisms for cost-of-living adjustments in wages and salaries,
the required price changes appeared large and inequitable, given the
substantial effect they would have on lower income groups. In the
uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact surge upward.
In the controlled sector, however, some small adjustments were made, but major
changes could not be achieved. The gap between world prices and domestic
selling prices of key traded goods continuously increased leading to large
implicit and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted
system of relative prices and incentives.
11.      Despite the persistence of structural problems relating to income
distribution and resource allocation, the growth achieved by the economy in
the 1975-1980 period was very impressive.  To a large extent, however, it
was dependent on factors over which Egypt does not have full or even
partial control. In the summer of 1981 some of the key variables that had
shown steady growth since 1975 suddenly began to reverse. First, oil prices
started to decline. The premium Suez Blend Crude declined from the US$40 peak
reached in the spring of 1981 to around US$35 in the fall of 1981 and US433 in
February of 1982.  The heavier crudes also declined in price.  Compared to
fiscal year 1980/81, the average barrel exported shows a 10-12 percent decline
in value for fiscal year 1981/82. Almost simultaneously with the decline in
oil export prices, workers' remittances decreased below the levels achieved in
1980/81. Finally Suez Canal revenues that had been expected to increase
substantially after the enlargement of the Canal, have failed to show
significant growth, reflecting excess supply conditions on the international
oil market as well as the effect of the worldwide recession on the volume of
trade.
12.      These developments have led to a deterioration of the balance of
payments, a widening of the public sector resource gap and an accelerating
pace of monetary expansion.  Preliminary estimates for fiscal year 1981/82
indicate that the current account deficit will reach about US$3.6 billion
(13.8 percent of GDP compared to 9.7 percent for 1980/81).  The overall
balance of payments deficit will come close to US$0.6 billion, requiring



- 4 -
special financing from commercial sources. Similar difficulties are affecting
the fiscal situation.  The overall public sector resource gap is likely to
widen to 15.3 percent of GDP in 1981/82 (12.8 percent in 1980/81). As a
result, there has been a large increase in domestic bank lending, from about
LE 450 million in 1980/81 to more than LE I billion in 1981/82. Accompanied
by rapid expansion of credit to the private sector, this financing has led to
a marked acceleration in monetary growth, with money supply (excluding foreign
currency deposits) increasing at a rate close to 40 percent per annum, thus
creating additional inflationary pressures.
13.      While the above situation is causing concern and requires immediate
policy measures, to some extent its source can be found in the recession
affecting the world economy. The Egyptian economy was also affected by
internal and external political events that increased the degree of
uncertainty and slowed down the flow of remittances and private capital
inflows. With the full recovery of the Sinai completed in April 1982 and the
consolidation of the internal political climate, and given adequate incentive
and exchange rate policies, conditions could again be favorable for larger
remittances, tourism revenues and an expansion of foreign private investment.
This, together with some improvement in oil prices and Suez Canal traffic,
could help strengthen the balance of payments and Government finances.
Nonetheless, while such an improvement is possible, the long-run structural
problems remain a major challenge which the Government needs to address if the
country is to sustain rapid economic growth and achieve greater well being for
its people. The economic program referred to in paragraph 5 is expected to
shed light on this objective.
Development Potential and Constraints
14.       Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief; a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled population, an agricultural potential not yet fully developed, varied
raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a key geographical
location. Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign aid and net factor income decline in
relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of areas, including
physical infrastructure. The expansion of new capacities has been slowed down
by administrative inefficiency, inadequate financial resources and weakness
in national coordination and sector programming. Managerial effectiveness
in public enterprises and financial incentives for production are often
inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity together with labor
emigration have led to shortages in critical professional and technical
skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias
and their quality needs to be upgraded.
15.       In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been based
on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture, industry
and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied.  For example, the
Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for about 22 percent of
GDP but only one percent of total employment. While tourism and remittances
directly touch the lives of a much greater number of people, they cannot
provide a solid basis for employment expansion and technological development.



- 5 -
Moreover, the long-term real growth potential for receipts from petroleum,
Suez and remittances is uncertain.  The challenge for Egypt lies in the
necessity of channeling a good part of the surpluses and revenues derived from
these sources, into productive investment in agriculture, industry and social
infrastructure in order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and
employment expansion in the domestic economy.
16.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 43 million at
present, Egypt's population is already very large for its limited usable
arable land area, with an average density exceeding 1100 per km2, higher
than that of Bangladesh or Indonesia.  Recent census results show that
population has continued to grow at an annual rate exceeding 2.5 percent,
adding almost one million people every year.  Moreover, almost half of this
increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone.  This continues to
create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates
the employment problem in the longer run. Although the Government has
initiated a more aggressive population program, it will take considerable time
and further measures to achieve measurable results in family planning programs.
17.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing disparity
in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of absolute
poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar income levels,
continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective taxation of high
income groups could lead to serious distortions.
18.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts ere required to overcome the structural con-
straints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to: (i) increase the
efficiency of the administration through organizational and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of resources and
fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful
indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a long-term export promotion
policy, including appropriate management of incentives and real effective
exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to upgrade the
country's physical infrastructure; and finally (vi) intensify efforts to
develop a coherent and effective population policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue on all these important issues between the Egyptian authorities
and the Bank. They have also been the focus of discussions among the members
of the Consultative Group for Egypt. Much work remains to be done on trying
X            to formulate practical policy packages that would help Egypt overcome these
constraints in a gradual yet effective manner.  Particular consideration is
being given by the Government and the Bank to the social implications of
alternative strategies in the full realization that progress can only last
if it ensures broad based participation in the process of economic growth.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of December 31, 1981, is estimated at about US$15 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about 61 percent of the debt outstanding while
the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were about 22 percent



and 10 percent, respectively, with the remainder being held by financial
institutions. Major creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization for the
Development of Egypt, followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal
Republic of Germany. IBRD/ IDA debt comprised about 6 percent of the total
disbursed debt. Inspite of the sharp increase in the level of external debt
during the last decade--from US$2.2 billion at end-1973 to an estimated
US415 billion at end-1981--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent in
1973 to about 16 percent in 1980/81 refLecting the sharply increased foreign
exchange earnings and favorable credit terms.
20.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium-term given Egypt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected. At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egypt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates. As a
result, the debt service ratio is projected to rise over the next five years
but will remain manageable in the 20-25 percent range. Over the longer-term,
the balance of payments and debt servicing capacity will depend crucially on
domestic trade and export promotion policies and on developments in the oil
sector. With continued exploitation of its national resources and improved
economic management, Egypt should be able to maintain its creditworthiness
throughout the period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty-first lending
operation to Egypt, and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to US42,450.7
million.2/ Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the dev-
elopment of agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply, family
planning, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1982
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other donors.
Its strategy involves entry into a broad spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Abu Qir Gas Development Project (P-3218-EGT)
which was distributed to the Board on March 4, 1982.
2/ This excludes a US$69 million loan for a Second Textiles Project which was
terminated on April 1, 1982. The Board was notified on April 16, 1982
(R82-106).



developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and
implement future policies and investment programs. The Bank's deliberately
broad multisectoral intervention has been differentiated by sectors and
tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be
expected to address these issues and implement the programs.
23.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". Efforts under Bank financed projects
have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(two imports loans/credit) and increasing production capacity and supply of
essential commodities in resource-based industries (cotton ginning,
textiles, cement and fertilizer projects). The more fundamental effort has
been directed at introducing policy and structural improvements. Towards
this end, the Bank has financed six subsector studies in textiles, building
materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering
industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating a package of
policy and investment proposals, which are embodied in our projects. To
complement these efforts the Bank has carried out a study on small-scale
industries. The Bank has also assisted the Government in a comprehensive
study of the construction/contracting industry (one of the major
bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today). The Bank proposes to support
the Government's efforts in carrying out the recommendations of these
studies. Finally, the Bank is working with the Government on a study of
Trade Strategy, Investment Planning and Shadow Prices which will focus on
the sectoral allocation and timing of Egypt's investment program in the
context of a viable foreign trade strategy.
24.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the Bank's intervention
in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that it has
adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy.
It is a role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's
wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as
an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative
Group. Preparation of projects for future lending follows this strategy,
and the pipeline includes projects in education, gas development, urban
development, transportation, water supply, agriculture (including
drainage), development finance and industry.
25.      Bank Group disbursements in FY81 represented 7.4 percent of
Egypt's medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of
total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 3.6 percent and
2.5 percent, respectively, as of June 30, 1981. In FY85, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 6.0 and 3.1 percent, respectively. It
is estimated that in FY85, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 4.6 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively, of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt. After an initial period of lower



than average disbursement performance, the disbursement percentage rate in
Egypt (20.8 percent in FY81), although still slightly below the Bank's
overalL average, is now comparable to the average of other countries in the
Region. Because of the rapid build-up of lending commitments in Egypt
between FY77 and FY80, and because historically the bulk of a loan and
credit is disbursed between the third and fifth year after approval, it is
expected that the rate of disbursements will improve further over the next
few years.
26.       IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about US$74 million and include: a ceramics project, a ready-made garment
project, a project for an agricultural complex primarily for sugar beet, a
poultry project, a fish farming project, a building material project, and a
tourism project. IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint
venture projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex 12.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
27.      With over 19 million (45 percent) of its people living in urban
areas, Egypt is one of the most urbanized countries among those with
comparable per capita GNP. In the period since 1947, Egypt's population
has more than doubled while the urban population has increased over
threefold from about 6 million to over 19 million. A substantial portion of
this increase has been in Greater Cairo, which includes the Cairo
Governorate, the cities of Giza and Imbaba in the adjacent Giza
Governorate, and the city of Shoubra El-Kheima in the adjoining Kalyubia
Governorate.  During the period, Greater Cairo's population has increased
from about 2 million or one-third of the total urban population to about
9.5 million or about one-half of the urban population.  Some 30 percent of
all urban families live below the relative urban poverty level.
28.      This unprecedented growth in the urban population and in its
concentration is attributable in part to a high population growth rate of
over 2.5 percent, but more importantly to domestic migration.  Because
agriculture has made a limited contribution to employment and income
growth, migration from rural to already densely populated urban areas in
search of better employment opportunities is high.
29.      Egypt's urban sector is characterized by a housing shortage
coupled with inadequate urban services.  Furthermore, there are marked
disparities in access to services. About 20 percent of the urban
population do not have access to safe water, and some 35 percent are
without wastewater disposal facilities. Past Government policies, high
housing standards, rising construction costs and limited construction
capacity have exacerbated the housing problem. Similarly, urban services
have lagged behind the needs of the growing population. As a result of
very limited investment in these services in the past, and a shortage of
funds and qualified staff for maintenance, most of the existing water,
sewerage, and sanitary facilities are strained and urgently in need of



- 9 -
repairs. Refuse and solid waste collection is a major problem throughout
urban Egypt, with the governorates' responsibility limited to street
cleaning. The collection of household refuse is left to smalL private
contractors, the zabbaleen, who earn their living by sorting the refuse at
their settlements, and using or selling all recyclable materials.
30.      The Government's tariff and pricing policies have prevented the
authorities responsible for urban services from raising enough revenues to
adequately maintain existing facilities and respond to new demands.
Tariffs and charges bear little relation to production and operating
costs. Sewerage services are provided free, water tariffs are only 10 to
20 percent of the cost of supply, electricity charges are inadequate and
fare revenues in public transport usually do not cover operating costs.
31.      Though relative to other services the provision of health and
education services in Egypt is good, they still do not reach a large
proportion of the poor. While in urban areas primary school space is
available to an average of about 75 percent of children in the relevant age
group, in low income fringe areas of Greater Cairo primary enrollments are
lower. Secondary education has a theoretical bias; training opportunities
for skilled and semi-skilled workers, particularly in industrial and
construction trades, are limited; and adult literacy is only 44 percent.
The geographical coverage of health facilities is fairly extensive, but
their services are lacking in quality, particularly in lower income areas.
32.      The Egyptian Government recognizes the dimension of these growing
problems and President Mubarak has accorded top priority to alleviating the
housing shortage facing Egypt's large and rapidly increasing population.
The Cairo Governorate is taking an initiative and has started exploring the
possibility of Bank assistance to develop sites and services for this
purpose.
Organization
33.      Egypt is divided into 26 governorates, each headed by a governor
appointed by the President. The governor acts as the head of all civil
service staff in his governorate. Following the amendment in 1980 of Law
No. 52 on the Local Government System, governorates are now, in principle,
responsible for the planning, design and execution of their own
investments. In practice, the delineation between responsibilities of
central versus local agencies is evolving slowly, and a clear picture of
the implications of the new law will take some time to emerge. To
discharge these responsibilities, governorates have technical departments
(directorates), which are extensions of the central government at the local
level. The main directorates are: Housing, Education, Health, Social
Affairs, Legal Affairs, Finance, and Planning. The Ministry of Local
Government sets general policies and guidelines in line with national
development plans and coordinates the actions of local government units
with central ministries.
34.      Although governorates now have control over all local technical
and administrative matters, they lack experienced staff, and often require
technical support from central government agencies.  As regards the urban



- 10 -
sector, this support is generally provided by the Ministry of Planning, the
Ministry for Reconstruction, Housing and Land Reclamation, the General
Organization for Physical Planning, the Central Traffic Department of the
Ministry of Interior, the Transport Planning Authority in the Ministry of
Transport, and the National Organization for Potable Water and Sanitary
Drainage. Coordination of activities is difficult because responsibilities
are divided among several agencies at the center and between governorate
and central agency departments at the local level.
Previous Bank Assistance
35.      The Bank's lending in the urban sector per se began with a US$14
million Credit (No. 831-EGT) made in 1978 for the Cairo, Alexandria and
Assiut governorates. The basic objectives of the project are to assist
with the development of low-cost solutions to urban problems in the areas
of shelter, employment and other urban services (including solid waste
management), and particularly to make the investments responsive to the
needs of the urban poor.  It is conceived as a demonstration project, to
test key elements of possible policies and execution methods, and thus help
to lay the basis for an expanded urban development program.  The pilot
solid waste management scheme is progressing well, and has yielded valuable
results. However, the shelter components, which form the core of the
project, have been delayed.  Organizational and staff changes, and
insufficient design capability are the main contributing factors.  The
willingness of the agencies to discuss and overcome the problems with the
help of intensified IDA supervision missions are positive steps towards
improved progress. Although the problems of the shelter components in
Alexandria are still being resolved, work on the Cairo and Assiut
components is now progressing, and these agencies are making concerted
efforts to expedite the work.
36.      In addition, the Bank has made other loans/credits which touch the
urban sector. A US$56 million loan was made in 1977 for a water supply
project in Alexandria; a US$2 million water supply engineering credit made
in 1978, led to a US$56.6 million loan in 1981 for a water supply project
in Beheira (under which important institutional changes have taken place).
Two credits totalling US$30 million have been provided under the first and
second population projects, portions of which are supporting family
planning and health care services in several low income urban areas.
Another three credits totalling US4105 million were made for education, in
part to meet a variety of training and educational needs of the urban poor;
the first project is now complete, and execution of the other two is
proceeding well. Discussions on another urban project have been initiated
with the Government, and a fourth education project is scheduled for
appraisal in June 1982.
37.      Although urban shelter programs need expansion, the Government
agreed during the course of identification of the proposed project that it
was desirable to defer consideration of further shelter-related investments
until sufficient experience had been gained under the first project.  A
decision was made to develop a project that would address the question of
appropriate standards and costs in other areas of major concern to the



- 11 -
Government, and Cairo's serious transport and waste disposal problems
seemed to provide appropriate mechanisms. It was also felt that the
project should be oriented towards broader municipal management and
planning issues which are among the factors limiting institutional
capability.
The Project Area
38.      Greater Cairo, one of the world's largest cities, and the largest
in Africa and the Middle East, is the location of the proposed project. As
*          Egypt's seat of Government and the principal social, educational and
cultural center, Greater Cairo dominates the pattern of urban growth and
employment in Egypt. Growing at the rate of about 4 percent annually
*          (versus an urban growth rate of 3.3 percent nationally), its 9.5 million
people are expected to reach over 16 million by the turn of the century.
Population density, averaging about 40,000 persons per km2, and peaking
to 100,000 per km2 in the older districts, is significantly higher than
in cities such as Manhattan (26,000/km2) and Bangkok (21,000/km2) which
have significantly better infrastructure. Cairo's density profile then
reflects serious overcrowding and an excessive demand on existing urban
infrastructure.
39.      Greater Cairo's road network, public transport and refuse and
solid waste management services are among the most deficient elements in
its infrastructure. Although the 25 percent of total surface area occupied
by roads compares favorably with other major cities, the city faces serious
transport problems.  These are attributable to several factors including:
bottlenecks in the existing primary roads, and their state of disrepair due
to inadequate maintenance; the lack of surfacing on a large proportion of
the secondary and tertiary network; growth in private car ownership;
ineffective parking controls and other traffic management measures; and a
poor public transit service. The problems in Cairo's Central Business
District (CBD) which covers an area of approximately 2 km2, are
illustrative of Cairo's overall problems. About 150,000 private vehicles
go through the area daily, and some 17,000 vehicles are estimated to be
parked in the area at any one time.  Footpaths are frequently unsurfaced or
blocked by building materials and parked vehicles, as are curb lanes, and
all forms of motorized traffic vie for the remaining road space along with
masses of pedestrians who spill over into the roadway due to lack of
footpath space. At peak hours, traffic in the CBD is almost at a
standstill.
40.      While private car ownership is low at around 20 per thousand
inhabitants (versus 300 to 450 for many European and North American
cities), it has recently been growing at an average of 17 percent
annually. A program of graduated increases in the price of gasoline, which
is currently subsidized, would be among the most effective measures to
restrain automobile use. The Bank has raised the issue of gasoline pricing
with the Government in the context of the energy sector lending program.
In this context, the Government has stated its intention to bring domestic
energy prices more closely in line with international prices, and as part
of this program has already increased the price of gasoline over the last
three years to bring it to a level equal to about 60 percent of world
prices.



- 12 -
41.      Averaging 7 percent annually in the 1971-78 period, the growth in
transport demand has outstripped the available service. While some 23
percent of all trips are made on foot, as much as 63 percent of all trips
are made by public transport.  Some 90 percent of peak hour motorized trips
are made on buses and other high occupancy vehicles including about 800
shared taxis. Problems associated with the bus service include congested
streets, severe overcrowding, erratic schedules and frequent breakdowns,
resulting in long passenger queues and traffic delays.
42.      Cairo's rudimentary solid waste management system is rendered even
more ineffective by the lack of surfacing on secondary and tertiary roads
especially in densely populated low income areas which constitute about 60
percent of the city.  The consequent accumulation of refuse on the streets
causes serious public health problems. Flooding, silting and sewer over-
flows contribu.e further to the health hazards.   Inhabitants of these areas
cannot afford collection charges, and the recyclable value of their garbage
is so low that the zabbaleen have no interest in collecting it. The
absence of street lighting and the inaccessibility to emergency vehicles
add to the difficulties to living in these areas.
The Project Agencies
43.      The Cairo City Council, under the chairmanship of the governor, is
responsible for overall municipal policy and administration in the Cairo
Governorate. City operations are managed by three main departments which
are respectively responsible for solid waste, electrical and mechanical
services; roads and bridges; and planning and construction. Cairo is
divided into twelve districts.  Traffic enforcement and public information
is the responsibility of the Governorate but is coordinated by the Central
Traffic Department of the Ministry of Interior. The Traffic Management and
Planning Unit (ThPU) in the City Council's Planning and Construction
Department, which should normally be the focal point for the planning and
management of transport-related activities, is inadequately staffed to
carry out its responsibilities for the city in general, and the proposed
project in particular. Substantial technical assistance, additional staff
and training are, therefore, planned for the Cairo TMPU under the project
(para. 61).
44.      The Giza Governorate's administrative machinery is similar to that
of Cairo with one main exception: there is no traffic management and
planning unit. The Giza City Council recognizes this deficiency. The
project, therefore, provides for the establishment of an adequately staffed
TMPU in Giza (para. 61).
45.      Bus services in Greater Cairo are provided by the Cairo Transport
Authority (CTA) which is governed by a Board of Directors and has a staff
of about 27,000 employees. CTA faces serious staffing, maintenance,
managerial and financial difficulties; and the quality of its services is
seriously deficient. It has a total bus fleet of some 2,300 vehicles,
including those of its subsidiary, the Greater Cairo Bus Company (GCBC).
(The GCBC was set up in 1978 to offer a premium service but has not been
very successful.)  However, less than 70 percent of the total fleet is



- 13 -
generally available for service.   CTA's poor performance is attributable
to several interlinked factors, principal among which are politically
determined low fares.  Increases in these fares require the approval of the
People's Assembly. Because wages are low, CTA is unable to attract skilled
staff. Its maintenance facilities are inadequate, thus resulting in poorly
maintained buses, reduced average bus lives and an overall fleet shortage.
In an era of rising costs, insufficient revenues (due to low fares) coupled
with increasing rolling stock needs lead to a widening gap between CTA's
costs and revenues, and growing subsidy requirements.
46.      Currently, CTA's senior management is strong, understands the
problems it faces, and is intent upon beginning the process of resolving
them with a view to eventually reducing the levels of subsidies needed by
CTA. Their ability to reverse a continuing deterioration in total vehicle
kilometers run (which fell to a ten-year low in 1974) and their ability to
raise average bus fares from 1.6 piastres in 1977 to 5 piastres in 1982 are
promising indications of a commitment to improve CTA's performance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.      The project was identified in November 1978 and a feasibility
study was prepared with financial assistance from the Overseas Development
Administration of the United Kingdom. Continuing discussions with the
Government resulted in an important shift in emphasis away from
construction of costly eLevated roadworks and flyovers to relatively
low-cost traffic engineering and management schemes.  Project preparation
was reviewed by Bank missions in June 1979, September 1979, and February
1980. The project was appraised in May 1980, and as a result of the
Government's subsequent proposal to substitute some components, the project
scope was further refined in follow-up discussions in Cairo in September
1980 and January 1981. At the Government's request, the project was held
in abeyance for a period of time pending a discussion of the lending
terms. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 14 to 27, 1982.
The Government's delegation was led by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Senior
Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy. The project's main features are
summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.  A staff
appraisal report entitled "Greater Cairo Urban Development Project"
(No.3327-EGT) dated May 14, 1982 is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
48.      The main objectives of the proposed project are to initiate a
revised approach to urban transport based on low cost measures, with
special attention to the needs of lower income groups; to improve the
efficiency of public transport; and to strengthen concerned Government
institutions, thereby developing their planning and management capabilities
and enhancing their capacity to undertake further urban development.  In
addition, the project seeks to alleviate the living and environmental
conditions of Greater Cairo's urban poor through the upgrading of selected



- 14 -
low income areas. This pilot effort, which would partially build upon the
experience gained under the first project (Credit No. 831-EGT), is expected
to develop a replicable design for further upgrading and solid waste
management in Greater Cairo.
Project Description
49.      The project would pursue these objectives through an integrated
package of measures. It consists of a four-year "time-slice" of traffic
engineering, road maintenance and traffic management programs to improve
the existing road network, pave new bus routes, and reduce the congestion
in Cairo's Central Business District (CBD), together with associated policy
measures to enforce traffic regulations and parking controls. It also
provides for institutional improvements including a series of
organizational and administrative measures, staff training, related
technical assistance and studies; a pilot area upgrading program; and
improvements in the operations of the Cairo Transport Authority (CTA).
Traffic Engineering and Road Maintenance
50.      To increase traffic flows and road capacities, thus providing
attractive alternatives for non-essential vehicles which currently use
roads in the busy CBD as through routes, and to improve bus operating
conditions, traffic engineering measures and road maintenance works would
be carried out along important primary routes which are currently unable to
meet traffic needs. Routes peripheral to the CBD in Cairo, and the busy
Giza, Galaa and Dokki squares in Giza would be included under the project.
Measures would include maintenance, resurfacing and widening of roads and
footpaths, construction of one flyover, limited expansion of traffic
signals, channelization of junctions, improved road signs and markings, and
street lighting. To improve access to major through routes, and to
increase bus routes in industrial and high density residential areas,
similar traffic engineering_measures and road maintenance works would be
implemented along selected secondary routes (see map 15404).
51.      A road paving program for new bus routes in selected low income
areas would be undertaken, thus increasing access to public transport for
lower income groups. Selection of these routes was based inter alia on
minimum population densities and agreed between the Cairo and Giza
Governorates and CTA in consultation with Bank staff.
52.      To improve the efficiency of the Governorates' ongoing road
maintenance and street lighting program, a workshop would be built and
related vehicles, equipment, and materials would be procured. Preventive
maintenance and satisfactory operation of these vehicles and equipment,
which are currently lacking, would be emphasized, and requisite technical
assistance and training provided.



- 15 -
CBD Traffic Management
53.      To improve traffic circulation within the CBD, to help ensure that
non-essential traffic is discouraged from entering the congested commercial
areas, to gradually introduce on-street parking control and to provide
protection, safety and comfort for the pedestrian, traffic engineering and
management measures would be implemented in the CBD (see map 15405). These
would include road repair and maintenance, improvements to the traffic
circulation plan including one-way traffic flows as needed, footpath
construction and widening, the provision of pedestrian facilities, and two
off-street parking garages. Agreement has been reached that parking
charges for these garages would be set to recover their operating and
capital costs (Cairo Governorate Project Agreement, Section 2.03). Parking
violation fines, which have been increased recently by the authorities, are
expected to be a further deterrent to violators.
Traffic Enforcement
54.      To strengthen the enforcement of traffic regulations (including
parking control) an existing police training center would be refurbished,
and vehicles, equipment, materials, training and technical assistance
provided for the traffic police force. Facilities for vehicle inspection
and driver licensing would also be installed. Agreement has been reached
that the Cairo Governorate would maintain and adequately staff and equip
its traffic and parking control unit to enforce regulations in the CBD
(Cairo Governorate Project Agreement, Section 2.04). The Cairo and Giza
Governorates have also agreed to establish by December 31, 1984, and
thereafter maintain specialized units to assist in the investigation of
traffic accidents (Cairo Governorate Project Agreement, Section 2.06, Giza
Governorate Project Agreement, Section 2.04).
Institutional Development
55.      The three project agencies, the Cairo and Giza Governorates and
CTA, appointed local consultants during project preparation to assist them
in preparing designs for planned investments. These services were
partially financed through advances totalling US$l million from the
International Development Association's (IDA) Project Preparation Facility
(PPF).1/ The proposed project includes consultant services totalling about
400 man-months for design and supervision and about 500 man-months for
institutional development. Agreement has been reached that the project
agencies would appoint qualified and experienced consultants to assist in:
(i) developing the municipal planning and traffic engineering
1/  PPF advances were granted on IDA terms because the project was
originally planned to be financed with an IDA Credit. Since the
project is being financed with a Bank loan, it was agreed during
negotiations that the PPF advances would not be refinanced under this
loan, and would be repaid over five years at a service charge of 3/4 of
1 percent per annum.



- 16 -
and management capabilities of the project Governorates; (ii) overseeing
project implementation; (iii) developing maintenance, operational,
managerial and financial procedures for CTA; (iv) training traffic police,
CTA staff and staff of the Governorates; (v) developing a City of Cairo
Strategic Action Plan; and (vi) preparing selected feasibility studies and
surveys for possible future investments (Project Agreements, Sections
2.02). CTA has also agreed that they would jointly review with the Bank
recommendations of the consultants regarding CTA's organization, management
and financial procedures and any action required to implement them (CTA
Project Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).  Agreement has also been reached that
the Government and the Bank would jointly review the recommendations of the
consultants who would prepare the Strategic Action Plan, the feasibility
studies and the surveys, and any action required to implement them (Cairo
Governorate Project Agreement, Section 2.07).
Area Upgrading
56.      An innovative area upgrading program would be undertaken on a
pilot basis in the low income areas of Rod El Farag and Abdine in Cairo and
the Old Giza and Monira in Giza (see map 15404). These have been selected
on the basis of agreed criteria including minimum population densities.
A detailed area plan setting out street widths and sidewalks, public
transport routes, and pedestrian and market areas would be developed. The
road network would be rehabilitated by the removal of accumulated and
compacted refuse, levelling and paving of road and footpaths to minimum
standards, the provision of street cleaning, waste collection and disposal
services and the installation of street lighting. This would result in
substantial improvements in general environmental conditions, permit
access for emergency vehicles, and improve traffic flows. The Cairo and
Giza Governorates have agreed that, upon completion of the program they
would provide the funds and services needed to ensure the continuation of
these activities (Cairo Governorate Project Agreement, Section 2.10, Giza
Governorate Project Agreement, Section 2.07).
Public Transport
57.      In addition to physical improvements along selected primary and
secondary routes and road paving for new bus routes (paras. 50 and 51), the
efficiency of public transport would be improved through a comprehensive
set of measures designed to strengthen the management, planning and
maintenance capabilities of CTA. These are essential first steps in the
long term process of developing CTA as a viable public utility. The
institutional development program (para. 55) would be complemented with the
following measures: upgrading of operating facilities, including the
completion of a bus overhaul center at Gisr Suez and improved procedures
for maintenance and garage services; equipping of a training center for
drivers and maintenance staff; and the provision of a limited
radio-teLephone system and service trucks to deal effectively with
operational emergencies.
58.      CTA is aware of the need for a comprehensive program to improve
operations and towards this end is taking several measures.  One key



- 1 7 -
measure CTA has already introduced is the provision of incentives to
drivers and mechanics to make the CTA compensation package more competitive
with the private sector, thus reducing staff turnover and increasing
productivity. In addition, CTA has agreed to further develop its system
for monitoring the achievement of its operational and financial objectives
through key performance indicators acceptable to the Bank (CTA Project
Agreement, Section 3.01). Understandings have been reached that these
would include targetted increases in effective outshedding from the current
level of 68 percent to 77 percent of the bus fleet by 1985, an increase in
the 1979 average of 207 kilometers run per bus per day to 219 by 1985; and
a decrease in manning ratios from 20 employees per bus in 1979 to 16 by
1985.
59.      Improvements in CTA's maintenance capabilities would have a
beneficial impact on revenues and capital costs. Reductions in the latter
would result from longer bus lives due to improved maintenance and,
therefore, lower rolling stock needs than would otherwise be the case, all
the more important in view of recent increases in rolling stock prices.
Variable operating costs per kilometer run are expected to exceed the
average revenue per kilometer run. Because operational improvements would
increase the number of buses on the road at any given time, in the short-
term, these improvements would further widen the gap between revenues and
operating costs. As a result, CTA's operating subsidy needs, which
currently represent only about 25 percent of its total subsidy require-
ments, would increase. Therefore, the long-term financial viability of CTA
is dependent upon further tariff increases which require formal approval of
the People's Assembly. While the resolution of this issue is likely to
take some time, there are a number of measures that CTA can take to improve
its financial situation. These include, but are not limited to, increases
in the average fares by changing the composition of first and second class
seating, rationalizing route alignments, and increasing operational
efficiency, thereby reducing costs per kilometer. Accordingly, agreement
has been reached that, in order to improve its financial position, CTA
would take measures to increase its revenues and reduce its operating
expenses, and exchange views regularly with the Bank regarding the progress
achieved (CTA Project Agreement, Section 4.03). On its part the Government
has agreed to take all action required to ensure compliance by CTA with
these obligations (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). Submission to the Bank
of a satisfactory plan with respect to the measures to be taken to improve
CTA's financial position would be a condition of disbursement of loan
proceeds allocated to the CTA component (Loan Ag-reement, Schedule 1, para.
3).
60.      CTA has expressed an interest in Bank assistance for a more
comprehensive package of improvements under a possible future project.
However, such a project would need to be accompanied by a serious effort to
achieve long-term financial viability. The Government ia aware that future
fare increases with restructured tariffs would have to be addressed in this
context as part of a program of overall financial reforms. Accordingly, a
comprehensive strategy to improve CTA's finances would be developed with
expert assistance as part of the institutional development program and the
experts' conclusions and recommendations reviewed jointly with the Bank
(para. 55).



- 18 -
Project Organization
61.      The Cairo and Giza Governorates would be responsible, through their
relevant departments, for the following components: traffic engineering and
road maintenance, traffic management, traffic enforcement and area upgrading.
The CTA would execute the public transport component. The Cairo and Giza
Governorates would need two and one senior advisors respectively to oversee
project execution, to strengthen the Traffic Management and Planning Unit
(TMPU) in the Cairo Governorate and to help establish a similar unit in the
Giza Governorate. Agreement has been reached that the Governorates would
recruit adequately qualified and experienced advisors by November 30, 1982
(Cairo Governorate Project Agreement, Section 2.05(b), and Giza Governorate
Project Agreement, Section 2.03(b)). To help ensure that these units
discharge their responsibilities effectively, agreement has been reached that
by March 31, 1983, two engineers and four technicians would be added to the
staff of the Cairo TMPU and two engineers and three technicians would be hired
for the Giza TMPU which is to be established (Cairo Governorate Project
Agreement, Section 2.05(a), and Giza Governorate Project Agreement Section
2.03(a)).
62.      Functional or detailed designs as the case may be and related tender
documents for the first year's implementation program have been completed. In
addition, specifications and draft tender documents for vehicles and equipment
for the Cairo Governorate, for the traffic police, and for training equipment
for CTA have also been completed. All physical works and technical assistance
would be completed by December 31, 1986. The Loan closing date would be
December 31, 1987.
Project Costs and Financing
63.      The total project cost net of duties and taxes (from which the
project is exempted) is estimated at US$116.2 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$60 million (52 percent of total costs). A physical contin-
gency of 10 percent was applied to all base costs except the technical
assistance component. Price contingencies have been estimated at 8 percent in
1982, 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984 and 7 percent thereafter for
foreign costs, and 14 perce-it in 1982 and 13 percent thereafter for local
costs. Total price contingencies are estimated at 31 percent of base costs
plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies are estimated to be about 42
percent of base costs, Consultant costs have been estimated at US$10,200 per
man-month including travel and subsistence.
64.      The proposed Bank loan of US$59 million would finance 98 percent of
the foreign exchange cost of the project. US$1 million has been provided
through PPF advances (para. 55). The Government would finance the local costs
totalling US$56.2 million. Under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to
the Bank the Government would onlend US$20.5 million equivalent of the loan
proceeds to CTA at the prevailing Bank lending rate (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)). The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. The execution
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). To permit rapid and efficient project



- 19 -
implementation, retroactive financing of up to US$400,000 is proposed for
expenditures incurred after June 30, 1982 on consultant services required for
project planning and designs, and for preliminary work on selected smaller
items.
Procurement and Disbursements
65.      Contracts of US$250,000 or more for equipment and materials would be
tendered under international competitive bidding procedures (ICB) according to
the Bank's guidelines. Domestic preferences of 15 percent or the applicable
custom duty (whichever is lower) would be granted. Civil works contracts
costing US41.5 million or more would also follow ICB procedures. Contracts
costing not more than US$250,000 for goods and US41.5 million for civil works
would be awarded under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank. These procedures do not exclude foreign bidders.
66.      The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as follows:  37 percent
of total expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
local expenditures ex-factory for equipment and materials, and 75 percent of
other local expenditures; and 100 percent of expenditures for consultant
services and training.
Benefits
67.      The project marks the adoption by the Cairo and Giza Governorates and
the CTA of several innovative approaches to planning, operating, maintaining,
and delivering some of the urban services for which they are responsible.
Investments planned under the project would generate a range of economic and
social benefits in the immediate future, and in addition make an important
contribution to the subsequent development of Greater Cairo. Furthermore,
over time their demonstration effects could well influence the approaches of
other Governorates.
68.      Economic benefits would stem from several factors.  First, the
traffic engineering and management measures planned under the project would
permit a more efficient utilization of the existing road network at a low
cost. Second, the improvements planned would result in substantial savings to
passengers in travel time and to service providers in vehicle operating
costs. Third, the increased mobility and shorter travel time resulting from
planned improvements in the physical infrastructure and in the efficiency of
the bus service should help to increase the productivity of Greater Cairo's
labor force.  Significant longer term gains would also accrue from the
strengthening of institutional capabilities for planning, management and
service delivery within the Governorates and within CTA.
69.      In quantitative terms, the various components yield extremely
attractive rates of return both individually and in the aggregate. The
economic rate of return (ERR) of the road network improvements, representing
about 18 percent of total costs, is estimated at 42 percent. About 62 percent
of these benefits would accrue to public transport users. The CBD component
is estimated to yield an ERR of 18 percent for road improvements, and 20
percent for off-street parking. The ERR of the CTA component is estimated at



- 20 -
26 percent.  In the aggregate, components accounting for some 70 percent of
total project costs for which benefits are quantifiable would yield an ERR of
about 29 percent. Sensitivity analyses show that the project could bear a
reduction in the value of time savings by about 50 percent, and an increase in
capital costs by about 20 percent, and still be economically viable (with an
ERR of nearly 24 percent).
70.      Programs accounting for some 22 percent of project costs will
directly benefit over 200,000 urban poor people in the areas to be upgraded
and an indeterminable number of low income public transport users and
pedestrians. In addition, the urban poor would benefit indirectly from
reduced traffic hazards, and reduced congestion and pollution, as would the
rest of the populace. The rehabilitation of the secondary and access roads in
selected densely populated low income neighborhoods - by the removal of
accumulated and decaying refuse, leveling and paving of roads and footpaths,
provision of a street cleaning service and of street lighting - would help to
substantially improve public health. Furthermore this would improve emergency
vehicle access, traffic flows and general enrivonmental conditions. As a
result of planned improvements, the land values in these areas are expected to
increase, perhaps by as much as 10 percent. The opening of new bus routes in
low income areas would also directly benefit the urban poor. Although modest
in size in relation to the magnitude of the overall problem, the solid waste
management component would be instrumental in developing a viable low cost
design that could be replicated on a scale sufficient to deal effectively with
Greater Cairo's serious solid waste disposal problem. The project would also
create a substantial number of employment opportunities, many of which are
expected to benefit low income groups.
Risks
71.      Because the project supports new programs, it necessarily entails
some risks. First, there is a risk that the combined program of institutional
changes and physical rehabilitation would strain the agencies' limited
capabilities. This risk is accentuated by the low public sector wage scales.
Considerable care has, however, been taken to set a realistic work schedule,
based on the agencies' estimated execution capacity, to increase staff numbers
where they are inadequate, to provide staff incentives, to supplement staff
with expert assistance as necessary, and to provide training for key staff.
Second, the effective execution of the new approaches included in the project
would require continuing strong Government commitment. The record shows that
the Governorates have successfully developed valuable momentum on the main
project components during the project preparation period with limited staff
and financial resources. A third risk is associated with the additional
financial resources required by CTA to keep vehicle maintenance standards at
appropriate levels. However, this risk is considered acceptable, particularly
in view of the substantial increases in financial assistance from the
Government to CTA since 1974 which reflect a continuing Government commitment
to improving public transport in Greater Cairo.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Governorate
of Cairo, the Governorate of Giza and the Cairo Transport Authority (CTA),
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
73.      Special features of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A special condition of loan effectiveness is execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CTA (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01).
74.      1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 19, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAC S
LAND AREA (THOUSANUI  SO. KM1.)                                                             - llUST RECENT ESIIMATE)
TOTAL            1001.4                                                       MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       28.4                                   M0ST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE fb         MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
UNP PEh CAPITA (USU)                   100.0        170.0      480.0                  665.5                   1616.2
ENERGY CONhUbMPTION PEK CAPIIA
(KILoGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)       299.4        321.2      565.1                 758.3                    1324.1
POPULATlON AND VIIAL STAISTIlCS
POPULATION, MlU-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25949.0        32341.0   38868.0
URBAN PUPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9           42.2       45.1                   45.2                     64.2
PUPULATIUN PKOJECTIOliS
POPULATlON IN YEAK 2000 (MILLIONS)                          60.2
SlAllONARY PUPULATION (MILLIONS)                   .-      104.0
YEAR STAIOUNARY POPULATION IS REACHEp                     2080
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EiM.                        25.9         32,3       38.8                  36.3                      34.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULIURAL LAND   1016.8         1142,8    1338.4                  442.7                      94.5
POPULAIIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           44.2         41.b       40.0                  44.2                      40.7
1i-b4 YRS.                           54.7         54,9       56.6                  52.4                      55.3
o6  YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1          3.3        3.4                   3.4                       4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                                2.4          2.a        2.0                   2.7                       2.4
URbAN                                4.1          3.3        2.8                   4.6                       3.7
CRUDE SIRTH KATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.0         38.1       37.0                  41.5                      31.4
CRGUDE DEATh KATE (PER THUUSANU)      (8.8         14.9       12.2                   12.8                      8.4
tUSS KEPRODUCIION RATE                 3.0          2.7        2.4                    2.9                      2.3
FAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ,.        206.0      187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..            9.0       17.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96,0         99.0       94.0                  96.3                     108.3
PEK LAPIIA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQIIRUSENTS)                    1D4,0        104.0      (09.0                 110.4                     107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER UAY)            73.0         71.0       75.0                  73.4                      65.8
oF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0         17.0       19.0                  17.1                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY KATE       3t.7         21.9       (4,9                   14.9                      7.6
hEAL IN
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46,1           51.6       56,6                  55.9                      64.1
IhtANI MORIALITY RATE (PER
IHOUSAND)                            (09.3        116.0       45.0                     ..                     70.9
ACCLSS IO SAFE WAIEK (PERCENT OF
OPULATIUON)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       66  0                 59.4                      65.7
UKRbA                               3V.5           *-       88,0                  83.9                      79.7
RURAL                                 ,.           ..       50U0                  40.8                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCKEIA UlSPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TuTAL                                 ,.           ..         ..                     ..                     59.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                      75.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSlCLAN            2556.1       1856.7    1046.0/c               4174.5                    1728.2
POeULATION PER NURSING PERSON       273 .OL      1588.4ft  1096.6b                1780.5                    1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              466.0        448.7     459.6                  647.4                     471.2
URBAN                                 *-        352.2      654.0                 547.2                     558.0
RURAL                                 *-       2128.1     29S1.8                3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HUSPITAL BED             ..           ..       30.8                  25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLU
TUTAL                                 ..           ..        5.2
UKBAN                                4.8           ..        5,0
KURAL                                 ..           ..        5,5
AVEKAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER KROOf
TOIAL                                 ..           ..        1.8
URBAN                                1.6           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
ToTAL                                 ..           ..       45.7
URBAN                               37.8           ..       76.9
KURAL                                 ..           ..       18.6



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                          Page 2 of 6
Page 2
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAG7S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0         70.0       74.0                  85.1                     101.7
MALE                  80.0         88.0       88.0                 101.5                     103.0
FEMALE                52.0         54.0       58.0                  67.5                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  16.0         33.0      47.,0                  38.0                      35.3
MALE                  23.0         44.0       60.0                  48.1                      34.9
FEMALE                 9.0         21.0       35.0                  28.3                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  22.0           19.0       20.0                  11.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         38.0       34.0                  34.9                      29.6
SECONDARY                           16.0         25.0      25.0                   23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         26.0           ..       43.5                  43.0                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          4.0        7.6                  18.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          57.9        136.1     142.1                  121.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPLLATION                           1.9         16.4       17.0                  37.4                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         23.0       83.0                  35.9                      62.8
CINEMiA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           2.0         ..                   3.0                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7481.4       9041.9   10839.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     7.3          7.2        7.8                  10.5                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               58.0         54.4       50.4                  43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  12.0         18.8       28.6                  27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.9         28.0       27.9                  26.4                      31.8
MALE                                  53.2         51.5       50.9                  47.0                      49.0
F2EMALE                                4.2          4.1        4.4                   5.7                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.6        1.6                    1.8                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/d         17 4/d e  22.0/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.47a         42:87    49.27.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/d          7.0/d,e   5.1/f
L0WEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/d         18.7/d,e  14.87..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     131.0                  271.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..       94.0                 144.6                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URaAN                                 ..           ..     180.0                  400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      118.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      21.0                   22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..      25.0                   29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; anid for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practing in the country;  /d Rural expenditures;  /e 1964-65;  /f National, 1974-75.
May, 1981



- 24 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
Pag  3of 6
DEFINlITIOS OP SOCIAL INIDICATORS
Notes:o  Although ccIl  dat- e  drai   .r..taus   etrIlly lodged  th   etstbesto   sdtlsl    tsol  alhc be toted  thtche  s "p                                      I be t Ie-
The e,   roegop   c   I   at  .se ..u..ty  getu   of -hes,j-tc....teeyssd  (2) ettuett,Y getup  iSth ......hat higher sa-rgt Iccosa that zhecs...teey.gtup
otd to act  sloo_       tu   ic orheceie    ut e "btg ..r.tages of one Sadi-csecr  -oatohes.  Tho-   ttaa-r  o                              aftI   cptSilale
aceitdoota a  acte  scg the, reotccya-d rafate-ce  t..                                                                                                            --i
LiftS AJEA It,'oua o.....oco    artrul:i  i                                                                                                 -7tdy td   al-cpsto (oc,
Tcs  "- f ,clb.fasoa   oars,ee,raad   taaeeei                                                        ce, aId tota) dcnbded b, cte   epaiacabeo   optlbd
tdTh.Aur-    tactaE  e o                  lgutSc l a -e sd t ep-cariLy ccpcasal                      ata .a t publac -   yact- goont S  atspehtte   hspto  at  5
by at boat .at  Plyatao  .Ea-hlbebi at  preT-dig peieetpat tyaeo
ttPfb01cPoaotatb..ocyteret~toeastascasst.cetetc   esekot relcaso.t.                     dttlee'reac_ o   aretodat           - ket.pts.h,"eee.c.bcelaoehaslct
7                                                                                                                               y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aue  sdpcte    ttt eaaftu al tacttua. L oa sats
ccaty    chtorsaa  co   qur  ac   e  eapta  SAG  170  sdR97                                         tthrsd--        cstae  te-gd eole ac   reoe    onyude-ca
datu.                                                                                         adslsal~  .. Ifct pe   eotlld-ttlass _t sd tt,aatcicei. tea  d-ehtgc
total~~~~~~~~~~q aoualf(,tdtyg)yuado       sa   ayI   9t   90   e   1979                 -ftdttly-t-II.   -                                                                 i 
data.~-pI                                         ,~     l,                                      adteaeatulatsodcteacrAiead      oa.ubt  e   ss 
iea    t`uFotca   cceho   oa)-OtI   toltt   at   oaalt I9boaedad  cSP                                                tsc   si- a groupdl  at Sinladhdollyab  shoes 1-lacgqstr
fealoic                                      A.eoJtecc190,190ate199                                overseecae   fyraeerNasco4c   re    adrrl    c  s te
e.ectu fe Iettlty   atebato    aeteelassec                   eta   ca a y Itotlh                       ubo  at      Iertdattgoeaea_ey
ttatbaaot.e cpatattee-Sa   d sttt1sy97l9      uetee   sa  attah jiteIIlah- orhrol f- toa,  soloj_ sa   esl-Ioa   aol,saeae.et
Foc   apts   tlt Ita arhl            -d ahly, -tcec   tttIcyaesdlteeplary-odhel-etiltpeyat-ba--  easatl  Ia-lde- hil  -e  led t,-lb.
ttcli etotoe _ea    boa  ofcO   a   oedaea   ue atbeach hsneeshaoa                                   eses ha  ahjo_to  ftcidcftect   etb    fe sydctto   e
YEar chtoar  !p`72   Is  cthe -f the. yct ise stt tet   p alstt                               ER        eds   esal   sacos,  ctace   rstnMtsectosfa   ct
PeIo  o.Ma - 9tld-to   pap1utothac  pe-,ah           tottt(    teetots) at o.s                                    Itfst tatllseat(tatthI ofsaridaty)1-  -   ptslesal.g. laclsae
aob; thd.197  ae  1979   ata.At ....                                                                                 ytaaaa, ed eaatdr  -toa-s,a te tilda
-atltlota Ass Octuaursid petesc  l- C-bldde h-ltii-yeses).tctklagage  (1.                              ptiaue sad soeinday ..  brla.   dbad- byI cufieo1 afcsheel  ta th
laoo;  OA, 2070, ssd  ha197 ata. E                                                               dult If fiteiesce L  r.l  c tscecc- t -1  Ilcrst  edl,sabl  to rea  std I     e
year ppiattocs fat 1950-Ad,Ill,9f1--7-, sedp-97dr7_r
latto bas  o  lyS-...    i07,  c -9f7.                                                            osneeltede-ttsadtclsat  - p.,dgraeer im                                       ee
pau -ta; lOiS,o 1970. ad 1879 data.                                                             elrlasec  aebhaa.i.,1dtiI                .h          rr- h.    a .   d:.d
Crude Sacb Sas teatcbaaesd)      scs   etapeaosod   fSdsAdtRtles(e d chrla-end  -otu datta  Lb AlI ye   trasoe   o   ea
papla.Y; 1960, I    97O   sad 1979 data.                                                            esdss  tgertcbipethosdaptyu-Ioa  eacludessa-
yt ttt  recasti. staly  fuss-year 196erof.  eodtn97in t7     S    90   n   99.s  teoth    Oa,bdtecta
eselyfbaaua-ccotcs.AIee (cotsd)            -bseth ca fe st ectptpcs                 Iosunotttee(e  bued  ouals      aetto                            t    re  att
atAtc-eota  dvIe  tda    oeltsataetas  fslt  peetg  sgne.ftealpbla   e  asoad   aplcls;naadsulleae   P  ccc7r
Pestle1r Placsl             dee-re       ...pca  ats lete   anseof -. P h.a.t.g dsf   idtoted           ntnrLeet.            sysscberfttsico                    st   5  St. effect...
Rrdcto    f alltoad  odn        IIe f Pcd-uhtle -  Iaod     seed bsad  fee  sad            ticket  sad   dotngc,,     ae,-aclud. Iag   ad heao.  to dilt-te I_   ne_a
ht,a  talesda,r  yeae hash- lri od if      s h ese     pit-e gaOs(eg. -    sugfccacar               aed. a_ul LIucacs.             .            -.   yId    .--prbl
catI tegt    YF-b et eiblLen   coanla  tt 7enc           ( .g. 9efeasa
netI'e  osa... p.     dcnpteega;lAl ,17.sd17 d..rII                                               t"tll  aba  Pore (          -au tads)   -r.t ...m.ta.ly   sTVt peetos, t   Fcudiu
pte day.  AnetSable supplies ctsprlse dasastia  peode-tla,iSepalysIless.not adipseoble; 1961, 1J70 snd.1979.data
cIyse-ad   t  todtaidelfeot...etlst.eat.e.A                           . ocghe  bage-  kcat,-,,(yyyc At-  Isac  oe   Sc slncaI ya rc IeI,  .lbotee Iu
std  seab dIt-btv   s   olcI.  a  ela                      d- 0peon  tee assd   at,~               sad ll1, letlctty    g stte end  ot a  peateacage of. . cos  dric  feesJ160
poeeol dlrd I16165  1970, sad   ;1616,  90..d 7779data.                                   1970II  Lsed 1979 dits.lrijyhdt,   pr..  ,  .ld
qaeaneto    l   te-PsethSseiytldpaieft satecs                                                     - yeretaea of total  salt  ad b        Ileal   eplto   ofel   gsce-       csssy
allsease of 0  grasstt setl pritel  parida  ta.d..25 frs  o960aad16,  90,ad                                       1297data.dt  see9 d-basdo   Iepcecpto    s
-yates  Iett,e h leb 17 I kmNabolt           b  antsal       p       fsl . Tdae  stand-              leta   age-act  actuatrs of.the paI         lct     ad   e   s.m....eod.-
:retaI ,eIbs   hs   t7   rasa   aa    sab  endf 0d  geese at                               fen destisetes1 see-fra   cahtt  Ooraie...tyh.tl    .
toel  Fodtay    96-1  17   o   1977dit.                                                           c   te  otl  ahs farce.97    .d199d.
rie    et   n tassd  puse  StgamAe  dy   96-y  1970 tad 197  dae                      50S lS    -Itd II
CA     sall    l- djItib.lt.-  Rac (pt btsd) -  naa  death  per thasat  it                        leonas   fPcat Iv-s (bd             t It ea- ea kftnd) - tetetoe fby; ele6
c..s. data ote1:ed 9eat lif   t.ablda 1910  1970 sad197  datd ofb 9ue 9ode.t
tbIII                                                                                             rectcoct a   i  . L    ...    I    .   IPt   P-cuiFwt. 110009 ILL7    a    -. d
I.itsatree Iuaee     d purth dyeara t-Aoocg ynIfafstd  yiao d cfi ldernolho                        "hetllysl'It"cI -""I atatyyeetuec   aeaacrtdif pesecey1 esela
at  irh   1960.l  PI1d07If sadI     11I 19770 dItl. end9td,aot   be  eteybtddtc    Intdrste                                                               LOctc.  Pr       J-
ofdage   te -thotehd lIrhbaor.                                                                                                                                 __759________________2_S.._I__-b-t     I   f..-lI-
-1-1I        th.  -Id,   -p ... d  b,  FAC  L.  th.  ThirduteraneRsrtrcon-tRabinsbftarsesol,b-lteebta5bIllc...
e   lsbeat tsc    9rrt0 7P ColIdto 19 oal77               ho adrua   cue-                          scarthSra l-y udeeos  alrp  cstnba   t-ftd-.tesaa-et
Ate of pepe  ccl,ube,cd  oal    tb   esaol    .cppey be sfe.  dforat
totr ierouy  bct dos  ... trete   s gfreat-     ttI d uct191r5at 970t be 1977tatacd..      tuNCOted _M STR l~atNcPoeeIee   ta  a)te   ats     ce   n   ua
eatte  ach a  thacfran ptatecd  bonbales   upttago  td-hsaltac   oetlv).                hutLoltn.acd    o                   hu et Is -tetbrd   efI -ccg  peri-    as pical
&-rag.  -b.r If y..r.  fad euIlifPecrcs frpoulstoo  (rko  sodi-c                                       cae)  A  a-te 'ab -sla
NusheeP of .peapl d scl,- uban,. ahd  uta) senedby ee_l dlptel a
psteett.sate o..th_rdreepseetre poeiltices.ytdtrs-sbisptse-fsay_Iatuoo
ta   naa.ctce.                                                                                                                    toTeSeAi-rardsn it.esSea Depsrtal-
yaojsocta   bt,Iin-Pauato   dlahde   byrshe  a1cscatepha_Or_'~
cloqa ttS     treseebelshP" a,nI           eslyloe..  tl     1lL.i.p-Lii-                                                        -I        ..thr    f-rgP                   .il
mateand  eaol  grocateo--as  Lpcaetteal nturassb sadl sesistiacafr.. .esee



- 25 -                                                                      ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 42.5 nillion (1980/81)
GNP per capita: US $598 (1980/81)
Amount (million
US$ at current                                       A N N U A L   G R 0 W T H   R A T E S   (2)
prices)                     A C T U A L                      EST.                           P R 0 J E C T E D
1979          1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/B7
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a/           17745.0           10.4    10.3    10.9    11.9        8.2       9.0        8.6        7.8        7.2        7.1         6.5       6.1
Agriculture                       3844.0            6.3      1.6    -3.0      5.5      3.9       2.2        2.1        2.3        2.5        2.6        2.7        2.9
Industry                          3237.0          10.6      4.8      9.8    12.3       6.5       9.8        9.1        9.0        9.2        8.8        9.1        8.5
Petroleum                         2728.0          39.4    52.3    55.2    22.0    10.3          11.6       13.5        8.6        6.3        7.4        5.5        4.4
Services                          7263.0            9.2    11.6      9.4    12.0    10.2        10.8       11.5       11.0        9.8        8.5        7.4        6.6
Consumption                         15010.0           -3.8      8.3    11.0    11.2       4.5      12.0       11.2        9.2        8.3        7.1        6.7        6.0
Gross Investment                     5450.0           54.2    -8.2       9.3    -2.4      9.4       9.6        5.8        6.0        5.8        5.7        5.7        6.1
Exports of GNFS                      5585.0           27.2    30.8       9.0      3.0     5.8      12.4        7.3        8.2        6.0        6.8        5.8         5.3
Imports of GNFS                      8300.0           16.0    -5.3      2.5      4.2      8.9      18.7        7.9        6.8        6.7        5.4        5.1        4.7
Gross Nat..nal Saving                3885.0          133.0    74.8    25.7    17.4   -13.4          -          -          -          _     -          -               -
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                          50.6    55.9    60.5    65.8    81.0    100.0            -
Exchange Rate b/                                       2.15     1.97     1.75    1.54    1.43       1.43       -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                                Average Increase (X) at Constant Prices
(at current prices)                                    1965 Prices  1975 Prices    1980/81 Prices
1960    1970    1975    1979    1984/85                           1960-1970    1970-1975  1975-1979  FY81-FY86
Gross Domestic Product
- Agriculture                       27.9    25.3    28.2    21.7         15.7                           4.7            5.1         1.9         2.4
Industry & Petroleum              23.7    26.1    25.4    33.6        35.8                            3.0           2.6         17.5         8.6
- Services                          42.9    40.8    42.8    40.9        43.7                             6.3           4.4        10.8         8.6
Connomption                         87.3    90.6    90.4    84.6        88.0                            4.4            8.0         6.8         8.5
Gross Inve-tment                    13.3    13.9    32.3    30.7         28.5                            5.8           4.2         1.8         5.8
Export of CNFS                      19.5    14.2    21.5    31.5         33.0                           4.9           22.8        11.6         6.8
Import of CNFS                      20.1    18.8    44.1    46.8        49.6                            1.1           13.5         2.5         6.4
Gross National Saving               12.9      7.7    10.9    21.9        14.6                            7.2          17.2        22.2         -
As X of GDP
1960    1970    1975    1979
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                   18.5    21.3    34.1    37.2
Current expenditure               21.5    22.0    39.9    33.9
Surplus (v) or
Deficit (-)                     -3.0    -0.7    -5.8       3.3
Capital Expenditure               11.8    11.1    16.6    23.0
Foreign Financing                  -        -      16.0      4.4
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  FY81-FY87
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (X)                 4.5       5.0      11.5       7.3
GNP per capita growth
rate (X)                          1.9       2.7       8.7      5.4
Energy consumption growth
rate (X) e/                                14.9      13.2      11.0
ICOR                                -         -         3.6       3.3
Marginal Savings Rate               -         -         0.46      0.12
Import Elasticity                   0.9       1.7       0.9       0.8
a/  GDP for 1979 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Rates of growth concern GDP at factor cost.
b Effective rate computed as a weighted average of official and pArallel market rates.
c/  Electricity only.                                                                                                                                  Division IA
CPD I, EMENA Region
May 5, 1982 (420J)



- 26 -
ANNEX i
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 39.8 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita: US$580
Amount (million)                      Annual Growth Rate (X) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
USS at current
prices)                     A C T U A L                        EST.               P R O J E C T E D
1979       1975      1976      1977      1978      1979    80/81    81/82         82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports               4024         27.2      19.6       3.1       7.7       9.6      10.8        9.4       7.2       5.6       6.7
-  Primary LI                       546       -15.3      -8.5      25.7    -29.8        4.5       5.2      10.2        0.9       1.2       1.4
-  Manufactures 1/                 618         24.8    -14.6    -27.3        17.9    -29.6        9.2        6.2       6.2       6.8       7.4
-  Petroleum                      2860         72.0      63.3      11.1      16.1      22.6      12.1        9.9       8.3       5.9       7.2
Merchandise Imports                7336        14.1      -5.0      -1.1       8.5       5.9      18.0        7.5       6.3       6.5       5.1
-  Food                           1677         27.4      16.9    -18.1       25.8      -7.0      21.2      11.8        3.0       5.5       3.1
-  Petroleum                       243        -34.2    -23.3    -53.3         2.7    -11.8       17.7       6.4        3.3       1.8       0.4
-  Machinery and Equipment        2846         59.5      24.8      21.4      -0.7      25.6      14.3        7.4       7.3       6.7       6.6
-  Others                         2570         17.9    -26.2       10.7       7.5       0.2      20.0       4.4       8.3        7.5       5.5
Prices
Export Price Index                             51.5      49.9      52.3      52.9      76.0    100.0       93.8     100.7    109.1       119.4
Import Price Index                             60.6      63.5      70.4      76.1      87.9     100.0    105.8    116.9    126.2    135.7
Terms of Trade Index                           85.0      78.6      74.3      69.5      86.5    100.0       88.6      86.1       86.5      88.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)  Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)              at constant 1980/81 prices
1970      1975      1979    84/85         1975/79      FY81/FY85
Exports                                                                    9.8           6.8
Primary 1/               64.2      28.3       13.6      12.1          -4.1            2.9
Petroleum                 4.8      25.2       71.0      71.0          26.8            7.3
Manufacturesl/            31.0     46.7       15.4      16.8         -15.3            6.9
Imports                                                                    1.9           6.1
Food                     13.4      23.6      22.9       24.8           2.9            5.1
Petroleum                 8.2        6.9       3.3       2.4         -24.5            2.8
Machinery                23.4      23.7       38.8      40.2          17.2            6.8
Others                   55.0      45.8       35.0      32.6          -3.1            6.1
Share of Trade with            Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)        Developing Countries (X)           Capital Surplus Oil Exporters {%)
1965      1970      1975        1965      1970      1975               1965      1970       1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                           27.0       17.0      14.0        18.0      22.0      10.0                '.0       1.0       4.0
Primary                        29.0      19.0      18.0         17.0      22.0      11.0                 -        1.0       3.0
Manufactures                   19.0      12.0       3.0         23.0      23.0       9.0                4.0       3.0       5.0
Imports                           55.0      42.0      65.0         18.0      25.0      14.0                 -         -        4.0
1/ Not including oil and oil products.
EMIDA (0236J)
April 22, 1982



- 27 -
ANNEX I
rape -- of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS at current prices
EST.                            P R O J E C T E D
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1980/81  1981i82            1982/83      1983/84     1984/85      1985/86   1986/87
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods and Non-Factor
Services                                  2251    2503       3319    3888    4099    5585    8205          8588       10012        11496       13367        15298       17442
- of which nerchandise f.o.b.                1818    1875    2169    2346    2558    4024          6002      6156         7085        8110         9467       10846       12359
Imports of Goods and Non-Factor
Services                                 -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612   -8300  -11429  -13089               -15406       -17739      -20079      -22389       -24875
- of which merchandise c.i.f.               -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336  -10039  -11421              -13418       -15418      -17427      -19396       -21520
Net Factor Income                              70      122      413      472    1098    1143        850       874         1147        1198         1086         941          778
Net Private Transfers                          42       90       87       63       54       50      --        --           --          --           --          --          --
Csrrent Account Balance                     -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1522   -2374    -3628               -4246       -5044       -5626        -6149       -6656
Private Direct Investnent                      87      225      444      477      387      710    1170       1357         1572        1782         2016        2250        2512
MLT Loans (Net)                                69      270      647      730    1141      1509    1177       1225         1341        1557         1496        1559         1656
- official                                    -21      210      490      803    1028    1072        874       906          763         927         1022        1289        1354
- private                                      90       60      157      -73      113      437      303       319          578         630          474         269          302
Other Capital (Net) _/                       1393    1907       191      339    -181      -599    -165        150            0           0            0           0            0
Cbange in Reserves                             47       24       81      -90       14      -98    -349       -146            0           0            0           0            0
International Reserves V                      516      678      642      880    1106    1098    1300         1340         1241        1154        1079         1018         960
- of which gold                               102      102      102      104      104      104      --        --         --           --          --           --           --
Reserves as Honths Imports 3/                 1.7      1.8      1.7      2.1      2.2      1.8      1.5       1.3          1.1         0.9          0.8         0.7         0.7
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                          2227    3612    2305       3349    2812    2329    2621         3666         4505        5339         6066        6565        7071
Official Grants                          1303    1076        792     445       345      110      339       461         592          706         807          872         966
Goncessional Loans                        120    1444       668    1855    1600         996    1276       1235        1312         1472        1524         1628        1646
- DAC                                      55      199      421       591     799      833    1103        1040        1117         1292        1329         1421        1388
- OPEC                                       3    1142       171      137       93       43       69        33          11            1           0            0           0
- IDA                                       12      49        42       42       45       55       48        85         116          103          82           44          22
- Others                                    50       54       34    1085      663        65       56        77          68           76         113          163         236
Non-Concessionial Loans                   804     1092       845     1049      867    1223    1007        1536        1859         2162        2428         2598        2850
- offic-al export credits                 379      639      214        24       44       50       83       121         129          145         182          204         230
- IBRD                                     -         14       36       37       57      118      146       197         229          282         347         411          472
- other multilateral                       -          6       -      256        18        5        4        17          37           61          83          102         120
- private                                 425      433       595      732      748    1050       774      1201        1464         1674        1816         1881        2028
Gap F-nci.g                                                                                                   434          741         999         1307        1468        1608
Etternal Dect
Debt oststanding and disbhrsed               2830    4830      5770    8090    9920   11330   13505           15290      17506       20216       23179        26377       29720
- offc-al                               1990    3890    4720    6800    8500    9470   11296              12327    13224         14306       15488       16948        18468
- private                                 840      940    1050      1290    1420    1860    2210          2529        3106         3736        4210        4479         4781
- gap financing                                                                                            434        1176         2174        3481        4950         6471
Undisb-rord Debt                             1602    2426      3014    4515    4390    4629    5951          6296         6884        7315         7713        8211        8830
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                         517      595      665    1099    1211       1040    2334       2449         2883        3400        4037         4768        5587
- interest                                  70     115      111       340      387      236      684       728         791          914        1036        1156         1275
- payment as % exports 2/                 21%    21.6%    16.8%   23.9%   21.8%    14.6%   15.6%    20.8%             20.7%        21.1%       22.2%       22.1%       22.2%
Average Interest Rate on New Lo.s.            6.3      4.7      5.1      5.1      4.6      6.4      6.5       7.3          7.3         7.3          7.2         7.2          7.2
- official
- private
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)    17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5    19.5                 16.9         16.0        15.8         15.7       15.6         15.6
- official
- private
1/ Foreign assets of Central Bank.
2/ Exports of goods and services not including foreign oil companies exports.
31 Merchandise only.
4/  Including co-sercial banks operations and residoal foreign financing.
EMIDA (0234J)
April 27, 1982



- 28 -                                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved        Borrower        Purpose                                        (less cancellations)
Numbers            FY                                                                    Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
13 Loans and Credits fully disbursed                                                      129.5     184.4            -
Ur 393               73            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                         --      36.0          1.9
Cr 423               74            ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation                --      18.5          0.8
Ln 1064              75            SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation                  50.0        --         11.0
Ln 1085              75            ARE           Tourah Cement                             40.0         --          1.5
Ln 1239              76            APA           Alexandria Port                           45.0         --         24.8
Ln 127b-T 1/         76            ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                  50.0         --         16.2
Cr  b37              76            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                      --     40.0           8.9
Ln 1285              76            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                    10.0        --         10.0
Ln 1292              76            ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                    52.0         --          7.5
Ln 1369              77            AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                   53.2         --         27.9
Cr  tbi              77            ARE           Education I                                  --      25.0          2.4
Or  719              77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                       --      27.0          1.7
Ln 1439              77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                     27.0        --         26.4
Ln 1440-T 1/         77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                    12.0         --         11.8
Ln 1453              77            EEA           Regional Electrification                  48.0         --          2.6
Ln 1456              77            ARE           Industrial Imports                         70.0        --          9.3
Ln 1482              78            SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                     100.0         --         29.6
Cr  774              78            ARE           Telecommunications II                        --      53.0         43.6
Ln 1533              78            DIB           Development Industrial Bank III           40.0         --          4.3
Cr  830              78            ARE           Agricultural Development                     --      32.0         24.3
Cr  831              78            ARE           Urban Development                            --      14.0         12.5
Cr  850              79            ARE           Population II                                --      25.0         14.1
Cr 868               79            ARE           Education II                                 --     40.0          25.7
Ln S-14              79            ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance               11.0        --           3.3
Cr  909              79            ARE           Tourism                                      --      32.5         28.7
Ln 1732              79            ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                           75.0        --         20.9
Cr  935              79            ARE           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power             --      37.0         34.5
Ln 1733              79            EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 2/  102.0             --        102.0
Cr  988              80            ARE           Agroindustries                               --     45.0          33.3
Ln 1804              80            DIB           Development Industrial Bank IV             50.0        --         23.4
Ln 1842              80            ARE           MIDB                                       30.0        --         29.8
Cr 1024              80            ARE           Ceiro Gas Distribution                       --      50.0         19.7
Ln 1849              80            ARE           Pulp and Paper                             50.0        --         50.0
Ln 1886              80             EEA          Power III                                   7.0        --          7.0
Cr 1052              80            EEA           Power III                                    --    120.0         112.8
Cr 1069              81            ARE           Education III                                --     40.1          39.0
Ln 1928              81            EGPC          Western Desert Exploration                25.0         --         12.1
Cr 1083              81            ARE           New Land Development                         --      80.0         80.0
Cr 1111              81            ARE           Fish Farming                                 --      14.0         14.0
Ln ZU02              81            8ADISOLB    Hadisolb Rehabilitation                     64.0         --         64.0
Cr 1156              81            ARE           Beheira Water Supply                                 56.6         56.6
Cr 1162              81            ARE           Technical Assistance                         --       6.9          6.9
Ln 2074              82            DI8           Development Industrial Bank 3/           120.0         --        120.0
Ln Zlu3              82            EGPC          Abu Qir Gas Development 3/                 90.0        --         90.0
'fotals 4/                                                                               1350.7    977.0         1266.8
Of which has been repaid                                                                    82.8       1.1
Total now outstanding                                                                     1267.9    975.9
Amount sold                                              7.5
Of which has been repaid                                 7.5
Total now neld oy Bank and IDA                                                           1267.9    975.9
1/ Third Window Loan.
2/ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of US$35.0 million.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Excludes a US$69 million loan for a Textiles II Project which has been terminated, and a
US$64 million loan for a Telecommunications III Project which has been approved by the
Board, but not yet signed.
(231J)



ANNEX II
- 29 -Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Year    Obligor                     Type of Business                   Loan     Equity    Total
---(US$ Million)---
1976    Arab Ceramic Company       Ceramic Industry                    4.80      0.83       5.63
[978    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry           0.43      0.16       0.59
1978    Delta Sugar Company        Agricultural Production,            20.00      3.00     23.00
mainly sugar
1979    Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing               5.97     1.52       7.49
Company
1980,   Ismailia Fish              Food and Food Processing             1.93       .55      2.48
1981       Farming Company
1980    Suez Cement Company        Building Materials                 30.0          -      30.0
1981    Luxor Hotel 1/             Crocodile Tourist Project           4.41       .86       5.27
Total gross commitments 2/                                             67.54      6.92     74.46
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                                 10.58      -        10.58
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      56.96      6.92     63.88
Total Undisbursed                                                      12.41      2.76     15.17
1/ Not yet signed.
2/ In addition, a loan of US$6.73 million equivalent, with US$732,000 equity, for the
Ismailia Misr Poultry Company has been approved by the Board but is not yet committed.
231J



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
AS OF MARCH 31, 1982
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31,
1981.
Work is virtually completed on some L,640 km surface drains in
300,000 feddan project area.  Of the four pumping stations, two are
complete and progress is being made on the other two. Installation of tile
drains is more than two-thirds complete.  Progress on this activity has
been slow because of inadequate management by contractors and recently the
shortage of cement.  The Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as
scheduled. Progress on procurement is satisfactory. The credit was closed
as planned on July 31, 1981, but IDA agreed to keep the credit account open
in order to honor existing letters of credit. The account will be closed
shortly.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is expected to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome. Two new ginneries have been commissioned and the remaining
two are expected to be commissioned in August/September 1982.  Progress of
civil works on the ginneries to be rehabilitated is satisfactory, and
procurement of equipment under the Credit is also complete.
Ln. No. 1064-ECT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule.  Contracts for most items have been
awarded; bids for the lightening barges are being evaluated, and contract
award is expected by June 1982.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to preseut a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project executicn.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 4 of 12
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
Civil works and procurement of machinery and equipment have been
completed. Mechanical erection has also been completed for several
facilities. Substantial progress has been made in recent months towards
completing the remaining erection work. Start-up of facilities is expected
to be progressively achieved by September 1982, and the project is expected
to be completed soon thereafter.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, l976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. The Bank has agreed to the Alexandria Port Authority's
request for a reallocation of the proceeds of the loan to finance container
handling equipment. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal
estimates.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US350 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. All funds are committed for the credit component. Work on the
drainage component of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The seed
component has major problems, which the Bank has been discussing with
Egyptian officials to agree on revised modes of management. However, in
the last 12 months, physical plant has been increased, tenders prepared for
further investments, and considerable crop production achieved. The
agricultural development lending unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with
assistance from the World Bank, to ensure that the various sub-borrowers
proceed with their respective investments, and to identify additionaL
sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded to allow financing of
agroindustries subprojects. A detailed examination of alternatives for the
lining of the Nasr Canal is being conducted.



- 32 -
ANNEX I]
Page 5 of 12
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976;
Effectiveness Date. January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Progress on construction of open drains is satisfactory with
completion in about 70 percent of the project area.  Tile drains have been
installed covering 59,000 feddans, about 12 per cent of the project
target.  This activity is behind schedule due mainly to construction
planning and management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public
sector contracting companies, as well as because of delays in importing
plastic pipe laying machines.  Progress on the Bilharzia Control Program is
on schedule, but it will need continued integrated strategy of snail
control measures and treatment of infected patients, and improved quality
control.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; iUS52 million Loan of September 20,
1976; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a fire on the construction site of one of
the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost about
US$20 million equivalent (all in locaL currency) more than appraised, due
to the increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials.  Early management problems have now been overcome and both
companies have developed effective project execution units. Disbursements
are slower than anticipated, reflecting initial delays in procurement.  The
Bank has agreed to the Borrower's request for extension of the closing date
to March 31, 1983.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Projecti US456 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
For the additional works agreed to by the Bank for this project,
five contracts for procurement of operation equipment, pipes, meters and
water barges remain to be let.  Tenders for four of these contracts have
been received and are being evaluated.  The remaining contract is scheduled
to be advertised in May 1982.  Progress in construction of the treatment
plants remains satisfactory.  Laying of pipes under existing contracts in
this project is scheduled to be completed by end 1982.  Work appears to be
on schedule.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Procurement of equipment and technical assistance programs have
been satisfactorily completed.  However, completion of three remaining
training centers lags behind schedule.  The credit was closed on December
31, 1981, but IDA agreed to keep the credit account open to allow
disbursements against contracts signed before the closing date.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1-440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Construction and remodelling of open drains in about 480,000
feddans is on schedule. Tile drains have been installed covering some
47,000 feddans, about 12 percent of the project target.  This activity is
behind schedule mainly because of construction planning and management
constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public sector contracting
companies.  The progress is expected to improve with the delivery of
plastic pipe laying machines being imported by the contractors. Moderate
progress has been made with the civil works of four new pumping stations.
The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but it needs continued
integrated strategy of snail control measures and treatment of infected
patients, and improved quality control.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981.
The project is virtually completed. Deliveries and services have
been completed against all contracts for equipment, materials and technical
assistance. The loan was closed as planned on December 31, 1981, but
disbursements are continuing on commitments made before the closing date.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Impgrts Project; US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date. November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The loan has been fully committed and about 87 percent disbursed.
Based on discussions with Government, the Bank has agreed to reallocate
funds among the various categories to take account of projected
over-commitments in Category I and provide additional funds in Category IV
for financing engineering services for National and Rakta paper companies.
The study of the Construction Industry in Egypt financed under Category IV
is now completed. The proposed program to improve preventive maintenance
practices in public enterprises is now under implementation. The loan is
expected to close as scheduled.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs, there has
been some delay because decisions on design were delayed. The financial
situation of the borrower is sound, total canal traffic continues at levels
close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is higher than appraisal estimates.



- 34 -
ANNEX I I
Page 7 of 12
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is fulLy committed and $35.7
million has been disbursed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Project execution has been delayed due to slow procurement action,
and is about three years behind appraisal schedule. ARENTO has been urged
to expedite all remaining procurement. ARENTO's financial performance has
deteriorated since 1979 and the rate of return and contribution to
expansion are currently well below appraisal estimates. ARENTO's proposals
for revision of tariffs which would correct this situation have been
approved by the Government and are being reviewed by the Bank.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project tractors have been procured and distributed. Agreements
have been reached and steps taken which have resulted in improved project
implementation. Project organization and management have been strengthened
and the project has been simplified to reduce coordination problems. A
study of the agricultural bank's policies, organization, operations and
finance will be initiated shortly. Establishment and operation of
machinery workshops under the project are now under way and procurement of
farm implements is progressing.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of August
30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closin_ Date: December 31,
1982.
Efforts to strengthen the Low Income Housing Development Unit are
continuing and performance is improving. Problems associated with the
Alexandria components are being resolved. Satisfactory progress is being
made in the execution of the physical aspects of the components of Cairo
and Assuit Governorates as well as in the selection of consultants for the
various studies financed by the proceeds of the Credit.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date. December
31, 1983.
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and
construction has been completed on over 70% of the facilities.
Institutional arrangements have been completed to carry out software
activities, particularly the home visiting program, IEC and training.
Project management has improved considerably.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date; July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984.
Overall project execution is satisfactory. Implementation of
technical assistance components is on schedule. Equipment procurement is
slightly behind schedule, but no major problems are envisaged.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The experimental mine started operations on January 4, 1981, a
delay of about 10 months. The chemical tests on the phosphate rock have
been completed and reviewed by the Bank. An optimization study on the
alternative configurations of the project, its scope and output volume as
well as locations of phosphate processing facilities was completed in
September 1981 and has been reviewed by the Bank. The conclusion reached
is that the initial target of 7 million tons per year of phosphate rock
production is not justified by projected market demand and should be
reduced drastically. The draft mine detailed project report is pending
Bank's review of the complete report. Decision on the closing date will be
taken after discussion with Egyptian authorities on the scope of the
proposed project.
Cr. No. 909-ECT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Design work is under way on most project components. Contracts
have been signed for several studies and tendering procedures have
commenced on the others. Contracting and tendering are well advanced for
the following components: telecommunications, electricity, roads, Luxor
airport terminal buildings, and the hotel training school. Execution of
most components remains behind schedule, but recent steps to strengthen the
project unit have resulted in reductions in further slippages.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Ln. No. 1732-ECT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1982.
The project is progressing satisfactorily.  The onshore contract
has been signed and the contractor has mobilized.  All contracts for the
Ras Bakr portion of the project have been awarded.  The financial and
energy pricing studies have been completed, and the findings and
recommendations of the financial study are being carried out. The
exploration study is under way.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US4102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Bids for most major equipment packages have been received and
orders have been placed.  With concerted efforts by project management, it
might be possible to overcome the delay of about six months that has
already taken place in project execution and to complete the project on
time.  EEA's rate of return is well below the agreed level.  Measures to
improve EEA's financial situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May t,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Construction of the Cairo abattoir has begun and the contract for
construction of the Alexandria abattoir is in the process of being
ratified.  The credit component through the three participating banks is
proceeding well and is almost fully committed.
Ln. No. 1804-ECT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is almost completely
committed; US$26.6 million has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date; June
30, 1985.
After a change in ownership structure, MIDB has been reorganized
and has resumed its full operations.  Disbursements have been slow; however
MIDB has recently revised its operation forecast for 1982 and, as a result,
expects to commit a substantial portion of the loan by end-1982.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4.
1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.  Engineering work for
the project is in an advanced stage of preparation.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily, although
behind schedule. One of the two power plants has been linked to the
system.  A tariff study has been completed, and Petrogas has prepared an
overall training program.
Cr. No. 1069-ECT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.L
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980, Effectiveness Date. April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress is being made and no major problems are
envisaged.  Although disbursements are currently below appraisal estimates
due to initial start-up delays, significant improvements are expected with
disbursements taking place against recently concluded contracts.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT - Third Power Proiect; US47 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT,
US3120 million of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress in the physical components of the project is
satisfactory. Phase I of the tariff study has been completed; Phase 11 is
delayed but is expected to be completed by May 31, 1982. EEA's rate of
return is well below the agreed level. Measures to improve EEA's financial
situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration_Project;_US42-5
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 13, 1981; Closing
Date; December 31, 1983.
Four exploration and appraisal wells have been drilled, and gas
has been found in what appears to be commercial quantities. On completion
of the fifth well, the Bank, EGPC and its consultants will review the
results obtained so far and decide on the future course of drilling.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - New Land Development Project; SDR 60.9 million (USt80
miLlion) of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Contract for construction of development works on Phase 1 (7,500
feddans) was awarded to a local contractor on January 12, 1982. Works are
expected to start soon.  A contract was signed with a consultant for
preparing design and tender documents for Phase 11 (17,000 feddans).
Design work is under way and expected to be completed by October 1982.
Field trials continue on schedule.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. llll-EGT - Fish Farming Development Project; SDR 11 million (US$14
million) of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  January 25, 1982;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
In early 1982, IDA approved a request by the Under Secretariat for
Aquatic Resources to change the pond layout of the Maryut Fish Farm (from
214 ponds of 11.4 feddans to 444 ponds of 5.5 feddans). This change is
expected, inter alia, to double the number of project beneficiaries. Since
Credit effectiveness, the project authorities have been concentrating on
(i) engaging qualified consultants; (ii) completing detailed designs,
specifications and tender documents; and (iii) construction supervision.
Ln. No. 2002-EGT - Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project; US$64 million Loan of
July 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December 28, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986.
The technical assistance contract has been signed, and procurement
action is under way. The other components of the first stage
rehabilitation program, namely the KfW-financed rehabilitation of the old
Demag rolling mills and the USSR-supplied equipment packages, are
proceeding well.
Cr. 1156-EGT - Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply Project; SDR 46.1
million (US56.6 million) of November 25, 1981; Effectiveness Date. April
30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Engineering work is now about 85% completed and five contracts
have been advertised for tendering. The National Organization for Potable
Water and Sanitary Drainage (NOPWASD), responsible for project execution,
was formed in April 1981 by amalgamating two previous national
organizations in the sector. The Beheira Water Company, responsible for
the operation of the water supply system in Beheira Governorate, was
inaugurated in July 1981 as part of the project requirements. It has now
taken over operations of a large part of the water systems in the
Governorate. Most of the senior management positions have now been filled,
and normal operations are being conducted satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1162-EGT - Technical Assistance Project; SDR 5.7 million (US36.9
million) of August 26, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 15, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Progress is satisfactory. The consultancy contracts for the
Ministries of Industry and Land Reclamation are expected to be awarded in
July and August 1982, respectively.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 2074-EGT - Development Industrial Bank V Project; US4120 million
Loan of January 12, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (not yet effective); Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
Action on effectiveness is under way.
Ln. No. 2103 - Abu Qir Gas_Development Project; US    m i           o    f
3, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Action on effectiveness is under way.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country                  17 months
to prepare the project:                    (November 1978-May 1980)
(b) Agencies preparing the project:            Cairo Governorate
Giza Governorate
Cairo Transport Authority (CTA)
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Bank:                                  November 1978
(d) Date of the first Bank mission
to consider the project.                   November 1978
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                   May 1980
(f) Date of completion of negotiations:        April 1982
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:             October 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. Execution of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the
Cairo Transport Authority (condition of loan effectiveness, para. 64).
2. Submission to the Bank of a satisfactory plan regarding the measures to
be taken by CTA to improve its financial position (condition of
disbursement against CTA component, para. 59).
3.  Other conditions:
A.   For the Cairo Governorate:
(i)    Parking charges for off street parking to be set to recover
all costs (para. 53).
(ii)    Appointment of two engineers and four technicians to the
Traffic Management and Planning Unit by March 31, 1983 (para.
61).



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) Appointment of two adequately qualified and experienced
engineering advisors by November 30, 1982 (para. 61).
B.   For the Giza Governorate:
(i)  Establishment of a Transport Planning and Management Unit and
appointment of two engineers and three technicians by March
31, 1983 (para. 61).
(ii) Appointment of an adequately qualified and experienced
engineering advisor by November 30, 1982 (para. 61).
C.   For the Cairo Transport Authority (CTA):
(i)  CTA and the Bank to jointly review the recommendations of the
consultants regarding CTA's organization, management and
financial procedures, and any action required to implement
them (para. 55).
(ii) CTA to monitor the achievement of its operational and
financial objectives through key performance indicators
acceptable to the Bank (para. 58).
(iii) CTA to take measures to increase its revenues and reduce its
operating expenses, and to exchange views regularly with the
Bank with regard to these measures and their implementation
(para. 59).






IBRD 15403
X \\> X 31P10                       314 /54 / 31°20                                                  NOVEMBER 1980
EZBET SHALAQAN
HALAQAN 
THE                                           ASHFN
_B8sALAQS    f              /
\ 9 \ S S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APO?T  lb SuezK sU
EL QERATIYIN        \w                                                                     MA \G //TojL 
> s i ,    ,   t | t    L       EASATt  t                         >                                 30<00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~0
J RAIAtvCAIRO                   TRANSPORT PROJECT
/HOUBRA EL\tURAMI%  XGREATER  CAIRO
§ \&\ \%s 's\XRURA ~~~~~~~~~Existing Road and Rail Network
E LZEDA                                   KHEMA=                                        MAJOR ROADS
ROD ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~UPVE   OD
EL BARAGIL                                                              IT0   0          RAILWAYS
B2iLAC   El< DAK4                                           \  \                     BUILT-UP    AREAS
q  310lo           ,      1     X           \      4     \                 i | E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~-~ UNDERGROUND RAIL LINK IN
Meo',tErrrxnean SA s MA9            .t    <    //                  '\         \OR
MtNSHAT EL                              ATTAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EOETR
c H A D j  S U  D  ;     N               29°50'05  DAHSHUR                            e o9-oSO9 oat ,eea!sa oo/a,oo  le$0  oo0 006o,otoo ooood9oor Oo 29-50'
-30,00                                 EL BA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~opoOo~ 00 O0O.






fSS   .~R T--_ _____________________________________lERD    154a
r    r    -    ,-      '.           9.                   ~~~~~~~~      ~      ~~E G v P T   :       
.,CAIRO TRANSPORT PROJECT                                               .
I  I APES  ; A-AMUf W>N                    \ - WE  X    PRINCIPAL TRANSPORT CORRIDORS                           .
12>   -  E  W5  X      '    >'\       '\                                   f      9~~~~~~~~~A~ m
APfA     K 1   J    K                          ,  : .                                       ,.'                        '  X'.   . 
PROJECT_SUWCGWMPCiEN S~
A A A A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L TN
5, 4 - p A-o






IBRD 15405
E G  Y  P T                                                                                    NOVEMBER 1980
CAIRO  TRANSPORT  PROJJECT
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
\  11, ff  f   f  g  ' e. "S  f:'  AX'  =     'S        MICA/ RAEI                                                                                         MIA/ RAMYI:: iSfS f     t  'i:  \ S
-~~~~UA                                                                                                             B\ &,L A\ 9                         - 1 't- lmi\;o\    aXy / '    
; _ 0 ] / &4 6,                 79T                                                                             |'k  :  9
-~                           /                                                                    2:                           S . f        3      ,|EYT2 t / i   ;0=            ;X3   iBDlN    0
7
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~.. MIO-RFICCRUAIO-OTS--------  EETIA   ROIY  TET 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAO  SQAE                    0     0      00 f0 lo                              UT-TOYPRIGGRG
'RIE                                          tla BUILT- UP AREAS            METERS                                     PEDESTRIANOVERBRIDGE|
LEBAREQIR  2
ABDI N              L I BYA    REPOF m                                                             A         N
BASIC RESTRICTED THROUGH ROUTE STRATEGY                                                                                         MJ IM   DITE ROACTION   PLAN
-  MAJOR TRAFFIC CIRCULATION ROUTES                            CHADMAJOR IPOEMENT WORKS
MIO  TAFI  IRUATO    RMINOu ......                                                                                          R IMROVEMN    OK
MINOR TRAFFIC CIRCULATION ROUTES                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~PEDESTRIAN PRIORITY STREETS
MAJOR PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITY                                                                                  r::JCONTROLLED PARKING ZONE
MAJOR SQUARES                                             o   ~m    a0   6Om   am0   mPP   MULTI-STORY PARKING GARAGE  
BUILT-UP AREAS                                                          METERS                              C1     PEDESTRIAN OVERBRIDGE
BUILT-UP AREAS
____DEMONSTRATION AREA



