LOAN NUMBER 2176 EGT
Loan Agreement
(Greater Cairo Urban Development Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2176 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       G?   2       - eRJl>  , 1982, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the P-oject described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Governorate of
Cairo and the Governorate of Giza and the Cairo Transport Author-
ity of the Borrower with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to said Gov-
ernorates and the Cairo Transport Authority the proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith, naTmely, the Project Agreement
between the Bank and the Governorate of Cairo, the Project Agree-
ment between the Bank and the Governorate of Giza, and the Project
Agreement between the Bank and the Cairo Transport Authority;
NOW THFREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Prcject Agreements" means the Project Agreement between
the Bank and the Governorate of Cairo, the Project Agreement
between the Bank and the Governorate of Giza, and the Project
Agreement between the Bank and the Cairo Transport Authority, all
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agree-
ments and all agreements supplemental !o the Project Agreements;
(b) "CTA" means the Cairo Transport Authority of the Bor-
rower;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and CTA pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(d) "Cairo" means the Governorate of Cairo, a local govern-
ment entity operating under the Borrower's Local Government Law
No. 43 of 1979, as amended;
(e) "Giza" means the Governorate of Giza, a local government
entity operating under the Borrower's Local Government Law No. 43
of 1979, as amended; and
(f) "Greater Cairo" means the urban area composed of the
city of Cairo, the city of Giza and the city of Shubra El-Kheima
of the Governorate of Kalubiya of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-nine million dollars ($59,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in   -ordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to each of the Project Agreements.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of .leven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outsta-ding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September  in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01 (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause Cairo, Giza and CTA each to perform in
accordance with the provisions of its respective Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Cairo, Giza and CTA to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to CTA the equivalent of
$20,500,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan, or such other amount
as shall be allocated from time to time to Parts C.2 and E of the


﻿-4-
Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CTA under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include,
inter alia, the obligation of CTA to repay to the Borrower the
principal amount so relent over a period of 20 years with interest
at the rate of 11.60% per annum.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall make available to each of Cairo and
Giza such amounts of the proceeds of the Loan as shall be allo-
cated to its activities under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or ben'.fit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action required on
its part to ensure compliance by CTA with its obligations under
Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement between the Bank and CTA.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any of Cairo, Giza or CTA shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under its respective Project Agreement;
(b) CTA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that any of Cairo, Giza or CTA will be able to
perform its obligations under its respective Project Agreement;
and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CTA or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Secticn 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 6-
(a) either of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and to Cairo or Giza or CTA, as
the case may be; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and CTA.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opirions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement between the Bank and Cairo
has been duly authorized or ratified by Cairo and is legally
binding upon Cairo in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Project Agreement between the Bank and Giza has
been duly authorized or ratified by Giza and is legally binding
upon Giza in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the Project Agreement between the Bank and CTA
has been duly authorized or ratified by CTA and is legally binding
upon CTA in accordance with its terms; and
(d) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CTA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CTA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date           02A0A 1,g3, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12oQ of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Investment and International
Cooperation or the Under Secretary for International Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Investment and
International Cooperation
(International Finance Department)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable address:                      Telex:
Ministry of Investment and          GAFEC UN 348
International Cooperation
Cairo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Author!zed Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal c' the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                     37%
(a) Cairo                    12,300,000
(b) Giza                      2,500,000
(c) CTA                       2,700,000
(2) Materials and                                   100% of for-
equipment                                      eign expendi-
tures, 100%
of local ex-
penditures
ex-factory,
and 75% of
other local
expenditures
(a) Cairo                     4,400,000
(b) Giza                      1,600,000
(c) CTA                      10,200,000
(3) Consultants' ser-                               100%
vices and training
(a) Cairo                    10,400,000
(b) Giza                        800,000


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocate4          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(c) CTA                      3,600,000
(4) Unallocated                  10,500,000
TOTAL              59,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Disbursement under Categories (1) (c), (2) (c) and (3) (c)
shall be made only after CTA shall have provided the Bank with a
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding the measures to be taken
by CTA pursuant to the provisions o' Section 4.03 of the Project
Agreement between the Bank and CTA.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increa-  or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of


﻿- 11 -
$400,000, may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
June 30, 1982.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (1) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the eisbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- i2 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The major objectives of the Project are: (a) to initiate a
revised approach to urban transport based on low cost traffic
engineering and management measures; (b) to strengthen the capac-
ity of Cairo and Giza in the planning and management of urban
development projects; (c) to improve the efficiency of public
transport in Greater Cairo; and (d) to improve the living condi-
tions of urban poor in Greater Cairo.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Traffic Engineering and Road Maintenance
1.   Improvement of Salah Salem Route through: (a) channelization
of six junctions and installation of automated traffic signals;
(b) installation of advance warning and other route signs; (c)
partial road resurfacing and footpath reconstruction and repair;
(d) construction of two lanes for slow-moving vehicles to improve
operating conditions on the steep gradients on both sides of the
Citadel (Kalaa); and (e) construction of a pedestrian foot bridge.
2.   Construction of a three-lane overpass at the junction of
Ramses Street and Misr-Sudan Street.
3.   (a) Improvement of junctions on the streets connecting the
Giza, Galaa and Dokki Squares through installation of automated
signals and improvement of lane markings; and (b) implementation
of a traffic management scheme in Giza Square.
4.   Improvement of Port Said, El-Geish, El Qalaa and El-Azhar
Streets, through (a) partial resurfacing of roads and footpaths;
and (b) improvement of junctions on said streets.
5.   (a)   Improvement of Corniche El-Nile Street through road
paving, channelization of junctions and installation of auto-
mated traffic signals; and (b) carrying out of a feasibility study
for additional junctions and road widening schemes on said street.
6.   Improvement of Shubra Street through: (a) partial resurfacing
of roads and footpaths; (b) improvement of junction and access
roads; and (c) relocation of tram lines.


﻿- 13 -
7.   Construction of access roads and paving of strects in the
areas of Manshiet Nasr and El-Shurabeyia.
8.   Improvement of Sharikat Street through partial resurfacing
of roads, construction of footpaths and channelization of junc-
tions.
9.   Paving of selected bus routes, including basic drainage
works, in Cairo and Giza.
10. Improvement of the Ghamra depot of Cairo through: (a) pro-
vision of rolling stock and related equipment; and (b) construc-
tion of a workshop and provision of concrete precasting equipment.
11. Improvement of the Central BLsiness District of Cairo
through: (a) implementation of traffic engineering and management
measures along selected circulation corridors and access loops and
improvement of junctions; and (b) construction of two parking
garages.
Part B:   Enforcement of Traffic Rules; Training
1.   Provision of vehicles, motorcycles, tow trucks and licensing
and communications equipment.
2.   Improvement of an existing traffic police training center,
including the provision of materials and teaching aides.
3.   Construction and equipping of vehicle inspection centers and
a drivers' training track.
4.   Training for selected traffic police officers on various
aspects of traffic management and control.
Part C:   Institutional Development
1.   Cairo:
(a) Preparation of a strategic action plan for Greater Cairo
with a view to: (i) identifying priority areas; (ii) recommending
specific sectoral priority projects and programs within such
areas; and (iii) recommending the institutional and financial
arrangements for the implementation of such projects and programs.
(b) Review of urban services in Cairo, including: (i)
preparation of an inventory of existing manpower and equipment


﻿- 14 -
resources; (ii) preparation of an estimate of the manpower, equip-
ment and material requirements of such services; (iii) recommenda-
tions as to the appropriate service levels and the development of
suitable operational manuals and procedures; and (iv) a review of
staff training needs.
(c) A survey of underground utilities in older areas of
Cairo.
(d) The preparation of a detailed solid waste management
program for Cairo City.
2.   CTA:
(a) Assistance in the formulation of plans and programs
designed to improve the financial situation, organization, manage-
ment and operating practices and procedures of CTA.
(b) Provision of on-the-job and overseas training.
Part D:   Area Upgrading
A pilot program, based on an area development plan, for
upgrading works in the Districts of Rod El-Farag and Abdine of
Cairo and old Giza and Monira of Giza, including: (a) installation
of street lighting; (b) partial levelling and paving of secondary
roads and footpaths; and (c) arrangements for removal of refuse,
collection of solid waste and cleaning of streets.
Part E:   Public Transport
1.   Construction of an overhaul center at Gisr El-Suez and
provision of related equipment, spare parts and other inventory
items.
2.   Provision of equipment and training materials for the Monib
training center.
Part F:   Study
A study to identify a high capacity east-west road.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1988
through   March 1, 2002                    1,965,000
On September 1, 2002                            2,015,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                        3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                 6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                 9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                11.60%


﻿UYTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(RTIFICATE
l hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment
In witness whercof l have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  2       day otf       19
VOR SECRETARY


