LOAN NUMBER 2176 EGT
Project Agreement
(Greater Cairo Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CAIRO TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
Dated                               1


﻿LOAf, NUMBER 2176 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and CAIRO TRANSPORT AUTHORITY (hereinafter called
CTA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank hq- agreed tu make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-nine
million dollars ($59,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition Lnat CTA agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter
set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CTA, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
CTA on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CTA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01   CTA shall carry out Parts C.2 and E of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and


﻿- 2
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist CTA in the carrying out
of Parts C.2 and E of the Project, CTA shall employ consultants
who-e qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank in
accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
(b) CTA shall: (i) keep the Bank informed of progress
in the implementation of Part C.2 of the Project; (ii) provide
the Bank for its review and comments with the recommendations
emanating from the reports of the consultants to be employed
in order to assist in the implementation of said Part of the
Project; and (iii) exchange views with the Bank with respect to
the steps to be taken by CTA towards the implementation of such
recommendations.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) CTA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by CTA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CTA shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2o05. (a) CTA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specificatioTAs, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably requesto


﻿(b) CTA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by CTA of :iy contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of tc proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was auarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six monT s after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between CTA and the
Bank, CTA shall prepare and turnish to the bank a reDort, of such
scope and in such detail as 'The Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial overation of the Parts of the Project
for the implementation of whici CTA is responsible, their cost
and the benefits derived And to be derived from them, the per-
formance by CTA and the Bank of their £espective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.
(e) CTA shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, wotks, buildings, property and
equipment and any records and documents of CTA relevant to Parts
C.2 and E of the Project, the operation of the facilities included
in said Parts and the performance by CTA of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.06. CTA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agre-ment. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, CTA shall not take or concur in any action which
woOld have the effect of amendinu, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreemc-t or any provision thereof.


﻿-4
Section 2.07. (a) CTA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) CTA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by CTA of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CTA
Section 3.01. CTA shall continue to operate and to further
develop its system for monitoring, through key performance
indicators acceptable to the Bank, the achievement of CTA's
operational and financial objectives.
Section 3.02. CTA shall continue to take out and to maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the B&nk for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. CTA shall continue to operate and to maintain
its plants, equipment and property and from time to time to make
all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering standards.
Section 3.04. CTA shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion
and carry out its operations, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and administrative practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. CTA shall maintain separate Project accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate a-counting practices its expenditures and resources in
respect of the Projecto


﻿Section 4.02. CTA sh,ll: (i) have the accounts referred to in
Section 4.01 hereof for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning said accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. CTA shall: (a) in order to improve its finan-
cial position, continue to take measures designed to increase its
revenues and to reduce its operating expenses; and (b) exchange
views regularly with the Bank in respect of such measures and the
time schedule for their implementation.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into for.-e and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of CTA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify CTA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the partie  contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such not ice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
(lablep telex or radilogram to the party to which it is required


﻿or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CTA:
Cairo Transport Authority
Nasr City
Cairo
Egypt
Cable address:                      Telex:
Cairo Transport Authority          94067 TRCAR UN
Nasr City
Cairo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CTA may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of CTA or such other person or persons as the Chair-
man shall designate in writing, and CTA shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
leetively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, -cting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
CAIRO TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The major objectives of the Project are: (a) to initiate a
revised approach to urban transport based on low cost traffic
engineering and management measures; (b) to strengthen the capac-
ity of Cairo and Giza in the planning and management of urban
development projects; (c) to improve the efficiency of public
transport in Greater Cairo; and (d) to improve the living condi-
tions of urban poor in Greater Cairo.
The Project coni-f-s of:
Part A:   TrAffic Engineering and Road Maintenance
1.   Improvement of Salah Salem Route through: (a) channelization
of six junctions and installation of automated traffic signals;
(b) irstallation of advance warning and other route signs; (c)
partiaL road resurfacing and fool.path reconstruction and repair;
(d) construction of two lanes fo: slow-moving vehicles to improve
operating conditions on the steep gradients on both sides of the
Citadel (Kalaa); and (e) construction of a pedestrian foot bridge.
2. Construction of a three-lane overpass at the junction of
Ramse, Street and Misr-Sudaii Street.
3.   ,a) Improvement of junctions on the streets connecting the
Giza, Galaa and Dokki Squares thro'gh installation of automated
sign:.ls and improvement of lane markings; and (b) implementation
of r traffic management scheme in Giza Square.
4.   Improvement of Port Said, El-Geish, El Qalaa and El-Azhar
Streets, through (a) partial resurfacing of road and footpaths;
and (b) improvement of junctions on said streets.
5,   (a) Improvement 3f Corniche El-Nile Street through road
paving, channelization of junctions and installation of auto-
mated traffic signals; and (b) carrying out of a feasibility study
for additional junctions and road widening schemes on said street.
b.   Improvement of Shubra Street through: (a) partial resurfacing
of roads and footpaths; (b) improvement of junction and access
roads; and (c) relocation of tram lines.


﻿7.   Construction of access roads and paving of streets in the
areas of Manshiet Nasr and EI-Shurabeyia.
8.   Improvement of Sharikat Street through partial resurfacing
of roads and construction of footpaths and channelization of
junctions.
9.   Paving of selected bus routes, including basic drainage
works, in Cairo and Giza.
10. Improvement of the Ghamra depot of Cairo through: (a) pro-
vision of rolling stock and related equipment; and (b) construc-
tion of a workshop and provision of concrete precasting equipment.
11. Improvement of the Central Business District of Cairo
through: (a) implementation of traffic engineering and management
measures along selected circulation corridors and access loops and
improvement of junctions; and (b) construction of two parking
garages.
Part B:   Enforcement of Traffic Rules; Training
1   Provision of vehicles, motorcycles, tow trucks and licensing
and communications equipment.
2.   Improvement of an existing traffic police training center,
including the provision of materials and teaching aides.
3.   Construction and equipping of vehicle inspeccion centers and
a drivers' training track.
4.   Training for selected traffic police officers on various
aspects of traffic management and control.
Part C:   Institutional Development
1.   Cairo:
(a) Preparation of a strategic action plan for Greater Cairo
with a view to: (i) identifying priority areas, (ii) recommending
specific sectoral priority projects and programs within such
areas; and (iii) recommending the institutional and financial
arrangements for the implementation of such projects and programs.


﻿- 10 -
(b) Review of urban services in Cairo, including: (i) prep-
aration of an inventory of existing manpower and cquipment
resources; (ii) preparation of an estimate of the manpower, equip-
ment and material requirements of such services; (iii) recommenda-
tions as to the appropriate service levels and the development
of suitable operational manuals and procedures; and (iv) a review
of staff training needs.
(c) A survey of underground utilities in older areas of
Cairo.
(d) The preparation of a detailed solid waste management
program for Cairo City.
2.   CTA:
(a) Assistance in the formulation of plans and programs
designed to improve the financial situation, organization, manage-
ment :nd operating practices and procedures of CTA.
(b) Provision of on-the-job and overseas training.
Part D:   Area Upgrading
A pilot program, based on an area development plan, for
upgrading works in the Districts of Rod El-Farag and Abdine of
Cairo and old Giza and Monlra of Giza, including: (a) installation
of street lighting; (b) partial levelling and paving of secondary
roads and footpaths; and (c) arrangements for removal of refuse,
collection of solid waste and cleaning of streets.
Part E:   Public Transport
1.   Construction of an overhaul center at Gisr El-Suez and
provision of related equipment, spare parts and other inventory
i t ems
2.   Provision of equipment and training materials for the Monib
tr,iining  center.


﻿11 -
Part F:   Study
A study to identify a high capacity east-west road.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, CTA shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. CTA shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (1) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the prc-urement of goods i. accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Egypt may he granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 13 -
1I   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any p.-terence which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of CTA and the Bank that the manufac-
turing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Egypt equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connecrion with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt Importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 157 of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall he -elected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the omparison under paragrap1h 3 is the
lowest evaluated hid shall be selected.


﻿-14 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $250,000 per contract or for the
execution of civil works estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $1,500,000 per contract may be awarded in accord-
ance with CTA's procedures for competitive bidding acceptable to
the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of more than $1,500,000 and all contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $250,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, CTA shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, CTA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be incons4 stent with the Guidelines
or thi- Schedule, promptly inform CTA and state the reasons
for such determination.
(") The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿- 15 -
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, CTA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution .nd prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
requesto The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform CTA and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, CTA shall inform the Bank
of the propos2d modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform CTA and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thercunto
this           day of 
OR S 'CR FTARY


