FILE COpy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 11Oa-lV
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOM   NICATIONS (OPT)
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
May 25e 1973
West Africa Project Department
Th report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited wlthout Bank Group authiorization. The Bank Group does not accept responubilîty for the
accuracy or completene of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALeNTS                          WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
US$1         = CFAF230.2                     1 km2    = 0.62 mile
CFAFl          - us$O.oo4344                  1 km2       0.386 square miles
CFAFP,OOO,OOO = Us$4.344
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
TITLES AND ACRONYMS
BND            - National Develop}ent Eank
CCCE          -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French lending
agency)
FAC            - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Cooperation Services)
FCR            - Compagnie France Cable et Radio
HF             -  High frequency (3-30 MHz)
ITU           -  International Telecommunication Union
MHz            - Megahertz
OPT           -  Office des Postes et T4lécomunications
Telex          -  Teleprinter exchange switching system
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Program
GWOSSARY 0F TECHNICAL TERMS
Carrier       - A system providing several channels through one
transmission mode
Channel       - Frequency band of a carrier system carrying
telephone, telegraph or data signals
Fill           - Percentage of installed capacity of a cable or
telephone exchange actually in service
Microwave      -  Radio system working at frequencies above 300 MHz
but normally applied to systems vorking at
frequencies above 1,000 MHz
Multiplex      -  Part of the equipment in a carrier system -- see
above -- which shifts and stacks the different
circuits in the frequency spectrum appropriate to
the particular carrier system



UPPER VOLTA
OFTICE DES POSTES ET TELECONUNICATIONO%j9T)
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND TELECOMMUNIATIONS PROJECT
TABLiE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMALRY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................i-i.i
1.    INTRODUCTION ...............                  .....                1
2.    THE LOCONO-f ANE TEI  TEI COeICATIONS SECTOR .. ..                 2
The .concmy .. ..r            .........................        2
T,he rTelecommunmlcations Sector  - ..............             2
lxi ,tirg Telecommunications Facilities ,. ..,.                 3
,Sector Objectives ... ....................                    4
3     TilE PROGRMY A-ND THE FROJECT        ...............               5
The Program                 ....    5
The Project ..........                                         5
Cost of the Project                 .... 6
items Droposed for !.DA Financing          ... .               8
!,1,:eurement        ................................. .       8
Execution .      ..........,.,...,.,.,.,,.........             9
DisburEement ,... ......    9
i. JUST iDICATION .         ,       ................  10
Demand for Local Telepnone Service    ...                      10
Dem-and for Long-Distance Service ..       .     .. . .       il
Least-Cost Solution  - .......       . ................. ..1
Eaturn on Investment .     . ..................   .           12
,;-~  rHE E N`,l ...RY   -.,   .................                  13
Organization and Management .........................         13
Staff and Training ..........................,.,.             13
Accounting and Audit.ing ......................                i1
Tarifis ......... ..                    ....  15
6. FIUANC-S    ... 16
Telecommunications - Past Finances    .         .16
Telecomiunications - Financing Plan ..         .     .       17
Telecomunications - Future Finances.                          18
Fiscal hnpact ..................................        .      21
7.    REC01QIENDATIONS .................................          .     22
This report is based on iniormation provided by OPT and on the findings
of the mission composed of Messrs. J. G. Davis and G. A. V. Buttex which
visited Upper Volta in December 1972.






LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   International Sector Table;  'releconununicationis
Organization Chart - WB - 7376
2.   Basic Data
3.   Existing Telecommuuications Facilities
4.   Traffie Statisties
5.   The Project;  Cost Estiiates;Construction
Szhedule of the Project - WB - 7375
6.   Estinrated Scheduile cf Disbursements
7e   Telecoimnunications Division - Target Indicators
S.   Economic Analysis cf thie Project
9.   Summary of Tariffs
10.   Telecojnir.unications Division - Incom.e Statements
1I.   Telecommrnuricatiwns Division - Balance Sheets
12.   Telecomwmunications Division - Sources and Applications of Funds
13.   Telecommunications Division - Notes and Assumrptions on Financial
S tatenents
14.   Postal/Financial. Divisiol   - Incorne Statements
1'.   Postal/Financial Division    - 13alance Sheets
16.   Postal/Financial Division   - Sources and Applications of Funds
Existin- Telecommunication Network and Telecomrnunication Prograri
1974-1977 -  IBRD-10334






UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The project appraised in this report forms part of the 1974-1977
telecommunications development program of the Office des Postes et Télécom-
munications (OPT), the entity responsible for all postal and domestic public
telecommurn.cation services in Upper Volta. Tle program_, estimated to cost
US$6.5 million, aims to improve the present poor quality of service anl
meet demand through 1980 by rehabilitating and expanding the local and long
distance f'aeilities. It provides in particular for an overall improvement
of teleçoxnmunications services betweern the rural areas and the principal
regional centera.
ii.       An IDA credit of US$4.5 million is proposed, which would cover
97% of the foreign cost of the project; total project cost is estimatecl
at US$5.6 rillion equivalent. il1 local costs would be financed by OPT
from intern5l1y generated funds,
iii.      The borrower would be the Goverrment of Upper Volta, which would
.raJend the proceeds of the credit to OPT at 7-1/4% annual interest for
2'O years, including a grace period of four years.
-iv.      The proposad credit would be the second for telecommunications
a ielopraent in Upper Volta.  The first Credit 141-U1V of US$800,000 made
in 1969, is helping to finance urgently needed rehabilitation and expansion
of' the local distribution networks in Ou agadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, the
reconditioning of sections of obsolete iron-wire lines in the provinces,
and the provîsion of carrier equipment on trunk lines. After initial
delays, mainly due to difficulties in arranging for key expatriate staff
to advise on the works, the first IDA-financed project is proceeding satis-
factorily, with completion expected in October/November 1973; this is about
22 months behind schedule.
v.        As a continuation of the first IDA project, the one now proposed
would not only provide additional facilities for meeting anticipated demand
but, as its principal objective, would also provide better communications
in areas of administrative and economic importance and in regions with a
potential for econozic development.
vi.       All equipxent to be financed from the proposed credit would be
procured through international competitive bidding, with the possible
exception of mnicrowave equipment, which after consideration of alternative
designs, and in the interest of economy and compatibility, might be purchased
from existing suppliers.



vii.      OPT is a well-managed entity, owned by the Government.  Although
incorporated only in January 1969, it has established a satis1actory finan-
cial position and proved itself to be financially viable in both its postal
and telecommunication operations.
viii.     The project is technically and financially sound and economically
justified. The return on the investment is estimated to be at least 20%.
OPT'a network is in the early stages of developnent; hence, given the time
lag between the commissioning of new plant and the build-up of related
revenues, OPT's financial rate of return on net assets, presently 10%, is
expected to decline consiclerably until 1977. Thereafter, with the addi-
tional revenue accruing from plant installed under the project the rate
cf return should improve to the present satisfactory level.
ix.       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$14.5 million.



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND TELECOMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Upper Volta has asked IDA to help finance the
1974-1977 telecommunications development program to be undertaken by the
Office des Postes et Tél4commmnications (OPT). The project proposed for
IDA financing provides for additional automatic switching capacity in
Ouagadougou, the country's capital; new automatic exchanges in four provin-
cial towns; improvement and expansion of associated local networks; and
improvement, expansion and modernization of the long distance switching
and transmission facilities, particularly to the rural areas.
1.02      The cost of the program, including the project, is estimated
at CFAF 1.5 billion (US$6.5 million), of which the cost of the project
would be about CFAF 1.3 billion (US$5.6 million).  The foreign exchange
component of the project would be about US$4.6 million equivalent, of
which US$4.5 million would be financed by IDA.  OPT would finance all other
cost$ of the project from internally generated funds.
1.03      The Government would be the borrower and would relend the proceeds
of the credit to the beneficiary, OPT, at 7-1/4% per annum for a term of
20 years, including a four-year grace period.
1.04      This would be the second IDA credit for telecommunications in
Upper Volta.  Credit 141-UV, approved in February 1969, provided US$800,OOO
for urgently required rehabilitation works for OPT's local networks in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and for its long distance network. After
initial delays the progress on the first IDA project is now proceeding
satisfactorily. The final completion date is expected to be October or
November 1973, about 22 months behind schedule.
1.05      In addition to the program to rehabilitate and expand its local
and long distance networks which OPT has been undertaking since 1969, a
high-capacity microwave link between Ouagadougou and the Ivory Coast
border and, as an emergency measure, a small extension to the Ouagadougou
automatic exchange facilities are under construction. This supplementary
program is being financed principally through French bilateral aid.
i.o6      This report is based on information provided by OPT and on the
findings of a mission composed of Messrs. J.G. Davis and G.A.V. Buttex
which visited Upper Volta in December 1972.



-2-
2.  'HE ECONOMY AND THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
The Econom
2.01      Upper Volta, a landlocked country bordered bC six other West
African countries (see irap), has an area of 274eO,o km- and a population
estimated at 5.5 million, 90% of whom live in small villages and are farmers
or herdsmen, The population growth rate is about 2% per year. Agriculture
and livestock are the principal resources. The industrial sector is very
small, consisting of a few manufacturing plants (textiles, oils and soap,
beverages) ir Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, Banfora and Koudougou.  There
is no minerai vroduction at the present time; however, a project for the
exploitation of high-grade manganese deposits is under consideration.
The GNP-per capita is US$60, one of the lowest in the world. Principal
exports, which go mainly to neighboring countries, are cattle, cotton and
groundnuts.
2.02      Telecommunication services in the capital, Ouagadougou, and
particularly in the provinces, are inadequate; this is an important gap in
the country's econonic infrastructure. The project, by establishing the
basis for a good telecomnunications network, not only for the main towns
but also to the s ,aller communities, would enhance the efficiency of trans-
port and contribute directly to the development and integration of economic
;-irt cmir5ratîv>e activities.
The Taleonrnunications Sector
2.03      Telecommunications in Upper Volta date back to the former
Federationi of French West Africa, when they were operated as a Government
service under the authority of the High Commissioner for French West Africa
and the governors of the various territories. When the West Africa Posts
and Telecommunications Office, with headquarters in Dakar, was dissolved
in late 1959, the postal and telecommunications services in Upper Volta
were incorporated into the general services of the Governnent, with opera-
tions and development being the responsibility of the Ministry of Posts
and Telecomanications and Information, and finances and accounting forming
part of the national budget under the Ministry of Finance. Under this
arrangement operations and development suffered from lack of funds. Follow-
ing the recommendations of a French Government senior adviser and IDA, a
new autonomous entity, Office des Postes et T4l4communications (OPT), was
created on January 1, 1969.  OPT took over responsibility for the domestic
and regional telecommunications services, in addition to the postal services
and a nationwide public checking account service. The main international
facilities continued with France Cable et Radio (FOR), which has a 25-year
concession signed with the Government in 1962. With the exception of miii-
tary, civil aviation and railway which, as usual in most countries, have
their own telecomriunications networks, OPT provides all domestic telephone,
telegraph and telex services and regional connections to Mali, Niger and



- 3 -
Ivory Coast. Policy direction is vested in a 13-member Board of Directors
under the chairmanship of the Minister of Posts and Telecommunications.
The other members are appointed by the Government and represent the various
Ministries, the National Assembly, the Economic Council, the Chamber of
Commerce and OPT's staff.
2.04      The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications is the licensing
authority for the telecoimunications sector but control is exercised mainly
through ministerial representation on OPT's Board of Directors.  Investment
in the sector is coordinated within the plan for national economic develop-
ment by the Ministry of the Plan, Industry and Mines. The institutional
structure is discussed in paragraphs 5.01 to 5.03.
Existing Telecomnmrîications Facilities
2.05      As of November 1972, Upper Volta had 3,850 telephone stations of
all kinds, with a dcnssity of 0.08 per 100 population, one of the lowest
telephone densities in Africa. Mainly due to lack of adequate facilities
both the local and long distance services are extremely poor; transmission
quality is low and fault rates are high; however, with the ongoing reha-
bilitation  and expansion of the local distribution networks in Ouagadougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso under the first IDA project and with the microwave link
to the Ivory Coast border under French bilateral assistance, significant
improvement +i'n and between these centers is expected in the near future.
There have boen delays in completing the IDA-financed project due to some
problems in organizing, and staffing the new entity and in obtaining key
expatriate advisers to assist management. Work is now progressing satis-
factorily. Basic data on OPT's existing facilities, with traffic figures,
are set out in Annexes 2, 3 and 4 and on the map.
(a) Local Telephone Service
2.o6      Upper Volta presently has only two local automatic exchanges --
cne located in Ouagadougou, consisting of 1,000 lines of French R6 system,
and the other in Bobo-Dioulasso with 800 lines of Pentaconta common-control
equipment. Tlhese two systems are capable of interworking with each other.
As an emergency measure, an extension of 500 lines of R6 equipment is being
made in the Ouagadougou exchange. Of the 1,680 direct exchange lînes now
connected in the country, 80% are connected to these two automatic exchanges.
In the provinces, service is provided through 26 manual switchboards with a
total capacity of 640 lines with 362 direct-exchange lines in operation.
Outside plant in the provinces is inadequate in many respects and in need
of rehabilitation in iriany areas.
(b) Long Distance Service
2.07      The domestic long distance service consists of about 4,000 lm
of copper and iron overhead lines, supplemented with carrier equipment on
the main routes. About 800 km of these routes are obsolete and need
reconditioniig to avoid breakdown of service. The large-capacity micro-
wave link under construction between Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso and the
Ivory Coast border is expected to be brought into service in early 1974.



- 4 -
(c) Telegraph and Telex Services
2.08      Domestic telegraph service is provided through open wire lines
and some HF links. Ail towns that have telephone service also have tele-
graph service. A 100-line automatic telex exchange in Ouagadougou is
operated by FCR and is used mainly for international service. As of the
end of November 1972 the total number of subscribers was 45.
(d) International Services
2.09      OPT's subscribers have access through the local facilities to
international telephone, telegraph and telex services provided by FCR
through HF links to Paris, Accra, Conakry, Cotonou, Dakar, Lome and Moscow.
In addition, OPT has radio links with the capitals of the neighboring
countries of the Ivoir Coast, Mali and Niger.
Sector Objectives
2.10      Even after completion of ongoing works, the quality of service
offered to the public will need to be improved considerably. The first
step is to rehabilitate the existing network and to replace worn-out
equipment, to meet the pending demand for telephone connections to local
exchanges and to improve the quality of speech and speed of connection of
long distance calls. Much of this will be achieved by the proposed project.
In addition the present tariffs are high and need to be reduced in order
to extend the benefits of telephone service to the small users. This is
proposed to be done following a tariff review which is to be completed by
June 1975.



- 5 -
3.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
3.01      OPT's 197h-1977 telecommunications expansion program aims to re-
habilitate, modernize and expand the local and long distance facilities in
Ouagadougou and in the provinces in order to improve the quality of service
and meet anticipated demiand through 1980.
3.02      The approved program was drawn up from a selection of works pre-
pared by OPT with the assistance of an International Telecommunication
Union (ITU) expert assigned to Upper Volta from June 1970 to April 1971.
The progran, which is compatible with OPT's available technical and finan-
cial resources, comprises:
(i)  the project for IDA financing as described in para.
3.03; and
(ii)  installation of a 100-]ine autoTnatic telex exchange
in Bobo-Dioulasso and small construction works outside
trose covered by the project.
The cost of the program is estimated at US$6.5 million equivalent, of which
the foreign cost would be us$4.7 million equivalent.  Annual capital expend-
iture for the program is shown in Annex 5.
The Project
3.03      The project proposed for IDA financing consists of:
(i)  automatic switching equipment for about h,800 exchange
lines at the following locations:
Ouagadougou         4,000
Banfora               200
Fada !,'Gourma        200
Koudougou             200
Ouahigouya            200
Total   4 800
1,000 of the lines to be provided in Ouagadougou will replace
switching equipment to be withdrawn;
(ii)  local distribution network and subscriber plant in Ouagadougou,
Bobo-Dioulasso, Banfora, Fada N'Gourma, Koudougou and
Ouahigouya;
(iii) two low-capacity microwave links between Ouagadougou and
Eoudougou and between Bobo-Dioulasso and Banfora;



- 6 -
(iv)  equipment in the national and international transit
exchange in Ouagadougou and trunk switch ing equipment
in Banfora, Fada N'Gourma and Ouahigouya;
(v)  reconstruction of about 800 km of existing interurban
overhead lines and the construction of about 400 km
of new routes between regional centers and rural
communities;
(vi)  new buildings at Ouagadougou, Banfora and Fada N'Gourma;
(vii) power plant in the Ouagadougou exchange, vehicles,
miscellaneous technical equipment and materials;
(viii) consultants' services to cover the detailed engineering
and construction supervision of the project, studies on
tariffs, and budget organization; and
(ix)  training technical and administrative personnel.
Details of the project are given in Annex 5.
Cost of the Project
3.04      The project is expected to cost CFAF1,295 (US$5.6) million as
sIiowm overleaf.



-7-
% Total
Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign   Total Expenditure
----CFAF million-----   -----US Sthousand-----
Local telephone
service           59.2    341.1  1400.3   257    1,482    1,739         31
Long distance service
Transmission
equipmnent      27.1    215.8  2142.9   12.7        938    1,055      19
Trunk switching
equipment        4.1      36.8   140.9    18        160      178       3
Interurban over-
head lines      714.1    220.8   294.9    322       959    1,281      23
Land and buildings  32.5      32.5    65.0    141       141       282      5
Miscellaneous -
power plant,
vehicles, tools,
etc.                -       50.0    50.0      -       217       217      4
Consultancy services 14.0     26.1    30.1      18      113      131       2
Training              -       10.2    10.2      -        144       44      1
201.0    933.3 1,1314.3   873    4,o54    4,927       88
Contingencies:
Physical          10.1    146.7    56.8       44      203       247      4
Prices            10.1      93.3  103.4       44      405      449       8
Total Project      221.2  1,073.3 1            961    4,662    51623    100
3.05      The cost estimates are based on current prices for similar eauip-
ment obtained under international competitive bidding and take into account
recent changes in currency parities. A 5% physical contingency has been
provided to cover unforeseen design and engineering modifications that
might occur. This is considered adequate since the project essentially
consists of a large number of small works, and changes in costs due to
design and engineering modifications tend largely to cancel out. A con-
tingency of 5% has been provided to cover price increases in local costs.
As wages, which form a large part of local costs, have remained steady
in recent years, the contingency allowance is mainly to cover possible
cost increases in materials. These have been based on previous trends.
As regards foreign costs experience in recent years shows that in general,
prices of telecommunications equipment, particularly long distance equip-
ment, have renained flat. A price contingency of 10% on foreign costs has
been included principally to cover an increase in prices of exchange equip-
ment which might possibly result because of the high demand for such equip-
ment in the European market. The Government confirmed at negotiations
that it intends to relieve OPT of customs duties and împort taxes on all



- 8 -
imported eauipment for the project.  Annual capital expenditure for the
project is shown in Annex 5.
3.06      The cost estimates have been based on the assumption that
independent faciities will be required for the Ouagadougou/Koudougou,
Bobo-Dioulasso/Banfora microwave links. However, alternative designs
for these links, using in part the facilities presently being installed
for the high capacity Ouagadougou/Abidjan link (see para. 2.07), are
under consideration. The alternative solution would be adopted if it
is found to be more economical on the basis of comparing the cost estimates
for the independent scheme (as appraised) with price quotations for the
alternative designs obtained from the supplier of the Ouagadougou/Abidjan
link (see para. 3.08).
Items Proposed for IDA Financing
3.07      An DA credit, of U,414.5 million is proposed.  This would finance
97% of the foreign and 80% of the total cost of the project.  The local
costs and the remnainder of the foreign costs would be financed from OPT's
own resources.  The items proposed for IDA financing are as follows:
US$ millionc
Local ervice
Autonatic telephone exchange equipment       1.02
Local networks and subscriber plant          o.46  i.h8
Long distance service
1,iicrowav;e links                           0.78
Trunk switchi-ng equipment                   0.16
Long distance overhead lines                 0.96
Garrier systems                              O.16  2.06
Power plant, vehicles, tools, etc.                   0.22
Consultancy services
Engineering                                  0.09
Tariff and budgeting studies                 0.02  0.11
Training                                             0.04
Contingencies                                        0.59
Total            4.50
Procurement
3.08      All goods financed by IDA would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement.  How-
ever, snould it be found feasible and more economical to use part of the
new facilities of the Ouagadougou/Abidjan microwave link for the Ouagadougou/
Koudougou, Bobo-Dioulasso/Banfora spur links (see para. 3.06), it would be



- 9 -
necessary to procure the equipment for these two links from the suppliers
of the main system due to existing contractual commitments and in order
to ensure compatibility.. While the amount of money involved cannot of
course be precisely estimated prior to obtaining quotations from the
suppliers concerned, it is not expected to exceed about us$500,Oo. The
Government's standard tendering procedures which are satisfactory to IDA
would be followed for the selection of local contractors for buildings
and civil works to be financed oy OPT.
Execution
3.09      OPT does not have the technical expertise to handle the detailed
engineering or the procurement of the plant required for the project. It
also requires assistance in the supervision of the execution of the main
works. OPT therefore proposes to appoint consultants or experts in accord-
ance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, to advise on the detailed
engineering and on the preparation of the speci&ications and bidding docu-
ments, to assist in bid evaluation, and to supervise execution of the works.
3.10      The suppliers would install the main equipment (exchange installa-
tions, microwave links) under the supervision of the consultants. The
suppliers' contracts, which would also cover maintenance of the equipment,
would specifically provide for OPT's staff to take part in these activities,
so as to gife them experience in installation, testing and maintenance.
These matters will be elaborated in the tender documents.
3.11      Construction of buildings and civil works would be carried out
by local contractors under the supervision of OPTIs staff. Rehabilitation
of open wire lines, cable-laying and subscriber installations would be
carried out by OPT's staff.
3.12      The installation and commissioning of all new plant is expected
to be completed by the end oI' December 1977. The project construction
schedule is given in Chart WB-7375.
Disbursement
3.13      The proposed credit would be disbursed against the CIF cost of
imported equipnent and the foreign cost of imported services and training.
No retroactive financing is involved. The estimated schedule of disburse-
ment is shown in Annex 6. Any unused balance of the credit may be made
available, after consultation witn DA, for the purchase of additional
goods or services, similar to those already procured under the credit,
wnich may be needed for OPT's ongoing program. In this respect purchases
of materials required for further expansion could be made. These works
could be either those required for meeting any higher-than-anticipated
demand or requirements in new areas.



- 10 -
4. JUSTIFICATION
h.Oi      Although the project aims to provide tihe facilities to meet anti-
cipated demand, its pr.incipal objective is to inprove the quality of service
in Ouagadougou and establish or improve service in provincial areas. In
respect of the latter, many small provincial localities that presently have
either no or inadequate communications, would be connected b,y reliable long
distance routes to the main regional centers.  The Dresent inadequate tele-
communications fac ities in Upper Volta hinder  production, marketing and
distribution and impede development; they also do not meet the requirements
for tuie Govern~nmtns programs for administration,r health and other social
services.
h.02      The project wiil help to fill an important gap in the Voltaic
economic înfrastructure.  In particular, it is of importance for a number
of the Government's c-urrent development schemes, especially in the agro-
industrial and textile sectors.  It will help the expansion of the
aininîstrative, riealth and social services in the areas served.  It will
also realize the fiill economic benefits of the telecommurnications invest-
ment program, presently nearing completion.
b.O3      The p)roject is based largely on studies carried out by OPT staff
with the assistance of trie ITU expert wno worked in Upper Volta from June
1970 until April 1971 (para. 3.0).  Demand forecasts have been drawn up
aifter naking an assessment of demand in the individual locations scheduled
for deveropmeut under the project.  The forecasts have taken into account
potential demand in areas presently provîded witn poor service and the de-
mand likely to arise in those areas.
Demand for Local Teleohone Service
Ii.JLX    ,?etween 1963 and 1971 telephone demand in Ouagadougou, as measurad
by connected lines, increased bv about 11$ per year. During 1972 no addi-
tiona' lineS were added because t-he local exchange facilities were saturated.
in that nTear, however, OPT accunuiated a waiting list of 200 which represents
an increase in demand of 20i.  ,hile this increase is exceptional, it is
reasotnable to assume that normal demand will increase to about 15e per year
with the anticipated improvement to the presert extremely poor quality of
service. It is also reasonable to assume that once improved service and
additional facilities are avaîlable there rwil1 be some substituition by
subscribers of extension telophones b.y direct exchange lines.  (The ratio
of telepnones to direc-c exchance lines is presently 2.3:1; this is veryr
ihigh for any country, tine normal ratio being 1.6:1 for most countries.)
With allowance made for tiie witndrawal of 1,000 lines from the old Ouagadougou
exchange, tne provision of 4,00 lines in the new exchange would Drovide
sufficient capacity unt-il 1980 for a growth rate of 15%, assuming an exchange
fill of 80%. The proposed expansion would therefore be reasonable. Because
of the need to imnort suuplies and to obtain the services of foreign tech-
nicians for installation of equipment and for securing the advantages of
standardization, ît would be uneconomical to take up installations in small
increments.



- il -
4.05      The automatic switching requirenents for the four provincial
towns of Ouahigouya, Koudougou, Fada N'Gourma and Banfora have been esti-
mated after making an assesement of future demand, including the potential
demand from planned future economic development in the areas served by
those towns. Past growth rates and present connected lines are not indi-
cative of future requirements of switching equipment. Ouahigouya is a
center of commerce and transit located on the main route from Mali to the
south. The bituminization of this road, as provided for in the current
national development plan, is expected to result in a substantial increase
in the town's trade and in transport movement; this, in turn, will stimulate
demand for telephone service. Koudougou is a developing textile center.
Fada N'Gourma lies on the route to Niger and is the main center for a
region to be developed for tourism; this town has also been selected as
the telephone switching ceniter for the e&stern region of Upper Volta.  In
Banfora, which is the center for the country's principal agricultural
region, several agro-industrial projects are underway, in particular the
construction of a laLrge sugar factory.  In addition, improvements and
expansion of telephone facilities in the rural areas is also expected to
accelerate the demand for telephones in these towns. when all these factors
are taken into account, it is considered that the installation of 200-line
automatic exchanges in each of the four towns would be justified and would
provide adequate capacity until 1980, assuming a 75% exchange fill.
Demand for Long-Distance Service
4.06      Traffic and circuit requirement forecasts for the Ouagadougou/
Koudougou and Bobo-Dioulasso/Banfora. microwave routes were made in 1971
by OPT and the ITU expert, and were based on traffic studies. dith the
effect of improved quality of service following installation of the new
equipment, it has been estimated that the long distance traffic would
increase by about 10% annually through 1980. This estimate conforms with
experience under similar circumstances in other developing countries.
4.07      The circuit reouirements for the open-wire routes have been
determined on the basis of measurements of traffic per subscriber and
take into account the demand for local service in the areas terminating
the routes. The procedures adopted for these calculations followed
accepted principles.
Least-Cost Solution
4.o8      OPT's fundawental network plans have been based since 1968 on
the use of common-control switching equipment. In continuation of that
policy, the switching to be provided under the project would follow the
same concept. The size, design and timing of the additions to the switch-
ing facilities and the associated local distribution networks provide
the least-cost solution for the required development.
4.09      The choice of automatic switching for both local and long dis-
tance service provides the least-cost solution when compared with the manual
system. Automatic long distance switching systems require lower overall



- 12 -
investment (including buildings) than a manual system; in addition operating
costs are lower. Automatic switching systens in the range of exchange sizes
for the principal towns, while requiring an additional 10% investment as
compared with manual systems, have lower operating costs which more than
compensate for the higher initial investment. Automatic working provides
better service and has greater flexibility.
4.10      Low-capacity microwave systems were chosen for the Ougadougou/
Koudougou and Bobo-Dioulasso/Banfora routes over the alternative solution
of open wire line with cerrier equipment.  Taking account of future capa-
city requirements and the maintenence difficulties in the regions concerned,
the microwave system represents the least-cost solution. Based on the con-
cept of an independent microwave system, the projectW (as appraised) repre-
sented the least-cost design. However, as explained in paras. 3.06 and
3.08, an alternative design, using common facilities of another microwave
system, would be adopted, if it proves to be more economical.
Return on Investment
4.11      A conservative estimate of the rate of return on the investment
using present tariffs is 20%. This rate is the discount rate which equalizes
the stream of CPTrs expected revenues from the project with its capital
costs, free of taxes and duties, and related operating costs. The bases
of this estimate are given in Annex 8. A sensitivity analysis has been
carried out, showing that should revenues and costs each vary +10% the
r:nte of return would be between 18 and 22%. Should a one-year delay occur
il; proïect completion the expected rate of return would be 19%.



- 13 -
5. THE BENEFICIARY
Organization and Management
5.01      OPT was established on January 1, 1969, as a Government-owned
entity.  Its organizational structure and management generally follow the
pattern of similar entities in French-speaking African countries (see
Chart  <B-7376).  The statutes creating OPT give it an industrial and com-
mercial character and endow it with legal and financial autonomy.  Subject
to the change recommended in the next paragraph, the structure of the
organization so far as it relates to telecomxunications operations is
adequate for carrying out the scale of operations envisaged during and
after the construction period of the project.
5.02      At the present time the responsibility for the maintenance of
OPT's plant and equipment is not clearly defined. The work is scattered,
and there is not one group specifically concerned with this most important
aspect of operations.  OPT's telecommunications maintenance service should
therefore be reorganized on an efficient basis, with responsibility cen-
tralized in one technical section of the Telecommunications Division.
During negotiations the Government and OPT agreed to make this change no
later than December 31, 1974.
5.03      OPT's chief executive officer is the Director, who is assisted
by a Deputy Director, a Chief Accountant and the Chiefs of the four
Divisions:  Administration, Postal/Financial Services, Telecommunications
and Buildings, Transport and Supply Services. The Postal/Financial Division
carries on all the usual postal services, together with a countrywide
public checking account service.
Staff and Training
5.0o      OPT's senior management staff are competent.  The Director, a
man of wide experience in P&T services, has proved to be a most capable
manager and deserves much of the credit for OPT's present satisfactory
position. The Deputy Director and the Chief Engineer of the Telecommuni-
cations Division graduated from Eàropean telecommunication schools and are
oualified to carry out their duties.
5.05      There are presently two French engineering advisers for tele-
communications; one in the lines and cable services and the other in the
National Posts and Telecommunications School (see para. 5.07). Both
will return to France in 1973 and will be replaced by suitably qualified
Voltaic staff who are presently completing their training abroad. OPT's
new chief accountant, who is responsible for the finances of both the
postal/financial and telecommunications services, has also been seconded
by French technical assistance. OPT proposes to train two suitably quali-
fied staff to take over his duties when he returns to France at the end
of 1974. The proposed credit includes US$40,000 to cover the cost of the
training of technical and administrative staff (see para. 5.07).



- 14 -
5.o6      As of December 31, 1972, the staff of OPT's Telecommnications
Division numbered about 280, or 73 per 1,000 telephones; in addition, a
smaller number of employees is doing joint postal-telecommunications work.
This high staff ratio is due to the widely spread, low-density network.
Significant improvement in productivity cannot be expected until the pro-
ject is completed and the nunber of installed telephones increased.  Never-
theless, measures should be undertaken to plan for improved productivity
over a longer period; therefore, during negotia-tions OPT agreed to review
its long-term. staffing policy and establish by June 30, 1975 and subse-
quently im.plement a staffing program, satisfactory to IDAe for its tele-
contnunicatVions operations. I.ndicaators which wil7 be applied to measure
future performance in imnprovirg productivity are set out in Annex 7.
5.07      o?I sends its engixneers and serLior technlcians outside Upper
Volta for traiing, péorticular2.y to the Prenc-i t-elecommunications schools
and to the Swiss telecoimmuniîcations training center in Lausanne.  In
addition, the National Teleconimunica ions School in Ouagadougou, and the
multinational school recently establîshed i.n Rufisque, Senegal, by the
UN)tP and the Senegalese Government, provide adequate training facilities
for juniior technici" ans. OPT's training arrangements are satisfactory and
adequate.  A s-iu of USe$0,O00 has been included in the credit to cover the
foreign cost of sending 15-20 technical and administrative staff on short-
termn training courses outside ITI)er Volta.
Accounting and Audïting
5).Go    ùOPT has completed all the basc accounting requirements as re-
c-,astedi by IDA under the terms of Credit 11h1-UV.  In particular, separate
accounts have been established for postFl]/financial and telecommunications
services.  In thi.s respect, havirng regard to the small size of operations,
the available staff resources, and the need to keep accounting costs at a
minimum, PT' s management lias devised a simple system for the division of
assets and expenditure common to both services.  The system is satisfactory
and provides an acceptable degree of accuracy but will need to be reviewed
wb.en OPT reaches a higher stage of development - say, 10,000 lines.
Improvement is required in OP?Ts budgeting procedures, which are inflexible,
inefficient and not compatible with good commercial management.  In parti-
cular, expenses are -not alurays related to the budget of the year for which
they were incurred.  Tle budget should also be divided between postal/
financial and telecommunications operations.  OPT is fully aware of these
defects and the need for improvement.  During negotiations the Government
and OPT agreed to review the budgeting and related financial procedures
and implement as from January 1, 1975 improved budgeting methods satis-
factory to IDA. A suen of US$10,000 has been included in the credit to
cover the foreign costs of the review.
5.09      OPT has appointed independent auditors in accordance with IDA's
requirements under Credit 141-UV.  The audited financial statements are
submitted to IDA within six mo.nths of the close of each fiscal year.
During negotiations OPT agreed to the continuation of these arrangements,
which are acceptable to IDA, for the proposed credit.



- 15 -
Tariff s
5.10      Although OPT's telecommunications tariffs (see Annex 9) are in
line with those of the other French-speaking West African countries, they
are very high when compared with similar services in other developing
countries. Local calls are charged US¢13 in Upper Volta, compared with
US¢2-05 in most countries. The main reasons for OPT's high tariff level
arise fron the high cost of the network and the necessity to maintain
an extensive long distance network with relatively feiw local subscribers.
Despite the limited and inadequate service the revenue per subscriber is
among the highest in the world (see para. 6.O4). OPT's tariffs are fixed
by the Minister of Posts and Telecommunications after he takes into
consideration the recommendations of the Board of Directors.  However,
Upper Volta generally follows the tariff policies recommended by the Union
Africiine des Postes et Telcommunications (UAMPT) and the Conference
Administrative des Postes et Télecommunications des Etats de L'Afrique
Occidentale (CAPTEAO).
5.11      Under the first IDA credit OPT was required to carry out a
tariff review before December 31, 1971. Due mainly to delays in execution
of the IDA financed project, as well as the multitude of other problems
which have had to be solved in establishing the new entity, OPT has been
unable to carry out the tariff review. OPT's management is of the opinion
that a reduction in the present high tariffs would optimize the development
of its network and would give the country increased economic benefits.
Accordingly, OPT proposes to make a step-by-step reduction of tariffs after
completion of the 1974-1977 development program, when more facilities and
better service would be available. OPT have been advised to consider
reducing its high local service tariffs, particularly those for manual
subscribers in the provinces; this would encourage both an extension of
local services and a greater use of the long distance services. In view
oa the limited financial resources available, any reduction aould have to
be done gradually so that demand and revenues could be studied after each
step of tariff reduction. The financial plan provides for an increase in
cash; this would provide a reserve against any falIl in revenues arising
out of a reduction in tariffs. However, before any reduction of tariffs
can be made a tariff review must be carried out; this should be
by June 30, 1975. Prior to negotiations the approach to this matter was
fully discussed with OPT's Director. During negotiations OPT agreed to
appoint by May 31, 197h, qualified tariff specialists satisfactory to the
Association, to carry out and complete not later than June 30, 1975, a
tarif? review in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and
to make no general change in tariffs until the review has been completed
and a course of action discussed and agreed with IDA. A sum of US$15,000
has been included in the credit to cover the foreign costs of the review.



- 16 -
6. FINANCES
6.01      The financial results from OPT's telecommunications and postal/
financial operations since January 1, 1969, the date of incorporation, have
been satisfactory. The financial position, as shown by the audited accounts
as of December 31, 1971, and as estimated for 1972 and 1973 is sound.
Given that OPT commenced operations in 1969 with miirinal f inancial resources
and without any effective organization, its financi&l performance since that
time has been a creditable one.
6.02      CPT's Income Statemtents, Balance Sheets, and Sources and Applica-
tions of Funds Statements in respect te telecoewunications operations for
the period 1969 through 1973 are givern in Annexes 10, 11 and 12. The
figures lor FYs 1969-1971 are taken from OPT's audited accounts; those for
FYs 1972-1973 have been estimated.  The presentation in the following
paragra.phs concentrates on OPT's telecommunications operations; the financial
information relating to its postal/financial operations is given in Annexes
14, 15 and 16.
Telecommiiications - Past Finances
6.03      During the four-year period 1969-1973 it is expected that OPT's
net income from telecommunications operations will have increased from
CF.2  50 million to CEAF 82 million; this represents an average annual
inrrease of 16%. Doinestic and international revenues have been increasing
by about '5% and 10% respectively.  Overall operating expenses have been
increasing by about 14% per annum. Annual additions to salaries and wage
expenses have been held to about 8%; this is reasonable, considering OPT's
requiremnents for new staff for institution building. Little inprovement
has been showrn in OPT's operating ratio since incorporation; improvement
in the present ratio of 75 can be expected only when the network becomes
more deveLoped,  The rate of return on telecommunications net fixed assets,
which iI 1969 was 7.4%, is currently about 10%.
6.o4      Considering that the yearly revenue per telephone subscriber in
Upper Volta is about US$650, which is waong the highest in the world and
about two to three times the average yearly revenue per subscriber in
Europe, the rate of return on net fixed assets is modest. This is due
to the high capital costs of past investment (net fixed assets per sub-
scriber at the end of 1972 were about US$1,675, which is considerably
higher than in similar developing countries), the necessity to provide
an extensive interurban and rural network, and the relatively very low
scale of OPT's local operations.
6.05      The latest audited accounts, which relate to FY 1971, show the
financial position of OPT's Telecomunications Division to be sound.  The
current ratio was 3.6.   At that time, owing to the delays in the ex-
ecution of the local works for the IDA-finamced project (see paras. 1.04
and 2.05), the cash. level was relatively high; with the progressive
execution of the project, cash levels are now being reduced. It is estimated
that after completion of the IDA-financed project OPT's cash position should



- 17 -
continue to be strong. Subscribers' receivables are being maintained at a
steady leval and unpaid accounts represent about one month's gross revenue.
This is satisfactory.
6.06      The capitalization of OPT's Telecommunications Division as of
December 31, 1972, in estimated as follows:
CFAF      US$         %
- iMllions) -
Equity                              1,135     4.9        83
Long-term debt:
Loan - FAC              25
- Savings Bank     19
IDA Credit 141-UV      186         230      1.0        17
1,365     5.9       100
The debt/equity ratio of 17/83 provides ample margin for further borrow-
ings. In addition to IDA Credit 141-UV, long-term debt relates to a 3/4%
French Cooperation Services (FAC) loan for financing the switching equip-
ment for the Bobo-Dioulasso automatic exchange and a 5% loan from the
local savings bank for financing miscellaneous capital works. Both loans
have a repayment period of 15 years, the FAC loan will be redeemed by
1983, the aavings bank loan by 1975.
6.07      In 1971 OPT signed a loan agreement with the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE), through the National Development Bank (BND),
for a loan of CFAF 230 (US$1.0) million as part of the financing arrange-
ments for the Ouagadougou/Bobo-Dioulasso/Ivory Coast border microwave route,
whose total co0t is CFAF 463 (US$2.0) uillion. The loan, which is expected
to be drawn down in 1973, has a term of 11 years including a four-year grace
period and bears interest at 4-1/4% per annum.  Of the remaining co0t of
the microwave route, CFAF 200 million will be financed by a FAC subsidy
and CFAF 33 million from OPT's own resources.
Telecommunication8 - Financing Plan
6.08      OPT's capital investEent and vorking capital requiroemnts for
telecomunications during the FYs 1974-1977 period, along with the sources
from which they would be met, are simmarized below. Further dotails are
given in Annez 12.



Frs 1974-1977
-1l1ions 7
Requirements
1974-1977 program              1,494.6      6.5        87
Future program                     75.0     0.3          4
Working capital                   157.9     0.7          9
Total requirements     1i,7 27.5     7.5       100
Sources
Internal cash
generation 1/     985.6
Less:  debt service  294.0       691.6      3.0        40
Borrowings:
IDA Credit                  1,035.9      4.5        60
Total sources           1,727.5      7.5       100
6.09      In addition to the 1974-1977 program, the financing plan includes
CF.AF75 million as part of a future program to commence in 1 97-7 and CFAF1 58
million to cover additional working capital requirements. The proposed
IDA credit vould be relent by the Govermnent to OPT at the present Bank
lending rate of 7V for 20 years, including a four-year grace period.
Similar termns have been assumed for further borrowings in the two years
following completion of the program.
6.10      In view of the size of the investment to be undertaken, OPT
agreed during negotiations to consult with IDA and produce a satisfactory
financial plan before undertaking any capital expenditure for telecommuni-
cations during the program period over and above that included in the
1974-1977 program if such additional capital expenditure during any one
year would exceed US$200,000 equivalent.
Telecommunications - Future Finances
6.11      Forecast Income Statements and Balance Sheets for FYs 1974-1979
for the Telecommunications Division are given in Annexes 10 and l1; related
notes are in Annex 13. The main features of the telecomunications finan-
cial forecasts for the program construction period are given below. Net
income is expected to remain at a satisfactory level throughout the program
period and to improve thereafter following the commissioning of the new
facilities.  The financial position of the Telecommunications Division
would be satisfactory.
t/    Includes subscribers deposits CFAF11.6 million.



- 19 -
1974     1975      1976     1977
Net income (before interest)
CFAF mi-lion               88      100       112      129
Operating ratio    %                      76       76        76       76
Rate of return     %                     7.7      7.6       7.2      6.2
Debt/equity ratio                      29/71    35/65    44/56    46/54
Current ratio                            2.3      2.6      2.5       1.9
6.12      The overall telecommunications revenue forecasts for the four-
year period through FY 1977 show an average annual increase of about 13%.
This increase takes into account part of the benefits derived from the
plant installed under OPT's delayed 1969-1971 program, the 500-line exten-
sion to the Ouagadougou exchange, and tne new Ouagadougou/Bobo-Dioulasso
microwave link.  However, tne main benefits of the 1974-1977 program are
to be expected only from Fl 1978 onward after the new local and long dis-
tance facilities in the program have become fully operative. Telex service
revenue should achieve a consistent 10% annual increase, but with the
improvement in telephone facilities, increases in telegraph revenue are
likely to be small and accordingly the forecasts for telegraph revenue have
been limited to an increase of 5% in each of FYs 1974 and 1975.  Net reve-
nue from international services is expected to achieve an annual increase
of 10%.
6.13      Salaries have been projected to increase at 7% per year with
the exception of 1976; in that year, to provide for additional senior
staff who may be needed, an increase of 10% has been forecast. Other
operating expenses have been projected to increase at 10% per yrear. On
this basis, an operating ratio of 76 is expected during FYs 1974 through
1977, after which, with higher revenue, the ratio should improve to 73
in 1979.
6.14      The rate of return on telecommunications net fixed assets in
operation is expected to fall from 10.4 in 1973 to 6.2 in 1977 recovering
thereafter to 8.1 in 1979 and higher levels in the years irmediately
following. This is due to the time lag between the commissioning of new
plant and the build up of related revenues. During the four-year period
of tne program, net telecommunications assets in operation are expected
to increase 2.5 times. New plant installations during the period are
expected to be particularly heavy since they include plant brought into
service from delayed projects, in particular the Ouagadougou/Bobo-Dioulasso
microwave link.  The full revenue benefits from tne installations brought
into service during the program period will be realized only during the
early 1980s.
6.15      Ih connection with the first DA credit it was agreed that,
owing to the lack of detailed information on OPT's operational and deve-
lopment requirements, a specific rate of return covenant would be fixed
only after completion of a tariff review, which would be carried out be-
fore December 31, 1971. OPT has been unable to carry out the tariff
review and has now agreed to undertake it by June 30, 1975 (see para.
5.11). Nevertheless, as more reliable data are now available on the



- 20 -
financial condition and prospects of OPT, specific minimum performance
criteria can be defined without waiting for the tariff review. There-
fore, during negotiations the Government and OPT gave assurances that,
unless otherwise agreed, a rate of return of 6% will be achieved in
FYs 197h through 1978 and 8% from FY 1979 onward. The proposed tariff
review, although leading to a change in tariff structure and a reduction
in some charges, would not be expected to affect adversely this perform-
ance in view of the increased usage which it wouLu lIelp to stimulate.
6.16      The statutes covering OPT's financial adcrinistration provides
that surplus funds from postal/financial and telecommunications services
should first be transferred to a statutory reserve fund, which has been
limited to 20, of annual revenue.  When the limit of the reserve fund
has been reached surpluses must then be transferred to a reserve for
plant renewal or to the Government. The statutes treat the utilization
of surplus funds from postal/financial and telecommunications operations
on a joint basis.  However, as OPT's accounting arrangements provide for
separate operating accounts and balance sheets for the two services, the
identifical Ion of surplus funds for each service presents no problem.
The Government is entitled to withdraw surplus telecommunications funds
from OPT, and OPT is entitled to use surplus telecommunications funds for
postal/financial services.  However, during negotiations the Government
and OPT agreed that during the construction period of the project, be-
fore applyir.g sui:lus telecommunications funds for other purposes, they
will ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet operations, debt
service, w-rking capital and investment requirements of OPT's telecommu-
nicatior2 services.
6.17      The f.nancial position of OPT's Telecommunications Division is
expected to remain satisfactory during the program construction period.
At the end of FY 1977 the debt/equity ratio would be 46/5h; this waxld
still leave a margin for further borrowing. The current position would
be satisfactory.
6.18      Under Credit 1141-UV, OPT may not incur:
(i)  any long-term debt without IDA's agreement unless its net
revenues from telecommunications operations for the pre-
ceding fiscal year or a later 12-mnonth period, whichever
is tne greater, are not less than 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year;
(ii)  any debt during the project period and during a period
of five years foliowing completion of the project without
prior consultation with IDA;
(iii)  any short-term debt which wculd exceed two monthst tele-
communications operating expenses (exclu,ding depreciation)
for the preceding fiscal year or for any later 12-month
period, whichever is greater, without prior consultation
with IDA.



- 21 -
During nagotiations OPT agreed that these limitations should be continued
for the proposed credit.
Fiscal Impact
6.19      During the six-year period 1974-1979, OPT being still in the
early stage of its development would not be able to contribute to Govern-
ment revenues by way of taxes, customs duties and dividends on Government
equity. In this respect its only contribution would be the difference
between the concessionary terms of the two IDA credits and the conven-
tional terms on which they will be relent, which over the period would
total US$2.0 million equivalent. In this period the main fiscal impact
of OPT on Governnent finances will be to finance all the local costs of
the project and increases in its working capital - or 40% of a relatively
large expansion without any claims on the budget.



- 22 -
7. RECMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtalned that:
(i)  improvement will be made in OPT's organization (para. 5.02);
(ii)  a staffing progran for telecommunications operations will
be established and implemented (para. 5.06);
(iii) improvement will be made in OPTes budgeting procedures (para.
5.08);
(iv)  existing independent auditing and financial reporting arrange-
ments will be continued (para. 5.09);
(V) a review of OPT's tariffs will be made (para. 5.11);
(vi)  during exec utioI of the program no additional capital expend-
iture for telecommunications above JS$200,000 equivalent per
year will be incurred without a financirg plan agreed with
IDA (para. 6.10);
(vii)  a rate of returrn of 6% per year will be achieved in FYs 1974-
1978 and 8% thereafter (para. 6.15);
(viii)  during the execution of the project, funds from telecommuni-
cation operations will be applied to other OPT purposes only
after telecommunication operational, debt service, and in-
vestment requirements have been met; and
(ix)  existing debt lîmitations for telecommunications operations
will be continued (para. 6.18).
7.02      On the basis of the above arrangements the project would be
suitable for an DA credit of US$1.5 million.
May 25, 1973



UPP3 t VOTA
OFFIC: 0SS F057S8 DT T3LtPl!0A7I0t'S (OPI)
Intesmatisnal St.atiistiil Eta
lt-osa National Prodoct     Fopoiatio-                                                         TEIEPONIES
Pe- Capita                                           INATT,5NA                                                    PRINCIPAL CITlES b/              Natonni       Internationai Set-ine.
(1119751                Pot- Cspita   Ot-onti Rote                Total No.   Pet- 100 Pop.   Growt-c    Rate   7 Aotcmatio   Staff pet- 1,OG Rt   of Total Pt-p. % of Total Tel.   Log  DStabat-e
1970       1965-1970        1970        1970          1970           1065-1070                       îeîY                                                     Set-ine       Direct A-tess ta:
0LLs          f            OOO's        OOOs  l        N.                                                          ------        - RNo.     -                Quaaity       Satellite  Slba-rine Cable
111. i .                        4,235           3.1 4       06,910       115,222        56.33             5.4           9.9                                   5                51                  E         Atl. Pac.            x
Ont-ld-                         2,788           3.2           8,250        4,307        5374              ".9           99.7                                 34                43                  E              _               X
0oiZlt=l-iO                     2 ,61o          2.-4          6,30         1,847        45.38             6.o          110.0               1                 37                50                  E              -               X
ona'ads                         2,720           ?.8          21,700        '),753       42.28             5.5          ç98.                                  4                 414                 E             Atl.             X
fai- o                          2,288           3.7          51,000        8,114,       16.05             7.3           80.1              19                 25                50                  E             Atl.             X
A,,tltalia                      2,169           2.4          12,500         3,599       29.27             t.1           89.7              2?                 64                 67                 E          Pac. lad.           X
lt-t-oanty 560d. Rep.           2,270           3.7          61,800       13 835        02.39             9.4          100.0             ot.                 29                 46                 E         Atl. lad.            X
NR-w Zeal                       2,o68           1.7           2,950        1,203        42,63             4.6           86.7              18                 54                63                  P                              X
II,K.                           1,862           P.2          56,050       13, 4,        24.96             7.0           98.6              20                 33                43                  E         Atl. Lad.            X
ItalY                           1,343           4.6          53,600        3, 5.^       15.98             9.0          100.0              a.                 23                53                  E             Atl.             X
yoxgcilatia                       553           4.2          061 6623                    3.05            11.0           95.9              19                 12                 49                 G
jlpa-                           1,432          lo.O         121,800         3,13i       22.50            i3.4           yl.8             n.0.                36                48                  I          Ind. Pa.            X
Veat-oelo                         977           1.4          10,650                      3.70             7.8           97.6              18                 35                83                  G             Atl.             X
At-entino                         fl36          1.0          24,400        1,668         6.90             2.5           92.7              24                 47                86                  I             Atl.             -
cbile                             437           1.3           9,800           348        3,6o             6.8           87.2              16                  35               76                  F             At.              -
Coîtambia                         319           1.4          2_ 350           546        2.63             7.4h          96.8             s,a,                26                77                  G             Atl.             -
BRta-i1                           258           1.6          93,500        1,787         1.94             7.2           93.3             n.a.                20                66                  t             Atl.             -
mxtic:                            566           3.4          50,050         1 328        2.67            12.9           93.0             s1.0.                27               75                  G             Atil.            -
Coot- Ri-a                        469           2.1           1,750            56        3.26            20.5           95.9              13                 19                80                  G             Atil.            -
Gnatentala.                       331           1.7           5,150            38        0.76            10.6           95.9              20                 15                91                  P
El Salvadot                       292           2.1           3,500            35        1.03             9.7           95.5              33                 28                84                  S
Nepal                              67           0.4         lO,ôOo              6        0.06            19.2           83.9            10                   5                                    --
silgapo-e                         753           3.8           ',100           136        6.7o            11.5          100.0              14                100               100                  -              -               X
Fijli                             400           2.7             500            1,        3.42             7.9           85.5              33                 14                53                  G                              X
Nalaaisi                          358           4.3          11,050           169        1.58             6.9           89.8              45                  3                 34                 E             Ind.
bina (TaluonS                     3°5           6.5          14,250           339        2.37            18.0           82.2              39                 26                72                  F             PBn.
I,.aq                             275           2.9           9,100           120        1.?5            14.1           81.8              47                 54                74                  p
Papas & N.O.                      21           2.5           2.LOO            19        0.79            16.1           85.4              34                  4                78                  P
Ceylo-                             Y8           23           1',550            61        0.49             7.7           98.7             n.a.                 5                 57                 P
P6akistan,                        1 N;          3.1         129,550           193        0.17             9.8           78.2             140                  7                75                  F
Iodia                            10'           1.0         550,100        1,160         0.21             8.8           75.7             129                  4                 50                 F              -               _
Dodoo..sia                         i0'          O. I        113,150           132        0.16             2.7           49.0              86                  8                 49                 F             lId.
IrSan                             370           4.9         -18,00            307        1.03             8.1           86.1              20                 24                 82                 F             Ai.
ztalabi                           236           3.6           4 300            5.        1.28            10.9           98.0              50e                13                 62                 p              -                -
Ohasa 1971                         168          0.7           9,o000           47        0.53*           10.3           83.9             127                 14*                760                y-
Ket-ya                            134           1.4          10,800            72        o.69             7.1           85.1)                                ( 7                 3)
Uganda                             117          1.1           8,550            78        0.?9             9.2           79.6)             49ge               (5                 61)                G              Ind.             _(
T.nsania                            82          1.2          13,150            32         o.24             8.8          74.4)                                ( 3                43)
Nigeti-a                            70          °.3          65,650            Si        0.13             6.2           79.2             n.a.                  3                57                 F             Atl.
Malawi                              5'           '.2          4,500            12         0,26           1i.4           89.8             n.a.                  3                57                 ?              _                _
Upper Volta                         56          0.1           5,200             3         o.o6             6.o          82.5              70                   3                82                 ?
Mail                                50          1.`           5,000             5         0.10             3.0          57.0             117                   6                72                  P              -               -
Senegal                           194           1.4           3,800            28        0.73              2.0          92.0              50                  31                93                  P            Atl.
Thailand                           160          6.6          36,200           o45         o.54            10.0          97.0              27                   8                74                  y         Atl. Ind,
(1972)                                                        (Bsngkok only)
S.urcee
Poplstitos & G.N.P.                World Bask Atlas (1970)
Telephone Statistics                The World', Telephones by A.T.&T. (1970)
Long Distance and
Inte-rational Se-vi-e               Division Retotrd
a/ These figures are not strictiy comparable.  In sore cases internationai, local snd long distance set--tes ste provided by different organioations is the u.me ceunity.
Telegspbh staff rY or -ay nst bs included SDd thora arc aide varistisas in the .se sf ct-ati labot- for bsth maintenance and nknstruction woa. Te nh.aber oe
telepbone operators required also varies with-the proportion of as-uai ta automatic service.
] e.g. In ihe t U.S.., 45% ef the pppsl.tion live in the print-ipsi ciies and have 51% ef the ceaitrysy  telephess.
E = Excellent. Most cities ansd -enters connected by mic-rovave os coaxial systens with extensive Subscriber Trunk Dialling.
G = Good.  Principal cities connected by sier-oave or coaxiai systema  !th  ubse-liber Trunk Dialling.
F = Fs-r.  Principal cities connected by misrowave or coaxial systees but calls handled sermi-sutonaititlly or tuanually
P . poor. Little or nu mâtronev  or coaxial.  Calle betae.n inter comected cities handl.d  -analily.
5/ Ceomtries chich have satellite earth station os nub-reine cable tesminals aithin their bordero.
Se-vice provided by a con con organisation.
MFes>h 7  1971






UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
r   A ,dt, Br 1î 1 1'                                                   Mînister of Information Post
,d th'>          - t-"î                                               and Teleconimnuîcations
Su.srlme Court
I                                                     I
Gel«ilIrnpspctîonr                                                             Bor  1i
Gn n                               -    -, Co-     --rolif,                                                - _ _ _ _ _ _  Boardot
tM'rîl tr0n t Fli irict                                                           O  DirectorsOTr
GentiAml Administnation 
Externat Serarces                                                                                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocmetai
PgbAc ounts         OP Acgutista&T    nirct Offices                                     Storeost& on c
_     I         tiosechols
I Di,ect rer i speonrvi e
-  -  -  Cotrol m   ndrectre-p-n-bl-t-  -  -rl-  -nk-7--
~~~'-~ ~ ~ _t,
PubncilOfic Cecknr   consh.clB                                                          f-
|  Admmlstratlon   I~~~~                                                          ~      ~~~ elemmnc3tommnicatiuplyonsic3
H ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ & SertaT B rac Off,cmntton   
= =       .to  n   d,ers     esn     bl,t                                                                                                             Wol BanakSrics  -7376vnsr    






ANNEX 2
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
Basic Data
December 31
1972     1978
1.  Local Telephone Service                                 Actual      Forecast
Number of telephone stations                           3,850         5,400
Number of subscriber connections                       1,680         3,580
Annual growth in subscriber connections (1968-1971)           11.0%
Expected growth in subscriber connections                     15.0%
Number of telephone exchanges - Total                     28            37
Automatic                 2             7
Manual                   26            30
Installed capacity  - Total                            2,1440        7,70C*
Automatic                       1,800         7,100
Manual                            640           600
Exchange fill                                             68%           60%
Waiting subscribers                                      220           -
Waiting list as a percentage of working connections   13.2%            -
Waiting list as a percentage of total demand            11.7%          -
2. Long Distance
Number of microwave links                                  0             3
Number of long distance circuits                          56           160
Total circuits - kilometers                            7,800        35,000
3. Telegraph and Telex
HF radio stations                                          4             4
Public teleprinter circuits                                2            10
Telex subscribers                                         45            80
4.  International Service (only OPT services to neighboring countries)
Telephone circuits (land line and microwave)               5            40
Telegraph circuits                                         1            10
Private wires telex                                        1             4
5. Staff
Total staff (OPT)                                        613           -
Telephone staff                                          280           320
Staff per 1,000 subscriber connections                   168            89
Staff per 1,000 telephones                                73            59
*Includes 1,000 lines of French R6 system to be withdrawn from service.
February 16, 1973






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3 pages
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
1.   Local Telephone Service
The total switching capacity and nunmber o'f connected telephone
lines in Upper Volta as of Novexaber 1972 were as follows:
Number of    Exchange      Total   Connected
Exchanges    Capacity    Capacity   Lines
Automatic service:
Ouagadougou                         1         1,000         1,000       979
Bobo-Dioulasso                      1           800           800       339
Total                         2          1,800         1,800    1,318
Manual service:
Provinces                          3            100           300       163
1            50            50        33
2            26            52        29
4            25           100        59
16    under   25           138        78
Total                        26                          640      362
Total Upper Volta               28                        2,440    1,680
The Ouagadougou automatic exchange is equipped with 1,000 lines of
French R6 system and although this type of equipment is no longer in general
manufacture, OPT is presently installing a further 500 lines of the same type
as an emergency measure to meet demand; the extension should be brought into
service by end-March 1973. The first 1,000 lines, which were installed be-
tween 1960 and 1965, are giving poor service and fault rates are high; this
is due to lack of maintenance in the past, unsatisfactory building conditions
and traffic overloading. One of the main defects of the equipment is its low
traffic capacity; this is the principal cause of traffic overloading in
Ouagadougou. To correct the situation OPT proposes to eventually withdraw
about 1,000 subscribers from the exchange and transfer them to the new ex-
change to be provided under the project.
The provincial automatic exchange of Bobo-Dioulasso, which uses
the Pentaconta common-control system, provides good service. The equipment
was installed in 1968.



APNNEX 3
Page 2 of 3 pages
Four-digit numbers are being used in the Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso automatic exchanges. However, a five-digit numbering scheme is
planned anid will be extended to the whole country during the construction
period of the project.
The evolution of the number of telephones during the last few
years has been as f ollows:
Main                      Total
Telephone    Extensions   Telephones
1968           1,224          1,756         2,980
196J           1 ,398         1 ,873        3,471
1970           1,504          2,028         3,532
1971           1,672          2,162         3,834
Yearly growth in subscriber connections averaged 11% between 1968 and 1971.
Because of the saturation of the Ouagadougou exchange and of the local net-
works in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, growth in these towns was stopped
in 1972. As of November 1972 the number of waiting subscribers was about
220, or 13.2% of working connections, at the end of 1971.
2.   Long Distance Service
Present long distance facilities consist of about 4,000 km of
copper and iron overhead lines. Although the first IDA credit enabled OPT
to replace 400 km of single iron-wire lines, about 800 km of obsolete routes
still need to be recondîtioned to provide reesonable service.
The following carrier equipment is in service or under construction
on the routes mentloned:
In service:
Ouagadougou - Bobo-Dioulasso       12 + 3 channels
- Yako                     1 channel
- Ouahigouya               1 channel
- Koudougou                1 channel
Under construction:
Ouagadougou - Fada N'Gourma             2 channels
- Koupela                  1 channel
- Tenkodogo                1 channel
- Kaya                     2 channels
- Korsimoro                1 channel
- Boussouma                1 chanel
Bobo-Dioulasso-Benfora                  2 channels
A large-capacity microwave link (300/600 channels), financed by
French bilateral aid (FAC and CCCE), is under construction on the backbone
route from Ouagadougou through Bobo-Dioulasso to the Ivory Coast border and
should be brought into service early 1974.



XNNEX 3
Page 3 of 3 pages
3.   Telegraph and Telex Services
Domestic telegraph service is provided through open wire lines
and/or HF radio links with Bobo-Dioulasso, Dedougou, Dori, Ouahigouya and
Tougan. All towns that have telephone service also have telegraph service.
A 100-line automatic telex exchange in Ouagadougou is owned and
operated by the FCR; 45 telex subscribers are connected to this exchange.
4.   International Services
International services are provided by both OPT and FCR. OPT
provides service to the African capitals of Abidjan, Bamako and Niamey.
Service to all other major centers is provided by FCR through HF radio.






ANNEX 4
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
Traffic Statistics
(1969-1971)
(Figures in parenthesis denote the percentage increase
over the previous year)
I.  Telephone Traffic
Domestic Traffic                          1969         1970        1971
Number of local calls                2,o97,498   2,280,943   2,457,116
(registered on meter)                  (13%)       (8.7%)        (7%)
Number of long-distance calls          106,892     148,075      153,504
(registered on tickets)                  -        (38.4%)        (3.6%)
International Traffic
Number of calls                         11,989      14,802       14,009
(outgoing and incoming traffic)          -        (23%)         (-5.6%)
II.  Telex Traffic
Domestie Traific                            1/           1/          1/
International Traffic
Number of calls                           1/         15,392      18,707
(outgoing and incoming traffic)                       -         (21.5%)
III. Telegraph Traffic
Domestic Traffic
Number of words                           1/        64,601       57,742
(-5.7%)
Internatianal Traff ic
Number of words                           i/        68,929      114,620
(66.3%)
1/ Statistics not available.
March 2, 1973






ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6 pages
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
The Project
The principal items of the project to be realized during FYs 1974
through 1977 are given below. A table of costs is given on page 5 of this
annex, the project construction schedule is given in Chart WB3-7375.
A.   Local Telephone Service
1.   Installation of switching equipment for 4,300 automatic
exchange lines at the following locations:
Ouagadougou (new exchange)       4,000
Banfora                             200
Fada N'Gourma                       200
Koudougou                           200
Ouahigouya                          200
Total               4 800
Of the 4,000 lines to be installed in Ouagadougou, 1,000
will replace switching equipment to be withdrawn.
2.   Rehabilitation and extension of outside plant and the provi-
sion of subscribers' apparatus in Ouagadougou and in the
provincial tofms of Bobo-Dioulasso, Banfora, Fada N'Gourma,
Koudougou and Ouahigouya.
B.   Long Distance Service
(The long distance routes to be constructed are shown on
the map, WB-10334.)
1.   Construction of two low-capacity microwave links between
Ouagadougou and Koudougou ard between Bobo-Dioulasso and
Banfora. Initially, each link will be provided with multi-
plex equipment for 24 channels. After completion of the
project the number of circuits in operation on these routes
will be as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6 pages
Banfora/Bobo-Dioulasso       12 Telephone  Banfora/Bobo-Dioulasso
8    "       Banfora/Ouagadougou
1 VF telegraph circuit Banfora/Bobo-
Dioulasso
Total             21
Koudougou/Ouagadougou        18 telephone
1 VF telegraph circuit
Total             19
2.   installation of equipment for the national and international
transit exchange in Ouagadougou and the provision of trunk
switching equipment in the Banfora, Ouahigouya and Fada NtGourma
exchanges to provide subscriber trunk dialling. After com-
pletion of the project, the number of automatic telephone cir-
cuits will be as follows:
National
Ouagadougou/Bobo-J)ioulasso         34
Bobo-Dioulasso/Ouagadougou              26
Ouagadougou/Koudougou                7
Koudougou/Ouagadougou                    il
Ouiagadougou/Ouahigouya              3
Ouahigouya/Ouagadougou                   5
Ouagadougou/Fada NtGourma            5
Fada N'Gourma/Ouagadougou                6
Ouagadougou/Banfora                  4
RBan fora/ Ou agadougou             _   4
53  52
Bobo-Dîoulasso/Banfora               6
Banfora/Bobo-Dioulasso                   6
International
CT2 Abidjan - CT3 Ouagadougou       19
CT3 Ouagadougou - CT2 Abidjan           16
The Ouagadougou automnatic transit exchange equipment will
provide for 90 incoming and 90 outgoing terminations for
long distance and international circuits together with
terminations on the exchange for local junction circuits
and 12 switchboards. This exchange will enable four-wire
transit connections between two national circuits or one
national and one international circuit or to handle calls
from and to Ouagadougou. OPT proposes to use the R2 sig-
nalling system recommended by International Telephone
and Telegraph Consultative Committee.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6 pages
3.  Rehabilitation and construction of about 1,200 km inter-
urban overhead lines as follows:
a) Replacement by two-wire lines of overhead single-wire liness
Tenkodogo/Ouargaye            55 km
Fada N'Gourna/Bogande        130 km
Ouahigouya/Thiou              31 km
Koudougou/Tenado              26 km
Koudougou/Kindi               39 km
Gaoua/Kampti                  40 km
b)  Rehabilitation of two-wire copper lines:
Ouagadougou/Leo              165 km
Kaya/Barsalogo                52 km
Tougan/Dian Kassoun           26 km
Diabo/Comin Yanga             46 km
c) New routes to be constructed:
Dori/Gorom Gorom              58 km
Po/Zabre                      61 km
Po/Tiebele                    31 km
Ouahigouya/Ticao             44 km
Ouahigouya/Djibo             110 km
Boromo/Bagassi                48 km
Kaya/Boulsa                  142 km
Kaya/Kongoussi                59 km
L. Provision of carrier systems on overhead lînes (2 x 12 channels)
to enable trunk dialling between Ouagadougou and the towns of
Ouahigouya and Fada N'Gourma.
C. Buildings
1. Construction of a new building in Ouagadougou to eventually
accommodate a lu,O00-line local exchange and the related
trunk switching equipment.
2. Construction of new buildings for the automatic exchanges
in Banfora and Fada N'Gourma (the new buildings in Koudougou
and Ouahigouya have already been constructed).
D. Miscellaneous
Installation of power plant for the Ouagadougou exchange and the
purchase of vehicles, miscellaneous technical equipment and
materials.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6 pages
E. Consultants' Services, Engineering
Consultants' services to advise on the detailed engineering and
on the preparation of the specifications and bidding documents, to assist
in bid evaluation, and to supervise execution of the works.
F.  Consultants' Services, Tariffs and Budgeting
Consultants' services to cover a tariff study and a review of
OPT's budgeting and related financial procedures.
G. Training
The foreign costs of training for telecomiunications technical
and administrative staff.



ANI 5
Page 5 of 6 pages
UPPESR VOLTA
OFFICE DES F04ES ET TElEC(ICATIONB (OPT)
The Progrma end the Project (1974_1977) - Co0t Estijtes
(tn aiiiilon  f  fA ?aea
1976          7                     ~~~~~~~~~Total
rrLocel Foo  Totcl        o              Tom      Local Foreign  Total
A. Local Services
4,800 lines autms.tie exchBagea          2.1.   24.3   26.7       8.2   71.6   79.8       12.0  100.4  112.4.       5.0   39.4   144,4       27.6  235.7  263.3
Local netvorks                           1.2   12 J   13.7       10.3   19.0   2          10.0   368   46.8         10 1    71   47.2        31.6  105,4  137.0
3.6   36,8    40.4      18,5   go.6 109.1        22.0  137:2   159.2      15.1   76.5   916         U     3141,1   400.3
B. Long Distance Service
Microvave link - Ouagadougou-Koudougou    1.5    8.9   10.4       3.0    -        3.0      5.5   54.0   59.5         1.5   26.6   28.1       11.5   89.5  101.0
lcicrowwe link - Bobo-Dioulasso.-Banoora   1.5    8.9   10.4      3.0     -       3.0      5.5   54.0   59.5         1.5   26.6   28.1       11.5   89.5  101.0
Trunk  itching equipment                 0.4    3.7    4.1        2.0   12.9   14.9        1.3   16.6   17.9        0.4    3.6    4.0         4.1   36.8   40.9
Long distance overhead lines             7,6   25.1   32.7       23.0   65.4   88.4       22.0   66.2   88.2        21.5   64.1   85.6       74.1  220.8  294.9
Carrier mysteas                          0.5    3.7    4.2        _                                2 _    _  1.1  28   13.9  2,5   20,3   22 8  4.1   36.8   40.9
11,5   50.3   61.8       31.0   78 3  109.3       354   203.6  239.0       27,4  141.2  168.6    105.3  473.4   578.7
C. Lend & Buildings                           2 7,5   27.5   55.0       U,   5,0   10.0          _2.    32.5   65.o
D. Miscellaneous
Toola, veblclea, miscalantmau
equipnt and pover plant                        5,0    5,        -      15.0   15:0       -      25.0   25.0       -       5..     5         _      50.0   50.0
E. Con.ultantsl Services                       0,8    9.2   10.0        0 8    2.0    as         0.8    7.1    7.9        1.0    2.1    3.1        3.4   2O.4   23.8
F. Tariff & Budgat Studies                   0.2      2.8     30       0.2    2.0    2.2        0.2    0.9    1.1                                  0.6      7     6.3
G.  T,.ii-g                                                                     3.4    3.4               3 4    34                3.4    3.4              10.2   10.2
,. C.n- Lngenoies
Plrysical                                2.2    6.6    8.8        2.8    9.8   12.6        2.9   18.9   21.8        2.2   11.4   13.6        10.1   46.7   56.8
Fr1i.c                                   2.2   13.2   15.4        2 8   19.6   22.4        29   37.7   40.6         2.2   22.8   25         101   93.3  103.4
TOTALr PàOCECT           48,o  151.4  199.4       61.1  225.7  286.8        64.2  433.8  498.0       4      262.4  310,3    221.2 1,073.3 294-
r,Dthex Investments
relex service                            -       -      - -  -            -       -       -        -           -            5.1    5.1       -       5.1    5.1
Other works                             48 0    _      48.0      L        -      2        4.o -9  _       49       49.0            49.0 _195.0   _          95.
TOTAL PROGAM             96.o  151.4  247.4    110.1  225.7  335.8        113.2  433.8   547.0             267.5     44    416.2 1.07c.41 .494.6
Moy 3, 1973



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET IELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE OF THE WORKS OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION Pf%NECT
1973                 1974                        1975                         19 76                         '77
r TEMS AS-J
LOCAL NETWORKS
Buildings                   Bidding --     .-.
Evaluation & Award- -----
Constructi on  - -- -- --  --------------
C Design--------
Exchanges                  Bidding --
Evaluation & Award--------_ -             .-  _
Installation & Commissioning --------- ------ ----------
Design ---------   ---- _I~
Outside &                   Bidding--- --_-_-_
Subscribers'                Evaluation & Avward--------
Plants                      Installation & Commissioning  ----------  --------....   --        -    _---------------
LONG DISTANCE NETWORK
Design - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
Microwave                   Bidding-----       -     -      -
Links                       Evaluation & Award-          -------          -
Installation & Commissioning ..                      i_
Design - -- -- -- -----------
Trunk Switching             Bidding-      --------         _-
Equipment                   Evaluation & Award -------- _-_---- ---
Installation & Commissioning           _-                                                               5 -
_,                 .                           _                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(D 
Design ---------                                                                                                                                               a,,
Other Trans-                Bidding-         ------              _
mission Equipment           Evaluation & Award--------       ----_                                                                                                                          e
Installation & Commissioning              .--                                  -------------_
Design ---- --- ---- --- -JQ
Over head                   Bidding -      -------    ---(oD
Lines                       Fvaluation & Award    .------- ----
Construction - -------------    _.-.-.____ -----_----.---------
Worid Bank -7375



ANNEX 6
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
Estimated Schedule of Diabursements
Cumulative Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year               at end of Quarter
and Quarter                  uS$ thousands
1973/1974
March 31, 197h                          256
June 30, 1974                          304
1974/1975
September 30, 1974                     30h
December 31, 1974                      304
March 31, 1975                          738
June 30, 1975                        1,077
1975/1976
September 30, 1975                   1,077
December 31, 1975                    1,077
March 31, 1976                       1,424
June 30, 1976                        1,780
1976/1977
September 30, 1976                   2,128
December 31, 1976                    2,485
March 31, 1977                       2,857
June 30, 1977                        3,521
1977/1978
September 30, 1977                   3,979
December 31, 1977                    4,141
March 31, 1978                       4,343
June 30, 1978                        4,500
Disbursements are expected to end June 30, 1978.
May 16, 1973






ANNEX 7
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION
Target Indicators
1.        A set of target indicators which will help monitor OPT's performance
has been established. With the exception of the rate of return targets, OPT
should.agree to report half-yearly on the actual achievements related to the
target indicators. At the end of each FY, OPT should also report on the ex-
pected achievements against the related targets for the next FY.
2.        Target Indicators:
1974    1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Telephone subscribers added
(number)                           235      100    480    340    380    425
Employees (number)                    290     300    310    320    320    325
Gross telephone revenue per
average subscriber line
(CFAF thousands)                   148.0   154.5  156.1  158.1  156.6  154.0
Rate of return (%"')                    7.7     7.6    7.2    6.2    6.3    8.1
Employees per 1,000 telephones         64      64      60      57     53      49
May 22, 1973






ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2 pages
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
Economic Analysis of the Project
1.        A conservative estimate of the rate of return on the project is
20%. This rate is the discount rate which equalizes the stream of OPT's
expected revenues from the project with its capital costs, free of taxes
and duties, and related operating costs. Should revenues and costs each
vary ±10%, the rate of return would be between 18 and 22%. Should a one-
year delay occur in project completion, the expected rate of return would
be 20%.
2.        A sensitivity analysis using the variables listed below gave the
following results:
Rate of Return C%)
10% increase in revenues                         22
5% increase in revenues                         21
5% decrease in revenues                         19
10% decrease in revenues                         18
10% increase in costs                            18
5% decrease in costs                            19
5% decrease in costs                            21
10% decrease in costs                            22
One-year delay in project completion             19
3.        A summary of revenues and costs at constant prices (in CFAF mil-
lions) that have been allocated to the project is given below:
---------Revenues -----              ---Costs----------
Long                      Oper-   Construc-             Net
Fiscal           Dis-   Interna-           ating   tion                  Cash
Year    Local  tance  tional    Total   Costs   Costs          Total    Flow
1974       -       -       _         _        _      199         199      (199)
1975       -       -       -         -        -      287         287      (287)
1976       19      12      1         32       6      498         504      (472)
1977       35      27      3         65       il     310         321      (256)
1978       73      64      8        145       17      -           17       128
1979       99      85     10        194      28       -           28      166
1980      137    122      15        274      39       -           39      235
1981      192    178      22        392      52       -           52       340
1982      235    220      27        482      66       -           66      416
1983      262    250      30        542      80       -           80      462
1984      291    283      35        609      98       -           98      511
1985-92   297    301      37        635     116       -          116      519
1993      297    301      37        635     116    (150)         (34)     669



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2 pages
(i)  The revenue forecasts are based on demand and capacities.
The revenue attributable to the project are derived from:
(a)  first apportioning the revenue shown in the Income
Statements (Annex 10) and their further projections
for 1980 through 1993 between the existing facili-
ties and those provided by the program; and then
(b) further apportioning the revenues relating to the
program as determined in (a) between the project
facilities and the remaining program`facilities.
In apportioning revenue to the project due account has been
taken of.the revenues relating to the 1,000 lines of R6
switching equipment in Ouagadougou which will be withdrawn
from service and substituted by common-control switching
equipment provided by the project.
(ii) The operating costs for the project have likewise been
obtained by the apportionnent of the operating expenses-
(other than depreciation) given in Annex 10 and of the
expenses projected from 1980 through 1993. For the
apportionment between existing facilities and the program
it has been assumed that the operating expenses relating
to OPT's existing facilities would increase at the rate
of 5% from 1976 through 1980, 2% from 1981 through 1985,
with no increase thereafter:  807' of the operating ex-
penses relating to the program have been allocated to
the project.
(iii)  The construction costs are free of taxes and duties and
are the estimated project costs in Annex 5. An adjust-
ment in 1993 has been made for the residual value of
plant and buildings constructed during the project and
having a life beyond that date.



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2 pages
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMINICATIONS (OPT)
TELECOI*MUNICATIONS DIVISION
Summary of Tariffs
1.   General
(')  Although OPT's tariffs are in line with those in the French-
speaking West African countries, they are very high when
compared with similar services in other developing countries.
Local calls are charged USé13 in Upper Volta, as compared
with USé2-é5 in most countries.
(ii) Billing to subscribers is on a two months' cycle. Automatic
urban subscribers are subject to a two-part tariff comprising
a rentai for each principal and supplementary line plus a
charge per local call. Subscribers to manual urban service
are subject to a bi-monthly rental charge including all local
calls. Interurban service is manually operated; long-distance
calls are charged on a unit basis of a three-minute call,
the charge varying according to distance.
2.   Charges
The undermentioned are the principal basic internal tariffs at
present applicable to the telecommunication services of Upper Volta.
(i)  Telephone                                              CFAF
(a)  Installation fees (per line)                     15,000
(b)  Private subscribers - deposits                   10,000
(c) Rentals:
Main line- Ouagadougou & Bobo-Dioulasso        8,000 per annum
Main line- other areas (this charge
includes free local calls)         10,350 per annum
Extension line                                  1,800 per annum
(d) Local calls:
Ouagadougou & Bobo-Dioulasso                       30 per call
Public call boxes                                  45 per call



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e)  Long-distance calls - per unit call of
three minutes
From subscriber lines:
0 - 50 km                                       60 per call
51 - 75 km                                       90 per call
76 -100 km                                      150      tt
101 -150 km                                     210 "
151 -200 km                                      270 "    "
Over 200 km there is an additional CFAF 90 for each 100 km
or portion of 100 km with a maximum of CFAF 900 per unit
call.
Public call boxes
Tariffs are as above with an additional charge of
CFAF 15 or CFAF 30 per unit according to the distance.
(iî)  Telex                                                       CFAF
(a)  Installation fees                                    51,000
(b)  Rental                                              180,000 per annum
(c)  Communications - local per 90 seconds                     30
- long distance per three
minutes                               225
- plus each additional minute           150
(iii) Telegraph
Internal telegraphs                                         5 per word
3.   International Service
The following are sample rates for three-minute station-to-station
telephone calls:
Upper Volta to:                                     CFAF
Senegal                             910
Mali                                910
France                            1,820
Kenya                             4,177
USA                               3,276
USSR                              3,504



UPRR VOLTA
OmCAP DES POSTES ET TALZC0CATIOeS (OPFT
TELEC(M1llNICATIONS DIVISION
Statente of Inc    - 1969-979
i1nujllna of CJA 721201
A c     t u a1               Forout                              F O r   ea   t
Yer endtng Decber 318                                 1971A        1         g            i        17       16      17       19N      1979
REVENUE
fltionsl
Tele2one . Installation fou                           2.6       6.2       7.9          3.0     6.0           4.0      2.0      7.0      5.0      6.0      6.0
- rutai                                    21.6      24.1      27.6         30.0    33.0          37.0    40.0    44.0    48.0    53.0    58.0
-  oa calla                                 56.3     62.0      69.1         75.0    84.0          97.0   105.0   120.0   147.0   166.0   186.0
. i^ttrurban eall                          68.4      81.6      93.4        103.0   110.0         130.0   156.0   175.0   210.0   231.0   262.0
T elegtrh                                           (        (21.5  33.1  18.3       20.0    21.0           22.0    23.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0
Te2éx                                               (        (           19.0        20.0    22.0           24.0    26.0    28.0    31.0    34.0    37.0
Otber                                                 3.2       4.6       4.5         4.0      5.0           5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      6.0
73.9    211 6    239.8         2550   281.0           319.0   35.    403.0   470.0   519.0   579.0
International
Telephone                                            29.6      33.3      36.8        44.0    43.0           52.0    57.0    63.0    69.0    75.0    82.0
Telegraph                                          (7        ( 47.3      25.9        28-0    30-0           33.0    36.0    39.0    43.0    47.0    50.0
eîex A                                                           - ( (               32.0    36.0           40.0    44.0    48.0    5.0    58.0    63.0
67.5     80.6      91.2        104.0   114.0         125.0   137.0   150.0   165.0   180.0   195.0
Les&: participitions                                 34.6      45.5      A           60.0    68.0          _.a0    82.0    90.0   100.0   108.0   116.0
,2.9      35.1      33.1        44.0    46.0           50.0    55.0    60.0    65.0    72.0    79,0
TOTAL OERATINGO REVEiUE          206.8    246.7                                       O3222    42.0    463.0   5                    658.0
EXMEv5s
Salarie. end per.onn-l e*pen s                        101.2    107.4    117.2         125.0   133.0          '42 o   153.0   168.0   179.0   191.0   210.0
other expenses                                           .       60.1 -                50.0    -  -.O    0       0   6 0  72            80.0    88.0    96. 0
130.6    161.5    161.1         175.0   188.0         202.0   219.0   240.0   259.0   279.0   306.0
Leess: transferred to investment                       24.7      16.8      17.4        20.0    22.0           25.0    27.0    30.0    33.0    35.0    37.0
105.9    150.1    143.?         155.O   166.0         177.0   192.0   210.0   226.0   244.0   269.0
Depreci&tion                       ,                             .?    1-          2            7MA          104.2    j2U     1413    179 8    202-3    207.3
TOTAL OPERATING EXB SEBS          157-          2      "          222.0   2.,           281.2   à"        35.    405 8    44.    47.
NET !NCOME (bef.re intereat)                             49.6      36.8      64.4        77.0    81.6           87.8    99.7   111.7   129.2   144.7  1i9.7
Less: interest                                          2.6       2.5       2.1         7.8    14.2           28.2     381     S2.0    78J       96.8   103.
NET PROFIT                                               47.       33          .2                 67.4          S9.6    61.6     *7       20.7              76.2
Average net tulcn_uaunications plant in srvuce-
CFA millions     666.4    651.2    641.4         647.2   785.5        1,135.5  1,311.9 1,554.1  2,061.8  2,293.0  2,212.2
Rate of rbturnt/                                          7.4       5.6      10.0        IL.9    10.4            7.7      7.6      7.2     6.2      6.3      8.1
Operatune ratLa2'                                        76        85       76           74       75            76       76      76       76       76       73
l/ Ratio of net inco < (bere juterest) tg averng  net tilecmmnitionS plat in service.
Satio of total ap.rating expeuse to total oerting inoae.
AdJuetad to tae tnto anceat haéts broeuht on carge at a later date.
Nay 17. 1973






UP}SR VOLTA
OFnCE DE POSTES ET ITLECMICATIONS (OPT)
TELEOeNUUICATIONS DIVISION
Ealace8hetX- 1969-19T
(1~ iIUZlSo of CFA Franucs)
A C t u                      Foreàast                           F o r e c ae  t
As of Decomber 31:                           1         1970      l           197'2    1973        l74    1975    197L        1        19=7     1972
ASSETS
Orosa fixed aguets                                      1,021.4  1,096.8   1,173.6    1,241.5  1,596.6    2,125.0  2,174.0  2,871.0  3,550.5  3,675.5 3-800-5
Loso:  deprsciation                                       404.2   -460.8      526.8       593,8   673.2        717.4   897.7  1,039.0  1.218.8  1421.1 
Net fixed agsets                             617.2    636.0      646.8       647.7   923,4    1.347.6  1,276.3  1.832.0  2.131.7  2,254.4  2.170.j
Wort in proros                                            -          3.6        g.6       419.5   584.3        103.3   590.1   I4.1   200.0   325.0   500.0
Inventoriez                                                l9    - 74.3        95 1       100.0   105.0       110.0   115.0   121.0   127.0   133.0   140.0
Current agets
Cash and bma balance.                                   27.0    162.9       244.5       209.2   169.5       179.2   218.0   277.2   263.4   264.3   251.9
Sundry debtors                                         112,6      83.0       91.4        90.0    99,0       111.0   122.0   137.0   161.0   177.0   191.0
Total current agsets                         139.6    245.9      33.         299.2   268.5        290.2   340.0   414.2   424.4   441.3  4W42.9
TOTAL AS5BTS                           8148.7    9        &,087.'.   1.466.4  1.881.2    2.091.1  2.321.4  2.807.3  3,083.1  3.153.7  3.253.0
LIABILITIES
Capital                                                  707.8    754.5       771.7       771.7   771.7       771.7   771.7   771.7   771.7   771.7   771.7
Subsidies received                                        12.1      12.2       20.3       150.3   250.3       250.3   250.3   250.3   250.3   250.3   250.3
Suirplus and reserves                                     47.0      81.3      143.6      212.8   280.2      33.ô       401.4   461.1    511.8    5997    635.9
Total eQUity                                 766.9    848.0      93.       1.134.8  1.302.2     1,361,ô  1,423.4  1.483.1  1,533.8  1,581.7  1,657.9
Lo.g-ter- debt
Loan - FAC                                              32.6      30.1       27.6        25.1    22.6        20.1    17.6    15.1    12.6    10.1          7.6
- CCCE/BND                                          -                    _                 230.0       230.0   230.0   197.0   164.0   131.0    98.0
- S&vinSs bark 3c.2                                          30.9       25.3        19.4    13.2         6.7      -
1DA Credit - 141-UV                                      -         3.0        4.6       186.4   196.2       188.0   179.8   169.6   159.4   -3i9.2   136.9
-. proposed                                    -        -          -                             119.8   339.7   773.5   994,5   953.1   911.7
Ftuttre l1un                         _                                 -               -,                                           -           100.0   200.0
Total long-tern debt                         68.8      64.0       57.5       230.9   462.0        564.6   767.1  1.155.2  1,330.5  1.343.4  1.3942
Current liabilities
Suudry c,editors                                         -        34.2       79.4        85.0    89.0        94.0    99.0   104.0   109.0   115.0   121.0
Subscribers deposits                                     5.4       5.8        6.8         7.3    11.1        13.5    i4.5    19.3    22.7    26.5    30.7
Current maturities                                      ., 6       7.8        8.1         8.4    16.9        17.2    17.4    45.7    87.1    87.1    89.2
Total current liabilities                    13.0      47 ô       94.3       100.7    -7.0        124.7   130.9   169.0   218.8   228.6   240.9
TOTAL LIABILITIES                      148.7    959.8   L.87         1.,466.4  1,881,2     20  .   2,321.4 2,807.3  2        3.13,   1 3 7 3 27 30
Debt/equity ratio                                           8/92      7/93       6/94       17/83    26/74      29/71    35/65   44/56    46/54    46/54    45/55
Current ratio                                               10.7       5.1        3.6         3.0      2.3        2.3      2.6      2.5      1.9      1.9      1.8
)aY 17, 1973



ANIE 12
UPPJ VOLTA
oFFCE DES POSTES ET TELECO«NICATIONS (oP?)
tCtzMONICATIONS DIVISION
Et4t_ nt ot Sourcef                           - 196n1979
A Ot ua 1                Porecait                           F ore ea at
Year ending Deemhbr 312                  AYZ    c    11 F                                        19754   I   1976   197    1973   197
SoURCES OF F9D8
Internel ci l genrartiof
met incu, tfor. lnt.reat                            49.6    36.8       64.4       77.0    81.6          87,8   99.7  111.7  129.2  144.7  179.7
DehrIcîation                                        5L       59        64.8      67.0    79.4          104.2  120,3  141,3  179.8   202MI        _
Total internal cub gmneration            100.9    96-0    129.2       144.0   161.0         192,0  220.0  253,0  309.0  347.0  389.0
Subacribers d*pogits                                   0.7      °.4       1.0       0.5      3.8           2.4    1.0    4.8    3.4    3.8    4.2
Grant, nd ±iscellan.ous receipts                      12.1      0.7      25.4     130.0   100.0            -       -       -       -       -      -
Borroinga:
CCE/BND                                              -        .         -          -     230.0           -       -
IDA Credit - 141-'JV                                 -        3.0       1.6     181.8    18.0
- proposed                                -                            -        -           11D9t  219.9  433.8  262.4        -      -
Futut.re lan               `-                                           _         -   -                  -       -       -      _     100.0  100.0
Trotal borrovingS*                         -                 1.6      181.8   248.0         119.8  219.9  433.8  262.4  loo.o   lo. o
"AL SOURCES OF  MDS                       1001                 456.3   512.8         3142  440.9  691.6 974.8  4so.8  4932
APPLICATIONS OF FONDS
apit&1 corotruotion
1969-1971 tDA-firn:e11 p0rg                                   3.°      1.6      210.3    29 9                    - _       _       _       _
works                                          39.9        32    q, 1      ?        b   J O         _      _
.9'4-1977 progrm                                     -        -        -          -        -           27.4 .335.   f47.0  364.4        -       -
!' ture progr-                                                                                                                 75.   250.0  300.0
4L       13I      81.7                4.9     5 2L74    9   -7.-0  139.4  250.0   300.0
Dett ser-ice - alortirbtion
FAC leom                                             2.5      2.5      2.5        2.5      2.5           2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
CCZE/BND loin                                        -        -         -         -        -             -      -       -      33.0   33.0   33.0
Savirgs bank loan                                    4.9      5.1       5.3       5.6      5.9           6.2    6.5    6.7      -       -       -
IDA Credit - 141-Uv                                  -        -         -         -        -             8.2    8.2    8.2   10.2   10.2   10.2
- proposed                                         _         _          _       -              _-     -       -             4l.4   41.4
7:i     7 6       7.8        8.1      8.4         1-6    1:7 2   17 4   45 7   87 1    87 1
Debt cervice - intereit
FAC loun                                             0.3      0.3       0.2       0.2      0.2           0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1
CC0E/MND loin                                        -        -        -          -        -             9.8    9.8    9.8    9.8    9.8    8.3
Savings benk loin                                    2.3      2.2       1.9       1.6      1.3           1.0    0.7    o.4      -       -       -
IDA Credit  141-UV                                   -                  -         6.o    12.7           13.0   12.5   11.9   11.3   10.7   10.2
- prco.ed                                 -        -         -         -        -             4.2   14.9   29.7   57.3   72.2   70.6
Future loan                                           _       _        _           _       _             _      _       _       _       4.0   14.3
2.6     2.5       2.1        7-8    14.2          28.2  oÂ    520    78.5   96.8   U.s
Total dobt service                       10.0    10.1                 15 9    22.6           451   55.    69.4  124.2  183 9   190.6
Incrcue (decra) in vorkng ouptal
stock                                                0.9   (17.6)    20.8         4.9      5.0           5.0    5.0    6.o    6.0    6.o    7.0
Oab ad bink                                         27.0   135.9      81.6      (35.3)  (39.7)          9.7   38.8   59.2  (13.8)   0.9  (12.4)
e2adry debtors and adnno pVmnta                     32.6   (29.6)      8.4       (1.4)     9.0          12.0   11.0   15.0   24.0   16.0   14.0
&uidry corditors                                    (5.7)  (34 2)   (45 2)       (56))      0)   (5 0)  (50)  (50)  (6.0)  (6.0)
548    545        656       (374)  (g29G)          217    4908   75 2    11.2   169        26
7TOM  A,xCAÂTzoe4  OF 0S          ââàI      100.1    I56.3    515 7                   a1.2  514  9   6        74  8 450
D bt service coveruga                                   10.1      9.5     13.1        9.1      7.1          4.3    4.0    3.7    2.5    1.9    2.0
nu 17, »73



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2 pages
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
The following notes relate to the main items of the Telecommunica-
tions Divison's accounts in Annexes 10 and 11.
1.   Statements of Income - Annex 10
(i) Telephone revenue - Forecasts of revenue for domestic serv-
ices have been prepared after taking into account (1) the
average number of telephone lines (automatic and manual)
estimated to be put into operation during FYs 1972 through
1979, and (2) the estimated effect on the revenue of the
new long distance facilities to be brought into service
during the period through FY 1977.
(ii)  Telegraph revenue fias been forecast to increase at 5% in
FYs 1974 and 1975 and thereafter remain static.
(iii)  Telex revenue has been estimated ta increase at 10% per
year through FY 1979.
(iv)  International revenue relates te the tetminal fees received
from France Cable et Radio (FCR) and revenue from regional
calls made over OPT's network. In genral OPT receives 40%
of the total revenue from international calls made over the
FCR network. It is expected that the net revenue from over-
all international services will achieve a consistent 10%
annual increase through FY 1979.
(v) Salaries and personnel expenses have been forecast to in-
crease at 7% per year, with the exception of 1976 when
an increase of 10% has been provided.
(vi) Other expenses are expected to increase at 10% per year
through FY 1979.
(vii) Expenditure transferred to investment relates to the annual
cost of capital works carried out by OPT's staff. Provision
has been included in construction expenses for the estimated
cost of these works.



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2 pages
(viii)  Depreciation - a composite rate of 5.6% per annum on average
gross fixed assets has been assumed.
(ix)  Interest - charges include interest on contracted loans and
IDA Credit 141-UV together with the estimated interest
charges on thie proposed IDA credit. A provision has been
included for interest on further borrowing in FYs 1978 and
1979.
2.   Balance Sheet - Annex 11
(i) Work in progress at the end of each year has been related
to the construction schedule.
(ii)  Inventories - In order to provide a higher inventory level
which will be required for extended operations, an annual
increase of 5% has been provided.
(iii) Sundry debtors which are mainly subscribers receivables,
have been estimated after taking into account OPT's two
monthly billing cycle, and the additional revenue due
from the added facilities.
(iv)  Long-terni debt - OPT had the following long-term debt commit-
ments for telecommunications as of December 31, 1972:
(a)  Loan - FAC - CFAF 25.1 million - 3/4% per annum -
15 years repayable by 1983.
(b)  Loan - Savings Bank - CFAF 19.4 million - 5% per
annum - 15 years repayable by 1975.
(c) Loan - CCCE/BND - CFAF 230 million - 4-1/4% per annum -
11 years with 4 years grace repayable by 1983.
(d)  Credit IDA 141-UV - CFAF 204.4 million - 6-1/2% per
annum - 20 years with 4 years grace repayable by 1989.
(v) Sundry creditors - have been forecast to increase at 5% per
annum.
(vi)  Subsidies received - relate mainly to FAC Grants, but also
include small donations and gifts of land from the Government
and others.
March 28, 1973



UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMNNICATIONS (OPT)
POSTAL/FINANCIAL DIVISION
Statement. of Iancoe - 1969-1979
(in uillionh cf CFA fancs)
A ct u a                Forecast                                 o r ee    a t
Year ending Decenber 31:              A            19c1 t97 u 1                    1974     LM75      1976 e    2 c19 ast2.
REVENUE
National:
Postal                            83.9   88.4   96.0    106.0  114.0              121.0    128.0    135.0    143.0    151.0    160.0
Pbilately                         41.0   25.0   24.2         25.0   26.0           25.0     26.0      25.0     26.0     26.0     27.0
Parcel Pout                       14.5    16.2    18.9       21.0    22.0          23.0    24.0       26.0     26.0     27.0     28.0
International:
Postal                             6.6     6.5     4.5        6.0     7.0           6.o      7.0       6.o      7.0      7.0      7.0
Parcel Post                        4.8     7.1     6.1        7.0     7.0           7.0      7.0      7.0       7.0      7.0      7.0
150.8   143.2   149.7     165.0   176.0         182.0    192.0    199.0    209.0    218.0    229.0
Financial services                  18.8    19.9    22.9       24 0    25.0          26.0     27.0     28.0      29.0     30.0     31.0
Interest on funds deposited         19.8   21.8   24.9         25.0   26.0           27.0    27.0      28.0      29.0     30 0     31.0
Other receipts                       4.2    5,2      3.1        3.0    4.0            4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0
TOTAL OFERATING REVENUE   19.6   101   200.6    217.0  231.0                        250.0      2      5.0    271.0    282.0 295.0
EXPENSES
salaries and personnel expenses     86.5    96.1   98.5      105.0  112.0           119.0   127.0    135.0    144.0   154.o    164.0
Other expenses                      60.8    78.6    71.2       73.0   75.0           78.0    82.o      84.0    i86.o      88.0     90.0
147.3  174.7  169.7    178.0  187.0             197.0   209.0    219.0    230.0    242.0    254.0
Less: transferred to investment      0.4     0.7      2.2       2.0     2.0           2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0
146.9   174.0   167.5     176.0   185.0         195.0    207.0    217.0    228.0    240.0    252.0
Depreci-.tion                       17:5    17.6    23.1       24.6    27.1          31.3     34.9    _37.0    J9. 1      41.2     41.o
TOTAL OPFSATING EXPENSES  164.4   191.6  190.6      200.6   212.1          226.3    241.9    254.0    267.1    281.2    293.0
NET INCOMtE (before interest)         29.2    (1-5)   10.0       16.4    18.9          12.7      8.1       5.0      3.9      0.8      2.0
Less: interest                       0.8              0.6       0.5     0.4           °.3      0.2       0.1      -        -         _
NET PROFIT OR(LOSS)                   28.4      >  )             â =     i             12.4                                  0.8      2.0
February 5, 1973






UPFER VOLTA
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELEC1MUEICATIONS (OPT)
POSTAL/FINANCIAL DIVISION
Btl ce Shees-16199
nii IDlIoIi of CF  rancs
A c t u a 1              Forecast                            F o r e c a s t
As of Decmber 31:                 1962    1970    197          1972    12           1974    In       16       1977     78      1
ABSETS
Gross fixed au*ets                      341.5   422.1   459.6       487.6   551.6        651.6   691.6   731.6   771.6   811.6   766.4
Loess depreciation                      206.1   223.8   245.7       270.3   297.4        328.7   363.6   400.6   439.7   480.9   436.7
Net fixed auets                      .4   198.3   213.9        217.3   254.2        322.9   328.0   331.0   331.9   330.7   329.7
Works in progresa                        -       -        _          2.0    60.0          -        -        -       -        -
Current assets
Cuh and bak                           925.7   880.3  1,104.5    1,267.4  1,321.9     1,427.4  1,530.9  1,634.6  1,740.6  1,846.6  1,952.6
Inventories                            32.6    18.7    25.3        25.0    26.0         26.0    27.0    27.0    28.0    28.0    29.0
Sundry debtors                         91.8   105.8   127.4       135.0   145.0        155.0   165.0   175.0   185.0   195.0   205.0
Total current assets            1,050.1  1,004.8 1.257.2    1.427.4  1.492.9      1.608.4  1,722.9  1.836.6  1.953.6  2,069.6  2,186.6
TOTAL ASSETS          1         ,185.5  1.203.1 1.471.1    1.676.'  1,807.1  9      2.050.9  2,167.6  2,285-5  2,400-3  2.516.3
LIABILITIES
Capital                                163.6   220.7   224.5        224.5   224.5        224.5   224.5   224.5   224.5   224.5   224.5
Subsidies                                1.2    17.5    15,9         23.9    26,9         29.9    32.9    35.9    38.9    41.9    44.9
Surplus and reservec                    28.4    26.2   _3,.6        -à .5    70.0         82.4    90.3    95.2    99.1    99-9   101.9
Total equity                      193    264.4   276.0        299.9   321.4        336.8   347.7   355.6   362.5   366.3   371.3
Long-term debt
Savings bank loan                    .j { 10.6          8.3         6.7    4.5 a   _ _
Current liabilities
Publie cheeking accounts-balaices    754.1   679.8 1,024.3    1,200.0  1,300.0       1,400.0  1,500.0  1,600.0  1,700.0  1,800.0  1,900.0
Money orders - tranasfers             149.5   205.9   124.0       130.0   140.0        150.0   160.0   170.0   180.0   190.0   200.0
Sundry creditors                      74.2    40.3    36.o         38.0    39.0         40.0    41.0    42.0    43.0    44.0    45.o
Current maturities                     1.8      1.9      2.0        2.1      2.2         2.3      2.2
Total current liabilities         979.6   927.9 1,186.3    1,370.1  1.481.2      1,592.3  1,703.2  1,812.0 1,923.0  2.o34.0  2.145.o
TOTAL LIABILITIES  1,185.5 1.203.1 1j471.           676.7 11.32.1                           67.6  2285.5  2.400.3   516.3
February 5, 1973



ASZ 16
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DIES POSTES ET TELECMXUNICATIOES (oPr)
POSTAL/FINANCIAL DIVISION
Stetement of Sources and ApplIcations of Funds - 1969-1979
(1D elil1ioos of CFA Francs)
A c t u . 1              Forecast                           F o r e c a s t
Year ending December 31:                      L96g    1970       mi:        1972    1973            l4    1975   1976    1977   1973    17
SOURCES O FUNfDS
Internal c.h generation
Net incom (lose) beiore interest                     29.2    (1.5)      10.0       16.4    18.9          12.7    8.1      5.0     3.9    0.8      2.0
Depreciation                                         17.5    17.6       23,1      24.6    27.1           31.3   34,9   37 o   39.1   41.2   41.o
Total internal cash generation                46.7    16.1       33,1       41.0    46.o          44.0   43.°   42.0   43.0   42.0   43.0
Donations                                               -       70.9       5,1       8.0      3.0           3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0    3.0      3.0
Publie cheeking account balances                      204.7   (74.3)   344.5       175.7   100.0          100 0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FPNDS           Z        12.7     3&2.7      224.7   149.0          147.0  146.0  145.0  146.0  145.0  146.0
APPLICATIONS OF FOWDS
Capital construction                                    7 .     8. 5                60.0o    92            4o.    4.0 0oo    40.0            .     40.0o o
Debt service
Savings bunk lon
Amortization                                        1.7      1.8       1.9        2.0     2.1           2.2    2.3      2.2     -
Interest                                            0.8     0.7        o.6       0,5      0.4            g      O,    0.1      -        _      _
2.5      2.5      2.5        2,5      2.5           2.5    ,25      2.3     -       _       _
Increase (decrease) ir vorking capital
Stock                                                 0.2    <1j.5        b r       .       10            -       1.0             1.0     -       1.0
Cash nd bsnk                                        218.5   (45.4j   224 2       162.9    54.5          105.5  103.5  103.7  106.0  106.0  106.0
Sundiry debtors                                      53.6    1L.       21,6        7,6     10 0          lO.o   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Sundry creditore, reserves                          r      ~-,   0:        -       s      (u "'                             0   (11.0)          (11.0)_____
241.3   058.3)      17       102.2    L..5          104.-5  103    102.7  106.0  105.0  106.0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUND3     251.4    12-7      32.7      224.7   149.0          147.0  146.0  145.0  146.0   250   146.0
February 6, 1973



U P"P E R V_O L T A
0                                                                      ~~~~~~~~                              ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~  U ./   PPER VOLTA. 
OFFICE OF POSTS & TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                       .                              -
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ( 1974 -1977)
TELEPHONE EXCHANGES & LONG DISTANCE LINKS .                                          Djbo                             !
.             '           /'         /                          \^~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Dort,  A   
,-' / Th,o,    jT,tcDo
- / (~~~~~To gan  \/   
/         /\:   ~~~~~~Goury                     K.y. Kosmoo       Bonde             *^
v                                                                        Y~~~~~~Yk
tt --  Nouno  /   Nrnoro \Pobret t/s                                  l<onrchor
Déd~~~~~  ~UAGADOLGOQU
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ h zo,g u  dgoé0                                                                               f  
d\-ga                                   Cg         h Dromo /d - N'Gorongo        Diopoga-
T-do /                                                              dounde  /   \  Mango Ouorgoye    ng \
BCg.~~~~
j    Banrodrc gy /'     rne u b                                                       T
s  | é erSodogouH A                                                      EXiSTNG  TELElH-NE EG-HANGES &
,\        I                          iou                                                  NTER-UR&AN  SURFAC  LINKS
\  /    /   Komptlf   \  :                                         *~~~~~~~~~~~ Telephone exchange,- monuoal (smal capacny>
>|g                     g ;   -~>   \  Telephone exchange. aukmaic
\  I  r   \\  %  y                                                 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~verheod l ines
-;e                                                      ..,g.y-  - -   Mîcrcwcve link, large capacmty ôOOch
SOUA.>KB & A5rv)AN                              \                                             ch      Nenates num6ITbei of ckcinels ar cbrrier
:  IV O RY           (CO A SIT        - 
rd)                                      PRODSED  EXENSION  & REHILIATION  PRAM
N.k,                                               0        New outtic eGccnue
-00                              -ua~gasnep~*sea,                  - N        O- ediRoA SfRiFE  2 wiresLINKS a}                          s
Mecepwove e smaîge cap-faci (mlty     pïy
us o  ,t   Beus ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Miroov  l ki.rgy   pait 5ec
9QUAKE  AIrtoMeTeRs N                        »{2,,Ez"*ltWtw*                                  ch      Dendtes number of chrnnels on carrier                        _
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ïe .2irs ,                                               mt9
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mrvmn .                                               exeso  of 1_  -  "   "SCriber,.n0f.,4



