CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 431 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 28, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 431 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 28, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF
UPPER VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Office des Postes et
T9lecommunications de Haute Volta with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to said Office the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   By a development credit agreement No. 141 UV dated February 18,
1969 (hereinafter called the First Development Credit Agreement) between the
Borrower and the Association, the Association granted to the Borrower a credit
(hereinafter called the First Credit) in various currencies equivalent to eight hundred
thousand dollars ($800,000) to assist in financing of a telecommunications project;
(D)   The Office and the Association have entered into a project agreement
dated February 18, 1969 (hereinafter called the First Project Agreement) for the
purpose of the First Development Credit Agreement; and
(E)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and said Office;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they


﻿4
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement"
(d)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement";
(e)   Section 6.02 (h) is amended by inserting the words ", or in the First
Development Credit Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement";
(f)   Section 7.01(c) is amended by inserting the words "or under the First
Development Credit Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement";
(g)   The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement."; and
(h)   The following sub-paragraph is adIed to Section 2.01:
"14. The term "First Development Credit Agreement" shall have the
meaning set forth in the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Office" means the Office des Postes et Telcommunications de Haute
Volta of the Borrower established under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to
Ordonnance No. 68-23/PRES/INFO/PT of June 10, 1968 as the same may be
amended from time to time;


﻿5
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Office of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time; and
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between the Borrower and the Office pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time.
Section 1.03. Whenever reference is made in this Agreement and the Project
Agreement to any of the documents herein defined and to the First Development
Credit Agreement or to the First Project Agreement such reference includes all
schedules to any such document and any amendment or any agreement
supplemental thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million and five hundred thousand
dollars ($4,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services requ;r(,j for the i roject and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such date as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983 and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Office is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE Ill
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the Office to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Office to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   Without limiting or restricting the Borrower's obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower specifically undertakes to take all
necessary action (including if need be, administrative or legislative action) to enable
the Office (i) to establish and thereafter maintain telecommunications tariffs at
such levels as may be necessary for the Office to fulfill the requirements of Section
4.05 of the Project Agreement and (ii) to institute -new budgeting procedures as
provided in Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.


﻿I
7
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the Office
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Office under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all measures, and provide, promptly
as needed, all funds, necessary to ensure that the postal operations of the Office
shall be carried out efficiently and that the resources, property or assets necessary
to the efficient operation of the Office's telecommunications facilities shall in no
way be utilized to support or finance any part of such postal operations.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly pay to the Office, on a current basis,
all charges incurred by the Borrower in respect of telecommunications services billed
to the Borrower by the Office; such charges shall be computed on the basis of
the telecommunications tariffs in effect at the tine such services were furnished.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Office of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Office and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic


﻿8
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external uebt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Office and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the Office of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿9
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
th,reof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 .of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Office shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of the Office under the Project Agreement or under the First Project
Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Office will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   Ordonnance No. 68-23/PRES/INFO/PT of June 10, 1968 or any
legislation passed for the purpose of implementing said Ordonnance shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of the Office to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Office or for the
suspension of its operations.
(e)   Any loan to the Office having an original maturity of one year or
more shall have become due and payable prior to its agreed maturity pursuant
to the terms thereof.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Office have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmetal action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Office, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Office has certified in writing to the Association that, as of a
date to be agreed upon between the Association and the Office (which shall be
prior to the Effective Date) that there has been no material adverse change in
its condition since the date of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of the Office, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Office in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and the Office,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
the Office in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date December 27, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01 and 3.02
of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of
Sect:on 6.02 of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿11
ARTICLE VIII
Amendments to the First
Development Credit Agreement
Section 8.01. For the purposes of the First Development Credit Agreement:
(a)   Paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of the Development Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended February 9, 1967 applicable
thereto is hereby amended to read as follows:
"(b) A default shall have occurred in the performance of any other
covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower under the Development
Credit Agreement, or under the Development Credit Agreement dated
September 28, 1973, between the Borrower and the Association.'
(b)   Section 5.01 of the First Development Credit Agreement is hereby
amended to read as follows:
"Section 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph
(c) of Section 5.02 of the Credit Regulations or in paragraph (b), paragraph
(c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or (ii) if any
event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of the Credit Regulations
or in paragraph (a) of Section 5.02 of the Developm'nt Credit Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower, then, at any
subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due
and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in the Development Credit
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding."
(c)   Paragraph (a) of Section 5.02 of the First Development Credit
Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Office shall have failed to perform any covenant or agreement
under the Project Agreement, or under the Project Agreement dated
September 28, 1973 between the Office and the Association."
(d)   Section 5.02 of the First Development Credit Agreement is hereby
amended by adding after paragraph (c) thereof a paragraph (d) which is to read
as follows:


﻿12
"(d) Any loan to the Office having an original maturity of one year
or more shall have become due and payable prior to its agreed maturity
pursuant to the terms thereof."
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:
MINIFINANCE
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿13
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By /s / T6lesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Wilfried Thalwitz
Director, Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Equipment and                 1,480,000           100% of foreign
installation                                     expenditures
costs for Part
A of the Project
II.  Equipment and                   780,000           100% of foreign
installation                                     expenditures
costs for Part
B of the Project
III.  Equipment and                1,280,000           100% of foreign
installation                                     expenditures
costs for Parts
C and D of the
Project
IV.  Equipment and                   220,000           100% of foreign
installation                                     expenditures
costs for Part
F of the Project
V.   Consultants' and                110,000           100% of foreign
Specialists'                                     expenditures
Services included
in Parts G and H
of the Project
VI.  Training costs                   40,000           100% of foreign
included in                                      expenditures
Part I of the
Proiect
VII. Unallocated                     590,000
TOTAL              4,500,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and
in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that
if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories
of which goods are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services- shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or. supply thereof such as, but without limiting the application of
the foregoing, "droit fiscal", "taxe de statistique", "taxe forfaitaire", or any other
such taxes or duties as are applicable or which may be subsequently established
in the territories of the Borrower. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿16
forth or referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Office's 1974-1977 telecommunications expansion
program. The parts of the Project are:
Part A     Automatic switching equipment for about 4,800 exchange lines, about
4,000 of which will be in Ouagadougou and about 800 in the provincial
towns of Banfora, Fada N'Gourma, Koudougou and Ouahigouya; local
distribution networks and subscriber's apparatus in the above named
towns and Bobo-Dioulasso;
Part B     Microwave links between Ouagadougou and Koudougou and between
Bobo-Dioulasso and Banfora;
Part C     Trunk switching equipment in Ouagadougou, Banfora, Ouahigouya,
Fada N'Gourma and Koudougou;
Part D     Reconstruction of about 600 km of existing interurban overhead lines,
the construction of about 600 km of new overhead lines between
regional centers and rural communities; and installation of new carrier
equipment;
Part E     New buildings in Ouagadougou, Banfora and Fada N'Gourma;
Part F     Power plant in the Ouagadougou exchange, and miscellaneous technical
equipment, vehicles and materials;
Part G     Consultants' services to cover the detailed engineering and construction
supervision of the Project;
Part H     Studies of tariffs and of budgetting and related financial procedures;
Part I     Training abroad of telecommunications technical and administrative
personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1977.


