CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 431 UV
Project Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DE HAUTE VOLTA
DATED SEPTEMBER 28, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 431 UV
Project Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DE HAUTE VOLTA
DATED SEPTEMBER 28, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and OFFICE
DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DE HAUTE VOLTA (hereinafter
called the Office).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Upper Volta (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million and five hundred thousand
dollars ($4,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Office agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the
Office, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to the Office on the terms and conditions therein
set forth;
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement No. 141-UV dated
February 18, 1969, between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
granted to the Borrower a credit in various currencies equivalent to eight hundred
thousand dollars ($800,000) to assist in financing of a telecommunications project;
WHEREAS the Office and the Association have entered into a project
agreement dated February 18, 1969 for the purpose of the First Development
Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Office, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein


﻿4
set forth, and the term "Remittances to the Borrower's Treasury" means the
remittance established pursuant to Article 25 of Decree No. 68-135 of June 28,
1968 as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Office shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility standards and practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Office in the preparation of plans and
specifications for the Project, in the preparation of bidding documents for the
Project, in the bid evaluation for such Project and in the supervision of the
construction of the Project, the Office shall employ qualified and experienced
engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Part H of the Project the Office shall, no later
than May 31, 1974 (or such other date as may be agreed by the Association)
employ qualified and experienced telecommunication tariffs and financial specialists
acceptable to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.04. In carrying out Parts A and D of the Project, the Office shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) The Office undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for


﻿5
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Office to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to the Office by the Borrower
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.07. (a) The Office shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Office: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.08. The Office shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Office shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Office
Section 3.01. (a) The Office shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain
its financial position and carry on its telecommunications operations, in accordance
with sound business, financial and public utility practices, and under the supervision
of competent and experienced management.
(b)   Before appointing a Director, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Engineer
for its telecommunications operations, the Office shall consult with the Association
and give due consideration to the views expressed by the Association with respect
to the qualifications and experience of the persons proposed for such appointments.


﻿6
(c)   The Office shall take all measures required to institute and maintain
adequate telecommunications personnel recruitment and training policies and, in
particular, shall provide funds and facilities necessary for the training of its
vocational and higher level personnel, with due regard to the development needs
of the Office, and in accordance with sound management and financial practices.
(d)   The Office shall by     June 30, 1975 establish     and subsequently
implement and maintain a program satisfactory to the Association to increase the
productivity of its telecommunications staff.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Office
shall at all times maintain its existence and right to carry on its telecommunications
operations and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business.
(b)   The Office shall no later than December 31, 1974, reorganize and
thereafter maintain its plant and equipment maintenance services in a form
satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Office shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, equipment
and other property and shall promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and public utility practice.
(d)   The Office shall not, without the prior approval of the Association,
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which
shall be required for efficient telecommunications operations.
Section 3.03. The Office shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Office shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Office's existing accounting and financial management
systems as it may be revised from time to time in a form satisfactory to the


﻿9
7
Association and upon request from the Association shall be maintained as provided
in Section 2.04(d) of the First Project Agreement. Such system shall continue to
provide for separate accounts for the Office's postal operations, and for its
telecommunications operations, and it shall show separately the internal flow of
funds for each of these operations.
Section 4.03. The Office shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of revenue and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Office and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. On the basis of the recommendations of the financial specialists
referred to under Section 2.03 of this Agreement, the Office shall review, with
the Borrower, its budgeting procedures and shall establis.i by Jantary 1, 1975 (or
such other date as shall be agreed by the Association) and thereafter implement
at all times new budgeting procedures satisfactory to the Association. Such
budgeting proce. dures shall provide for a separate budget for the Office's
telecommunications and postal operations.
Section 4.05. (a) The Office shall not effect any changes in its
telecommunications tariffs without prior consultation with the Association until
completion of the report of the telecommunications tariffs specialists referred to
under Section 2.03 of this Agreement and until an implementation program has
been agreed to with the Association on the basis of the recommendations contained
in such report which is to be completed no later than June 30, 1975 (or such
other date as the Association may agree).
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Office shall
establish and thereafter maintain, a telecommunications rate structure and tariffs
which shall provide to the Office revenue sufficient to produce an annual rate
of return of not less than 6% as from January 1, 1974 through December 31,
1978 and an annual rate of return of not less than 8% as from January 1, 1979
or such other date as shall be agreed by the Association.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:


﻿8
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year by using as the denominator the average of the current
value of net fixed telecommunications assets opeiated by the
Office at the beginning, and at the end of the year in question
and, as the numerator, the operating income of the Office from
its telecommunications operations for that year.
(ii)        The term "current value of net fixed telecommunications assets"
means the gross value of fixed telecommunications assets as
revalued from time to time, less accumulated depreciation, based
on appropriate valuation and depreciation methods approved by
the Association.
(iii)       The term   "operating income" means the difference between
operating revenues and operating expenses.
(iv)        The   term   "operating  revenues"  means all revenues from
telecommunications operations and other revenues incidental
thereto.
(v)         The term    "operating expenses" means all direct costs of
operation by the Office of its telecommunicati6ns facilities,
including a reasonable portion of overhead costs, adequate
maintenance    expenses,  and    an  adequate   provision   for
depreciation and taxes, but excluding interest and other charges
on debt.
(e)   This section supersedes the provisions of Sections 2.06 and 2.07 of
the First Project Agreement.
Section 4.06. (a) Until completion of the Project the Office shall not make
any Remittances to the Borrower's Treasury and shall not use surplus
telecommunications funds for other purposes until adequate provision has been
made for sufficient funds to meet the operational, debt service, working capital
and expansion requirements of the Office's telecommunications services.
(b)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking funds
payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt.


﻿9
(ii)        The term   "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
Section 4.07. Prior to the completion of the Project, the Office shall not
undertake any other telecommunications capital expenditures greater than $200,000
equivalent in any one year, unless a financing plan therefor has been agreed between
the Association and the Borrower.
Section 4.08. (a) The Office shall incur no debt for its telecommunication
operations during the period of execution of the Project and during the period
of five years following the completion of the Project without prior consultation
with the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association and the Office shall otherwise agree and
subject to Section 4.08(d) hereof, the Office shall not incur any debt for its
telecommunications operations other than pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, unless its net revenues from such operations for the fiscal year next
preceding such incurrence or for any later twelve-month period ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever revenue is the greater, shall be at least one and one-half
times the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on
all debt incurred by the Office for such operations, including the debt to be
incurred.
(c) Except as the Association and the Office shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any short-term debt for its telecommunications operations
if such debt, together with all other outstanding short-term debt for such operations,
would exceed two-months' average operating expenses for such operations during
the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or during a later twelve-month period
ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The term    "debt" has the same meaning as under Section
4.06(b)(ii) hereof.
(ii)        The term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and delivery
of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt.


﻿10
(iii)        "Net revenue from telecommunications operations" means gross
revenue from all such sources, adjusted to take account of rates
for telecommunications services in effect at the time of
incurrence of debt even though such rates were not in effect
during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenue relates, less all operating and administrative expenses,
including provision for taxes, if any, and transfers of net profits
to the Office, if any, but before provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)        The term   "debt service requirement" has the same meaning as
under Section 4.06(b)(i) hereof.
(v)         Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the
Office for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other
currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will
be reasonably determined by the Association.
(vi)         "Short-term debt" means any debt, including the use of public
checking account funds, maturing by its terms within one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(vii)        "Operating expenses" means all operating and administrative
expenses, including provision for taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(e)   This Section supersedes Section 2.08 of the First Project Agreement.
Section 4.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Office
shall not create nor permit to be created any mortgage, pledge, charge or other
lien on any of its property or assets necessary to its telecommunications operations;
provided, however, that the foregoing provision of this Section shall not apply
(i) to any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property or (ii) to any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿11
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Office shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and the Office shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Office and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Office shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
the Office of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Office shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Office and any
relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Office thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Office of this event.


﻿12
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Office:
Office des Postes et T616communications
de Haute Volta
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:
DIRPOSTEL
Ouagadougou


﻿13
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Office may be taken or executed by the Director of the Office or such
other person or persons as the Office shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. The Office shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the Office, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Office pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Wilfried Thalwitz
Director, Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
OFFICE DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DE HAUTE VOLTA
By /s / T6lesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines for Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for items included in Categories I, 1I, III and
IV of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Office shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Office shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Office and the Borrower, state the reasons for such determination and advise the
Borrower of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such zontract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for items included in Categories 1, 11,
III and IV of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement, the Office shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its


﻿15
execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.05 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Office and the Borrower, state the
reasons for such determination and advise the Borrower of any cancellation pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
B.    Special Procedures Applicable to Goods under Category II of the table set
out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
Notwithstanding the provisions referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement
or included in the foregoing paragraphs of this Schedule, the Office may, pursuant
to paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972,
use procedures other than international competition for goods included in Category
II of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement provided that the justification for the use of such alternative procedures,
and such procedures are satisfactory to the Association.
0


