RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                  Report No. P-73Z
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD
FOR A
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
TO BE GUARANTEED BY CEYLON
July 10, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE CEYLON ELECTRICITY BOARD FOR
A FOURTH POWER PROJECT TO BE GUARANTEED BY
THE GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$21.0 million to
the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Between 1954 and 1961 the Bank made three loans to Ceylon for
power development. These loans totalled US$37.3 million and have helped
to construct 125 MW of hydroelectric and thermal power capacity and
related transmission facilities. These loans are fully disbursed and the
facilities are operating in a satisfactory manner.
3.        In 1961 the Government of Ceylon and the Bank agreed that an
independent electric power entity was needed to overcome certain serious
organizational and operating deficiencies. Efforts to pass the necessary
legislation at first ran into difficulty.  However, in Miay 1969, Parliament
passed the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, which authorizes the Minister
of TJand, Irrigation and Power to reconstitute the Department of Government
Electrical Undertakings as the Ceylon Electricity Board. The Government
has informed the Bank that the Board will be appointed on July 15th, 1969.
4.        Negotiations for the Fourth Power Project took place in
Washington between June 23 and June 30. The Government of Ceylon iwlas
represented by Mr. David Loos, Director of External Resources, Ministry
of Planning and Economic Affairs. The Department of Government Electrical
Undertakings, Ministry of Land, Irrigation and Power was represented by
Mr. M.I. Aziez, General Manager and MIr. V.R. Charavanapavam, Chief
Commercial Officer.



- 2 -
5.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Ceylon as of June 30, 1969:
Amount (US.; million)
Year     No.          Borrower         Purnose      Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1954   101-CE  Government of Ceylon    Power        15.9    -         _
1958   209-CE  Government of Ceylon    Power         7.3    -         -
1961   283-CE  Government of Ceylon    Power        14.1    -         -
1967   520-CE  Development Finance     Industrial
Corporation of Ceylon  Finance        4.o    -        3.3
1968   121-CE  Government of Ceylon    Irrigation          2.0       2.0
1968   569-CE  Government of Ceylon    Highways      4.9    -        4.9
1968   133-CE  Government of Ceylon    Highways            4.9       4.9
Total (less cancellations)           46.2   6.9      15.1
Of which has been repaid to
Bank and others                      11.0
Total now outstanding                35.2
Amount sold                  3.3
Of which has been repaid     2.6      0.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA       34.5
Total undLisbursed                    8.2   6.9      15.1
6.     There have been no disbursements on the irrigation and highway
projects to date because tenders could not be issued before the loan and
credit documents were negotiated, anc' because of the time required to complete
the bidding, evaluation and ordering procedures.
7.     Fbrthcoming lencing operations proposed for Ceylon include a second
Bank loan of $8 million to the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
(to be considered by the Executive Directors on July 15, 1969), a land
reclamation ancl drainage project and the first stage of the Nahaweli Ganga
multi-purpose irrigation and power project.
8.     IFC has not invested in Ceylon but is considering both a loan and
equity investment in a textile project, which would be financed jointly with
the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon and the Bank of Ceylon.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROFOSED PROJECT
9.        Borrower:                 Ceylon Electricity Board.
Guarantor:               3overnment of Ceylon.
Purpose:                  To cover the foreign exchange costs of
the second stage 9OMW hydroelectric
development of the Maskeliya Oya and
associated transmission facilities, ane
of a 25NM gas turbine generating unit at
Grandpass, Colombo
Amount:                   Various currencies equivalent to US$21
million.
Amortization:             In 25 years inclucing a 5-year perioe
of grace, in semi-annual installments
beginning June 15, 1974 and ending
June 15, 1994.
Interest Rate:           6% per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
10.       An appraisal report on the proposed project is attached, titled
"Appraisal of the Maskeliya Oya Stage II Hydroelectric Project and Other
Generating Facilities"1 (PU-17a) dated July 9, 1969.
11.      IMbst of Ceylon's power generating and distribution facilities are
Government-owned and operated and, together with the associated liabilities,
will shortly be transferred to the Ceylon Eaectricity Board, a statutory
Government Corporation recently established by Act of Parliament. Tle present
effective generating capacity of the system is 261MW, of which 191M4W is
hydroelectric and 7011W is thermal.  The above figures include the recently
commissioned Polpitiya hydroelectric station, which is the first stage
development of the '4askeliya River.  When the assets and liabilities of the
Department of Electrical Undertakings have been transferred to the Board,
and after the proposed loan has been disbursed,the Eoard's long-term debt
would probably only form about one-third of total capitalization.
12.       Power consumption has grown at an annual average rate of about
8% since 1961 ancl is likely to continue to increase rapidly over the next
few years wLith continued, economic growtth ane. increasing industrial activity.



13.       The present generating facilities will meet the exv?ected demand
for electricity only until about the end of 1971. The next major step in
the power development program, to be included in the present project, is
the second stage development of the Ivlaskeliya River which will add 90MW of
hydro capacity to the system. It is unlikely that this capacity can be
commissioned before late 1972 and to meet the deficit in energy, whiich will
arise towards the end of 1971 and persist throughout 1972, the project will
also include a 25MW gas turbine generating unit to be installed adjacent
to the existing Grandpass steam power station in Colombo. System requirements
could then be met until early 1974. Thereafter additional generating
requirements are expected to be met by the development of the ITahaweli River.
14.       The estimated total cost of the proposed project is US$3165 million
equivalent. The proposed $21.0 million Bank loan would cover the foreign
exchange cost of major civil works, the cost of electrical and mechanical
equipment and the services of engineering, management, and accounting
consultants.  The contracting of civil works and the procurement of equip-enrt
and materials would be subject to international competitive bidding.
Cbnstruction is expected to extend over about three years from the date of
the main civil works contract, and the new facilities should be in full
operation by late 1972. Yanagement of similar projects in the recent past
has been reasonably good.
15.       The incremental financial rate of return on the proposed invest    4-t
in the project would be about 18%, on the basis of new rates which incluc)c.
a 17% rate increase recently approved by the Cabinet and made effective from
July  1,  1969.   The Ceylon Electricity Board, assisted by consultants, wTill
take steps to revalue its assets on an appropriate basis, and thereafter will
earn a return on its revalued assets of not less than 8%. 1Ihile this stucsy
is going on, the Board will meet a reasonable portion of its capital
expenditures from internally generated funds.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Ceylon
Electricity Board, the Draft Guarantee Agreement between the Government of
Ceylon and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article II,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed Loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directo2s
separately. The draft agreements follow closely the forms currently in use
for electric power development loans. Upon its creation the Ceylon
Electricity Ebard will have the necessary power to sign the Loan Agreement.
The transfer of the assets and liabilities of the Department of Electrical
Undertakings to the Board and the employment of engineering consultants will
be conditions of effectiveness (Section 7.01 (a) and (d) of the loan
Agreement).  In addition, both the level of bills unpaid by local authorities
and the time-lag between meter-reading and billing, are to be reduced before
the loan is made effective (Section 7.01 (b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement).



- 5 -
PART V - TME ECONONY
17.       An economic report titled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Ceylon" (SA-2a) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 7, 1.969.  Paragraphs 18-22 of my report of July 2, 1969, to
the Executive Directors on a proposed loan to the Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon contained a summary of recent devalopments.
PART VI  -  CONPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEa1  TN
18.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
P-ART VII - RECOiM1PENDATION
19.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 10, 1969



