Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE OrNLY
M1    '<.  HJ.']i   (:'( ) Y,
ht^pcrrt; No,  £r     .A1 l,p(' c' Tp I ('(1!
RePortNo. 9741
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1.775-CRG, CREDIT 960-CRG, AND EEC CREDIT 37-CRG)
JUNE 28, 1991
Trade, Finance and Industry Operations
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorizatioti.



1
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - US dollar
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CARICOM  - Caribbean Community and Common Market
CDB      - Caribbean Development Bank
CGCED    - Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
EDI      - Economic Development Institute
EEC      - European Economic Community
LDCs     - Lesser developed countries
MDCs     - More developed countries
OCR      - Ordinary Capital Resources
PCPE     - Project Completion Report
PSIP     - Public Sector Investment Programs
SAR      - Staff Appraisal Report
SFR      - Special Fund Resources
UNDP     - United Nations Development Program
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
UK       - United Kingdom
VTF      - Venezuela Trust Fund



11E WORLD SANK
Washntlon. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Omh. of DI'stv.Guwma
Owasim, IvAhMtkin
June 28, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Ca-rbbo- Development
Bank - Second Caribbean Development Bank Project
(Loan 1775-CR. Credit 960-CRG. and EEC Credit 37-Cgo)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Projoct
Completion Report on the Caribbean Development Bank - Second Caribbean
Development Bank Project (Loan 1775-CROG Credit 960-CRO, and EEC Credit
37-CRG)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document ha a tfctod dbtdbuton and my bozd by ncipbnts onylYn thopoSfnnux
of their ofAkbdoduLtsz contonts maynot ohorwinbebedbekood witbout Word Bok awtbortbnlm



FOR OWFICIL WE ONLY
PROJECT CoPLagTIO UPn
CARIBBSAW D MLOPMSNT DM[
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELPHNT BAM  PROJECT
(LOAN 1775-CRG, CREDIT 960-CRO, AND EEC CREDIT 37-CRQ)
TABLE OF COFTEITS
PREFACE ....L..........    1
EVALUATION SUShATY .. ....... ................*********...   iii
PART I - PROJECT BAC&LROUND AND I}NlREHENTAION RECORD
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND .............................   2.
Introductlon ..............................................   I
The Project Objectives . ...................................  2
The Loan/Credit Terms and Conditions ......................   3
II.  I)WLEMENTATION RECORD  .....................................   4
Utilization of the Loan and Credit Proceeds ...............   4
Subprojects Financed ... ...................................  5
CDB's InstitutLonal Developmsnt       a........................... 
CDB Policies and Procedures *...           ,                    9
CDI's Operational Results ................................  10
CDI*  Financ al Results ................          .........  12
CDI's Observance of Covenants and Reporting Requiremsnts ..  16
IBRD/IDA Performance ... ..                                    16
Ssu-ary, Lessons Learned and Sustainability       ...............  18
PART II - BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
MI.  SUMMARY, CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ....................  19
Sumary ..................................................  19
Achlevemsnt of Objectives .................................  20
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 - Loan Utilization ......................................  22
Table 2 - Cu=iulative Loan DLsbursement ..........................  23
Table 3- Other Project Data ....... ............................ 24
Table 4-  Use of Bank Resources .................................  25
Table S -  Staff Inputs .........................................  26
Table 6 - Additional Project Data ............................. ...  27
Table 7 -  Status of Covenants . ...................      .............  28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be wed by recipients only In the performance
of their offcl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed without World Bank authoriztion.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1. Major UDB II Loan/Credit Terms and Conditions  .     .         29
2. World Bank Group Technical Assistance Provided to
CDB During 1980-83  ................. .    .......    .      31
3. Comparison of Actuial and Projected Loan Approvals
(1979-83)   .........................                       33
4. Characteristics of Subloans Made in the Second Operation to    34
5. Summary of Annual Loan Approvals by Source of Funds,
198 4 -88                              ..  ...............................  35
6. CDB Loan Approvals by Sector, 1970-88  ..... ............      36
7. Ordinary Capital Rasources:  Income Statements, Balance
Sheets  and  Ratio  Analysis    . ........................   .   .     .   .  37
8. Summarized Balance Sheets and Statements of Income,
1984-88  ............  ...... ......                         39
9. Comparison of Actual and Projected Income Statements,
1979-83   . .  . .s   ........... o............ ... .. . ........ ..  41
10. Comments Received from Caribbean Development Bank    .         42
11. Comments Received from the Commission of the
European Communities                           .             43



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1775-CRG, CREDIT 960-CRG, AND EEC CREDIT 37-CRG)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) presents a review of the Second
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) project which involved an IBRD loan of US$23
million (Loan 1775-CRG), an IDA credit of US$7 million (Credit 960-CRG) and
an European Economic Community (EEC) Special Action Credit of US$1 million
(Credit 37-CRG).   The Loan Account for Loan 1775-CRG was closed after
cancellation of US$3.4 million in March 1987.   The Credit Account for
Credit 960-CRG was closed in June 1987 with cancellation of US$0.5 million;
Credit 37-CRG was fully disbursed in 1984.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Trade, Finance and
Industry Operations Division, Country Department III, Latin America and the
Caribbean Region, taking into account a draft PCR prepared by CDB. The draft
CDB PCR included substantial data on subproject performance and status.
Parts I and III also draw on the Staff Appraisal and President's Reports on
CDB II, III and IV Projects and related loan/credit documents and project
filas.  The draft CDB PCR's "Summary, Conclusions and Lessons Learned" sec-
tion is reproduced as Part II of the PCR.
The draft PCR was sent to the Caribbean Development Bank and the
Commission of the European Communities for comments.  Their comments have
been reproduced as Annexes 10 and 11, respectively.



- III -
flIBBSR D5ZLQLUIDBAN
SECORD_ CARIBBEAN DEVLOPHEI BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1775-CRG, CREDIT 960-CRG, AND EEC CREDIT 37-CRO)
1.       The CDB II project has largely met its objective in chanelling at
lower cost than the Bank and IDA could do directly the IBID and IDA/EEC
funds in support of development projects in the Ccomwsalth Caribbean.
Both loan and credits, which were closed with som delay. were used to
finiince as many as 16 subprojects in 11 countries, whereas the Bank Group,
due to staff constraints, might have had to limit itself to fewer projects
in the sawe period. CDB's evaluation of performance of subprojects,
hovever, revealed mixed resultss of the total 16 subprojects, 9 were
assess6d by CDB as being successfully implemented, 3 have substantially met
the original subproject objectives despite some problems, and 4 were post-
evaluated unsuccessful.
2.       By and large, the CDB II project achieved its institution-building
objectives for CDB. In consultation with the Bank, CDB defined its lending
policies and procedures by sector and introduced its partial reorganization
in 1979 followed by a more in-depth reorganization in 1984-86. After
comprehensive review of it* policies in consultation with the Bank, CDB
refined its financial policies and operating guidelines including non-
accrual and specific provisioning policies. In line with new financial
policies, CDB introduced significant iprovement to financial reporting for
management information and effective control. In the aftermath of the
departure of four key officers in 1988, CDB built a strong, mell-knit
management team, mainly through internal promotion. The Bank provided
considerable assistance to strengthen CDB's staff capabilities. However,
CDB's capabilities to provide its member countries with macroeconomic
analysis and advice and to process adjustment lending still remained
modest., partly because of departure of several professional economists in
1988.
3.       CDB's record in achieving its objective under the CDI II project
to strengthen DFCs has been mixed.   As part of CDB's reorganization in
1979, the CDB management established a DPC division to deal with the DFC
problems. A task force was created for each failing DPC to recomend
corrective action. Funds from IDA Credlt 960-CRO under the second CDB
project were used by three governments to increase their equity in DPCs as
part of this program. Two of three beneficiary DPCs under Credit 960-CRG
have been fairly successfully rehabilitated (paras 2.23-2.25).
4.       In line with one of the objectives under the CDI II project, CDB
stepped up its financing of private sector projects during the 1980-84 CDB
II implementation period. However, about 402 of the total private sector
projects approved were cancelled prior to first disbursemet. At the end
of 1989, many of total 15 private sector projects finamced were in arrears.
CDB's lending to the private sector cam to a virtual standstill during
1985-89. The CDB management established a Private Sector Task Force in
1986 to formulate measures for improving the performance of CDB's private



- iv -
sector portfollo and reassessing the scope for future dlrect CDI loading to
the private sector. The task force report and the ensuing discussions
wLthin the CDR confirmed the perception that CDI's lending polLcLes.
procedures and staff recruLtmont tended to be more Seared to handling of
public sector investment projects. CDW dld not adequately address
wvenmesses in anterprLes maasgeent, marketing and financial control which
hapered many CD-Wfnnced projects during implemntation.  These
shortcomungs and CUB's interprotation of lts 'developmental' mandate
frequently resulted in the selectLon of 'high rLsk private sector projects
(e.g., now projects wLth untested managemnt and markets, under-capLtalized
projects. etc.) (para. 2.27).
5.       This PCR concurs, ln general, wLth CDb's assoossment of the lessons
learned from CDI's vantage poLnt under the CDB II project, which ls
reproduced in para. 3.09 of thli report. In doing so, thls PCR underl$nes
the value of closo collaboratlon between the Bank and CDI at all levels
Frequent contacts, mostly on an informal bacLs, between the Bank and CDs
staff are likely to Licrease effectiveness of both LnstLtutions' lending
and other actlvitLes ln the CarLbbean region, to avoid duplication of
effort and to enable both institutLons to serve their member stateo better
and more efficiently. The recently concluded Memorandum of Understanding
between the Bank and CDB provides a sound base and framework for such
incroased collaboratLon.



PROJECT COM4PLETION REPOR
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SECOND CARIBBfAN DEVELOPHNT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 1775-CRG, CREDIT 960-CRG, AND EEC CREDIT 37-CRG)
PART I - PROJECT BACKGROUND AND IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Intr,oduction
1.01     This Project Completion Report (PCR) covers the operation and
performance of the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) during the
implementation period (1979-88) of the IBRD/IDA CDB II Project. The
project involved an IBRD loan of US$23 million (Loan 1775-CRG), an IDA
credit of US$7 million (Credit 960-CRG) and an European Economic Cotsunity
(EEC) Special Action Credit of US$1 million (Credit 37-CRG).
1.02     The CDB II project was appraised by the Bank during March/April
1979 and the IBRD loan/IDA credit/EEC credit were approved in December
1979. The loan agreement, the development credit agreement and the special
action cr-dit agreement were signed on January 9, 1980, and became
effective on February 20, 1980. The final date for submission of
subprojects was originally set at December 31, 1981, but this date was
subsequently extended to December 31, 1982. Similarly, the loan/credit
closing date, originally set at December 31, 1984, was subsequently
extended to December 31, 1986 (disbursements were allowed to continue
through July 6, 1987).
1.03     As required under the Bank's loan and credit agreements, CDB
prepared this year a draft PCR on the CDB II project, following the format
of PCR on the Bank's first CDB project. This PCR is based on the CDB's
draft PCR, covering in particular CDB's utilization of the loan and credit
proceeds, actual performance of subprojects and a comparison of CDB's
operational and financial performance with the appraisal forecasts. The
draft CDB PCR's "Summary, Conclusions and Lessons Learned" section is
reproduced in paras. 3.01-3.09 of this PCR.
1.04     From the beginning, the Bank's interest in supporting the CDB was
based on its desire to increase aid flows to the Commonwealth Caribbean.
At first, this took the form of strengthening CDB as an institution
responsible for mobilizing resources for the region. By 1973, the Bank's
management began to look upon CDB as a potential intermediary which could
relend the Bank's funds for projects too small to warrant the Bank's direct
participation. Accordingly, the Bank's first lending operation (actually
two companion loans--No. 1233 and 1234-T-CRG--totalling US$20 million) was
approved in March 1976 and closed on December 31, 1982 (three years after
the original closing date). After the subsequent CDB II project
(para. 1.02), two other operations (both IDA credits) were approved: a
1983 credit (1364-CRG) of SDR 6.5 million (approximately US$7.0 million)
and a 1987 credit (1785-CRG) of SDR 4.8 million (approximately
US$6.0 million). Closing dates of these lending operations have not yet



-2-
been reached. Lately, the Bank/IDA approved (in May 1990) a loan of
US$20 million and a credit of SDR 9.1 million (approximately US$12 million)
as a new line of credit to CDB (CDB V).
1.05     CDB's institutional development along a series of lending
operations has been a major element of the Bank's strategy for development
of the Commonwealth Caribbean. The Bank's institution-building objectives
for CDB have been conceived as a continuing process. Hence, this
evaluation of the CDB II project overlaps to a considerable extent with the
Bank's prior evaluation of the CDB I project (PCR dated February 27, 1985;
OED report No. 6306 dated June 25, 1986). Certain institutional
shortcomings which were identified in the process of the Bank's
appraisal/supervision of the CDB I and II projects have been addressed
during the implementation of the CDB II and subsequent IBRD/IDA projects.
The Project Obiectives
1.06     The objectives of the CDB II project, as outlined in the Bank/IDA
appraisal report,l were to:
(a) strengthen CDB and help it to become a more effective regional
development institution;
(b) channel at lower cost than the Sank and IDA could do directly
larger amounts of the Bank and IDA/EEC funds to countries in the
region to help finance their priority development projects;
(c) build up CDB's capacity both in sectors in which CDB has been
lending and in those which are new to CDB, by providing Bank staff
assistance at various stages of the project cycle;
(d) strengthen the DFCs in the LDCs2 by using IDA funds to improve
their capital structures; and
(e) increase CDB's role in financing private sector lending and its
capacity to co-finance projects.
1.07     The Bank/IDA/EEC resources were to be made available by CDB to the
public and private sectors in countries eligible to borrow from the
Bank/IDA. Funds were to be used to finance projects in agriculture, agro-
industry, manufacturing industry, tourism, infrastructure and social sector
projects, but not including projects (e.g., health, student loans) which
the Bank itself did not finance at that time. The CDB's performance in
utilizing the Bank loan and the IDA/EEC credit proceeds is discussed in
1/ SAR No. 2624-CRB, dated November 16, 1979.
21 Antigua, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, St. Christopher-Nevis, St. Lucia,
Montserrat, St. Vincent, British Virgin Islands, Turks and Caicos
Islands, Cayman Islands, and Anguilla. The More Developed Countries
(MDCs) included T e Bahamas, Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad
and Tobago.



3-
paras. 2.01-2.12.  Its progress in the attainment of the institution-
*       building objectives are described in paras. 2.13-2.27.
The Loan/Credit Terms and Conditiqns
1.08     Major features of the CDB II project loan and credits are
summarized in Annex 1 attached. Among the IBRD loan terms, the guarantee
requiremert (i.e., the guarantee of each beneficiary country, in addition
to CDB's implicit callable capital guarantee) created difficulty during the
implementation of both the CDB I and the CDB II projects and may have
contributed to a slower than anticipated rate of loan disbursements. The
CDB's draft PCR referred to this issue (paras. 3.01 and 3.09(a)). The
Bank's view has been that, due to the requirements of the IBRD Articles of
Agreement, CDB's own liability (witn the callable capital backing) would
not be sufficient. In addition, each borrowing country would have to
provide a separate guarantee for any IBRD subloans made in its territories.
In the case of UK Associated States and Dependencies,4 a blanket guarantee
would have to be provided to IBRD from the UK. Subsequently, UK requested
that its guarantee be given with respect to each subloan. The IBRD loans
guarantee question is discussed further in paras. 2.45-2.48 of this report.
1.09     The Bank had initially suggested the  CDB borrow the IDA/EEC
credits also through its Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) which meant that
the credits would have the protection of CDB's callable capital. CDB
objected to taking these credits through its OCR because: (i) the high
concessionality of the credits would have distorted the structure of the
OCR (CDB uses its Special Fund Resources [SFR] to channel concessionary
resources in the region); and (ii) CDB, as required by its charter, would
have to charge a 1% statutory commission to the borrowers of the credit
proceeds and, therefore, would not have been able to relend the resources
of the credits on IDA terms. During the credit negotiations, IDA agreed
that funds from the credits would be channelled through CDB's SFR. As
such, the credits would not be protected by CDB's callable capital. CDB
would assign, instead, to IDA, its rights in respect of the subloans made
from IDA/EEC credits. Under this arrangement, IDA would have the same
recourse available against each country as if it had lent directly to the
country in question. CDB, however, remained the borrower of record and its
liability became restricted only by virtue of the separation of the SFR
assets from other CDB assets.
1.10     The CDB Management has also been concerned about the dilatory
effects of the Bank's IBRD subloan guarantee requirements. It has also
felt that the Bank's use of CDB as an intermediary for its loan funds
(i.e., not the IDA/EEC credits) increased the cost of these funds to the
beneficiary countries, as compared to the situation if the Bank lent
directly (para. 3.05).
i/ At the time of the loan approval, the UK Associated State.s were Antigua
and St. Kitts/Nevis/Anguilla.
i/ The UK Dependencies were Belize, Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Turks and
Caicos Islands and the British Virgin Islands.



-4.
II.  THE CDR 11 IMPLEM AIOQ  RECORD
Utilization of the Loan and Credit Proceed.
2.01     Delays were experienced in project implementation.  The final date
under CDB 1I for subproject submission had to be extended by 12 months and
th. closing date by 24 months to accommodate these delays. Approximately
US$3.4 million of the loan (1775-CRG) and US$0.5 milllon of tne credit
component (960-CRG) were cancelled, reflecting cancellation of parts of
CDB's subloans (paras. 2.06-2.11).
2.02     Table I below presents a comparison of the actual with the
estimated schedule of disbursements of the loan and credits:
Table 1:  COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
1775-CRG         960-CRG           47-CRG              Tocal
Year      Actual    Est.   Actual   Est.   Actual   Est.    Actual    Est.
1980            -     1.5              0.1         -    0.2          -     1.8
1981         2.0      4.4         -    0.7         -    0.6        2.0     5.7
1982         9.2      6.5       3.3    1.6         -    0.2       12.5     8.3
1983         1.6      7.6      0.7    2.7          -      -        2.3    10.3
1984         1.2      3.0       1.4    1.9       1.0      -        3.6     4.9
1985         4.8        -      0.7       -         -      -        5.5       -
1986         0.7        -      0.1       -         -      -        0.8       -
1987         O.Ll     --       Q_.      --                         ° J4
Total     19.6    23.0       6.5    7.0       1.0    1.0        27.1    31.0
It is noteworthy that about 40% of the loan and credits was actually
disbursed in 1982. This faster rate of disbursements in the third year
after effectiveness was due to a relatively high "advance commitments"
permitted under the Bank loan/credit agreements. While retroactive
financing was not provided in the loan and credit agreements, the financing
of subloans approved by CDB prior to the loan/credit approval date (i.e.,
four subprojects involving cotal subloans of US$10.7 million) was allowed.
2.03     On the whole, the loan and credits were disbursed at a slower rate
than forecast during the Bank's appraisal. The reasons for this slower
rate of loan/credit utilization, which affected all CDB loan
commitments/disbursements during the period, were the following:
(a)  economic difficulties which many of CDB's borrowing member
countries encountered in the 1980s limited thel.r absorptive
capacities and, hence, reduced CDB's ability to meet it- lending
targets, particularly for OCR funds. As shown in Annex 3, CDB's
overall loan agor  al s after 1979 fell significantly (under both
OCR and, to a lesser extent, SFR operations) and remained low
through 1983. Severe economic problems in Jamaica and Guyana



forced CDB to curtail its lending sharply to these two main
borrowers of OCR funds;
(b) availability of ample alternative concessionary funds from
bilateral and other multilateral agencies as a result of increased
donor interest in the Commonwealth Caribbean;
(c) limited project implementation capacity in many of CDB's
borrowers, particularly in the LDCs;
(d) organizational and staffing constraints within CDB which impacted
negatively on its loan processing capability:
(e)  after gaining their independence, the time required by some CDB
member states to complete formali-ies for their membership in Che
IDA (St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines); and
(f) to a certain extent, delays in obtaining separate guarantees from
IBRD borrowing member countries.5
2.04     Under CDB I, there was some evidence that, inasmuch as IBRD had
waived its commitment charge until each subproject is approved for
disbursement, CDB had opted for using first, as a matter of priority,
resources from other lending agencies which had commitment fees before
subloan authorization and easier legal requirements.6 A Bank preappraisal
mission for CDB V project looked into this question in the context of the
CDB II project and saw no evidence of CDB's deferment of IBRD subprojects
in order to give priority to subprojects financed by other lendars.
Subgrojects Financed
2.05     The Bank's loan and credit proceeds were used to finance 16
subprojects in 11 countries (for detailed lists, see Annex 4). On a
sectoral basis, the transportation sector was the largest recipient of the
funds, involving four subprojects and accounting for 34% of total
loan/credit funds.  This was followed by manufacturing (three subprojects,
25% of funds); lines of credit to financial institutions (two operations,
13% of funds); water supply (two subprojects, 12% of funds); energy (two
power subprojects, 11% of funds); and equity contributions to three DFCs
(5% of funds).  For nine of the 16 subprojects, economic rates of return,
i/  Examples:  The Barbados Guarantee Agreement was signed on October 2,
1980, but legal opinion was dated on February 8, 1982, as a special
resolution of the House of Assembly was required to approve the
Guarantee Agreement. which was only done on January 12, 1982. (It
should be noted that the two Barbados subprojects were private sector
operations.) Delays in meeting the IBRD guarantee requirements led to
cancellation of a large part of a CDB subloan in The Bahamas
(para. 2.08).
i/ Para. 3.07 of the Project Completion Report, dated February 27, 1985.



-6-
were calculated. These ranged from 11i7 for an agricultural feeder roads
subproject to 34% for a cardboard container manufacturing subproject.
Grace periods ranged from 1.5 to 5 years and repayment periods from 10 to
16 years for subprojects utilizing OCR funds. For SFR subprojects, grace
periods ranged from 2 to 10 years and repayment periods from 12 to 40
years.
2.06     The four transRortation sector subprojects involved:
(a) repair of flood-damaged roads in Jamaica;
(b) construction of an airport terminal building in the Cayman
Islands;
(c) restoration of a hurricane-damaged port in Dominica; and
(d) feeder roads construction in St. Kitts and Nevis.
Of these four subprojects, only one exhibited an actual cost higher than
the appraisal estimates. One of the subprojects (the feeder roads
subproject) was completed with partial cancellation of around
US$0.3 million. Three of the subprojects experienced significant time
delays ranging from 6 months to 27 months. Overall, all four subprojects
were assessed by CDB as being successfully implemented, with objectives set
at appraisal being substantially met.
2.07     Performance of the three maufacturuin  sector subprojects was
mixed. The two Barbados subprojects were private sector operations and CDB
was forced to place one company--an enterprise manufacturing clay building
products--into receivership.  Failure of the subproject was mainly due to
deficiencies in management and marketing and, to a lesser extent, to a lack
of trained personnel. The assets of the company were eventually sold at a
substantial loss to CDB. The other Barbados project--sugar factory
construction--was completed on schedule, without major problems. However,
the company suffered financially from the low prices on the world sugar
market. Its financial problems were exacerbated by the fact that 50% of
the subloan was denominated in Japanese yen8 which, over the period,
appreciated considerably against the US dollar. Nevertheless, CDB
considered that the original project objectives, which were to improve the
operating efficiency of local sugar industry by replacing two old and
inefficient factories with a new factory, have been achieved. The third
manufacturing subproject--a state-owned cardboard container plant in
Guyana--exhibited mixed financial results due to both internal and external
factors. The company is in arrears to CDB primarily because the
unavailability of foreign exchange in Guyana has precluded it from loan
repayments in foreign currencies. In the last 3-4 years, however, the
2/ CDB's minimum ERR cutoff was 12%, but the feeder roads subproject was
justified on the basis of a high level of non-quantifiable benefits.
if The Bank loan had been disbursed 50% in US dollars and 50% in yen,
deutsche mark or Swiss francs.



-7 -
company's financial performance improved significantly; the company was
successful in penetrating regional export markets.
2.08     The two lines of credit operationis included a CDB mortgage finance
subloan to the National Housing Trust of Jamaica and an industry credit
line to The Bahamas Development Bank (BDB). Even though there were time
overruns, and inflationary conditions resulted in the number of estimated
beneficiaries being reduced, the Jamaican credit line is considered as
having been successfully implemented. In contrast, around 67% of the
CDB/IBRD subloan (US$2 million) to the BDB was cancelled, after inordinate
delays in meeting the IBRD guarantee requirements. The subproject
objectives, under these circumstances, could not be met.
2.09     Of the two water sg2oly subprojects, the Castleton scheme in
Jamaica experienced major implementation problems related to shortages of
counterpart funds, weak and inconsistent project management and changes in
project objectives and design. The subproject, as originally conceived,
was never implemented and approximately US$1.1 million of the CDB subloan
had to be cancelled. The other water supply subproject was in Grenada and,
in spite of implementation delays and some minor changes in subproject
scope, it has successfully met its objectives. The executing agency, the
Grenada Water Commission, has overcome most of its institutional problems
and has been exhibiting acceptabl financial performance since 1982.
2.10     Two electricity subprojects--one in St. Vincent and the Grenadines
and the other in St. Lucia--are considered as successfully implemented.
The St. Vincent subproject involved a blending of the IBRD, EIB, IDA and
EEC funds, of which around US$0.4 million of the "hard" resources were
eventually cancelled. This subproject experienced significant time
overruns mainly due to technical factors, inadequate appraisal estimates of
load factors and the borrower's misinterpretation of CDB's procurement
guidelines. While the performance of the executing agency has improved,
there is still considerable room for improvement in the areas of the
debt/equity situation and the tariff levels. The St. Lucia electricity
subproject met its major objective of increasing the electricity generating
capacity of the island. The overall subproject cost was 47% below the
appraisal estimate, due to a decline in the value of the pound sterling and
to changes in the project scope. About 57% of CDB/IBRD subloan (US$2.1
million) was cancelled. Despite large government arrears, the project
executing company's financial performance has been satisfactory.
2.11     Three ME subprojects involved subloans (IDA funds) to the
Governments of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica and St. Lucia for their
purchase of shares in their respective development banks. Two of these
development banks--the Dominica Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank and the St. Lucia Development Bank--have been relatively successful
institutions, exhibiting good growth rates, reasonable debt/equity ratios,
and acceptable profit levels. Their levels of arrears have not been
excessive. Both banks have benefitted from good and consistent management.
The third development bank--the Antigua and Barbuda Development Bank--has
suffered from weak management and high levels of subloan arrears. Even
though the institution has exhibited some growth, there is some question as
to its viability.



.8
2.12     SMMM=y   Of the 16 subprojects processed under the CDB II, 9
subprojects have been evaluated by CDB as being successfully implemented
and 3 subprojects (a plant for cardboard container manufacture, a sugar
mill, and an electriLity project) have substantially met their objectives
despite some problems. Subprojects for water supply (Jamalca), development
bank (Antigua and Barbuda) and manufacture of clay products (Barbados) were
not successful. The bulk of the CDB subloan to The Bahamas DFC was
cancelled at the request of this DFC and the project failed to meet its
objoctives (para. 2.08). Of the 12 subprojects having met their
objectives, 3 subprojects experienced cost overruns of 2.8% to 101% (with
an average of 42%) and 5 subprojects had cost underruns ranging from 3% to
47% (with an average of 23%). The remaining four subprojocts lncluded a
road reconstruction project, which was completed with negligible variance
in the project cost, and three financial intermediary operations (two
subloans for equity injection In two DFCs and a line of credit for mortgage
finance). Implementation delays, ranging from 1 month to 71 months,
affected 10 of the 12 subprojects which were successfully implemented.
Delays in meeting the IBRD guarantee requirements was one comor cause of
delay (para. 1.08). However, the major delays (over 24 months in three
cases) resulted from changes in subproject scope and/or design, lack of
counterpart financing and limited implementation capacity of the respective
executing agencies. The four subprojects that were not successfully
implemented suffered from a variecy of problems, including weak and
inconsistent project management, lack of adequate counterpart funds, and
changes in project scope and objectives.
CDB'g Institutional Deveoloent
2.13     As stated before (para. 1.05), the Bank's efforts to contribute to
CDB's institutional development have been carried through several lending
operations. The following discussions also reflects the impact of other
Bank/IDA-financed projects.
2.14     Organization and lianagement.  The 1979 reorganization of the CDB's
Projects and Programming Departments, which yielded an immediate
improvement over the past, did not go far enough to deal with the CDB's
unclear lines of responsibility for project work, as stated in the CDB II
appraisal report. The CDB's Board of Directors soon recognized the need
for a more thorough reorganization. With advice by independent management
consultants, further improvements in CDB's organization, operating system,
procedures, and personnel development policies were made in 1984 onwards.
In 1988, CDB went through a transition period following the departure of
four key officers (including the President, the Vice President-Corporate
Service, tho Director of the Projects Department, and a deputy director-
level manager in the Projects Department). In the aftermath, CDB built a
strong, well-knit management team, mainly through internal promotion. With
a view to further improving the institution's efficiency and cost
effectiveness, the CDB management, with the assistance of consultants, has
recontly initlated a process to develop proposals for improvements in CDB's
organization and operating procedures. The institution's management style
changed considerably, with increased delegation of authority to lower-level
managers.



.9-
2.15     Stafflin.  CDB's own professional staff increased from 59 in 1979
(when the CDB II was appraised) to 84 in 1989, while professional staff
supplied by foreign aid agencies decreased from 20 to 17. Thus, the size
of CDB professional staff grew from 79 to 101 over the past decade.
Turnover among professional staff has been a continuing problem. For
example, there were departures of several professional economists and
project analysts in 1988; their positions were filled mostly by young
professionals. The Bank provided considerable assistance to improve and
strengthen CDB's staff capabilities (Annex 2). CDB's current plans for
strengthening of its manpower base emphasize: (a) development of staff
with multi-disciplinary skills (mainly through training of specialist staff
who desire to broaden their experience); and (b) the maintenance and
enhancement of the skills of existing staff in the areas of highest future
demand. A 1990 general salary increase should help CDB to retain existing
staff and to attract new recruits for replacements.
CDB Policies and Procedures
2.16     CDB Lendina Policies.  As agreed at negotiations for CDB II, CDB
prepared, in consultation with the Bank, sectoral policy papers covering
agriculture, industry and tourism, development finance companies, electric
power, transportation, water and sewerage, and housing. These papers,
which were published in 1981, provided CDB staff and borrowers with a
clearer understanding of CDB's objectives and technical requirements in
major sectors. Owing to need for time to reorient CDB staff to implement
the new policies, however, the positive impact of the new policies was not
immediate.  Plans for giving priority to projects in the productive
sectors, discussed at negotiations for CDB II project, were introduced.
However, the share of CDB's lending in the productive sectors increased
only marginally, from about 448 of total loan approvals through 1978 to 47%
through 1983, mainly due to difficulty in finding suitable projects.
2.17     CDB Fir,ancial Policies.  In 1983, the Bank assisted CDB in
reviewing and refining its policies on lending rates, liquidity, and
capital structure. In February 1987, CDB, in consultation with the Bank,
established its "Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) Financial Policies and
Operating Guidelines" which called for, among other provisions:
(a) maintenance of interest coverage ratio of not less than 1.5 times and
accumulation of adequate reserves (of not less than 30% of outstanding
loans); (b) restriction of total OCR lending to the sum of CDB's net paid-
up capital, ordinary reserves (less investments in fixed and other assets),
unallocated net income and the callable capital of the OECD member
countries; (c) OCR borrowing not to exceed the value of the callable
capital held by the OECD member countries; (d) CDB exposure in any single
country not to exceed 50% of CDB's equity and the exposure in the three
largest borrowers taken together not to exceed 100% of CDB's equity; and
(e) tight loan administration (no new loans to countries in default until
clearance of their arrears, and suspension of disbursements after four
months in arrears). CDB also adopted new accounting policies for non-
performing loans, setting up non-accrual and specific provisioning policies
(para. 2.37). CDB's OCR lending rate on loans made after April 1, 1984,
which is variable, is set at a spread (of not more than 150 basis points)
above the weighted average cost of its outstanding OCR borrowing at the end



- 10
of each year.9   If the 1.5% spread does not allow CDB to attain its net
income target, the front-end fee (which is currently 1%) would be
increased. CDB's OCR lending rate is thus closely related to its borrowing
rates. The CDB policies regarding CDB's overall country exposure limits,
and its lending rates being related to the costs of borrowings reflected
the commen-.s made by the Bank/IDA CDB II project appraisal mission.
2.18     CDB Proiect Appraisal Work.  Weaknesses in CDB's project appraisal.
work, as discussed in the Bank/IDA CDB II project appraisal report,
included inadequate attention to institutional issues and insufficient
sectoral analysis. While considerable progress has been made since then to
upgrade CDB's appraisal work, these shortcomings have not yet been fully
overcome and some CDB-approved subprojects revealed serious institutional
weaknesses during project implementation (para 2.12). CDB's adoption of
the new sectoral policy papers (para. 2.16) did not reap their benefits in
full. More recently, CDB has introduced project performance monitoring
indicators in its project appraisal reports. This should induce CDB staff
to evaluate institutional aspects of projects more carefully and assist in
their subsequent supervision work. Prior to the Bank/IDA approval of the
CDB V project (para. 1.05), CDB has prepared sectoral lending strategy
papers which emphasize appropriate macroeconomic and sector frameworks as a
basis for project work.
2.19     CDB Project Supervision Work.  At the time of the Bank/IDA
appraisal of the CDB II project, responsibility for supervision of CDB-
financed projects was shared between the project officers and the loan
supervision officers. The appraisal mission had recommended that, for
timely CDB action to resolve project problems, the supervision function
should be vested firmly in the hands of the project officers. During the
implementation of the CDB II, this shortcoming has been eliminated by
making the project officers fully responsible for supervision of their
projects. Together with preparation of its sectoral policy papers
(para. 2.16), CDB prepared in 1981 a project supervision manual which
guided the projects staff in their supervision work (although formal
adoption of this manual was delayed until 1987).
CDB's Operational Results
2.20     Overall Lending Operations.  For the period 1979-83, CDB's actual
levels of loan approvals (an average of US$46.2 million per year) fell
short of the levels projected at the time of appraisal of the CDB II
project (US$84.4 million per year) (Annex 3). The reasons for this
shortfall were given in para. 2.03. During the period, CDB made gross
approvals (from all sources) of US$230.9 million, comprising
US$129.8 million (56%) from OCR and US$101.1 million (44%) from SFR. The
-Bank appraisal report projections indicated approvals of US$237 million
from OCR and US$185 million from SFR; thus actual approvals were 45% lower,
for both OCR and SFR, than projected. The shortfall in approvals occurred
after 1979 (the year when the CDB II Project was appraised). The year 1979
witnessed an unusually high level of approvals (US$60.8 million)--a level
not previously experienced and not achieved again until 1984. It may well
2/ This rate is currently 9.3% p.a.



be that the high approvals in 1979 unduly influenced the Bank's projections
for the ensuing years. Disbursements over the commitment period were also
much lower than projected (Annex 3).
2.21     CDB's lending operations for the 1984-88 period are summarized in
Annex 5. CDB's loan approvals during the period totalled US$269.0 million
with an average of US$53.8 million per annum. However, a notable feature
of CDB's lending operations was a high level of loan cancellations in 1984
and 1986. These cancellations were due largely to the economic
difficulties which several CDB borrowing member countries have been
experiencing since 1983. They also reflected, to a certain extent, CDB's
deliberate efforts to cancel and close some slow-disbursing OCR loans,
given the limited balance of CDB's OCR lending authority.l°  For the same
reason, CDB's OCR lending in both 1987 and 1988 was very low (compared with
previous years), as CDB did not actively seek new OCR lending
opportunities. Since November 1988, when Italy subscribed to CDB's share
capital, CDB's constraint to increase its OCR lending has substantially
eased. The position has been further improved after the Federal Republic
of Germany's joining CDB in 1989.
2.22     As shown in Annex 6, CDB approved US$650.5 million in loans during
1970-88. Direct lending made up 78% and indirect lending (through national
DFCs) the remaining 22%. Infrastructure which includes public utilities
accounted for 45% of CDB's total lending. Lending for industry and tourism
made up 27% of total operations and lending for agriculture 15%. The share
of productive sectors in CDB's loan approvals basically remained the same
as in 1978 when the CDB II was appraised.
2.23     DEC Financing.  The CDB II project objectives included
strengthening DFCs in the LDCs (para. 1.06). Most DFCs in the region were
created by the governments to channel funds for investment in areas where
other financial institutions (such as commercial banks) tended not to
venture. CDB, from its inception, adopted the policy of using DFCs as
intermediaries for financial support of grassroots development. Initially,
at least, DFCs in the LDCs were so small that many could not cover their
fixed costs at reasonable lending rates. Their accounts and loan
documentation procedures were generally poor. They also suffered from
massive portfolio arrears, partly due to local political interference.
2.24     CDB's record in achieving its operational objectives under the
CDB II project to strengthen DFCs in the LDCs has been mixed.   As part of
CDB's reorganization in 1979, the CDB management established a DFC division
to deal with the DFC problems. A task force was created for each failing
DFC to recommend corrective action. In most cases, this took the form of
merging the portfolios, staff and functions of government financial
intermediaries in a country to gain economies of scale. Governments, then,
recapitalized the new institution, and CDB used its technical assistance
resources to finance technical advisors in accounting, extension services
and loan operations over 2-3 year periods. IDA funds under the second CDB
J As of December 31, 1987, CDB's OCR lending authority as defined in its
OCR "Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines" (para. 2.17) stood at
US$189 million with a remaining balance of about US$16 million.



12 -
project were used by three CDB member governments (para. 2.11) to increase
their equity in DFCs as part of this program. Two of three beneficiary
BFCs under Credit 960-CRG have been fairly successfully rehabilitated.
2.25     CDB recognized that the survival of the CDB-supported DFCs in an
increasingly competitive financial environment would depend largely on
their capability to adapt to the changing conditions and on the
governments' willingness to increase their equity contributions to
strengthen the DFCs' capital bases. CDB's new strategy for lending through
financial intermediaries, adopted in 1989 in consultation with the Bank,
calls for, among other things, efforts to diversify its channels for
indirect lending by using commercial banks, merchant banks, etc.
2.26     Private Sector Lending.  One of the objectives under the CDB II
project was to increase CDB's role in financing private sector lending and
its capacity to cofinance projects (para. 1.06). Since its inception, CDB
has approved funding of US$43.3 million to 61 private sector projects. of
this, US$29.0 million (or 67% of total) for 21 projects was approved during
1980-84, indicating that CDB stepped up its financing of private sector
projects during the CDB II implementation. However, out of the total
private sector projects approved, 24 projects with approved financing of
US$19.0 million were cancelled prior to first disbursement. Of the
remaining 37 projects with approved financing of US$24.3 million, 19
(US$4.0 million) have been fully repaid. At the end of 1989, 11 (73%) of
total 15 private sector projects financed out of the CDB OCR were in
arrears.
2.27     CDB's lending to the private sector came to a virtual standstill
during 1985-89. Concerned about the very high cancellation rate on
previously approved private sector loans, the high level of arrears and the
perception that CDB's p3licies and procedures did not facilitate private
sector lending, CDB management established a Private Sector Task Force in
1986 to formulate measures for improving the performance of CDB's private
sector portfolio and reassessing the scope for future direct CDB lending to
the private sector. The task force report and the ensuing discussions
within the CDB confirmed the perception that CDB's lending policies,
procedures and staff recruitment tended to be more geared to handling of
public sector investment projects. CDB did not adequately address
weaknesses in enterprise management, marketing and financial control which
hampered many CDB-financed projects during implementation. The CDB
management concluded that these shortcomings and CDB's interpretation of
its "developmental" mandate frequently resulted in the selection of "high
risk" private sector projects (e.g., new projects with untested management
and markets, under-capitalized projects, etc.). In future, CDB intends to
emphasize promotion of a sound macroeconomic and sectoral policy framework
in its borrowing member countries conducive to private sector development.
CDB will also expand its indirect lending for meeting the financing needs
of small- and medium-sized agricultural, industrial, and tourism projects.
For direct lending, CDB will focus on well capitalized companies, with
proven management and assured stable markets, requiring funds for
expansion. CDB will endeavor, as far as possible, to cofinance projects
with international financial institutions active in private sector
financing in the region.



- 13 -
CDB's Financial Results
2.28     The Ordinarv CaRital Resources (OCR).1l  In spite of the
shortfalls in loan disbursements (para. 2.20), COB's financial performance
during the period 1979-83, on balance, was better than anticipated in che
Bank appraisal report (Annex 7). Actual net income exceeded projections in
each vear of the review period, except in 1983. and returns on equity and
on average total assets were similarly exceeded in four of the five years.
These were attained despite the existence of negative interest marginsl2 in
three of the five vears of the review period. (The interest margin was
projected to turn positive by 1980 and to increase thereafter.) This was
due largely to: (a) the high yields CDB received on its invested
liquidity; and (b) the lower administrative costs as a result of the policv
of allocating administrative expenses between OCR and SFR on the basis of
the number of lending operations in each segment. Lower than projected net
income in 1983 was due mainly to lower yields on CDB's invested liquidity.
2.29     CDB's interest coverage ratiol3 remained above 1.5 times during
1979-83. The debt service coverage ratiol4 was lower than projected at
appraisal. The appraisal report indicated that this ratio would remain
above 2 for the entire period. In actuality, however, the ratio moved from
2.41 in 1979 to 0.67 in 1982, before improving to 1.68 in 1983.  The dips
!         were due mainly to the repayment of bonds in 1980 and in 1982.
2.30     In an attempt to address the issue of negative or low interest
margins, CDB unified the different OCR interest rates at 10.5% in October
1981 and increased the unified rate to 12% in January 1983. This resulted
in the positive margin in 1983.  A decision was also taken .to review the
OCR rate semiannually, to reflect the cost of borrowing, and to cover under
OCR an increasing proportion of CDB's administrative costs. Further, in
1987, CDB revised its OCR interest rate policy, as explained in para. 2.17.
These changes have allowed CDB to maintain a positive interest margin since
1983.
2.31     At the end of 1983, CDB's OCR assets stood at US$140.3 million,
representing an average annual growth of 15.5%. These assets were
comprised of loans outstanding (44.8%), cash and investments (34.7%) and
receivables from members (12.9%). Capital and reserves funded 56% and
borrowings 44%. CDB's audited summary balance sheets and income statements
for the period 1984-88 are shown in Annex 8. CDB's OCR assets grew at an
annual rate of about 6.6% during that period. At the end of 1988, total
OCR assets stood at US$192 million, consisting of liquid assets (19%),
I1V Excluding the Venezuela Trust Fund (VTF).
12/ Loan income as a percentage of average loan portfolio minus financial
expenses as a percentage of average borrowings.
12/ Net income plus financial expenses divided by financial expenses; an
interest coverage ratio was not calculated in the appraisal report.
SJ Net income plus financial expenses, non-cash expenses and loan
collections divided by financial expenses plus principal repayments.



* 14 -
loans (640), receivables from members (12%) and other assets (5%). These
were financed by share capital and reserves (62%) and borrowed funds (38%);
the growth in CDB's OCR assets during 1984-88 was financed almost entirely
through the increases in share capital. The most significant development
regarding CDB's OCR asset composition has been the accumulation of a large
amount of loans in non-accrual status (US$28.2 million or 14.8% of total
assets at the end of 1988) which has had an adverse effect on CDB's OCR
profitability.
2.32     CDB's OCR yearly net income dropped sharply from around
US$2.4-4.0 million during 1979-83 to US$1.6 million in 1984, as a result of
its policy for non-accrual of interest on loans in arrears for over
12 months. OCR net income for 1985 rose to US$3.4 million, even after non-
accrual of interest (US$1.9 million) on certain loans and loan loss
provision of US$3.5 million, thanks to the large windfall gain of
US$4.5 million on foreign exchange. In 1986, OCR net income dropped to
US$0.9 million due mainly to non-accrual of interest (US$2.04 million) in
loans to Guyana and Antigua and Barbuda and specific provisions of
US$3.2 mLllion made against these loans and some private sector loan
repayments overdue to CDB. (These provisions also covered those related to
earlier years prior to CDB's introduction of a provisioning policy in
1986.) OCR net income increased to US$3.1 million in 1987, even after non-
accrual of interest (US$3.3 million), largely because of the decrease in
provision for losses on loans. In 1988, OCR net income climbed to
US$6.5 million (excluding US$4.0 million interest not accrued on non-
performing loans) due largely to the foreign exchange gains of
US$2.1 million. The OCR interest coverage ratio, which was as low as 1.1
times for 1986, rose to 1.6 times for 1987 and increased further to 2.2
times for 1988 (as against CDB's internal target of 1.5 times).  CDB's
reserves15 to loans ratio hovered between 25% and 26% during the period
1984-88, as compared with CDB's internal target of not less than 30%.
2.33     In 1987, the CDB Board of Directors considered measures which
would compensate, in due course, for losses resulting from the Guyana and
Antigua and Barbuda provisioning. These measures included: (i) requiring
shareholders to pay their maintenance of value obligations established at
the end of 1985, (ii) cashing of non-interest bearing demand notes
representing portions of shareholders' paid-in capital, and (iii) a general
share capital increase in the future. The Board approved the CDB
management's recomendations regarding the items under (i) and (ii) above,
which are being implemented. The proposal for a general share capital
increase has been endorsed by the Board, for approval by CDB's Board of
Governors in 1990. These measures should help CDB to improve its OCR
profitability in due course.
2.34     Soecial Funds Resources (SFR).  SM financial performance over the
1979-83 period was also better than projected, and with similar
characteristics as the OCR operations (Annex 9). While income from loans
was lower than projected, income from investments was higher, so that total
income significantly exceeded the projections. As of December 1983, CDB's
IV  Defined as the sum of ordinary reserves and unallocated net income.



- 15 -
SFR assets stood at US$255.6 million. Contributed resources funded 86.5%
of these assets, followed by reserves (11.5%) and liabilities (1.3%).
2.35     Audited SFR balance sheets and income statements for the years
1984-88 are shown in Annex 8. At the end of 1988, SFR assets totaled
US$423.7 million, consisting of cash and short-term investments (23%),
loans (61%) and other assets (16%). These assets were financed by donors'
contributions (94%) and reserves (6%). CDB's SFR assets increased by 57%
from US$269.7 million at the end of 1984 to US$423.7 million at the end of
1988. During the same period, non-accruing SFR loans reached
US$31.4 million or 12% of the SFR loan portfolio. Against this, SFR
reserves (US$26.6 million) and accumulated SFR provisions (US$7.2 million)
totaled US$33.8 million. SFR net income decreased from US$5.2 million in
1984 to US$3.4 million in 1985 and further to US$3.3 million in 1986, due
mainly to non-accrual of interest on certain loans and large provisions
made in 1985 and 1986, but increased to US$4.0 million in 1987 and further
to US$4.5 million in lQ88.
2.36     CDB Portfolio.  CDB's OCR loan portfolio totaling US$132.8 million
at the end of 1988 remained concentrated on four countries--Jamaica (29.1%
of the total OCR loan portfolio), Barbados (20.8%), Cayman Islands (13.7%),
and Guyana (12.7%). This OCR country exposure has been within the limits
set by the CDB's Board. OCR exposure in Jamaica accounted for 42.3% of
CDB's net worth at the end of 1988, as against the internal maximum limit
of 50%; OCR exposure in Jamaica, Barbados, and Cayman Islands, taken
together, represented 85.0% of CDB's net worth, compared to the internal
maximum limit of 100%.
2.37     Since 1984, CDB has been confronted with a fairly widespread
arrears problem. However, by refusing to approve new loans to the
countries involved until arrears are cleared, it has managed to keep its
borrowing members (with the exception of Guyana and Antigua and Barbuda)
from accumulating substantial protracted arrears.  At the end of 1988,
overall arrears (US$34.4 million) represented 8.5% of overall loan
portfolio; arrears on OCR loans (US$22.3 million), 16.8% of total OCR loan
portfolio.  The bulk of the arrears are related to public sector loans.
(About 93% of all loans were either made to member states or guaranteed by
them.)  CDB placed its loans to Guyana and Antigua and Barbuda in non-
accrual status, total non-performing loans stood at US$60.4 million (or
15.0% of overall loan portfolio), including OCR non-performing loans of
US$28.2 million (or 21.2% of OCR loan portfolio). In accordance with its
specific provisioning policy adopted in 1986 (para. 2.17), CDB has made
provisions against principal amounts overdue from Guyana and Antigua and
Barbuda. At the end of 1988, CDB's overall loan loss provisions totaled
US$18.2 million (including the general provision of US$5.5 million,
.accumulated before the adoption of the specific provisioning policy).
2.38     Antigua and Barbuda's arrears were reduced considerably in 1989,
as the Government started paying in monthly installments its arrears on the
CDB loans to DFC and other public sector suLborrowers (excluding the CDB
loans made for the unsuccessful sugar and fisheries projects). Arrears on
the private sector portfolio in the country are being resolved through
restructuring and legal actions. Relative to Antigua and Barbuda, Guyana's
arrears problem is more serious and has to be resolved within a



16 -
multilateral framework. Guyana is pursuing a structural adjustment
program, with the Bank's assistance, which should enhance the Government's
capability of resuming external debt service.
2.39     At the end of 1988, the CDB loan portfolio contained 381 loans
(including 27 private sector loans). CDB rated their loan status on a
scale of 1 (minor or no problem) to 3 (major problem). On this basis,
average status for all loan. in 1988 was 1.56 with 77 loans (or 20.2% of
total loans) being rated as major problem loans. About 42% of these
problem loans were for loans to Guyana and to Antigua and Barbuda. CDB
management maintains a close scrutiny over projects to improve their
performance. CDB was slow in preparing comprehensive portfolio review
reports; for example, reports covering 1983-85 were completed in 1986-87.
However, since 1987, the Projects Department has been reviewing the overall
status of its portfolio twice a year and is preparing reports to the Loan
Cooittee on the portfolio once a year. In 1984, CDB established a Post-
Implementation Evaluation Unit (PIEU) which completed post-evaluation
studies on three projects and project performance audit reports on two
others in 1988. Lessons learned from these studies were submitted to the
CDB Board and circulated to CDB staff for guidance. The PIEU has also
prepared guidelines for post-evaluation work to form a part of CDB's
Operational Manual.
2.40     To improve the quality of its portfolio, CDB intends to
(i) increase its assistance to its borrowing member states in improving
their national economic management; (ii) pay greater attention to the
design of projects during preparation stage (taking into account lessons
learnt from its own and other lenders' experience), with adequate
supervision during implementation; and (iii) formulate and execute lending
programs which would allow positive net resource transfers to the borrowing
member countries.
CDR's Observance of Covenants and Regorting Requirements
2.41     All major covenants included in the CDB II project loan and credit
agreements were complied with by CDB. The Bank/IDA reporting requirements
were met on a timely basis.
IBRDLIDA Performance
2.42     CDB Institution-building effort.  As was stated before
(para. 2.15), the Bank provided considerable inputs of manpower to
strengthen CDB's capabilities to process projects, conduct macro-economic
analysis and to improve effectiveness of its internal organization and
policies. The bulk of this effort has been rendered on an informal basis
and covered a broad spectrum of developmental activities. After the
effectiveness of the CDB II project loan and credits, the IBRD/IDA
assistance to CDB included CDB staff training visits to the Bank
headquarters, the Bank staff visits to CDB headquarters (other than
supervision visits), joint Bank/CDB missions and the Bank desk reviews of



1) -
CDB subprojeccs not financed by IBRD/IDA. The details for 1980-83 are
given in Annex 2 of this report.16
2.43     Intensity of IBRD/IDA Supervision Effort.  The IBRD/IDA
supervision of che CDB II projects implementation has been adequate
(approximatelv with 6-month incervals in 1980-82 and 12-month intervals in
subsequent vears). The supervision results were conveyed to che CDB
management for any necessary follow-up action. .More importantlv, concacts
between the Bank and CDB staff at all levels were encouraged, with posicive
impact on CDB's institutional development and contribution to the Bank's
insight to the Commonwealth Caribbean development issues.
2.44     CDB's IBRD/IDA IntermediaCy_&ole.  Implicit in the Bank's
objectives in extending global lines of credits to CDB (including CDB II)
was a desire to reduce its own invc.lvement in the region, by using CDB as a
financial intermediary for smaller projects and in providing economic
advice to IBRD/CDB member countries (para. 1.06). During much of the CDB
II imple'mentation period, the Bank made little progress in reducing its
direct involvement in the Caribbean region, due to increasing political
interest by major donors in the region and to CDB's slowness in developing
its role, particularly as an economic advisor to its borrowing member
states.
2 45     The IBRD Guarantee Requirement for CDB Subloans.  Under both the
CDB I and CDB II projects, the IBRD requirement for separate countrv
guarantees imposed considerable administrative burden on CDB's borrowers
(para 1.08). Each independent borrowing country had to pass legislation to
approve their guarantee to IBRD of CDB's repayment of IBRD funds used to
finance projects in its territory as a condition for disbursements. In
other words, the same requirements applicable to IBRD lending. This
involved time-consuming legal and administrative procedures, particularly
in the case of IBRD subloans in eligible UK-associated states and
territories. The earlier that a country began the guarantee process before
a subloan was approved by CDB. the less delay in disbursements there was
after approval. However, most countries chose to wait until a subprojecc
was under active consideration by CDB before they started their guarantee
procedures.
2.46     Prior to the CDB II loan negotiations, the CDB management and
representatives of some CDB member states had called into question the IBRD
requirement for "double guarantee," arguing that CDB should not provide its
callable capital guarantees if IBRD was already receiving the independenc
guarantee of each country receiving a subloan. The Bank's view has been
that, when CDB is the borrower and relencs loan proceeds for subprojects
to, or with the guarantee of, individual independent countries, each such
16/ The CDB management attaches importance to the Bank's inetitution-
building effort. A recent CDB board paper (No. 1/89, dated Februarv 9.
1989, on CDB's borrowing strategy) states: "... one of the most
important advantages derived from borrowing from the multilateral
developrint banks--particularly the World Bank--is the critical review
and technical assistance and supervision which these agencies provide
to assist in the institutional strengthening of CDB" (para. 1.05).



- 18 -
member country must provide a blanket guarantee to the Bank covering CDB
financing with IBRD funds of projects in its territory (for regional
projects, joint and several guarantees by participating governments would
be required). There is no alternative regarding guarantees under the
Bank's Articles of Agreement as long as CDB remains the borrower from IBRD.
Within this framework, the Bank's review of documentation requirements has
been unable to reduce delays, demonstrating that the requirement of
separate country guarantees is the primary cause of delays. In subsequent
discussions of alternatives, the Bank eirmhasized that, if CDB did not take
the financial risk for funds borrowed from IBRD, the latter would have to
approve every subloan. At the end, che CDB's Board preferred to continue
with the "double guarantee" procedure for purposes of the CDB II. It was
agreed at the negotiations, however, that CDB and IBRD would examine,
before negotiations for a future IBRD loan, alternative ways of
guaranteeing IBRD lending.17 The subsequent two lending operations were on
IDA terms and the IBRD guarantee question did not arise. Under the 1990
CDB V project IBRD loan, no change has been made in the Bank's guarantee
requirements. During appraisal of the CDB V project, however, the 3ank and
CDB legal staff discussed the desirability of helping borrowing member
countries draft legislation enabling each country to borrow from IBRD or
alternatively, from CDB funds borrowed by CDB from IBRD and guaranteeing
CDB's repayment to IBRD of the said fund without the need for ad hoc
parliamentary approval. This approach, albeit short of totally eliminating
the "double-guarantee" question should shorten the approval procedures
referred to in para 2.45 above and should be pursued.
2.47     The CDB draft PCR (paras 3.09(a) and (b)), which reached us afcer
negotiations of the CDB V project, now states that:
"(a) Substantial benefits can be gained if a concerted effort is
made by the World Bank and CDB to design workable
alternatives to the guarantee requirement. The use of CDB
callable capital as the only guarantee appears to be a
logical alternative, in view of the countries whose capital
is used for backing...."
"(b) ...The World bank and CDB should re-examine the possibility
of a trust fund arrangement."
2.48     While the Bank and CDB have to continue with their efforts to find
ways to avoid undesirable features of the IBRD (double) guarantee
requirement, experience shows that it will not be easy, in view of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement, to find a mutually satisfactory solution to
meet multiple objectives within a multilateral framework. The possibility
I7 The Bank and CDB negotiators agreed that:
"... before agreeing to any future borrowing from the Bank, CDB's
management will examine jointly with the Management of the Bank
the various options that might be available for transferring Bank
resources to the Caribbean countries through the CDB. On such
occasion, CDB's Management will also consult with interested
shareholders of CDB, including its major donor members."



_ 19 -
of a trust fund arrangement was considered before (in the occasion referred
to in para. 2.46). Leaving aside its legal and operational (prior approval
*            of subloans, etc.) implications, however, this approach would not help CDB
increase its relative role in the Commonwealth Caribbean and thus would go
against the grain of the recently signed IBRD/CDB 'Collaborative
Arrangement" under which CDB will be progressively taking over some current
IBRD tasks in the Caribbean (including lending for projects), as it gained
experience in various fields of lending activity.
Summary, Lessons Learned and Sustainability
2.49     The CDB II project has largely met its objectives in providing
financial resources to CDB in support of development projects in the
commonwealth Caribbean. However, due to a deterioration of the general
economic situation in the region and other factors, the loan/credit
commitment and disbursement periods had to be extended and the positive
impact of IBRD/IDA lending was probably diluted. In sectoral activity, CDB
lending in support of productive sectors, including private sector
projects, has been less prominent than its lending for infrastructure
projects.
2.50     By and large, the CDB II project achieved its institution-building
objectives for CDB. CDB defined its lending policies and procedures by
sector and improved the effectiveness and efficiency of its organization.
CDB's operational and financial policies were refined and strei lthened with
advice from the Bank as part of the third and fourth projects. Seen in the
context of a continuing relationship between the Bank and CDB, the CDB II
project made a significant contribution to the Bank objective of
strengthening CDB. However, CDB's capabilities to provide its member
couzntries with macro-economic analysis and advice and to process program-
type lending still remained modest.
2.51     This PCR concurs, in general, with CDB's assessment of the lessons
learned from CDB's vantage point under the CDB II project, which is
rgproduced in para. 3.09 of this report. In doing so, this PCR underlines
the value of close collaboration between the Bank and CDB at all levels.
Freouent contacts, mostly on an informal basis, between the Bank and CDB
sta.: are likely to increase effectiveness of both institutions' lending
and other activities in the Caribbean region, to avoid duplication of
effort and to enable both institutions to serve their member states better
and mc. e efficiently. Although not legally binding, the recently concluded
Memorandum of Understanding between the Bank and CDB provides a sound base
and framework for such increased collaboration.
PART II - BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
III. CDB'S SUMMARY, CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Summary
3.01     The second World Bank loan to CDB experienced considerable
implementation delays, with the result that the closing date had to be



- 20 -
extended by 30 months and approximately US$1.5 million was cancelled.18
The primary reason for delay was the heavy administrative burden placed on
CDB and its Borrowing Member Countries (BMCs) by the World Bank's
requirement for separate country guarantees. Other reasons, as reflected
in time overruns on subprojects financed, included inadequate institutional
capacity of executing agencies, changes in project scope and/or design, and
limited availability of counterpart financing.
3.02     Twelve of the 16 subprojects financed out of the proceeds of the
loan were successful in the sense that implementation objectives were
substantially met, albeit in some instances much later than anticipated,
and acceptable performance expected to be sustained throughout the project
life. The four projects that did not meet their implementation objectives
suffered from a variety of problems including weak and inconsistent project
management, lack of adequate counterpart funds and changes in project scope
and objectives.
3.03     Actual approvals and disbursements, for CDB as a whole, over the
anticipated commitment period of the loan were much lower than forecast.
Approvals (both OCR and SFR) were 45% lower and disbursements 38% lower
than forecast. In spite of CDB's financial performance, as measured by net
income, liquidity and solvency ratios were, on balance, better than
anticipated. This resulted primarily from higher yields on larger amounts
of short-term investments and, with OCR, lower administrative costs.
Charges and provisions on SFR were also appreciably lower, underscoring the
availability of ample. concessionary resources over the review period.
Achievement of Objectives
3.04     The institution-building objective, while difficult to ascribe to
any one financing operation and which should thus be viewed in the context
of a continuing relationship between the World Bank and CDB, was achieved.
World Bank appraisal and supervision assisted CDB in more clearly defining
its lending policies and strategies and improving its capacity to monitor
project supervision. World Bank assistance was also evident in CDB's
refining its financial and operating policies.
3.05     The use of CDB as an intermediary for IBRD and IDA has had mixed
results. CDB's better cost characteristics resulted in funds being
transferred at lower administrative cost than if the World Bank effected
the financing directly. On the other hand, the additional administrative
burden of the guarantee requirement may have been material in diluting the
benefits of this intermediation. There is also the question of the cost of
the IBRD funds (not IDA) to the beneficiary countries. CDB's OCR interest
rate over the commitment period was higher than the corresponding World
Bank rate and unless IBRD increased its rate to the Caribbean countries,
to take account of the higher administrative cost, it is conceivable that
the beneficiaries paid higher interest cost as a result of the
intermediation than if the funds were channelled directly.
18/ Actually, the closing date was extended by 24 months and about
US$3.9 million was cancelled.



21 -
3.06     Within only three DFCs benefitting from equity injections from the
IDA funds, the objective of strengthening the capital structures of LDC
DFCs was only achieved to a limited extent. The reason for low utilization
of IDA funds for this purpose is not clear, but appears to be related to
competition from other projects requiring concessionary resources and the
limited quantum of such resources included in the financing operation.
3.07     From the perspective of the amount of resources utilized for
private sector lending--US$4.1 million directly and US$3.5 million
indirectly, if the "equity" loans are included--and in the context of
resource fungibility, the project did assist in increasing CDB's role in
private sector lending. However, the fact that the two directly funded
private sector projects were located in one country is indicative of a very
limited 'spread" of benefits. One reason for this is a reluctance of BMC
governments to guarantee private sector investments--illustrating another
disadvantage of the guarantee requirement.
3.08     Finally, the achievement of the project's objectives may have been
affected by competition from the World Bank Group itself. IBRD funds have
been channelled to MDCs for s^me time (since the 1960s) and, since 1981/82,
the OECS countries have benefitted from direct IDA funding.
3.09     Lessons learned were that:
(a)  Substantial benefits can be gained if a concerted effort is made
by the World Bank and CDB to design workable alternatives to the
guarantee requirement. The use of CDB callable capital as the
only guarantee appears to be a logical alternative, in view of the
countries whose capital is used for backing. And this is
suggested even if it means that the World Bank must give prior
approval of each subloan financed. There is some question as to
whether any benefit is derived by CDB from the absence of a free
limit, since the World Bank can refuse disbursement even after CDB
approval.
(b)  The World Bank and CDB should re-examine the range of possible
mechanisms for transferring World Bank resources to CDB members,
including using CDB as an intermediary. The recently concluded
Memorandum of Understanding is one step in the right direction.
The World Bank and CDB should re-examine the possibility of a
trust fund arrangement.
(c)  It is imperative that when World Bank funds are programmed for a
project, implementation schedules take into account the time
requirements for meeting the legal and other demands of the
funding source. In some instances this may involve programming
bridging finance to facilitate project implementation.
(d)  More emphasis needs to be placed by CDB, during project appraisal,
on assessment of institutional capacity of executing agencies.
Identification of institutional constraints during appraisal and
incorporating mechanisms to alleviate these constraints in project
design would go a long way toward reducing implementation delays.



- 22 -
(Dank LoaD 1775-Cm - mDA =MIT 960-cM * 33          I:T 37-CW)
Table 1 Loan UtilLsatLon
(Amounts Ln USS MLillon)
As at Apr. 30. 1991
Original   DLibursed      Cancelled        RIMlad  Outt ndiLna
Loan 1775- M    23.0           19.6         3.4               8.1        11.5
Credit 960-CR0   7.0            6.5         0.5                 .0        6.5
Credit 37-CRn    AQ             LA                              .0        1.0
31.0          27           Li3.9              8.1       19.0
The amounts outstanding at December 31, 1989, take Lato account transactLon
adjustments arLaing from exchange rate fluctuatlons. The amounts shown as dLibureed
and the figures quoted ln the text take no account of such adjustmnts.
Sources LAC Files



- 23 _
Table 2s Cumulative Loan Disbursement
Loan 172P,-=R
(i) Planned         1.5    5.9  12.4  20.0   23.0   23.0    23.0    23.0
(Li) Actual           .0    2.0   11.2   12.8   14.0  18.8    19.5    19.6
Cre4it 060-CR0
(L) Plannod         0.1    0.8    2.4    5.1    7.0    7.0      7.0     7.0
(ii) Actual           .0    .0    3.3    4.0    5.4    6.1       6.2     6.5
Credit 37-CR0
(L) Planned         0.2    0.8    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0      1.0     1.0
(Li) Actual           .0     .0      .0     .0    1.0    1.0     1.0      1.0
Total
(1) Planned         1.8     7.5    15.8    L".2 31J. 31.0    31
(11) Actual           .    3.6  14.5   I6.8   204   2L.9_   26.7    LUA
(iLi)(ii) as % of (1)  .0     .    91.8   64.4   65.8   83.5   8,6.1   87.4
Sources LAC FIes



24 -
Table 3s Other Project Data
OrlgLnal                     Actual
Approval by CRB Board                           -                     12/14/79
Approval by IMBD Board                          -                     12/12/79
Loan Agr eme nt Signed                          -                     01/09/80
Zff-ectlve   e  Date                            -                     02/20/80
Subproject SubmLssion Deadllne             12/31/81                   12/31/82
ClosLng Date                               12/31/84                   12/31/86
VLnal DLibursement Date                    12/31/84                   07/06/87
Sources LAC Fll*m



- 25 -
Table 4: Use of Bank Resources
Stage of         Mission    Number of       Number       Total No.         Report
Project Cycle    Date        Days in        of Staff    of Staff            Dato
Country      on Mission    Days
Identification/   11/78                                                   01/24/79
Preparation
Appraisal          04/79        18              12          113           11/16/79
Supervision I      02/80         5               1            5           02/29/80
Supervision II    06/80          2               1            2           06/05/80
Supervision III   06/80          5               1            8           06/20/80
Supervision 1vb   07/80          2               1            2           08/19/80
Supervision V      10/80         5               3           18           12/05/80
Supervision II    07/81          S               1            S           06/28/82
Supervision VII   10/81         17               3           51           01/08/82
Supervision V111I  06/e2         5               1            5           06/28/82
Supervision IX    07/82          4              4            16           08/18/82
supervision X      10/83        14               1           14           11/17/83
Supervision XI    08/84          5               1            5           09/13/84
Supervision Xii   05/85          6               2           12           06/21/85
Supervision XIII  02/86          a               2           16           03/11/86
Supervision XIV   02/87         15               1           15           03/27/87
TOTAL STAFF DAYS ON MISSIONS 2g
a/ Transport and Communication Sectors
k/ Transport Sector
c/ Agriculture Sector
Sources LAC files



- 26 -
Table 5S STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
PreappraLial       AppraLial       Negotlation       supervLiLon       Total
FY79           30.2               65.8                -                 -             96.0
FY80            -                 19.2                8.3              10.5           38.0
FY81            -                  -                  -                22.4           22.4
FY82            -                  -                  -                31.6           31.6
FY83            -                  -                  -                 5.8            5.8
FY84            -                  -                  -                 3.3            3.3
FY85            -                  -                  -                 5.5            5.5
TY86            -                  -                  -                 5.9            5.9
FY87                      -                           -                 3.3            3.3
FY88           -                   -                 -                 0.3            0.3
i FY89          -                  -                  -                         1.3
TOTAL   30.2               85.0                8.3              89.9          213.4
Sources LAC Flles



- 27 -
Table Go AddLtLonal Projoat Data
Follow-up Projeat Mas             Approval Date          Loan Amount
(US$ Milllon)
Thlrd CDB Credlt (1364-CM)         May 17, 1983          US$7 Million
Fourth CDR Credlt (1785-C03)       Aprll 28, 1987        US$6 Kllion
Flfth CDs Loan (3200-030/           ay 22, 1990          US$32 Million
Crodlt 2135-C03)
Dorrowrs          CDO
Guarantors$       Borrowing Countries
3xecuting AgnWyst CDD
Sources LAC *iles



_ 28 -
Table 7t Status of Covenats
,Cov pt                       Sgbioot              De41adln88t
Soction 3.01 of          Relend the loan             None              Complied
Loan Agreoent (LA),    and credits in ap-                               with
Developmnt Credit        proved sectors and
greMent (DCA),           in accordance with
and Special Action       criteria S&L out
Credit Agreemnt           in CDB 'a Statement
(SACA)                   of Policy
Section 2.11 of          Not to us more              None              Ditto
Lk                       than 35% of the
Section 2.11 of          proceeds of the
DCA                      loan and IDA
credit in any
one of CDB member
countries.
Soction 2.10 of          Not to use funds            None              Dltto
LA and DCA               from the loan and
credlt to cofinance
Bank of IDA projects,
unless the Bank
otherwlse agrees.
Section 2.03 of          AssLgn to the               Before the        Dltto
DCA                      Association CDB's           AssocLatLon's
Sectlon 2.04 of          rlghts under each           Ipproval of
SACAf                    the subloans                subloans.
through whlch the
credits will be re-
lent to the ellglble
countries.
Soctlon 3.03(b) of       Project Completion          12/31/87          Draft PCR
LA, Sectlon 3.04(b)      Report                                        has been
of DCh and BACA                                                        supplied.
Section 4.02 of LA,      Accounts and Audlts         03/31 an-         up to date
DCh and 8ACA                                         nually
Side letter on           Preparation of              04/30/80          completed
polLeLes (with ref-      sectoral polLcy             on such
erenco to Section        papers.                     later dates
3.01 of LA, DCA and                                  as the Bank
8ACA)                                                and CDB shall
otherwlse
agree.
Sources LAC Files



-29 -
AN= 1
Page I
SECOND CARIEA   EEPNTAK
-SAK  OA  1775-C&O. IDA C       1DI 9600-C . N MM C CRD   3-LRO=
an=/Crdlt Teat  and CondL&U=
The major CDB II loan/credit terms and conditions are as follows:
(a) The IDA/EEC credit proceeds are considered part of CDB's
Special Fund Resources (SFR) operations (and hence not backed
by CDB's callable capital). The funds will be segregated
from CDB's other assets and liabilities. Although remaining
legally IDA's borrower of record, it has beeo understood
that, for relending of IDA/EEC credit proceed., CDB should
not bear the credit risk all by itself. Thus, CDB agreed to
assign to IDA its rights to the subloans made out of these
credit proceeds as a condition previous .to disbursements
therefor.
(b)  The proceeds of the IDA credits will be relent by CDB at "JA
terms. CDB will collect from its subborrowers and pass on to
IDA and IDA service charge of 3/4%. For its services, CDB
will receive from IDA US$548,000 in five annual installments.
(C) Before commLtment under the Bank loan, CDB is required to
send to the Bank, for information, an issues paper and
appraisal report on its subprojects. For IDA and EEC
credits, IDA required prior approval of all subloans on the
basis of simLlar documentation.
(d) Not more then 35% of the proceods of the Bank loan and IDA
credit/EEC credit may be used in any one CDB member country.
CDB subloans may finance up' to 70% of subproject costs in the
MDCs and 80% in the LDCs.
(e) For CDB's onlending of tho IBRD loan proceeds in independent
CDB mmber countries (The Bahamas, Barbados, Domlnica,
Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St. Lucia and Trinidad and Tobago),
each country will be required to provide a blanket guarantee
to the Bank, covering repayment by CDB of funds used for
subloans under this project in the country concerned. For
the UK Associated States and Dependencies, the UK Goverrnent
was required to guaranteo CDB's repayment. A guarantee
satisfactory to the Bank from each applicable country,
directly or indirectly through Dependencies or Associated
States that was an IBRD member, was made a condition of flrst
dLsbursement of each subloan in such country.
(f) The Bank's commitment fee (3/4 of 1I on the unwithdrawn
principal) will be charged to CDB from the date each CDB
subloan concerned was approved by the Bank for disbursement.



- 30 -
Pap 2
(g) The Bank's procurement guidelLnes wore applicable for
contracts financed from the IBRD loan and IDA credit. In the
case of the EEC credit, the sam guidelines were applicable
but bidding was lluited to EEC member countrios and IDA
member countries eligible to receive special action credits.



-31 -
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECONO CARIBSRAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
World Bank Group Technical Assistance Provided to CDB
Durina 1960-83
.   EDI Core
January 1980 - C. Sohan, Sanitary Engineer, 6 week course in
project appraisal.
November 1982 - P. Carmichael, Assistant Director (Industry),
3-week course in Industry in Small Economies.
2.       Training Visits to IBRD Headquarters
February 1980 - S. Singh, Assistant Director, Project Supervision
one week of discussion on project supervision.
January 1981 - B. Charles, Project Coordinator (PATU), 4-day visit
to EDI to discuss and obtain course outlines and materials.
October 1982 - D. Brunton, Post Evaluation Officer and A. Leacock,
Assistant Director, Loan Supervision, one week review of loant supervision
and operations evaluation procedures.
January 1983 - R. Mullings, Treasurer and Controller and M. St.
Rose, Director of Economics and Programming, one week review of financial
policy issues and computer financial forecasting model.
3.       Visits to CDB Headguarters by IBRD Staff outaide of LCPII
May 1980 - B. Bostrom, Transport Economist - three-day visit to
discuss transport sector policy paper and project appraisal methodology
related to Dominica Port Reconstruction Project.
July 1980 - J. Sargent, Transport Economist - 2-day visit to
discuss road components of transport sector policy paper, and transport
sector subproject pipeline.
June 1980 - J. Callahan and C. Warren, one-day meeting to discuss
Energy sector policy paper.
October 1980 - P. Ram, Agriculture Economist, 6 days to discuss
Sector Policy Paper and supervision of projects.
October 1980 - S. Gupta, DFC officer, EMENA, 10 days to visit LDC
DFCs and discuss plans for restructuring these institutions.
February 1981 - P. Owusu, Financial Analyst, 6 days joined
preappraisal mission for St. Vincent Electricity Project as advisor.



- 32 -
Page 2
July 1981 - P. Ram, Agricultural Economist, 6 days supervision of
subprojects, discussion of sector pollcies and general technical
assLstance.
October 1981 - P. OVusu, FLnancial Analyst and J. Callahan, Power
Engineer, one day, review appraisal methodology for St. Vincent Electricity
Project.
February 1982 - K. Sierra, Transport Economist and 0. Raggambi,
Engineer, 2 days, reviewed appraisal methodology for two subprojects under
preparation.
4.       Joint Nisi       f Ian/cps Staff
May 1980 - C. Sohan, Sanitary Engineer - one week, joined IBRD
Supervision Mission of Jamaica Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
1980 - Joint preappraisal and appraisal missions to co-finance
Barbados Power and Light Project - 7 days.
1980 - Joint missions to supervise Guyana Power Projects - 4 days.
1981 - 0. Robertson, DFC officer - one week, joined IBRD appraisal
mission of Bahamas Urban Project.
1982 - R. Kamath, Deputy Director, Project Design and Analysis,
one week, joint review of policy statement and operating criteria for new
National Development Bank, Jamaica.
1982 - P. Morgan, Project Officer, Industry, one week
participation in IBRD country economic mission to St. Lucia.
5.       Desk reviewa of suborolects not financed bw IBiD
May 1980 - Urban Projects Tourism Advisory Unit reviewed and
commented on a Bahamas hotel project appraisal.
October 1982 - Central Projects Telecommunications Division
reviewed and commented on a Jamaica Telecommunications project.



- 33 -
PROJECT COMPLETIO REPORT
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMWN BANK PROJECT
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND PROXELOAN APPRQ!U
.(l9?9-83)
(Amounts in US$ million)
Years ended December 31,    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    Total
OCR1/ Projected              36.0    42.0    47.0    52.0    60.0    237.0
OCR Actual                    38.7    13.6    17.4    29.6    30.5    129.8
Difference +(-)             2.7   (28.4)  (29.6)  (22.4)  (29.5)  (107.2)
SFR2/ Projected              26.0    33.0    37.0    41.0    48.0    185.0
SFR Actual                   22.1    26.7    22.5    14.0    15.8    101.1
Difference +(-)            (3.9)   (6.3)  (14.5)  (27.0)  (32.2)   (83.9)
Total Projected               62.0    75.0    84.0    93.0   108.0    422.0
Total Actual                  60.8    40.3    39.9    43.6    46.3    230.0
Difference +(-)            (1.2)  (34.7)  (44.1)  (49.4)  (61.7)  (191.1)
1/   Includes VTF.
2/   Excludes Caribbean Development Facility, loans for studies and
contingent loans.



SECOIO CU D PR03PFDUCT
Characteristics of Subloanr  1ed i  tbe S&cond Onerarion
Amount          Interest    I of    Eco-    Flnan-              Repay-
(US6          to ftnal      CDS   noeic      cll      race     meant
Cowntry               on)          borrower   loan   ceturn   returm   perlod   period    Sector                 C_oamnts
Approed   Disbursed
Flood dge            JaMLca             1.5         1.5         9.50    25        -       -        5.0      15       Trnport
Nottng  finance    Jamaica              3.0         3.0        10.00    32        -       -        5.0      12       Housing            401 of subprojects
Mateo  Supply        Jamaica            3.6        2.5          9.00   100       31     21         5.0      1S      Water supply       681 of project
Seals & Packaging   Guyana              2.6        2.6         10.50    25       34     14         4.0      11       Industry
Sugar *ll            Barbados           3.0        3.0         10.50    22       19     lib        1.5      12      *roindustry
Clay products        Barbados           1.1        1.1         10.50    46       26     16b        2.0      10       Industry
Industry credit      Bahanas            2.0        0.7   10.5-12.00    66         -      -         5.0      15      4grl.1Ind.         801 of subproject
Electticity          St. Vincent        0.7        0.3          9.00    23       12      -         3.0      15      Energy
Electricity          St. Lucia          2.1        0.9         10.50    62        -      -         4.0      10      Enrgy
Aizport              Cay mn  Islands    0         .  0         10.50    45       20     10         3.0      15      Transport          452 of expenditures
23.6       19.6
IDA Credit
DFC equity           Antigua            0.8        0.6    9.0-11.50    50         -      -        2.0       12      Agr iJInd.
Fort                 Delnica            3.0        3.0          1.00   100       18      -       10.0       40      Transport          801
Mater supply         Grenada            0.7        0.7          4.00    45       17      3         5.0      20      Water
DFC equity           Dominica           0.3        0.3    9.0-12.00    23         -      -        2.0       12     A4rl.Iatd.
DFC equity           St. LucLa          0.4        0.4    9.0-12.00    20         -      -        2.0       12      Agri./Ind.         60X of subprojects
Feeder roads         St. litts          1.1        0.d          0.75    s0       11      -       10.0       40      Atg  I?Transport
Electricity          St. Vincent        Li           i7         9.00    56       12      -        3.0       15      Energy
8.0        7.5
jI  Includes US$1 millon EEC Special Actlon Credit.
ki  Aftcr tax.



- 35 -
s-~~~~~
MOJIcT COMLEION REPORT
sECOnD CAD1333A3 D"RYKLONK   RAWK PROJECT
SUMNARY OF ANNUAL LOAN APPROVALS
BY SOURCE OF FUNDS. 1984-88
1984       1985       1986       1987       1988        1984-88
US$M(no.) US$N(no.) US$N(no.) US$N(no.) US$M(no.) US$M(no.)
OCR                 17.3       22.8        24.2       12.0       13.0       89.0
SFR                 6.1                   ILA          85                   179.1
Total (Gross)     61.2(22)   41.8(13)   60.0(18)   40.1(19)   65.9(22)   269.0(94)
Cancellations       lh.4       _._L       ZLZ          4 3        0.31       49.7
Total (Net)                                U.J ,2LA



- 36 -
ANNEX 6
MROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND CARIUEN DEVELOPMEN  BANK PROJECT
(BANY LOAN 1775-Cg. IDA CREDIT 960-CRO. AND EEC CRD IT 37-CROG
CDB LOAN APPROVALS BY SECTOR. 1970-88
(US$ Million)
Direct            Lending
lending         through DFCs             Total
US$ H   (S)        US$ M    (%)        US$ H
Infrastructure         262.8               31.5b              294.3       45.2
Agriculture             36.8a              60.5                 97.3      15.0
Industry & tourism    135.0                41.4               176.4       27.1
Othersc                 69.5               13.0                 82.5      12.7
504.1 (77.5)       14.   (22.5)        Q%j       au
A/ Excludes feeder roads.
1/J Mortgage finance.
1 Includes disaster rehabilitation, education, student loans, and multi-
sectoral loans.



-37 -ANE7
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND CABBEAN DELPMENT BANK PROJECT
ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
INCOME STATEMENTS. BALANCE SHEETS AND RATIO ANALYSIS1/
(1979-831
(US$ millio;.)
Years ended December 31,               1979      1980     1981    1982    1983
Income Statements
Income from Investments                2.8_     4.0_      5.9_    7.0_      5.4
Income from Loans                      1.8_     2.4_      3.6_    4.9_      5.8
Other                                  0.2       0.1      Q.3     0.4       0.2
Total Income                           4.8       6i.5     9.8         12.3  1LA
Financial Expenses                     1.9       3.3      4.7     6.2       5.7
Administrative Expenses                0.3       0.8      1.5     2.1       2.5
Loan Loss Provisions                    -         _
Total Expenses                         LL.      4.1      L6.2   L.3         LA
Net Income                             2.6. 26.0
Balance Sheets
Cash and Investments                  42.2     44.6      51.3    51.0      48.7
Loans and Secondary
Mortgages                           27.5      36.9     49.8    59.9      62.8
Receivables from Members               6.4       8.4      9.7    12.1      18.1
Other Receivables                      3.2       5.1      8.3     7.7       8.9
Fixed Assets                           Q.1     . 0.1      0.1     1.0       1
Total Assets                          79.4     25.1    119.2   131.5    140.3
Total Liabilities                     .32.Q    4C.2        56.7   60.2     6.LA
Capital and Reserves                  4Z.4      54.9     62.5 L  712.3    _9.0
Total Liabilities and
Capital                            79.4     95.1    119.2   131.5    140.3
Ratios:
1. Return on Average
Equity (%):
Actual                        5.7      4.7      6.3      5.8      4.0
Projected                     4.5      3.9      4.6      5.0      5.5
2. Interest Margin (%):
Actual                       0.09   (-1.69)  (-1.30) (-1.86)    0.07
Projected                  (-0.22)    0.41     0.89    1.22      1.43
3. Interest Coverage Ratio
(Times):
Actual                       2.37     1.73      1.77    1.65     1.53
Projected                     --
4.  Debt Service
Coverage (Times):
Actual                       2.41     1.86      1.60    0.67     1.68
Projected                    2.90     2.70     2.70    2.70      2.80
5. Debt/Equity Ratio:
Actual                       0.7:1    0.7:1    0.9:1   0.8:1   0.8:1
Projected                    0.4:1    0.5:1    0.6:1   0.8:1   1.1:1
1/ Excludes VTF



- 38 -                   ANm=  7
Page 2 of 2
ELW COPTXONA&
RE ORD  TAIBIK PTANDVLOP W AgJ   MOJ
CONAIXON OFACUA  AND PIJcTE  1300c  STTET  1979-83
(% 0M AVERAOE ASSET3)
Years ended December 31,                1979     1980      1981    1982    1983
Income from Investments:  Actual        4.2       4.7      5.8      5.8     4.1
Projected    4.2       3.6      3.0      2.3     1.8
Incone from Loans:         Actual       2.7       2.8      3.4      3.9     4.3
Projected    3.5       3.9      4.8      5.9     6.6
Total Income:              Actual        6.7      7.7       9.2     9.7     8.4
Projected    7.7       7.4      7.8      8.2     8.4
Financial Expenses:        Actual        2.7      3.8      4.3      4.9     4.2
Projected    2.9       3.0      3.0      3.4     3.8
Administrative Expenses:  Actual         0.5      1.0       1.4     1.7      2.0
Projected    1.7       1.9      1.9      1.9     1.7
Net Income:                Actual        3.5      2.6       3.5     3.1      2.2
Projected    3.1       2.6      2.9      2.9     2.9



- 39 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets, 1984-88
(As of December 31)
(Millions of US$)
Audited
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Ordinary Capital Resources
Cash & investment                    46.2    41.9    35.3    37.4    36.1
Loans & secondary mortgages           70.1    76.1    90.9   108.6   123.1
Receivable from members               22.9    24.6    23.8    23.9    22.4
Other assets (net)                    ,9.6    9.8    10&7    10.5    10.5
Total assets                     148.8   152.4   160.7   180.4   192.1
Borrowings & other liabilities       64.1    59.0    62.0    73.3    72.9
Capital & reserves                   84.7    93-4    98.7   107L1   119.2
Total liabilities & capital      148.8   152.4   160.7   180.4   192.1
SFR Operations
Cash & investments                    53.2    55.1    66.3    60.0    98.6
Loans & secondary mortgages         188.2   199.8   212.9   244.6   257.7
Receivable from contributors          19.2    31.4    46.0    75.9    59.1
Other assets (net)                   9.1       9.8     7.7 4L            8.3
Total assets                     269.7   296.1   332.9   384.7   423.7
Liabilities                           6.2      8.9     8.1      7.6    10.7
Contributed resources               246.1   270.8   304.6   352.0   386.4
Reserves                              174    16.4    20.1    25.1    26.6
Total liabilities & reserves    269.7   296.1   332.9   384.7   423.7
Venezuelan Trust Fund Operations
Cash & investments                     6.2     5.9     5.9      4.7     5.0
Loans                                 9.8      8.6     7.1      7.5     6.5
Other assets (net)                    .Q8    0.4    _.1        _.Q.2      2
Total assets                      16.8    14.9    13.3    12.4    11.7
Contributions (net of repayments)   15.8    14.8    13.1    12.0    11.1
Reserves                               1O.    0.1      0 2      0.4     0 6
Total liabilities & reserves      16,8    14.9    13.3    12.4    11.7



- 40 -
AZNNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPQRT
CARIBBEAN EVEl.OPMENT 3ANK II
SuiXariged Statements of Income. 1984-88
(Year Ended December 31)
(Millions of US$)
Aud ted
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
grdiUM&y Caoital Resgurces
Income from loans & mortgages            4.6    6.0    6.4    8.9   10.5
Income from investments                  4.9    4.5    3.9    2.7    2.7
Others                                    0 2  7. SQ    0.. 7 (O2)  .2..5
Total income                          10.2   15.5   11.0   11.4   15.7
Financial expenses                       4.9    5.5    4.9    5.3    5.4
Administrative expenses                   2.9    3.1    2.0    1.9    1.9
Provision for losses                      Q 8    3       -L2           1.2
Total expenses                        Li   1L2.1   101              L 9ia
Net income                             1.6    3.4    0.9    3.1    6.5
SFR ODerations
Income from loans & mortgages             6.6    6.6    7.3    8.5    8.7
Income from investments                   5.6    5.1    5.0    4.4    5.1
Income from grants                       4L    -LI 3 B    82    _      -
Total income                          16.8   15.5   20.5   12.9   13.8
Charges on contributions                  3.4    3.4    3.3    3.3    3.4
Administrative expenses                   3.4    2.9    4.3    4.4    4.6
Technical assistance                      4.8    3.8    8.3       -
Provision for losses                       -0    2.0    1.4    0. 9    1.1
Others                                    -       -      _      03    QA
Total expenses                       11i   IL6  I   1 13     9.2    2.a
Net income                             5.2    3.4    3.2    4.0    4.6
Venezuelan Trust Fund Onerations
Income from loans                        0.7    0.6    0.7    0.6    0,6
Income from short-term investments       0.7    0.6    0.5    0.4    0.4
Exchange loss                                      -       -
Provision for losses on loans              -     0A    Q.04 _A    (l)
Net income                             1.4    0.8    0.8    1.0    1.1



- 41 -
ANNEX 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS 1979-83
(in US$ million)
Item                            1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
IncoMe
From Loans:                 Actual          3.1      3.5     5.0      6.2     7.0
Projected      3.2      4.7     6.3      7.6     8.5
From Investments:           Actual          3.3      4.7     6.5      7.5     5.5
Projected      1.6      1.9     2.3      2.7     3.3
Total Income:               Actual          6.4      8.2    11.5    13.7    12.5
Projected      4.8      6.6     8.6    10.3    11.8
Ex_enses
Charges and Provisions:    Actual           1.0      1.5     2.0      2.4     2.8
Projected      1.8      2.7      3.7     4.3     4.8
Administrative Expenses:   Actual           2.3      2.4      2.7     3.5     4.3
Projected      1.1      1.4      1.7     2.0     2.4
Net Income:                 Actual          3.1      4.3     6.8      7.8     5.4
Projected      1.9      2.5      3.2     4.0     4.6



- 42 -
ANNEX 10
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
IP.O. Box 45 WItdqy
StL Mkiad, EBed. W.L
TuephAooe (109)431-1I6  Cbe Addva. 'Corlbeuk! Tofu we 22. Tulcbxt42647209
AprIl 30, 1991
Cooments Received from the Caribbean Development Bank
Hr. James C. Hanna
Acting Divislon Chief
Trade, finonce and industry DlviSion
Country Department III
Latin Aumrice and the Caribboon Reglon
The World Eank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Deor Mr. Hennes
We have revteted the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
S.cond Caribbean Development Bank Project (IlRD Loan 1775-CROG
IDA Credit 960-CRC end [IC Credit 37-CRC) and are In goneral agree-
ment with the analyses and concluslons. We hereby, authoriso you
to send the document to the [EC, es cofinancier, for thetr comnents.
With kindest regardsp
Yours sincerely,
Mrlus St. Rose
Vice-Presidont (operations)
c.c. Mr. Joon so Shim



-43-                             ANNEX 11
-I -II/"'
Co_ent Received from the Comission
of the European Comitiuntes
CMo  bY fax, to the  elegate  barbados.
Ass Your doovmntstlsn Mnt en 'O@flMnein  proJeet mbrld Illankj/osa lon
tn t19 C&ribbWe     *   _ U d1UPS1OlISi bY YoU On WAY 7 b7  D1lu1itle
*ag,-and $110le,11 1     e py ot the proj"t opltlon report (PC) rm
the Marld benk 8eend farl5ka  kOvloeent afk ProJect (Marsh
We have no esw*nts an the aove  porWt for transmlsslon to the world san.
The Delegate In Irbids has Infored us that bw has not reohived a opy of
this reports could yPm   esen    a eapy to Darbadee?
Head of Division



