Document of
The World Bank                         FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-2652-CRB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRLESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
AN IDA CREDIT
AND
AN EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE
CARIBB:EAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
November 20, 1979
Thi doument k  a restictd distrbution and many be used by recipiets oly in the perfwomce of
their fficil dut. Its eotents my nt oterwise be discloed witbout Worid Dnk 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1.00              =           2.00 BD$ (Barbados)
2.00 BZ$ (Belize)
=          2.70 EC$ (Eastern Caribbean) 2/
=          2.55 G$ (Guyana)
=          1.78 J$ (Jamaica)
=          2.40 TT$ (Trinidad & Tobago)
1.00 B$ (The Bahamas)
LIST OF ACRONYMS
CARICOM                  Caribbean Community
CARIFTA                  Caribbean Free Trade Association
CDB                      Caribbean Development Bank 3/
CDF                      Caribbean Development Facility
Caribbean Group          Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
CIC                      Caribbean Investment Corporation
Commonwealth Caribbean  Caribbean countries that are members of the
British Commonwealth 4/
Credits                  The proposed IDA Credit and EEC Special Action Credit
DFC                      Development Finance Companies
ECCM                     East Caribbean Common Market 5/
LDCs                     Less Developed Countries 6/
MDCs                     More Developed Countries 7/
OCR                      Ordinary Capital Resources
SFR                      Special Fund Resources
UK                       United Kingdom
UNDP                     United Nations Development Programme
USAID                    US Agency for International Development
VTF                      Venezuelan Trust Fund
1/   As of September 30, 1979.
2/   Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla,
St. Lucia, and St. Vincent.
3/   CDB's member countries are:  the countries of the Commonwealth Caribbean
and also Canada, Colombia, United Kingdom and Venezuela.
4/   The Commonwealth Caribbean consists of nine independent countries--the
Bahamas, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent
and Trinidad and Tobago--two United Kingdom (UK) Associated States--Antigua,
and St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and five UK dependencies--Belize, Cayman
Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands and the British Virgin
Islands.
5/   The ECCM countries are:  Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat,
St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent.
6/   In the CARICOM the LDCs are:  Antigua, Belize, Dominica, Grenada,
Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent.
7/   In the CARICOM the MDCs are:  Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, Trinidad and
Tobago, and the Bahamas (an associated member of CARICOM).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
SECOND PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Caribbean Development Bank
Guarantors:                  The Bahamas, Barbados, Grenada, Guyana,
Jamaica, United Kingdom
Beneficiaries:               CDB member countries of the Commonwealth
Caribbean that are also members of Bank or IDA
Amount:                      $23.0 million Bank Loan
$7.0 million IDA Credit
$1.0 million EEC Special Action Credit
Terms:                       For the Bank loan, amortization of 20 years
including 5 years grace with interest at
7.95%. Standard IDA terms for both credits.
Relending Terms:             Thie proceeds of the Bank loan will be relent by
CDB for subprojects in its members of the
Commonwealth Caribbean that are also members of
the Bank. The amortization of the subloans will
be determined by the CDB on project grounds.
CD)B's present interest structure would apply to
the subloans, i.e., 9.0% to governments, 8.5%
to government DFC's, 9.5% to private agricultural
borrowers, and 10.5% to nonagricultural borrowers.
The proceeds of the IDA and EEC Special Action
Credits will be relent by CDB for subprojects to
the governments of its member countries of the
East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) that are also
mesmbers of IDA. Given their small size, high
degree of inter-dependence and limited creditworthi-
ness, these islands have been grouped as one unit
for IDA eligibility purposes. CDB will relend the
proceeds of the credits to these governments at
standard IDA terms. IDA will reimburse CDB for
the cost of relending the resources from the
credits. The borrowing governments would onlend
these resources to subborrowers on commercial terms
so that the benefit of IDA concessionary terms could
accrue to the governments. Also the borrowing
governments could onlend to their national DFC's on
concessionary terms or make equity investments to
strengthen the financial structure of their DFC's.
In both the IBRD loan and the credits, the foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the CDB's borrowers.
This docurment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Description,
Benefits and Risks:
In line with CDB's lending policy, the proposed
Bank loan and the credits will be relent by the CDB
in sectors which will make a maximum contribution
to the economic development of the region and for
public and private sector projects of the types
which the Bank itself normally finances. Lending
through the CDB will enable the Bank and IDA to
support small projects in the Commonwealth Caribbean
which otherwise would be too costly and cumbersome
to administer. Risks that might affect the success
of the project are: the weak economic basis of the
region, uncertain prospects for prices of the com-
modities exported by the region and the continuous
rapid increase of the cost of energy. It seems,
however, from CDB's project pipeline that high
levels of lending will be achieved in the next
two to three years. In addition, it is expected
that substantial amounts of external financing for
local costs of projects and technical assistance
will continue to be provided to the region through
the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development.
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86
(a) Bank Loan
Annual          0.4   2.9   5.5   7.7   5.5   1.0
Cumulative      0.4   3.3   8.8  16.5  22.0  23.0
(b) IDA Credit
Annual            -   0.4   1.0   2.1   2.8   0.7
Cumulative        -   0.4   1.4   3.5   6.3   7.0
(c) EEC Special
Action Credit
Annual          0.5   0.5    -       -      -     -
Cumulative      0.5   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0



- iii -
CDB Balance Sheets:  (Year End)
US$ million
1974     1975      1976      1977     1978_
Ordinary Capital Resources
Cash and Investments 1/              15.0      12.3      22.0      23.5     31.0
Loans and Secondary Mortgages          3.6      9.9      16.7      24.6     23.1
Receivable from Members               9.9      12.7       8.6       5.0       6.3
Other (net)                            0.2      0.7       1.2       2.2      2.5
Total Assets                      28.7      35.6      48.5     55.3      62.9
Borrowings                              -       0.1      10.5      13.9      18.6
Capital and Reserves                 28.7      35.5      38.0     41.4      44.3
Total Liabilities and Capital   28.7        35.6      48.5     55.3      62.9
Special Fund Operations
Cash and Investments 1/              11.7      19.5      25.5      25.9     26.7
Loans and Secondary MortgaLges         2.4     19.4      30.0      42.1     61.9
Resources available from
Contributions                        -        8.1       7.0       6.0      6.8
Other (net)                            -        0.8       0.2       0.2      0.7
Total Assets                      14.1      47.8      62.7     74.2      96.1
Contributed Resources                13.6      46.2      59.3      69.5     90.1
Reserves                               0.5      1.6       3.4       4.7      6.0
Total Liabilities and
Reserves                        14.1      47.8     62.7      74.2      96.1
Venezuelan Trust Fund
Cash and Investments                            1.6       4.1       7.5     12.7
Loans                                            -        3.7       6.7       7.9
Others (net)                                     -        0.1       0.3      0.6
Total Assets                                 1.6       7.9     14.5      21.2
Contributions                                   1.6       7.8      14.1     20.3
Reserves                                         -        0.1       0.4      0.9
Total. Liabilities and
Reserves                                   1.6       7.9     14.5      21.2
Staff Appraisal Report No. 2624-CRB dated November 16, 1979.
1/   About: 10% held in cash and the balance in short-term investments
main'Ly in the UK, US and Canada.






IN1TERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN, AN IDA CREDIT AND AN
EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT TO THE
CARIBiBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a Bank loan,
an IDA credit and an EEC Special Action Credit to the Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB) equivalent to US$23.0 million, US$7.0 million and US$1.0 million,
respectively, to help finance subprojects of the types which the Bank itself
would finance. Appropriate government guarantees would be provided (paras. 61
through 65 below). The proposed loan would be for 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at an interest of 7.95% per annum. The credits would be on standard
IDA terms. The relending terms of the loan and credits are dealt with in
paras. 57 through 59 below. The foreign exchange risk on the loan and credits
would be borne by CDB's subborrowers.
PART I - THE ECONOMIES
Introduction
2.        Based on Bank missions during 1978 and 1979, separate reports on
Antigua, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica,
Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia and St. Vincent, have been
circulated to the Executive Directors; 1/ other regional reports, as well
1/   "CurreLnt Economic Position and Prospects of Antigua" (No. 2432-CRB)
4/16/79; "Economic Memorandum on the Bahamas" (No. 2043-BM), 5/1/78;
"Economic Memorandum on Barbados" (No. 2506-BAR), 5/7/79; "Current
Economic Position and Prospects of Belize" (No. 2423-CRB), 4/11/79;
"Current Economic Position and Prospects of Dominica" (No. 2422-CRB),
4/18/79; "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Grenada"
(No. 2434-GRD), 4/19/79; "Economic Memorandum on Guyana" (No. 2505-GUA),
5/11/79; "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Jamaica"
(No. 2504-JM), 5/2/79; "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Montserrat" (No. 2452-MO), 4/16/79; "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla" (No. 2439-CRB), 4/18/79;
"Current Economic Position and Prospects of St. Lucia" (No. 2440-CRB),
4/19/79; and "Current Economic Position and Prospects of St. Vincent"
(No. 2438-CRB), 4/19/79.



- 2 -
as reports on the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
(paras. 7 through 10) have also been circulated to the Executive Directors
recently. 1/
The Regional Integration Movement
3.        The Commonwealth Caribbean consists of nine independent countries --
the Bahamas, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago -- two United Kingdom (UK) Associated
States -- Antigua and St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla and five UK dependencies --
Belize, Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands, and the British
Virgin Islands.  It embraces a total population of 5.2 million with a combined
total GNP of about US$7.3 billion in 1977.
4.        Based on common interests, the Caribbean countries have embarked
upon a number of initiatives to construct a framework of cooperation in
an attempt to overcome the handicaps of small size, economic fragmentation,
and external economic dependence. An early attempt was made at integration
with the establishment of the West Indies Federation in 1958. This experiment,
however, was unable to survive the nationalist sentiments which dominated the
Caribbean when two of the Federation's major member countries, Jamaica and
Trinidad and Tobago, achieved independence in 1962. The idea of regional
economic association was revived in the mid-1960s and culminated in 1968 in
the formation of the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA). Within this
free trade area, the seven islands of the Eastern Caribbean formed the East
Caribbean Common Market (ECCM). In 1970, the CDB was established and in
October 1972, CARIFTA member countries decided to strengthen the integration
movement still further by forming a Caribbean Community and Common Market
(CARICOM).
5.        The integration movement was formed to promote economic growth and
development for the region, with emphasis on employment creation, on reducing
the region's external dependence, and on fostering a regional cultural and
political identity. It provides a framework within which the countries of the
Caribbean can extend the size of their markets, thereby achieving economies
IL/  "Caribbean Regional Transport Review" (No. 2042-CRB), 4/24/78;
"Transitional External Financing Requirements of the Caribbean Group"
(No. 2041-CRB), 4/26/78; "Industrial Development and Development
Finance Companies in the Caribbean" (No. 2043-CRB), 5/8/78; "Regional
Agricultural Development and Food Production in the Carribbean"
(No. 2064-CRB), 5/9/78: "Economic Survey of the East Caribbean Common
Market Countries" (No. 2510-CRB), 5/7/79; "Industrial Investment
Incentives in the Caribbean" (No. 2501-CRB), 5/7/79; "Caribbean Energy
Survey" (No. 2551-CRB), 5/7/79; and "Caribbean Group: Initial Results
and Prospects" (No. 2509-CRB) 5/7/79.



- 3 -
of scale, develop united policies towards the outside world, and make special
arrangement, to assist the economic development of the smaller countries of
the area.
6.        CARIFTA provided member countries an enlarged free trade market and
hence the opportunity to capture the benefits of competition, specialization,
and larger scale production. CARICOM seeks to deepen regional integration
and includes such measures as the establishment of a common external tariff,
a harmonized system of fiscal incentives for industry, and taxation agreements.
It calls for coordination of national development planning, rationalization of
agriculture, joint development of regional natural resources and cooperation
in monetary and exchange rate policies. CARICOM also provides for cooperation
in other areas including health, education, culture, transport, and the
harmonization of foreign policy. It is, however, in the field of economic
integration that most progress has so far been made; the share of intra-regional
trade in total trade rose from 6% to 9% between 1967 and 1975. In recent years,
however, this ratio has declined, mainly as a result of import restrictions
imposed by Guyana and Jamaica while trying to solve their balance of payments
problems. Nonetheless, the Caribbean countries have made it clear that they
will judge the success of the integration movement not only by the growth in
regional trade, but also by the success in cooperation in other fields of
endeavor. An attempt has been made in the regional institutional framework
to accord recognition to the special needs of the so-called less developed
countries (LDCs) which include Belize and the seven states of the ECCM. The
CARICOM Treaty contains special provision for the LDCs, including a relatively
long grace period in which to adopt the common external tariff and the right
to retain special fiscal incentives for industries. In addition, the CDB is
expected to grant preferential treatment to the LDCs -- including the channelling
to them of most of its concessional resources.
The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (The Caribbean Group)
7.        The Caribbean Group was established in December 1977 to serve as
a mechanism for the coordination and strengthening of external assistance to
the Caribbean countries and for the continuing review of national and regional
activities related to the social and economic development of the region.
The group has met twice, on June 19-24, 1978 and on June 4-9, 1979, both times
at Bank Headquarters. Both meetings were chaired by the Bank and jointly spon-
sored by the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank (IDB), the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP). The Caribbean countries and territories partici-
pating in the second meeting as aid recipients were: Antigua, the Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti,
Jamaica, F[ontserrat, Netherlands Antilles, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla,
St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. The donor countries represented were: Brazil,
Canada, Ccolombia, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Netherlands,
Norway, Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, the United Kingdom, the United States
and Venezuela. The multilateral financial institutions represented were:
the European Development Fund, the European Investment Bank, the International
Finance Corporation, the International Fund for Agricultural Development and
the OPEC Special Fund.



- 4 -
8.        The first meeting of the Caribbean Group established the Caribbean
Development Facility (CDF) as a mechanism for channelling external resources
to help finance essential imports and to offer supplementary financing --
mainly for local costs -- in the execution of development programs and projects.
As a result of the first meeting, pledges totalling $115 million were received
from donors. During the first year of operations (through June 30, 1979),
disbursements of CDF-type financing totaled $186 million, of which $85 million
came from CDF pledges and $101 million from other commitmnents made by donors
outside the Group framework--mainly before the Group held its first meeting.
For the second year of the Caribbean Group (July 1979-June 1980), commitments
for CDF-type assistance have reached US$227 million, and, in addition, several
donors are expected to provide about US$50 million more before June 1980.
9.        A Steering Committee on Technical Assistance formed by the UNDP,
the CDB, the IDB, and the World Bank was also established at the first meet-
ing. The UNDP chairs the committee and provides secretariat services. The
Steering Committee's work is oriented towards the goal of increasing the
region's capacity to carry out investments efficiently and to enhance its
absorptive capacity. It assists recipient governments in the preparation
and maintenance of an inventory of identified technical assistance projects
requiring financing; in the establishment of priorities for technical assistance
projects related to national and regional development programs and plans; in
developing greater capacity to prepare technical assistance and investment
projects; and in preparing regional studies. The Committee also assists
governments and regional organizations in obtaining financing for technical
assistance activities.
10.       During the second meeting of the Caribbean Group, donors and recip-
ients agreed on the desirability of further adopting regional approaches to
tackle issues of common interest. These included a program to strengthen
the joint promotion of tourism, particularly in the ECCM countries; the con-
tinuation of eight regional transportation technical assistance projects; the
strengthening of the energy sector through the development of indigenous
sources and improved energy planning; the preparation of a long-term regional
esxport promotion program; the development of the agricultural sector, particu-
larly through improved agricultural research and marketing systems; and the
appointment of a task force to encourage the more effective participation of
the private sector in the development process. At the ECCM level, agreement
was reached on the establishment of a pool of experts, the provision of
certain common services, and the establishment of some special subregional
assistance programs.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       A distinguishing characteristic of the countries borrowing from
the CDB is the economic dichotomy between the so-called "more developed
countries" (MDCs--The Bahamas, Barbados, Guyana and Jamaica) 1/ and the
1/   As used in the CARICOM Treaty, "more developed countries" includes
Trinidad and Tobago. In the remainder of this section, however, this
term will not include this country, as she is not borrowing from
the CDB.



lesser developed ECCM member states. With a total population of 537,000
and an average GNP per capita of US$540 in 1977 the ECCM states are much
smaller and have a more limited resource base.  The MDCs had 3,370,000
inhabitants and a GNP per capita of about US$1,200 in 1977. While the ECCM
states depend principally on agriculture and tourism, the MDCs have more
diversified economies and mores natural resources. The ECCM states are
heavily dependent upon external financial support on highly concessionary
terms. Belize is an intermediate case, having a wider resource base and a
somewhat higher per capita income (US$810), and is less dependent on outside
financial support.
12.       During the 1960s, most of the MDCs experienced steady growth
averaging about 5% per annum. This was the result of relatively high levels
of investment, made possible in part by strong public finances and by relaxa-
tion of the foreign exchange constraint which was made possible by increased
tourism revenues, by a substantial increase in bauxite and alumina exports
from Jamaica. and Guyana, and by high levels of private foreign investment.
This situation changed in 1972, when the inflow of investment slackened
appreciably as a result of completion of some large projects, and of a sharp
deterioration in the investment climate. The rise in oil prices in 1973, with
its aftermath of world inflation and recession, further aggravated the situa-
tion. Inflation rates in the MDCs reached unprecedented levels in 1973 and
1974; they receded in 1975-77, but once more increased in 1978.
13.       The 1973 increase in energy costs and food prices had a strong
adverse effect on the balance! of payments of the MDCs. Sugar prices remained
high during 1974 and early 1975 partly offsetting the increased import payments
with additional export receipts. The full magnitude of the increase in petro-
leum producl: prices became apparent, however, in the second half of 1975
when sugar prices fell strongly. In most cases, corrective measures were
adopted belatedly, after the deterioration had acquired crisis proportion.
14.      Jamaica and Guyana obtained financial assistance from the IMF to
support adjustment programs, initially through stand-by arrangements, and
later under the Extended Fund Facility. Both countries are executing the
measures agreed upon with the IMF--not an easy task in view of the substantial
reduction in real incomes which they are experiencing. While these countries
had no possibility of maintaining their previous levels of domestic expenditure
and, therefore, little choices but to adopt these stabilization programs, it is
clear that these efforts have had high costs. In both countries public and
private investment have lagged and production and employment targets have not
been met. But continued sound economic and financial management are essential
for both countries in order to complete the adjustment process and achieve
moderate growth over the next five years.
15.      Barbados experienced a weakening of the public finances and of the
balance of payments in the mid-1970s, but has made substantial progress in
stabilizing the economy. The adoption of measures to strengthen the public



- 6 -
finances in 1977 and, particularly in 1978, and the implementation of moder-
ately restrictive monetary policies permitted the country to overcome its
balance of payments problems. High priority has been attaclied to the devel-
opment of efficient foreign exchange earning activities, particularly exports
of manufactures and tourism. The private sector has been encouraged to play
a dominant role in capital accumulation in these leading sectors. The economy,
though still vulnerable to swings in international prices and demand, because
of its openness and small size, now faces favorable growth prospects.
16.      The economy of the Bahamas, where tourism is the main source of
income, received a severe shock from the 1973/74 energy crisis. Investment
and income declined in 1975 and foreign exchange reserves declined in 1976.
With the revival of tourism and tourist-related construction, economic activ-
ity picked up in 1977, and is estimated to have improved further in 1978.
The high average unemployment levels and the sharp increase of those levels
in 1974-75 highlights the sensitivity of the economy to fluctuations in
the United States economic activity, and enhances the importance of existing
programs for diversification of production and exports.
17.      During the 1960s, the LDCs grew at a modest 2 to 3% per annum.  Despite
strong financial support from the UK, gross domestic savings were not sufficient
to generate growth comparable to that of the MDCs. Moreover, the LDCs have
suffered a major setback from world inflation and were severely affected
by the decline in tourism resulting from the 1974-76 world recession. Since
1976, the LDCs real GDP grew an average of about 6% annually, fueled by a
large banana crop and the recovery of tourism. St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla,
where both sugar output and prices showed no gain, was the one exception.
Public finances, however, were not strengthened, as major wage settlements
resulted in reductions in public sector savings. Increased levels of public
investment in most countries led to larger import bills, and the increase in
foreign exchange earnings was, in most cases, insufficient to improve the
current account of their balance of payments. The small size of all these
countries is likely to preclude them from attaining economic viability unless
they strengthen their public finances, improve their export performance, and
increase substantially their cooperation and integration efforts, among
themselves and with other Caribbean countries.
Development Problems
18.      All these countries have high unemployment and a pressing need
to accelerate job creation. The lack of employment opportunities has also
resulted in an important reduction of labor force participation rates. The
latest unemployment rates available for 1978 show the magnitude of the
problem: Jamaica 26%, Guyana 17%, Barbados 12%, and for the ECCM states,
the estimates range from 13 to 30%.  A development strategy stressing export
performance--including tourism--seems to be the most appropriate course of
ac:tion for reducing unemployment in these countries. For the longer term, it
is also necessary to develop further the skills of the labor force through
appropriate training programs.



19.      Balance of payments weaknesses have acted as an important constraint
to growth in the MDCs of the region. Guyana and Jamaica are expected to reduce
their current account deficits through their stabilization programs. It is
expected that Barbados will continue improving its balance of payments
position by reducing, gradually, its current account deficit.  The Bahamas
is expectedl to continue having a surplus in the current account of the
balance of payments. Nevertheless, since these countries import most of
the oil that they consume and depend--with the one exception of Guyana--on
tourism, for a sizeable proportion of their foreign exchange earnings,
their balance of payments position is weakened by the continuing increase
in oil prices and is vulnerable to a recession in the major industrial
countries.
20.       'rhe agricultural sector in most of the Caribbean region presents
both a serious problem and a promising challenge, and calls for urgent policy
measures to increase output,, either for export or for efficient import substitu-
tion; these measures include land use and land tenure policies, and upgrading
the quality of requisite inputs such as extension services, marketing systems,
and credit. Agricultural development can also make a substantial contribution
towards reducing unemployment and underemployment in the region. Regarding
the industrial sector, most states in the region will have to adopt more out-
ward looking policies, if the sector is to play a major role as a contributor
to growth, a provider of employment, and an earner of foreign exchange.
Jamaica is considering changing her previous emphasis on import substitution
through tariff protection, quantitative import reductions, and fiscal incen-
tives, that led to capital intensive technologies, low capacity utilization
and high production costs, thereby constituting an obstacle to penetrating
extraregional markets, except for a few products. Barbados' industrial policy,
on the other hand, has been more export oriented and is generating encouraging
results. The energy sector is a source of concern for all the states in the
region. Heavy dependence on imported petroleum and gas has been aggravated by
the subcritical size of most energy systems, the nonexistence of organized
markets for indigenous fuels, and inappropriate pricing and investment policies.
The constraints to growth ilmposed by the energy sector can be reduced through
the development of indigenous fuels--including limited but encouraging prospects
for natural gas and oil exploration in some states--and improved planning.
Tourism continues to have potential as a source of growth, employment and
foreign exchange in the Bahamas, Barbados, Jamaica, and some ECCM islands.
The realization of such potential will call for increased investments in the
sector, but also can be achieved through higher hotel occupancy rates, espe-
cially in the off-season. Improved planning and availability of credit can
contribute to the former, and aggressive promotion and marketing policies may
help to achieve the latter, particularly in the ECCM states, where there is
also room for undertaking joint promotion efforts.
21.      Post of the LDCs face the prospect of a widening external gap, aggra-
vated by the increase in oil prices and a possible downswing in international
demand -- with meager domestic fiscal resources with which to sustain a devel-
opment program. The next five years offer an opportunity for placing these



- 8 -
economies on the path to viability. The international community has indicated
its interest in the context of the Caribbean Group to assist them by making
available additional amounts of financial and technical assistance. Individual
growth prospects range from 3% to 5% per year. This projected growth performance
will require the intensification of sound export promotion policies as well
as increasing levels of public and private capital expenditures, with greater
emphasis on directly productive projects rather than on infrastructure invest-
ments. Public sector savings are targetted to increase substantially so that
by 1983 they cover almost one-third of public sector capital expenditures.
Accordingly, official external capital inflows are expected to increase
rapidly in 1979, and finance a declining proportion of the public sector
:Lnvestment program thereafter through 1983.
Creditworthiness
22.      Given their balance of payments prospects, their low debt service
and their holdings of international reserves, the Bahamas, Barbados and Belize
are creditworthy for external financing on conventional terms. Barbados'
outstanding public debt at the end of 1978 represented less than 12% of GDP,
while its debt service was 2.3% of export earnings in that year. Expected
inflows of official capital would increase the public and publicly guaranteed
external debt to about 17% of GDP by the end of 1983. 1/ Nevertheless,
the corresponding debt service ratio would not exceed 2%. The Bahamas'
public debt was about 6% of GDP in 1978 and the debt service less than 1%
of export earnings; no major changes are expected. Belize can also be
considered creditworthy for loans on conventional terms, because of its sound
economic position and favorable development prospects. External public debt
at the end of 1977 represented 17% of GDP; it is expected to grow moderately,
remaining below 20% in 1983. The debt service has been projected to remain
constant, around 2% of export earnings, through 1983.
23.       Guyana and Jamaica have resorted to substantial external borrowing
to strengthen their reserve position and help finance public sector investment
programs. This has resulted in a sharp increase in their external public
debt. Guyana's external public debt represented about 83% of GDP in 1978
but is expected to decline to about 80% by 1981. The debt service, which
reached 25% of export earnings in 1978, would fall to about 17% by 1981.
Jamaica's external public debt was about 40% of GDP in 1978 and would be re-
duced to about 28% in 1983. The public debt service, 17% of export earnings
in 1978, would drop to about 15% in 1983. The current debt and debt
servicing ratios of Guyana and Jamaica are high but with sound fiscal and
balance of payments policies they should be able to service further external
loans on conventional terms.
1/   The projections referred to in this paragraph are the result of Bank
economic work completed before the increases in the costs of energy in
the first half of 1979. Although the figures would require some adjust-
ment to reflect these, the conclusions of the analysis remain substan-
tially unchanged.



- 9 -
24.      As indicated above, the ECCM states have very limited resources, in
most of them per capita incomes are relatively low, they are highly vulnerable
to swings iLn the international economy, and are confronted with difficult devel-
opment problems. In their efforts to overcome these drawbacks and to achieve
a satisfact:ory rate of growth, they will need to continue to rely heavily
on concessiLonal external assistance for financing their development programs.
Some of these islands may become creditworthy over the next few years for
limited Bank borrowing on conventional terms, provided that they adopt appro-
priate poliLcies. Decisions on this matter will have to be made on a case-by-
case basis,, as the need arises, in consultation with the CDB.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN 1/
25.       Bank lending in the Commonwealth Caribbean covers a wide range
of sectors and development areas. It has experienced shifts in emphasis
and priorit:ies based on changing economic conditions but over the longer
term it has been able to maiintain its objective of lending for balanced
economic development. In the future it will continue to emphasize activities
of economic priority to the region. In addition, as chairman of the Caribbean
Group, the Bank will coordinate and support the strengthening of external
assistance to the Caribbean; as part of this task it will review and monitor
closely the national and regional activities related to the economic develop-
ment of the region.
26.      Tlhe Bank has ongoing lending operations in Jamaica, Guyana, Trinidad
and Tobago, Barbados and the Bahamas. In total, so far, the Bank has made
51 loans/credits to the countries mentioned above totaling US$536.3 million.
In addition, the Bank made in 1976 two loans to the CDB in one lending opera-
tion, a $17.0 million Bank Loan on conventional terms and a $3.0 million Third
Window loan.  There have been IFC investments in Guyana, Jamaica and Trinidad
and Tobago and there are further projects under consideration in these countries.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1979 for each of the countries mentioned above and notes on the
execution of the two loans to CDB. The following paragraphs describe the
proposed Bank lending program and other related activities in the Commonwealth
Caribbean.
Jamaica
27.       In the late 1970s, the priority needs of Jamaica have been the
country's critical short- to medium-term balance of payments and production
requirements. Thus, the Bank made two program loans to the country in
FY78 and FY79 of $30.0 million and $31.5 million, respectively--the last one
1/   Since Trinidad and Tobago is not borrowing from CDB, Bank operations
with that country are not discussed in this section.



- 10 -
explicitly directed towards increasing nontraditional exports. Most of the
projects now under consideration are directed at promoting exports and the
development of efficient import substitution activities. The Bank's share
of Jamaica's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was about 11% in
1978 and its share of the external public debt service was about 5%.
Guyana
28.      In Guyana, the Bank's lending program emphasizes increased agri-
cultural and forestry exports. In addition, it supports the expansion of
essential infrastructure. Among the infrastructural projects, two areas that
require early attention are water supply and sewerage and electricity genera-
tion. Bank Group financing amounts to about 8% of total external debt out-
standing and disbursed and about 4% of debt service.
Barbados
29.      The Bank's lending to Barbados will be mainly directed towards
projects for export manufacturing, diversified agricultural production, power
generation and urban improvements. This is in line with the Government's
strategy to increase productivity; to sustain adequate rates of economic
growth; to reduce the mounting food import bill while satisfying the needs
of local population and the tourism sector; to improve the living conditions
of the urban poor; and to increase the power generating capacity of the
country to meet demand requirements.
The Bahamas
30.      Since independence, the Bahamas has been able to finance most of
its capital requirements from domestic savings and loans from foreign banks
operating in the country. Most of these loans have been on short-term and
with relatively high interest rates. Although foreign bank financing will
continue to be available to the Bahamas, there is a substantial need for
some technical and financial assistance from international development
institutions in the form of cofinancing arrangements. The country's
investment program for the future is quite complex in comparison to what the
Government has previously undertaken, and to assist in this effort, the Bank
plans to play a catalytic role with a small lending program of its own, in
providing technical assistance and in attracting other sources of finance.
Urban redevelopment and vocational education and training are two areas in
which the Bank proposes to participate.
Bank Regional Lending
31.       In the past, except for the two loans to CDB, the Bank's lending
consisted of direct loans to MDC's. It is expected that in the next five years,
an increased proportion of the Bank's lending in the Commonwealth Caribbean
will be channeled through the CDB, mostly for relatively small projects in
both the MDCs and the LDCs.



- 11 -
32.      The Bank and IDA, through their lending to CDB, will be able to support
small projects which otherwiLse would be too costly and cumbersome to administer.
Indirect lending through the CDB is becoming increasingly important as more
of ECCM isLands become independent and seek to become members of the Bank
Group (para. 55 below). In this way, the Bank and IDA would be able to
complement their direct lending to the region with lending for small projects
through the CDB, especially in the small islands of the region.
PART III - THE SECTORS
33.      The proceeds of thes proposed loan/credits would be relent by CDB for
private and public sector projects in eligible CDB member countries for agri-
culture, agro-industry, manufacturing, tourism, transportation, public utili-
ties, sites and services, and technical and vocational education and training
(Section 3.01 of Loan Agreement and Development Credit and Special Action
Credit Agreements). In the past CDB has concentrated its operations on
three major sectors: infrastructure 37.1%, agriculture 29.8% and industry and
tourism 21.0%. Similarly the 1976 Bank loans of US$20.0 million to CDB were
lent for infrastructure 35%, for agriculture 33% and for industry and tourism
32%. In the future, CDB intends to direct its lending increasingly to the pro-
ductive sectors to reduce unemployment and improve the current account of the
balance of payments of its members. This is consistent with the conclusions
reached during the first two meetings of the Caribbean Group.
The Agricultural Sector
34.       As indicated in para. 20 above, the agricultural sector in the
Caribbean is a major source of foreign exchange, employment and income. The
sector's performance in recent years has been poor, and in 1972 the region
switched from an agricultural surplus area to a deficit area. This resulted
in a net reduction of about one-third in agricultural employment between
1960 and 1970. The sector still remains the largest source of employment
absorbing about 25% of the labor force. The underlying problems include
a skewed land distribution, inefficient methods of production, widening dis-
parities in earnings between agriculture and other sectors and weakness in
government support services and pricing policies. The countries of the
region recognize the seriousness of the problem and the need to revitalize
the sector to increase employment, raise incomes in the rural areas, check
rural/urban migration and assist the balance of payments.  They are tackling
the problem on a national basis, and the Bank is assisting these programs
in the MDCs. The CDB, is already very active in lending to agriculture
in the LDCs and for small projects in the MDCs. In addition to national



- 12 -
programs, the Caribbean countries are also working on various regional approaches
to solve the sector's problems. In this respect both CARICOM and the CDB have
under active consideration a number of regional food production projects. It
is expected that a substantial part of the proceeds of the proposed loan/credits
will be for agricultural projects.
The Industrial Sector
35.      The industrial sector in the Caribbean consists mainly of light
industry, except that Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica and Guyana have industrial
complexes devoted to the processing of minerals. The MDCs account for 94%
of regional manufacturing but this represents only 12% of the MDC's GDP and
employs only about 14% of the work force. Jamaica possesses the largest
manufacturing sector followed by Trinidad and Tobago. In Guyana, manufactur-
ing is still a minor and predominantly import-substituting sector. Industrial
activity in the LDCs is quite limited.
36.      Manufacturing in most of the region suffers from three sector con-
straints--the smallness of domestic markets, the lack or the inadequacy of
raw materials and intermediate products and the insufficient number of experi-
enced entrepreneurs and skilled workers. CARIFTA and CARICOM were created to
stimulate investment in manufacturing by making rules for trade liberalization,
establishing a common external tariff, and harmonizing fiscal incentives. The
incentive schemes have not created the stimuli needed, because they were mainly
designed to encourage import substitution at the national and regional levels.
As the possibilities for efficient import substitution at these levels are
limited and in some cases exhausted, these incentives resulted in the estab-
lishment of many inefficient industries which generate little employment but
enjoy an unduly high effective protection. The countries and regional insti-
tutions have increasingly been realizing that in the future, efficient indus-
trial development will have to be based largely on increased exports to the
rest of the world. The Caribbean countries are considering: (a) the adoption
of a coordinated reform of their industrial incentives policies as suggested
above; (b) the establishment of export promotion services; and (c) giving
high priority within their investment and external borrowing programs to the
development of export-oriented productive activities.
37.      It is expected that a substantial proportion of the proposed loan/
credits will be onlent for these types of projects in the Caribbean.
The Tourism Sector
38.      Tourism has been an outstanding growth sector in the region and
has provided the Caribbean with an important source of foreign exchange
and employment. The total number of tourists has increased from 3.7 million
in 1970 to more than 5 million in 1978 despite a slowdown in growth between
1974 and 1976 due to the energy crisis and the recession in North America,
the main origin of the tourist flow to the Caribbean. Recent growth is
attributable to the economic recovery of the tourist generating countries,
the development of the European tourism market, and the recent introduction
of discount fares on regularly scheduled flights. This growth has also been



- 13 -
made possible because of the availability of accommodations built during the
tourist boom in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Future prospects for tourism
are considered favorable with growth over the longer term forecast at 5% to 6%
a year. Ihe main constraints to growth are likely to be difficulties of air
access to some islands and a shortage of suitable accommodations. Current
investment: programs emphasize improvement of the regional airlines and of air
transport infrastructure, and substantial increases in accommodation facilities.
CDB intends to increase its support of this sector. Some subloans from the
proposed loan/credits would probably be made for tourism projects.
The Transporation Sector
39.      The two fundamental problems of the CARICOM States--isolation and
smallness---can only be relieved by efficient and reliable transport systems,
both sea and air. The LDCs in particular are dependent on efficient sea
transport for developing merchandise trade and on air transport for the
development of tourism.  Intra-regional general cargo traffic transported
by sea is expected to grow from about 350,000 tons in 1973 to some 600,000
tons in 1980. The LDCs may be able to have a greater share of the projected
longer term increase in tourist traffic if more reliable air services can be
provided. There is scope at the regional level for coordinated planning of
investment in physical facilities and equipment. The CDB is already active
in transportation and it is expected that a portion of the proposed loan/
credits will be invested in this sector.
Public Utilities
40.      The power and water supply sectors are characterized by local insti-
tutions with weak management and inefficient administrative and operating
practices. In most cases, tariffs are low and billing and collection deficient
resulting in inadequate revenues and calling for increased government subsidies.
In the power sector, energy is relatively high in cost due to the heavy
dependence on imported oil, large fixed investments that must be borne by
small service areas that cannot be interconnected and frequent breakdowns
caused by' poor maintenance. There is a need for investment in developing
geotherma,l and hydro-generating energy and better maintenance services.
Efforts are being made to set up a common services group which would provide
better project planning and preparation as well as maintenance.  Of the total
water supplied, a small quantity is through house connections and few of these
are metered. Except for Barbados, most systems depend on surface sources and
treatment is unreliable. Service is usually inadequate and low pressures and
rationing are common during the dry season.  Public sewer systems are very
limited and the majority of the population relies on soakage pits, septic
tanks and pit privies. CDB is already involved extensively in these two
sectors and part of the proposed loan/credits could be relent for them.
The Financial Sector
41.      There is a diversity of financial intermediaries throughout the region,
both commercial banks and official development institutions. Independent
central banks have been created in the MDCs during the past 15 years and the



- 14 -
Eastern Caribbean Currency Authority (ECCA) was established in 1965 to cover
the needs of the LDCs. Almost all the commercial banks are controlled by
UK, Canada and US banks except that in each of the MDCs, a government-
owned commercial bank was recently created. As of March 31, 1978, the
commercial banking system in the MDCs had total deposits amounting to
US$1.8 billion, or about 40% of 1977 regional GNP. This figure indicates
the high availability of financial resources for short-term, commercial
operations in the MDCs. This has been achieved despite the fact that
interest rates paid on savings were low. Such rates are generally fixed by
the Central Bank while lending rates are allowed to move freely. Most banks
therefore have relatively high profits, while small savers are not adequately
compensated. Although comnercial banks have been able to mobilize resources,
t'hey have not channelled them to priority sectors. Most of their loans are
for consumer durables. Ways should be found to encourage the commercial banks
to play a larger role in lending on longer terms for high priority investment
projects. The CDB could play a catalytic role in this respect by cofinancing
projects with commercial banks. Up to now, most of CDB loans for the industrial
sector have been channeled through government-owned DFCs. These were estab-
lished over the last few years, in most cases with CDB support, largely because
the commercial banks were unable to provide long-term credit and to offer
adequate technical assistance in preparing and implementing projects. The small
DFCs in the LDCs have experienced serious difficulties in attracting qualified
staff and in many cases have relied on the CDB for technical assistance.
UIndercapitalization and low interest spreads have produced little or no
income and has made them dependent on the government to cover part of their
operating costs. The problems of these DFCs have been extensively studied
and CDB is now preparing a plan of action to make some of them viable. In
those cases where the DFCs cannot be strengthened over a reasonable period
of time, CDB proposes to use commercial banks to channel some of the subloans
to agriculture and industry. Funds for such operations could be provided from
a recent USAID loan. Part of the proposed credits might be used to help
increase the capital resources of the government-owned DFCs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.      A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of the Second Caribbean
Development Bank Project" (No. 2624-CRB dated November 16, 1979)  is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III contains a
timetable of key events in processing the project and a description of the
special conditions of the proposed loan and credits. Negotiations for the
proposed loan and credits took place in Washington, D.C. on September 24-27,
1979. The CDB delegation was led by Mr. Nevile Nicholls, CDB's Vice President
and General Counsel.
CDB's Capital Structure, its Objectives and Policies
43.      The CDB was established in 1970 by 16 regional members, Canada and
the UK as nonregional members, with additional financial assistance from the
US, a nonmember. Venezuela joined the CDB in 1973 and Colombia in 1974.
CDB has been designated an Associated Institution of CARICOM with which it



- 15 -
shares the task of supporting the regional economic integration movement
with special emphasis on the needs of the LDCs. In fulfilling this objective,
the CDB is required to assist its regional members in the coordination of
their development programs, in the provision of appropriate technical assist-
ance and in the financing of projects and programs. The CDB is also required
by its Charter to be guided by sound development banking principles and to
finance only economically sound, technically feasible and properly appraised
projects. The Charter also contains a number of operating limitations de-
signed to safeguard the CDB's financial soundness. These limitations are
complemented by the CDB's "Statement of Policy" and together they constitute
a reasonable and prudent basis for conducting its operations.
44.      CDB's Charter provides that each member shall subscribe to shares
of its capital stock and that the regional members 1/ must hold not less than
60% of its shares. The authorized capital of the CDB as of December 31, 1978
was US$231.6 million, of which US$187.1 million had been subscribed. Of the
subscribebd amount, US$34.2 million was paid up and the balance is subject
to call only as and when required by CDB to meet its obligations. In April
1979, an increase in the authorized and subscribed capital stock of US$50.0
million was approved by its members of which US$20.0 million is to be paid up
over the next five years.
CDB's Management and Orgartization
45.      Each member country appoints, for an indefinite period, a governor
and an aLternate to serve on the Board of Governors, the highest policymak-
ing body of CDB. 2/ The Board is composed of 17 governors who meet at least
once a year and voting power is roughly proportional to shares subscribed.
The Board of Governors deLegates certain functions to the Board of Directors
which is comprised of 11 members, appointed for a renewable two-year period
of which nine represent the regional members of CDB and two represent the
non-regional members. The Board of Directors meets at least every two months
and is r,ssponsible for general policy and directing the operations of the
Bank, including loan and investment approvals. The President of the CDB
conducts the day-to-day buisiness of the Bank under the guidance of the Board
of Directors of which he is the Chairman. The President serves a five-year
term and may be reelected. Sir Arthur Lewis was CDB's first President from
1970 to 1974. The current President, Mr. William Demas completed his present
term in September 1979 and was reelected for a second five-year term. The
CDB has established itself as an important and well managed institution. Its
management has successfully guided it through the difficult period of the
recent worldwide recession.
1/   The "regional members" include all member countries except Canada and
the United Kingdom.
2/   Except for Montserrat, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands and Turks
and Caicos Islands, which jointly elect one governor.



- 16 -
46.      Management within the CDB relies heavily on a system of committees.
The most important of these is the management committee composed of the pres-
ident and his department directors. It meets on a regular basis to discuss
issues requiring management decisions. There are also standing committees
taking decisions on investment management, loan approvals and loan supervision.
CDB has a total staff of 164, of whom 79 are professionals. Of the profes-
sic,nal staff, 20 are provided by foreign aid agencies under technical assis-
tance programs. In addition, salary supplements are provided to 12 CDB
professional staff from a UNDP project. This assistance has been instrumental
in attracting and recruiting qualified staff and in the repatriation of
qualified West Indians to the CDB. The UNDP project expires at the end of
1981; an extension of two more years is expected by CDB's management.
CDB's Operating Procedures
47.      The quality of CDB's staff and its project analysis and economic work
have improved steadily over the years. Because of this, CDB is being considered
increasingly by donors as the key institution for channelling increased amounts
of financial assistance to the region especially for small-scale projects and
for sub-regional and regional programs. Although the CDB has the capacity at
this time to undertake an increased volume of operations, it will require
substantial strengthening if it is to become a major source of development aid
in the region. To handle these increasing responsibilities, CDB plans to
recruit a number of additional staff, and with assistance from the Bank and
UNDP is completing an important internal reorganization which would enable it
to increase further its efficiency and ability to cope with an expanding
workload. Furthermore, IBRD staff will continue to support CDB in some of the
project work. The CDB's appraisal procedures and those for supervising
the implementation of subprojects are satisfactory. The procurement rules
allow procurement of goods and services to be financed from the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan/credits in all Bank member countries and Switzerland.
Disbursement procedures are satisfactory and require the borrower to present
evidence that approved expenditures are actually being made. CDB as prescribed
by its Charter maintains separate accounts for operations financed out of its
Ordinary Capital Resources and out of each of its Special Funds; CDB engages
independent auditors and since its inception, none of its reports had any
qua:Lification.
CDB's Past Operations
48.      From its inception in 1970 to 1978, CDB has approved 306 loans for 233
projects in 15 countries amounting to US$180.1 million. Of this amount, US$150.2
mil:Lion has been already committed and US$96.9 million disbursed. CDB's opera-
tions are divided into three types: (i) ordinary operations; (ii) special
operations, and (iii) trust fund operations. Ordinary operations are financed
from Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) which consist of share capital, retained
earnings and borrowed funds. Special operations are loans made at concession-
ary rates (4% per annum) for high priority projects mainly in the LDCs. These
operations are financed from special fund resources (SFR) established by donor
countries at no risk to CDB. Trust fund operations are those operations
funded from trust funds set up at CDB by various donors. CDB lends these
func[s to the region for a fee and bears no risk. CDB is now administering



- 17 -
only one such fund, the Venezuela Trust Fund (VTF), with total resources of
US$25.0 miLlion. Other trust funds may be established in the near future by
some donor countries.  As of December 31, 1978, lending by sources was as
follows: OCR (24.8%), SFR (68.1%), and VTF (7.1%). Agriculture and infrastruc-
ture proje,-ts have predominated CDB's lending. Of the total CDB operations,
37.1% were for infrastructural projects, 29.8% for agricultural projects,
21.0% for industry and tour:ism and 12.1% for housing and other sectors. Loans
to LDCs represent 62% of the total amount lent, 86% of which was made from
soft resources. A high portion of the CDB's lending, particularly in the
LDCs, has been channelled through intermediary institutions (national DFCs).
Experience under the first Bank operation to CDB
49.       Despite the severe economic problems of Jamaica and Guyana -- CDB's
main borrowers of hard funds -- the limited absorptive capacity of the LDCs
and the substantial delays that were encountered in arranging for the required
government guarantees, the Bank loan of US$17.0 million was fully committed
only a little more than a year behind schedule. Subloans will finance nine
projects in six countries; four are to DFC's, three are for transportation
projects and one each is for tourism and industrial estates. Expected economic
rates of return ranged from 10% for a tourism project to 65% for a cruiseship
pier. As of June 30, 1979 the Third Window loan of US$3.0 million was also
fully committed for four projects in Antigua, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla,
St. Lucia and Montserrat. The subloans will finance projects in electricity
generation, ports, sugar development and mortgage finance with expected adequate
economic rates of return. Disbursements from the loans as of September 30, 1979
amounted only to US$6.0 million mainly because it took longer to prepare projects
and because of delays encountered in obtaining the required country guarantees.
This resulted in committing the largest portion of the two loans--about 75%--
after Sept:ember 1978. Full disbursement of the loans is now expected toward
the end of- 1982.
CDB's Pro;jected Operations
50.      During the next five years (1979-83) CDB expects to lend US$436.0
million compared with US$145.0 million in the preceding five years. This
increase seems achievable because CDB has now the institutional capability
to undertake a larger role in the development of the region and also because
of improved economic conditions in the region. The Caribbean Group has been
making significant progress in mobilizing balance of payments assistance
and capital and technical assistance for development projects. Most countries
are embarking again on new investment programs. CDB's project pipeline indi-
cates that a high level of lending will be achieved in the next two to three
years. If, however, the balance of payments position is farther strained,
lending levels beyond the next three years may be less than expected. On
the basis of CDB's lending forecast, OCR resources will be used to finance
about 47% of CDB's operations, mostly for projects in the MDCs. SFR resources
will continue to be used largely for financing projects in the LDCs. CDB is
shifting its lending emphasis toward the sectors which will make a maximum
contribution to the economic development of the region, i.e., industry,
tourism and agriculture. The Bank will review CDB's sectoral lending
priorities annually and CDB agreed to establish sector policies in consulta-
tion with the Bank by April 30, 1980.



- 18 -
CDB's Financing Plan
51.        In order to finance its lending program through 1981, CDB will need
about US$113.0 million in OCR resources and about US$126.0 million in SFR
resources. In addition to existing unused resources of US$19.0 million as of
December 31, 1978, new equity subscriptions of US$12.0 million and forecast
internal cash generation of US$13.0 million, there will be a remaining gap
of about US$69.0 million for OCR operations. CDB expects to fill this gap with
the proposed Bank loan of US$23.0 million, a Trinidad and Tobago bond issue of
US$10.0 million and an IDB loan of US$10.0 million. The remaining US$26.0
million could be financed from other international institutions and from the
capital markets as the need arises and conditions permit. CDB can borrow
against the equivalent callable capital of the UK, Canada, Trinidad and Tobago
and Venezuela now valued at US$100.0 million. Special Fund Resources avail-
able to CDB for new loan approvals as of December 31, 1978 totaled US$35.5
mi:Llion. In addition to the US$8.0 million from the IDA and EEC Credits,
other resources of this type are expected to be available to CDB from USAID
an(d from Trinidad and Tobago to cover its SFR lending program.
CDB's Financial Condition
52.       CDB's earnings amounted to US$1.7 million in 1978 or about 4% of its
equity. Its relatively low profitability was mainly due to subsidized interest
rates, liquidity policies and the small size of its average operation. In 1978
CDB's Board approved new interest rates to improve the institution's medium-term
profitability. CDB's management has decided to reduce liquidity and to increase
the size of its operations in order to reduce the cost per dollar lent.
53.       Projections of CDB's financial results show that CDB will be able
to achieve an acceptable financial position and will be creditworthy for the
proposed loan. Its interest rate spread is expected to increase from 0.4% in
1978 to 1.4% in 1983 and its return on equity is expected to increase from 4%
to 5.5% in the same period. Its debt service coverage will remain above 2:1
through the projection period and is likely to improve thereafter. However,
although its financial results will be comparable with those of other similar
development institutions, it will not be able to meet one of its objectives
of preserving the value of its capital as the expected return on capital is
less than projected inflation. SFR operations, which CDB carries out with no
credit risk, are forecast to generate modest profits in each year of the 1979
to 1983 period.
CDB's Interest Rate Policy
54.        In 1978, CDB's cost of borrowed funds (OCR) was 7.95%.  Preselit CDB
interest rates for OCR loans vary according to the borrower. The rate for
loans is 9.0% to governments, 8.5% to government financial intermediaries,
10.5% to private non-agricultural borrowers and 9.5% to private agricultural
borrowers. A conmitnient fee of 3/4% per annum on undisbursed balances is pay-
able. On balance, the average CDB lending rate on OCR operations is in line
with the current lending rates of other international lending institutions
operating in the area. Onlending rates of the DFCs in the region are in
some cases below domestic inflation and CDB will press for their revision in
implementing its action plans for strengthening the DFCs. The interest rate
on soft loans from SFR for all borrowers is 4%. The proposed credits will be
onlent by CDB on IDA terms.



- 19 -
Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Loan and Credits
(a) Country Eligibility
55.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be relent by CDB to its
members in the Commonwealth Caribbean provided that they are members of the
Bank or are UK Associated States or UK Dependencies and who are deemed by the
Bank to be eligible borrowers at the time (Section 2.02 of Loan Agreement). The
Commonwealth Caribbean consists of nine independent countries--the Bahamas,
Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Trinidad
and Tobago---two UK Associated States--Antigua and St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and
five UK dependencies--Belize!, Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos
Islands, and the British Virgin Islands.  Of the independent countries,
Dominica, St. Lucia and St. Vincent are not members of the Bank at this time;
they are excpected, however, to join within the year. The UK Associated States
and Dependencies would be eligible to borrow by virtue of the UK's membership
in the Bank. The Bank will determine eligible borrowing countries, from time
to time (Section 1.02 of Loan Agreement) and will take into account, in
particular:, the creditworthiLness of the countries concerned.
56.       The proceeds of the credits would be relent by CDB only to the Govern-
ments of ilts members in the East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) provided that
they are also members of the Association or are UK Associated States or UK
Dependencies (Section 2.03 of Development Credit and Section 2.04 of Special
Action Credit Agreements). The ECCM consists of the seven less developed
islands of the Caribbean, of which four are independent countries--Dominica,
Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent--two are UK Associated States--Antigua and
St. Kitts-'Nevis-Anguilla--and one is a UK Dependency, Montserrat.  Given their
small size, high degree of interdependence and limited creditworthiness, these
islands have been grouped as one unit for IDA eligibility purposes. Their
average per capita GNP,   as a group, was US$540 in 1977, and only the three
smaller ECCM states (Antigua, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and Montserrat) had a
per capita GNP of more than (US$580; these small islands have a combined
population of 130,000, equivalent to about 25% of the ECCM total. 1/ Of the
independent countries, only Grenada is a member of the Association at this
time; the other three are expected to become members within the year. The UK
Associated States and Dependency are eligible to borrow because of the UK's
membership in the Association.'
(b) Relending Arrangements
57.       Loan proceeds will be borrowed by CDB through its OCR.  As such,
they will be secured by CDB's callable capital and by the national guarantees
of its borrowers (paras. 61 through 64 below). CDB will relend the proceeds
of the loan to governments, financial intermediaries, and public and private
enterprises at interest rates in conformity with its "Statement of Policy"
(Section 3.01 of Loan Agreement). Funds could be used to finance projects
in agriculture, agroindustry, manufacturing, tourism, infrastructure and
social sector projects but not activities which the Bank itself does not
normally f'inance (e.g., student loans). The loan would have a term of
20 years including 5 years of grace (Section 2.08 of Loan Agreement).
1/   The ECCM per capita GNP figures for 1977 are as follows:  Antigua, US$890;
Dominica, US$410; GrerLada, US$480; Montserrat, US$745; St. Kitts-Nevis-
Anguilla, US$650; St. Lucia, US$580; and St. Vincent, US$330.



- 20 -
This is the maximum term allowed at present for Bank loans in the Caribbean.
In line with CDB's Charter, the foreign exchange risk would be borne by CDB's
borrowers.
58.       As in the first Bank operation to CDB, the Bank would not require
prior approval of subloans. However, for all projects, regardless of source
of financing, which cost US$3.0 million equivalent or more, and for all
projects expected to be financed under the proposed loan/credits, CDB would
send to the Bank a project description and the appraisal report as soon as they
are available. CDB would normally not use more than 35% of the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan or IDA credit in any one of its member countries (Section 2.11
of Loan Agreement and Section 2.12 of Development Credit Agreement).
59.       The credits will be channeled through CDB's Special Fund Resources
(SFR) on standard IDA terms. As such they would not have the protection of CDB's
cal:Lable capital. They will be segregated from CDB's other assets and liabilities
and CDB's debt-service liability will be limited to the debt-service payments re-
ceived by CDB from the subloans made out of the credits. CDB has agreed to assign
to the Association its rights under each of the subloans through which the credits
will be relent to the eligible countries (Section 2.03 of Development Credit and
Section 2.04 of Special Action Credit Agreements). In this way, the credits will
have the same security as if IDA had lent them directly. CDB will relend the
credits on IDA terms only to governments of eligible countries (para. 56 above).
IDA will reimburse CDB for its costs of channeling these resources to the region
at I:DA terms. In current prices, these costs are estimated to be $548,000
(Section 2.11 of Development Credit Agreement). Payment will be made in five
annual payments. Prior approval by IDA would be required for each subloan made
from the credits (Section 2.03 of Development Credit and Section 2.04 of Special
Action Credit Agreements). Recipient Governments would relend the proceeds at
terms appropriate to the project and thus retain the full financial benefit of
the IDA terms. The Governments could relend to national DFCs at concessionary
terms or make equity contributions to strengthen their financial structure. In
line with CDB's Charter, the foreign exchange risk would be borne by CDB's borrowers.
(c) General
60.       CDB and the Bank would consult each other at an early stage before
participating in the financing of projects which are expected to be partly
financed by the other. In using the funds of the loan and credits, CDB would
be required to follow criteria set out in its "Statement of Policy" particularly
concerning the minimum economic and financial rate of return of 12% (Section
3.01 of Loan Agreement and Section 3.01 of Development Credit and Special Action
Credit Agreements). Also, CDB will not use funds from the proposed loan and
IDA credit to cofinance Bank or IDA projects, unless the Bank otherwise agrees
(Section 2.10 of Loan Agreement and Development Credit Agreement).
Country Guarantees
61.       In the case of eligible independent countries, i.e., the Bahamas,
Barbados, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago, each country that
is a member of IBRD and CDB and wishes to borrow IBRD resources through the



- 21 -
CDB would be required to provide to IBRD its national blanket guarantee which
would cover its borrowings of IBRD resources through the CDB. Each guarantee
will have a ceiling in terms of amount and will cover borrowings from the
proposed loan and also from future Bank loans to CDB. The proposed guarantee
ceilings are set at $20.0 miLllion for the borrowings of each MDC and $10.0
million for each LDC (Section 2.01 of Guarantee Agreement). Dominica,
St. Lucia and St. Vincent, which became independent during the past year, and
have not as yet joined the Bank Group, would have to first become members of
the Bank before they could qualify to borrow, at which time the same type of
guarantee would be required from them for IBRD resources.
62.      'With respect to the UK Associated States and Dependencies (para. 55),
the UK Government would be required to guarantee to the Bank repayment by
CDB of Bank funds used to finance subprojects in these territories provided
that the requirements of the "Colonial Loans Act" are complied with and that
parallel legislation is enacted in each territory concerned assuring repayment
to the UK in the event that the UK is called upon to fulfill its guarantee
obligation to the Bank.  A maximum ceiling of US$10.0 million for each one of
these territories will cover their borrowings from the proposed loan and from
any future Bank loans to thie CDB.
63.       Regional projects, i.e., projects located in the territory of more
than one country or joint ventures among eligible countries would be covered
by the national blanket guarantee of the members in whose territories the
project will be located (Section 2.01 of Guarantee Agreement). The borrow-
ing countries and the UK are expected to provide such guarantees in the
near future. A guarantee satisfactory to the Bank from each eligible country
will be a condition of first disbursement of the first subloan in each
country (Section 2.02 of Loan Agreement).
64.       A partial waiver of the commitment fee is proposed.  The same
was done -. and approved by the Executive Directors on September 19, 1978
(P-78-222) - for the first operation with CDB, and the reasons they explained
for the delays in committing and disbursing funds still apply. They are mainly
the requirements in obtaining the UK guarantee in connection with projects in
the UK Associated States and Dependencies and also the delays that occur in
lending through DFC's. The commitment fee on the proposed loan, therefore,
would only be charged to CDB on the undisbursed amounts of subloans for which
disbursements of Bank funds can be made (Section 2.05 of Loan Agreement).
65.       No guarantees are required for the subprojects financed by the credits
since the credits will be onlent to Governments and CDB will assign to the
Association its rights to the subloans signed with CDB by the eligible inde-
pendent countries and the UK Associated States and Dependency (para. 59 above).
Disbursements
66.       The Bank and IDA would reimburse the CDB 70% of total project costs in
the MDCs and 80% in the LDCs which represent the estimated average foreign ex-
change costs of projects in these countries (Section 2.02 of Loan Agreement and
Section 2.03 of Development: Credit and Special Action Credit Agreements). Both
fixed assets and permanent working capital would be eligible for financing.



- 22 -
67.       The proposed loan would be disbursed 50% in US dollars and 50% in
Yen, Deutsche Marks or Swiss Francs. The latest date for committing the
proposed loan and credits is December 31, 1981 and the closing date for dis-
bursements is December 31, 1983. Standard IDA disbursement procedures would
apply to the Development Credit. The EEC Special Action Credit will be dis-
bursed in accordance with Section 2.01 of the Special Action Credit Agreement
which requires that the Special Action Credit is disbursed in each of the
currencies of the nine EEC members in amounts proportional to their share of
total contributions to the Special Action Account.
Procurement
68.       For goods and works estimated to cost above US$100,000 and US$500,000
equivalent respectively, procurement would be by international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts that are financed in
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the loan or credits will be open to
all members of the Bank or IDA and Switzerland. Standard Bank DFC procedures
will be used for projects financed out of CDB subloans to DFCs.
69.       The items financed under the EEC Special Action Credit would be
procured in accordance with Section 2.02 of the EEC Special Action Credit
Agreement which limits bidding to EEC member countries and IDA member countries
that are eligible to receive Special Action Credits.
Benefits and Risks
70.       Through this operation the Bank and the Association will be support-
ing and strengthening both financially and institutionally the Caribbean's
primary development banking institution. By using CDB as an intermediary, the
Bank and the Association will be able to finance small but important projects
in countries that are among the smallest of the Bank's members and they have
very special problems derived from their size. Using the CDB will permit
he:Lping these countries at lower cost than would be possible through direct
loans and credits. Risks that might affect the success of the project are
mainly related to the weak economic basis of the Caribbean countries. Uncer-
tain prospects for prices of commodities exported by the region and further
rapid increases in oil prices could severely hurt their expectations for
moderate rates of growth in the next few years.  It seems, however, from CDB's
project pipeline that lending in the next two to three years will continue at
high levels as there exist a substantial number of projects well advanced in
preparation. In addition, it is expected that the Caribbean Group will continue
to mobilize technical assistance and substantial amounts of external resources
to cover local costs of development programs and projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the CDB and the Bank, the draft
Credit Agreement between the CDB and the Association, the draft EEC Special



- 23 -
Action Credit Agreement between the CDB and the Association as Administrator
of the EEC Special Action Account established with funds contributed by the
member Stat:es of the EEC, the draft Guarantee Agreement negotiated with
Barbados to serve as a form of a Guarantee Agreement to be provided by a CDB
member in whose territory a project financed by the proposed loan is located
(the United Kingdom, in the case of projects located in UK Associated States
and Dependencies), the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Associatiorn are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately., Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III, Section 3.
72.       A draft form of Guarantee Agreement, referred to in paras. 61 through
63 has been approved by the Bahamas, Barbados, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, and the
UK. In the majority of the countries concerned, approval by the legislature
will be recluired for the purpose of entering into the Guarantee Agreement. The
Bank has been advised by CDII that no difficulties are anticipated in connection
therewith.
73.       ][ am satisfied that the proposed loan and IDA credit will comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association, and that the
EEC Special Action Credit would comply with the criteria established by the
Agreement of May 2, 1978 between the Association and the European Economic
Community.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       :[ recommend that ithe Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
November 20, 1979



ANNEX I
- 24 -
Page I
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDlCATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                   JAMAICA                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             11.0                                                    SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       4.8                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION  Gc GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  470.0       830.0    1150.0           1074.6      926.1       1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAP1TA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     426.0       1325.0    1937.0           943.1       730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       1.6         1.9       2.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.0         41.6      46.0             59.3       49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       145.0       173.0     191.0             23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    327.0        392.0     438.0            80.5       140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.7        45.9      44.0             40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                         54.0         48.5      50.0            54.4        55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.3          5.6       6.0             3.9         3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.5/f       1.4/f     1.7/f            2.4        2.4         1.7
URBAN                               ..          3.5       3.6              3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      39.0        35.0      29.0             32.8       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9.0         8.0       7.0              8.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4         2.7       2.1              2.4        2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        19.3      27.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..      40.0             17.7       34.7
POOD AND NUTRITION
TNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         102.1         99.0      98.0             99.4      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                   91.0        103.0     119.0            107.0      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          46.0         56.0      68.1            60.4        64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       20.0/       29.0/h    31.1            28.3        23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       7.0         4.0       3.0              6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT RIRTH (YEARS)    64.0         67.8      69.5             63.6       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           63.0         36.0      22.0             76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         62.0      86.0             63.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                               ..        100.0     100.0             79.5       75.7        85.1
RURAL                               ..         48.0      79.0             38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         94.0      94.0             58.8       46.0         70.1
URBAN                               ..        100.0     100.0             77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                               ..         92.0      91.0             24.5       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2600.0       2630.0    3510.0           1841.9     2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1990.0/i    1710.0     540.0            933.7     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             250.0/i     240.0     260.0            563.4      453.4        197.6
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..            279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..           1140.9     2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..       19.0            25.7       22.1         17.3
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.9         4.3                        5.0        5.3          4.7
URBAN                               2.7          ..        ..              4.8        5.2          4.4
RURAL                               4.8          ..        ..              5.3        5.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.9         1.6        ..              1.3        1.9          1.1
URBAN                               1.6          ..        ..              1.3        1.6          1.2
RIRAL                               2.0          ..        ..              1.5        2.5          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                          27.804 .3                             50.0         66.0
URA                                  ..          ..        ..             80.1       71.7         85.1
NINA L                               ...                    .14.2                    17.3



ANNEX I
Page 2
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAIC&                   RZPEENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AHpAGES
ICA                   ~~~~~- MOST REENZSTltlATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIMb
MOST WECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       SEION Ic   GROUP /d    G2OUP Is
EDUCATION
ADJUST1ED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  82.0         85.0      98.0             107.3      102.5        101.7
MALE                  82.0         86.0       97.0            109.1       106.6       110.0
FEMALE                83.0         85.0       98.0            107.4       97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  43.0         59.0      58.0             40.5        33.5         51.2
MALE                  35.0         58.0       53.0             40.4        38.4        56.4
FEMALE                51.0         61.0       63.0             39.0       30.7         43.7
VOCATIJNAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   9.0            5.5        4.0             18.5        11.5        18.3
PUPIL-rEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             55.0         47.0      39.0             37.1        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                           21.0         26.0      28.0              17.9       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         82.0         82.0       86.0             77.4        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          20.0         39.0      45.0             29.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          88.0        230.0     320.0            172.1       122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         35.0      54.0             67.9        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   63.0        114.0       90.0             76.1       40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..              4.2       - 3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        650.0/L    750.OL    940.0/lIk
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    37.2         39.0      38.4             21.5        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               39.0         29.5      24.0              30.2       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  24.9         25.6      27.0             23.8        21.5         30.6
PARTICIP'ATION RATE (P ERCENT)
TOTAL                                 37.3         33.8       33.1             30.9        33.5        33.8
KALE                                  48.8         42.3       41.2             47.3       48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                26.7         25.7       25.2             13.3       16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.3        1.1              1.5         1.4          1.3
INCOME I)ISTRIBUTION
PERCENT Of PRIVATE INCOME
RECEI'ED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.2/1           ..        ..             23.7        20.8
hIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.27            ..         ..            58.7        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.27            ..         ..              2.9        3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.2W            ..         ..             9.9        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBHN                                 ..           ..     501.0            265.6       270.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     439.0             185.1      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     585.0            396.3       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     509.0            308.1       248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..             35.2       20.5
RUBAL                                 ..           ..      80.0              46.6        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    Ihe adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availabllity of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
,'c Latin America & Caribbean; /d Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); /e Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976); /f Due to emigration; population growth rate is lower than
rate of natural increase;   /j  1961-62;   /h  1964-66;   /i  1963;   Li  Data based on official definition
which includes those willing to work but not actively seeking employment;   /k  October 1977;   /1  1958.
May, 1979



- 26 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 3
GUYANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. ICM.)                      GUYANA                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              215.0                                                        SAME          SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        13.8                                    MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     230.0        350.0       560.0            1074.6       430.3        926.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         579.0       1093.0    1072.0              943.1        262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)          0.56         0.71       0.81
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.9             31.7       33.5              59.3         24.6         49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            3.0          3.0        4.0              23.5         45.3         44.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         41.0         52.0       59.0              80.5        149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             46.6         44.2       41.0              40.9        45.2          41.3
15-64 YRS.                             50.2         52.5       55.0              54.4        51.9          55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.2          3.1        4.0               3.9          2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.8          2.3/f      1.8/f             2.4         2.7           2.4
URBAN                                   *3.4                   3.0               3.7          4.3          4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         43.3         33.5       28.0              32.8         39.4         31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         12.2          6.8         5.0               8.5        11.7          9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   ..          2.8         1.7               2.4         2.7          2.2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..               ..          ..             17.7         13.2         34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)             104.8         96.0       92.0              99.4        99.6         104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     101.0         104.0      104.0             107.0        94.7         105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              35.0         47.0       58.0              60.4        54.3          64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..         22.0       25.2              28.3        17.4          23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         10.0          5.0        4.0               6.7         11.4          8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    59.3             67.0       70.0              63.6         54.7         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                            50.0/i       ..              76.1        68.1          46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..          ..             63.4        34.4          60.8
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..              79.5        57.9          75.7
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..              38.6        21.2          40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         93.0       96.0              58.8        40.8          46.0
URBAN                                   ..         95.0       99.0              77.8        71.3          46.0
RURAL                                   ..         92.0       94.0              24.5        27.7          22.5
POPLnATION PER PHYSICIAN             8100.0        4310.0    3270.0             1841.9      6799.4        2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1730.0/8    1070.0    1030.0                933.7       1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               440.0_/       210.0      190.0             563.4       726.5         453.4
URBAN                                 60.0         70.0       70.0             279.4       272.7         253.1
RURAL                              1834.0        1401.0    1300.0             1140.9      1404.4        2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         37.0          ..             25.7         27.5         22.1
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  5.0          5.4          ..               5.0         5.4          5.3
URBAN                                  4.4           ..          ..              4.8          5.1          5.2
RURAL                                  5.1           ..         ..                5.3         5.5          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          2.1          ..               1.3          ..          1.9
URBAN                                  1.7          2.1          ..               1.3          ..          1.6
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..                1.5          ..          2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
8 R34AN                                 ..           ..          ..8U.1                      2q t1        1  3
RURAL                                                                           14.2          9.9         17.3



ANNEX I
-27 -                                        Page 4
GUYANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AlYERAGES
GUYANA                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'8
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 107.0         98.0       94.0/            107.3        82.7         102.5
MALE                  107.0        100.0       95.O07           109.1        87.3         108.6
FEMALE                106.0         96.0       93.0/_           107.4        75.8          97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   43.0         49.0        47.0/J           40.5        21.4          33.5
MALE                   48.0         48.0       48.0/4            40.4        33.0          38.4
FEMALE                 39.0         49.0       47 . O            39.0        15.5          30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY'  14.0              5.1        5.2              18.5         9.8         11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              41.0         29.0        32.0/4           37.1        34.1          35.8
SECONDARY                            32.0         26.0       23.0/4            17.9        23.4          22.9
ADULI' LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..         85.0         ..              77.4        54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POE'ULATION                          19.0         25.0       34.7              29.1          9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POP'ULATION                          65.0        105.0      354.0             172.1        76.9         122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POP'ULATION                             ..           ..         ..             67.9         13.5         38.3
NEWSP'APER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    67.0          58.0      155.0              76.1        18.3         40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  8.0             11.0       11.2               4.2         2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         173.0         204.0      248.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     22.5         23.5        24.4             21.5         29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                34.0         32.0       30.9              30.2        62.7          43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   28.7         32.7          ..             23.8        11.9          21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  31.0          28.8       30.6              30.9        37.1         33.5
MALE                                    48.0         44.1       46.3              47.3        48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                  14.0         13.6       15.0              13.3        20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.6          1.8        1.5               1.5         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.8/h             ..         ..             23.7         15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  46.5/h             ..         ..             58.7         48.2         52.1
LcWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.3/h             ..         ..               2.9         6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6/h             ..         ..               9.9        16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..            265.6        241.3        270.0
RUlRAL                                  ..           ..         ..            185.1        136.6        183.3
EST]MATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEV1'L (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..      171.0            396.3        179.7        282.5
RUJRAL                                   -           *-      171.0            308.1        103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..            ..         ..             35.2         24.8         20.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..             46.6         37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and fur Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America 6 Caribbean;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per- capita, 1976);   /f  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than
rate of natural increase;   /g  1963;   /h  1955-56, excluding self-employed in the high income bracket;
/i  1972;   /i  1973.
May, 1979



-28-                                             ANNEX I
Page 5
GRENADA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.I                     GRENADA                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL               0.3                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        0.2                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   160.0        310.0      520.0           1074.6       430.3       926.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       124.0        315.0     211.0            943.1       262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        0.09         0.09      0.10
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.8             ..        ..              59.3       24.6         49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPIJLATTON DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                        262.0       273.0      282.0             23.5        45.3         44.6
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    529.0         553.0      571.0             80.5       149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           47.6         47.1      44.0             40.9        45.2         41.3
15-64 YRS.                          47.2         47.1       50.0             54.4        51.9         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     5.2          5.8       6.0              3.9         2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.7/f        0.4/f     0.5/f            2.4         2.7          2.4
URBAN                                 ..3.7                                              4.3          4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..         29.0      26.0              32.8       39.4         31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         ..          7.9        7.0              8.5       11.7          9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..           ..       1.8              2.4         2.7          2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..             17.7        13.2         34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              ..        105.0      90.0             99.4        99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     79.0           ..      89.0            107.0        94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            49.4           ..      57.0             60.4        54.3         64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..           ..        ..             28.3        17.4         23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        6.0          5.0        4.0              6.7        11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.9           67.0      69.0              63.6       54.7         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             77.9         34.0      23.5             76.1        68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      38.0             63.4        34.4         60.8
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             79.5        57.9         75.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..             38.6        21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..              58.8       40.8         46.0
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             77.8        71.3         46.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..            24.5        27.7         22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            4500.0/g    3550.0    3820.0            1841.9      6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       6400.0/g,h       ..    4360.0            933.7      1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                              160.0          ..      149.0            563.4       726.5        453.4
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..            279.4       272.7        253.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..           1140.9      1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..         ..             25.7        27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..               5.0         5.4         5.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..         .              4.8         5.1          5.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..               5.3        5.5          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..              1.3         ..          1.9
URBAN                                1.7           ..        ..               1.3         ..          1.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..               1.5         ..          2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      39.0              54.3       28.1         50.0
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             80.1        45.1         71.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..             14.2        9.9         17.3



- 29 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 6
GRENADA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
GRENADA                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                93.0         99.0        ..            107.3       82.7       102.5
MALE                    ..          ..        ..           109.1        87.3       108.6
FEMALE              159.0        147.0        ..           107.4        75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 21.0         42.0        *-             40.5       21.4        33.5
MALE                    ..          ..        ..            40.4        33.0        38.4
FEMALE               19.0         26.0        ..            39.0        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)    ..         24.0         ..            18.5        9.8         11.5
PUP[L-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0         38.0        ..             37.1       34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         24.0         25.0        ..             17.9       23.4        22.9
ADU'LT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        85.0      85.0             77.4       54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        22.0         37.0        ..             29.1        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        104.0       167.0     229.0            172.1       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ,.          ..        ..            67.9        13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  34.0        32.0        *-             76.1       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAE'ITA  3.0          ..      11.5              4.2        2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        27.0        29.0      30.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   39.9        39.2        ..             21.5       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              40.0        33.4      31.2             30.2       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                21.0           ..        ..            23.8        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.8         31.2        ..             30.9       37.1        33.5
MALE                                 40.3-       41.2         ..            47.3       48.8        48.0
FEMALE                               22.7        23.1        .-             13.3       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.8         1.7       1.6              1.5        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT bF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        ..             23.7       15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..         ..            58.7       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        ..              2.9        6.3          3.9
LOWEST' 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..              9.9       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
IJRBAN                               ..          ..        ..           265.6       241.3       270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..            185.1      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
JRBAN                                ..          ..        ..           396.3       179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..           308.1       103.7       248.9
EsTriMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..             35.2       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..            46.6        37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages1 for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator anc. the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d   Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  le  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  if  Due to migration, population growth rate is lower than
rate of natural increase;  /S  1962; /h  Including midwives.
May, 1979



ANNEX I
- 30 -                                        Page 7
LAMADOS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
8ARBADOS                   REERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Al[RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              0.4                                                  SAME         SAME     NEXT RICNER
AGRICULTURAL       0.37                               MOST RECENT     GEOGQR4PIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b   .970 /b ESTIHATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 400.0       970.0   1770.0           1074.6      1748.5      2754.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     375.0      1104.0     974.0           943.1      1646.7      2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      0.23        0.24      0.25
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 40.8        43.6      45.3            59.3        51.2        72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        ..
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          ..
YEAR STATIONARY POPUIATION IS REACHED                      ..
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      536.0       555.0     575.0            23.5        28.2        33.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    624.0       646.0    670.0              80.5      100.5        91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         38.3        37.0      32.0            40.9        35.4        33.3
15-64 YRS.                         55.3        54.7      58.8            54.4       56.3         57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   6.4         8.3       9.2              3.9        5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROWTHN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              0.9/f       0.3/f     0.5/f            2.4        1.7         2.1
URBAN                              1.2         1 1.0     1.3              3.7        3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     32.2        21.0      19.0            32.8        27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     12.0         9.0       8.0              8.5        9.1         8.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.3         1.4       1.1              2.4        1.8         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF KARRIED WOmN)    ..           ..        ..             17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-110)         105.3       107.0      91.0            99.4       102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMHNTS)                  110.0        94.0    133.0             107.0      120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRMS PER DAY)           65.0        73.0/   82.5             60.4        80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..        47 0      52.3            28.3        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      4.0         4.0       3.0             6.7         5.1         2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   62.7         67.6      71.0             63.6       65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           80.0        46.3      28.0             76.1       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        98.0     100.0            63.4        69.4        73.9
URBAN                               *-        95.0    100.0              79.5       85.1        94.6
RURAL                               ..       100.0     100.0            38.6        43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PEWCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-       100.0     100.0            58.8        70.1
URBAN                               ..       100.8     100.0            77.8        88.3
RURAL                               ..       1Q0.0     100.0            24.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2800.0/b    1890.3   1468.0            1841.9     1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      650.0       430.0    394.0             933.7      765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            170.0       100.0     116.0            563.4      197.6       240.6
URBAN                               ..        70.       90.0            279.4      260.2
RURAL                               *-       110.0/i   170.0/i         1140.9     1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         9.0      11.0             25.7       17.3        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.0         3.9        ..              5.0        4.7
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              4.8        4.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              5.3        5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                              1.2         1.0        ..              1.3        1.1
URBAN                              1.2         1.C        ..              1.3        1.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              1.5        1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        69.0
URBAN
RURAL



-31 -ANEX I
Page 8
_ A RBADOS - SOCIAL INDICATCS  DA,N SHEFT
BARBADOS                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0        100.0     108.0            107.3       101.7        107.6
MALE                  98.0        101.0      107.0            109.1      110.0
FEMALE                92.0         98.0     110.0             107.4       92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  39.0        65.0       78.0             40.5        51.2         39.7
MALE                  46.0         72.0      75.0              40.4       56.4
FEMALE                33.0         58.0      81.0             39.0        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   5.0            7.0       7.0              18.5       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             40.0         33.0        ..             37.1        27.1
SECONDARY                           29.0        27.0       20.0             17.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         94.0         97.0      99.0             77.4        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          35.0        82.0       97.3             29.1        53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         150.0       347.0      526.0            172.1       225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        63.0      194.0             67.9       102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   85.0        90.0       98.0             76.1        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0            5.0       4.9              4.2         3.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         90.0         90.0     103.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    41.8        40.0       39.8             21.5        24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               26.4         16.5       9.6             30.2        28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  27.4        29.6       25.3             23.8        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.6         37.8      40.0             30.9        33.8         40.1
MALE                                  51.3         48.3      50.3             47.3        51.3         55.7
FEMALE                                30.2         28.4      30.6             13.3        16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                ..2          1.2        1.0              1.5        1.3          1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         19.8/        ..            23.7
HIGHEST ?0 PER':'NT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          44.0f       ..             58.7        57.6
LOWES'.  j PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         6.84        ..              2.9         3.4
LO:S'!i 40 PERC':NT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         18.6j       ..              9.9        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (UE$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     484.0            265.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     484.0            185.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      518.0            396.3       550.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      518.0            308.1       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       23.0             35.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      23.0             46.6
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The gadjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometri- means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availabilit'y of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent EstLmate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e High Income
(over- $2500 per capita, 1976T, /f Due to migration, population growth rate is lower than rate of
natur-al increase; /I  1966;  /b  1962;  /i  Government establishments only;  /j  Income recipient.
May, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 9
BAHA.AS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AL AGES
LAND AREA (THOUS.-ND SQ. KM.)                  BAHAMAS                          - MOST RECENT ESTIATE) -
TOTAL              13.9                                                    SAME          SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        0.2                                  MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /C   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  1530.0      3030.0    3520.0            1074.6      2754.2      5941.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1824.0        4604.0    7286.0             943.1     2518.6       4668.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        0.11        0.18       0.21
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 62.1/f        57.9         ..             59.3        72.1        75.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           ..
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             ..
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        ..
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         8.0         12.0       15.0            23.5        33.5        141.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    733.0        1000.0    1050.0              80.5       91.3        251.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.1         43.6       41.0            40.9        33.3         23.3
15-64 YRS.                          52.3         52.9       55.0            54.4        57.5         64.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.6         3.5        4.0              3.9        5.7         11.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               4.4/g.h      4.5/h      2.6/h            2.4        2.1          0.5
URBAN                                ..          3.3         ..              3.7         i. 1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       30.0        25.3       25.0             32.8       31.4         13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        7.6         6.2        5.7              8.5        8.2         10.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..         1.7        1.6              2.4         1.9         0.9
FAMILY PlANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..             17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             ..        100.0       84.0             99.4       98.7        104.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    93.0         95.0     100.0            107.0       112.7        128.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           69.0         87.0         ,.             60.4       70.3         92.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..         45.0         *-            28.3          ..         60.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        7.0         6.0        4.0              6.7        2.5          0.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.6          65.7       69.0            63.6        68.7         72.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            52.0         35.2       25.0             76.1       20.8         12.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         65.0       65.0             63.4       73.9
URBAN                                 ..       100.0      100.0             79.5       94.6
RURAL                                 .         12.0       13.0             38.6       64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 .         66.0       65.0             58.8
URBAN                                ..        100.0      100.0             77.8
RURAL                                 '-        13.0       13.0            24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1700.0      1230.0    1480.0            1841.9      981.8        652.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       280.0        320.0/i   370.0             933.7      397.8        243.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..        200.0      230.0            563.4      240.6         95.2
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..            279.4
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..           1140.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         17.0         ..             25.7       19.2         14.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.1/f       4.1         ..              5.0         ..          3.0
URBAN                                4.0/f         ..        ..              4.8
RURAL                               4.2/f         ..         ..              5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.2/f         ..        ..              1.3
URBAN                                1.2/f        ..         ..              1.3
RURAL                                1.2/f         ..        ..              1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               58.0/f         ..        ..             54.3
URBAN                               73.07F         ..        ..             80.1
RURAL                               31.07          ..        ..             14.2



ANNEX I
33   -                                   Page  10
JJIAIUAt - 8OC.L 1DICATOU DATA BRME?
LiBANANA                  uEryEcKl cRmPS (ADJIUD  *
- -_OST ICD1T     1
8*16SA         VW1  HIGHE
MOST RICUIT   GCOGWMIC   l}lCO              COII
1160 /b     1970 /b RSTIMASE /b      RGION Ic  GROUP Id  GCWP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 711.0      135.0        ..107.3                  107.8       101.4
MALE                71 0        13                         109.1          .       103.4
FEMALE                 ..       139.0        ..            107.4         *-       103.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 56.0        75.0                      40.5        39.7        83.9
MALE                   ...                    .40.4                      ..         4.0
FEMALE                 ..        79.0        *-            39.0           -        83.8
VOCATIONAL EOL. (% OF SECONDARY)   1.0           2.0         *-            18.5         ..        20.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           55.0        44.0         ..            37.1         ..        21.8
SECONDARY                           ..        32.0        ..            17.9          ..        15.1
ADULT LITEPACY RATE (PERCENT)       S10.0/f     93.0        ..             77.4         ..        96.8
COIISlWTION
PASSDIER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        71.0       261.0     173.0            29.1        68.1       292.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       152.0       497.0    475.0             172.1      210.3       465.4
TV IECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
OPULATION                         19.0          ..        ..            67.9       117.7       274.7
E.iSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThUSAND POPULATION                  94.0       163.0    152.0              76.1         ..       363.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..              4.2         ..         3.3
LAB  FORCE
wiTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       52.0/f      70.0      84.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    ..          ..        ..             21.5       27.2        35.3
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             16.0         7.0         ..            30.2       23.8         9.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  ..        19.6        ..            23.8          ..        40.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                4..          ..       1.3             30.9       40.1        43.5
KsALE                                 ..          ..      46.9             47.3       55.7        58.9
tEKALE                                ..          ..      35.8             13.3       24.7        28.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         1.3       1.1              1.5        1.0         0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        20.7         ..            23.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        50.6        ..             58.7         ..        42.6
LOWEST 20 PERCE1NT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         3.4        ..              2.9         ..         5.1
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        12.2        ..              9.9         ..        16.1
POVElTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL 1US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            265.6
RURl.                               ..          ..        ..            185.1
ESTIMAtED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URRAN                               ..          ..        ..            396.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            308.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             35.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             46.6
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator ore population-weighted geoaetric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Uniless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
ansd 1971; and for Most Recent gBtimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   LAttin America & Caribbean;  /d High Income (over $2500 per capita 1976);  /e  Industrialized Countries;
/:' 1963;  /   1953-63;  /h  Due to migration, population growth rate is higher then the rate of natural
ilncrease;   1i  Personnel in Government Services only.
May, 1979



- 34 -                                                                         ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                         Page   11
SL..    The adjusted groupaeae  for ...b  indicator .rc populatlon-walgbtsd geometrir means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator end the most
poculate d coutry In each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depenid. on availability of date end is net uniform.  Due to lark of data.
group uveregee for Capital Sorplos Oil Esportere end indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty ear
simaple population-weighted geometric macn without th.e acluaion of extreme values.
LANDI AREA (thousand sq. ka)                                                               Population pet hoapita1 bed - total. urban. and rural - Population (tota.1
To,tal - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                          urban, and rure1) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
61pricolt-rl - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    swailable in public end private general anid specialized hospital end re-
or permane.ntly for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are aetablishmante permoanntly staffed by
lIe fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  fateblishments  providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rura hospitals, however, include health and stedi-
ON?' PER CAPITA (01$) - GNPr per capita estimate  at current market prices.                   cal oe.ter  not permaeo..tly staffed by a physician (hut by a nedical  s-
calculated by sanse conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurs, midwife, etc.) which offar in-patient accoemodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions net hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or dischargos
jtiNERGY CONSUMPfTION PEi CAP ITA - Annual consumption of connercial energy                   from  hospitals divided by the oumber of beds..
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro- * nuclear and ge-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HIOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total,_urban. and rural-
CFifLfATION ANDt VITAL. STATISTICS                                                            A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total popuatioo. mid-rear (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                       and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
ovrage of too end-year estimates; 1960, 1970,..ad 1977 data,                              the houashold for statistical purp.ose.  Stetistical definitions of house-
Irhan. population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold very.
tioc; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room  - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                  ber of persons psr room  in all, u-ha, and rure1 orcupied conventional 
P~opulation density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Duelling. enclude non-permanent strurturee and
Fer  sq. km. - Mid-year population per squats kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
o,f rotol or:o.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban. and rurlI
Per o. m. S agiculture leand - Computed as above for agriculture1 leand                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, end rural dwellings respectively.
Po.pulation age structure (percent) - Children (i-li years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years end ovn   spero...tage  of mid-                 EDUCATIONI
year populotion.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment rstios
Population growth cats (PerCent) - total, and urban - Coepsund annual                     Primary school - total, and femle - Total and femal  enrollment of all ages
growth rates of tote1 and urban mid-year populatione for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged b-il years hut adjusted fur
Crude birth rste (pet thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-yesr arithestic averages ending int 1960 end                     cation enrollment may exce ed 100 percent since some pupils are below  or
1970 acd flo-ye-  -vsrags sodiog in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                        shove the official school age.
Crude death rats (pee thousa.nd) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secon.dary school - total, and femal  - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; te-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires et least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
anJ fivo-ysar average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or tescber training instructions for pupils
Gross reproducrion rate - Average number of daughters a woa  will bear                      usual ly of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are genecally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
s..ecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollmet (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1)70, and 197).                                                                            lude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors,. annul (thousand.) - Annual number of                          or as departments of  ascondary institutions.
--eptors of birth-control devices under auspices of nAtional family                    Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
pa.nnisg program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teacer  in the cor--
ParEsy planning - umers Coe:rcant of marrie,d women) - Percetage of                         aponding level..
arried women of child-heaing ag  (15I _ years) who use birth-control                  Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to reed and write) a
eiesto all married woman. in sane age group.                                         a peecentage of total adolt population aged 1) years end over.
FOOD) ANTD NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTINot
"~dem of food Production per capi1ta (,1970-1100) - Index number of per                  Passengsr cars (per thousand populstion) - Passenger cars comprise motor corn
zapto anul productio  ofalfo omodities.                                            seating less than eight persons; excludes  muacs   erasadmltr
,'e~cspta suply of clories(percent of requirements) - Computed fr.e              vehicles.
onry  qivlntc  nat food supplies available in country per rapita                 Radio receivers (per thousand populstion) - All typee of receivers for radio
erday.  Avsilable supplies comprise dome..tic production, imports lass               broadca..rs to general1 public per thousan.d of population; excludes unlicensed
nsporn, ad chngesin stock.  Ntie  supplies exclude animal feed, asede,            receivers in countries and is years when registration of radio sets wax in
gotc an sd to food p-oc.ssing,. ad losses in distribution.  Re-                       effect; data for recent yearn nay not he conpsrahie since most countries
~urutswore estimated by FAO based on physiological needa for nor-                aholished lirensing.
1_1 ucti,it,  a nd health considering environmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV recelvero for broadcout to generA
weighto, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing if Per-                    public per thousan.d population; secludes unlicensed TV receivers in  -on-
cent for usate at house.hold level                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Pe- capita supply of protein (grans Per day) - Protein contest of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thous.and populatIon) - Shows the averge circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest news paper", defined as a periodical puhli-
abov.-   Requirements for all countries etatblished by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primaily to recording general1 news.  It is conuidered to
a  nicnu  allowan.ce of hi grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   he "daily" if ft appears at least four tines a wee.k
o)f uimal and yulse protein, of which 10 grams should be so.le  protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capito oar year - Pasned on the number of tickets
Vione. stundords aro lower than those of 75 gram  of total protein and                    sold during the your, including adeissione to driv-in  irenan and wobilo
:'3 gran.. of unina  protein. as at averge for the world, pruPos..d by                    units.
PAO hr the Third World Food Survey.
Pr, capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
nrli-od fron  nml  and pulses in grams per day.                                        Total labor force (thcuan..dal-Ecnial   acive pern..on, including urnod
Child (agous 1-4) nortslity rots (per thousan.d) - Annual  deaths per thou-                  forces and unemployed but  -o1lding hounewiv-, utudentu, etc.  Defici-
cond lv  ge group 1-1 years, to children in this age group.                               ticos in ouioun countries  unotc comparable.
Female (percent) - Fema.le labor force as percentage of total lubor force.
HEALTo                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, for-strr. hurting ond fishing
Lifo oor--tany at birth (years) - Average nuber of years of life                            so Percentage of total labor force.
rounc   t hirth; usually five-year averoges ending in 1960, 1970,               industry_(percent)  - lbor fore in nining, cntuio,ooftrigand
usA 197>                                                             o~~~~nul  eth    f  ...sune  lnccricity  waerad gas as pecentage of ttllbrfre
iclo  votlt   oe(a   huad       nuldah   fifnaudr                                        Participation rat:e(percent) -toptal,' mal, andtfemale - Total, nol., und
coo your of ago per thouna..d lIve birhts.                                                femaIle labor force an peroestragen of their respertivo populatiocs.
Acceu  to solo water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rurl1                       These are IL0's adjusted p-rticiparico  rates re flooring ac-e-to
Nmrofpeople (total, urban, and rural) with reasonaable acesst                         truc'rr  of rho Poputottor1, cod  ov8 tie  red
urcuer nply (includes traed.surface waters or untreate'd huto                     conic dependency rto-aiofpputioundor 1) ard 61 and cott
uncocooloaed wter nuch a  that fro  protected boreholes, springs,                     the luhbr force in age group of 15-64P youtrs.
urd oucirury    p woIin f an apercen.tagec of their ronpeotive population..
Iv  riu  arab   pbic (utior  tuandpost locted not more                                INCONE DItSTRIBL'TION
thuc 2)1 reters fr.. a house may be considered as being within reg-                    Percentage of private income  (both in o-sh and bind) received by richest 
coruloaoon  of that house.  It rural areas reasonable acces  woul..d                    percent, richest 70 percent, poorest 20 percent, and p-orrt 40 pnroent
ryy thu   he housewife ormebers of rho household do no t bar  to                      ifh.uosboide.
vpecd u di.yruportluontr part of theday I  fetchIng the family's
wat.rer  ods.                                                                         POVERTY TAREOT GROUPS
A..ou tonrr   icoa   crec  fcEltun      oa,ura,ad                                        itinated absolute po..erty (scone level (IJS) pet capita) - urban and  -0001
rus  uher of People (total, urban, and rural) unroed by ..eter                         Absolute pover ty incom  lev-l Os tha  icome level.   hobo uhichta ninloa
diyoulusporcetagose of their respective popolotions.  Esoreta                        nutritionally adequato dint plu  oserth.a)o-food rnqiroert   c 
01  co Iu lclude the collecti.n and disposal , with or without                         affordable.
rut rot  of  ovar occr-v an .a.swa      bywotnr-borroor nnnte.               tiae   oxiepoet   onree  (S   e   aia                                rban and rur-I
o,f pi   roe   n   isilr installa tions.                                      Relative poverty ioc... 1ove  is that income level  loss tbav ocr-third
?2PI ' r  0r oynican -  ouuicdvded by ..unber of Pra-ticiog                            pn aiaproa   noe of the country.
PloI    r  qoulifled fron a medical  2 soo  at universIty leve,                        InEtimated, popol.tion below povrty income lee-1ecet    - urhu  und  -url1
-opp   'o'tcr nunioperon-  - Populul    divided by numberof                           Ferconr ofppopulation  (urban  andrural) who aeritber "uhsolutr poo" o
p'   o   gcbadfnle     grIdusoorus   prctca  nrueo, and                            'reltive poor  whceeri reater
fe..I. gr d   . h. . s, pr c ic 1 a         r                                    rocricundlucal  utalivhio
icE ocAa)yiu and Projoctio n  Dopu-tenrt



- 35                                    ANNEX I
Page 12
BARBADOS: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977, 1978 and 1979 (1977 Prices &             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%  constant prices)
197 "xcharnge Rate j978 aJ       1979 b/
US$        %      US$        %   US$ Mln.  %       1977        1978MO        1979b/
GNP                          439.3   100.0    451.2    100.0 474.8   100.0    1.6             2.7          5.2
Gross Domestic Investment    96.4    21.9        99.4     22.0 110.5    23.3    7.1           3.1         11.2
Gross National Saving          62.1    14.1      87.8     19.5  94.7    19.9   35.2          41,           7.9
Current Account Balance      -34.3    -7.8    -11.6       -2.6 -15.8    -3.3
Exports of Goods, NFS        273.1    62.2    312.6       69.3 338.7    71.3   16.3          14.5           8.3
Imports of Goods, NFS        319.5    72.7    331.8       73.6 358.1    75.4    5.3           3.9          7.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                    Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                  Mln.        %                     US $          $
Agriculture                     39.6       11.1                   8.9       9.8                    4,449        113.3
Industry                        72.7       20.4                  22.4      24.6                    3,246         82.7
services                      244.9        68.5                  59.7      65.6                    4,102        104.5
Unallocated                            .               .
Total/Average          357.2       100.0                 91.0                              3,925       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Government
= BDS$Hln.)         % of GDP                     (BDSS Mln.)          % of GDP
1977/78  1978/79-11977/78  1978/79               1977/78  1978/79   1977/78   1978/79
Current Receipts                 269.2    329.5      30.7     32.8                241.0    296.7       27.4       29.5
Current Expenditure              246.7    274.9      28.:     27.3                244.0    270.9       27.8       26.9
Current Surplus                   22.5     54.h       2.6      5.4                 -3.0     25.8       -0.4        2.6
Capital Expenditures              90.8     67.3      10.3      6.7                 87.5     64.5       10.0        6.4
External Assistance (net)         31.4     25.6       3.6       2.5                31.8     25.6        3.6        2.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    19 73         1974         1975         1976         1a9 78a/
(Hillion BDS7 %'- anding end meriod)
Money and Quasi Money                     242.2          290.3        331.1        366.5        416.9       480.8
Bank credit to Public Sector              -23.7           27.2         20.1         51.5       106.3         74.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector             254.8          258.3        285.0        323.2       352.7        389.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Honey as % of GDP          59.6           45.5         41.8         46.1         47.5        47.8
General Price Index (1963 - 100)           72.0          100.0        120.3        126.3       136.8        149.9
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         ..            38.9         20.3          5.0          8.3         9.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                .            214.8        -26.1        156.2       106.4        -29.9
Bank credit to Private Sector                              1.4         10.3         13.4         9.1         10.5
a/ Estimate
b/ Projected
not available
not applicable



- 36 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 13
BARBADOS: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EKXPORTS  (AVERAGE  1972-77)
1977     1978 a/  1979b                                         us $ Mn    %
(Millions US $)
Sugar                          25.0    40.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                    273.1    335.4    394.6             Molasses                         3.7     6.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                    319..4    361.3    424.5            Other Primary                    4.3     7.0
Resource Gap (deficit --46.3    -25 9    -299                                Rum                              2.4     3.9
-25.9    -29.9        Chemicals                        2.5     4.1
Interest on MOLT Public Debt               -1.9     -3.2      -3.7           Electrical Components            4.9      8.0
Other Factor Payments (net)                 2.3     -1.8      -3.7           Clothing                        10.8    17.7
Current Transfers (net)                    11.6     17.5      17 5
Balan,ce on Current Account               -34.3    -13.4    -19.8       All other conmodities                 7.6    12.4
Net Public Disbursements                   21.1      13.2     12.7            Total                          6.2   TO ,0
(Gross Disbursements)                   (28.1)   (17.6)    19.5    EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 197 8
(AnDrtization)                          (-7.0)   (-4.4)    -6.8
Other Capital                              19.5      31.0     20.0                                                 US S Nln
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               58.5
Increase in Reserves                        6.3     30.8      12.9      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel & Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed                 ...
Imports                                72.3
of which:  Petroleum                                            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976 c/
Exports                               24.8        ..
of which:  Petroleum                24.8       .
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              2.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed               ...
RATE OF EXCHANGE
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (July 31. 1979) (Million US 8):
Decenber - 1971
US $ 1.00 - EC$ 1.975                                                                                  IBRD          IDA
BC $ 1.00 = US$ 0.506
Outstanding & Disbursed                0.02          -
Since July 1975                                                 Undisburued                            8.98          -
US $ 1.;00 - BDS$ 2.00                                          Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          7W
BDS$ 1.00 - US $ 0.50
a/ Estimated
b/ Projected
Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
n mot available
not applicable



37                                  ANNEX I
Page14
THE BAHAMAS: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                       1965-69            1970-7L2_          17 
GNP at Market Prices           698.0       100.0                       12.0               -4.0              4.8
Gross Domestic Investment       72.0        10.3                       16.0              --35.0           21.7
Gross National Saving          106.0        15.2                       14.3                7.3              2.3
Current Account Balance         34.8         5.0                        .                                  4.2
Exports of Goods, NFS b/      2594.0       371.6                       25.5               11.9             12.9
Imports of Goods, NFS b/     2892.7        414.4                       28.5              -13.0            16.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value A,dded                  Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Hln.      %                Thousand    %                     U $          y-
Agriculture                    19.1        2.5                  6.2      7.1                  3,080.6      35.2
Industry                       53.6        7.0                  2.2      2.5                  2,436.4      27.8
Services                      627.3       82.0                 74.0     84.6                  8,477.0      96.9
Unallocated                    65.6        8.5                  5.1      5.8                 12,862.7     147.0
Total/Average          765.6      100.0                 87.5     10.0                  8,749.7     100. 0
OOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
($ Mln)                    of 3
1976        1977    -1976        1973-76
Current Receipts                                                       143.7       152.2        20.6       20.3
Current Expenditure                                                    133.2       137.8       ..Ml        18.9
Current Surplus                                                         10.5        14.4         1.5        1.4
Capital Expenditures                                                    31.8        21.2         4.6        4.5
External Assistance (net)                                               -4.0          ..        -0.6       -0.6
HONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                                                1973        1974        1975       1976
(B$ Million outstandirg end period:
Honey and Quasi Money                                                  217.3       212.3        238.5      281.4
Bank credit to Public Sector                                            13.9        31.9        68.7        89.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                          276.0       259.2        258.3      258.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                                       40.8        32.0         37.1       40.3
General Price Index ( 1970- 100)                                       117.8       133.5        147.1      153.3
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                                                                 13.3         10.2        4.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                                           -64.0       129.5       115.4        29.5
Bank credit to Private Sector                                          107.8        -6.1        -0.3         0.2
a/  This information is being updated through the preparation of an economic memorandum which will be
published in early 1980.
b/ Includes petroleum.
not ayailable
not applicable



- 38-                                        ANNEX I
Page 15
THE BAHAMAS:  ECONOMIC INDICATORS
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     DOMESTIC   zXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974     1975      1976                                                  US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS        1795.4   2215.9   2594.0                     Petroleum Products               923      92.8
Imports of Goods, NFS        2111.1   2482.1   2892.7                     Hormones                          28       2.8
Resource Gap (deficit - -)  -315.7   -266.2   -298.7
Interest Payments (net),
Dividends & Prospects       -79.3    -61.6    -67.2
Travel                         305.7    289.9    341.3
Other  Services                 31.7     80.4      71.0
Net Transfers                 -12.5    -10.2    -11.6                  All other commodities                44       4.4
Balance on Current Account  - 70.1       32.3      34.8                      Total                         995     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment    117.7       50.9      17.4              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net  P?ublic Disbursements       0.4    -13.4    -11.3
Disbursements                                                                                                 US $ Man
Amortization
Subtotal                    48.0      69.8     40.9                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                43.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                                                    Total outstanding & Disbursed                43.1
(errors & omissions incl.) -41.5    -66.1    -46.7                                              a/
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Increiase in Reserves (+)        6.5      3.7      -5.8                                                             %
Public Debt. lucl. guaranteed             0.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed             0.3
Imports (net)
of which:  Petroleum
Exports (net)
of which:  Petroleum          ..      ..         ..        IBRD/DA LENDINGJ (JulY 31, 1979) (Million US $):
IBRD         IDA
AVERAGE RATE OF EXCHANGE (Since 1973)                            Outstanding & Disbursed                 1.0         -
US$1.00 - B$ 1.00                                                Undisburaed                             9,0         _
US$1. 00 -US$ 1. 00                                              Outstanding incl. Ukidisbursed         1O00-
a/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable



- 39 -                        ANNEX I
Page  16
GUYANA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PROIXJCT IN 1977,1978 and 197  (1977 Prices &          ANSUAL-9TEwOIRQWTH  C0 constant prices)
Ratna   es)          a         
1977198!17k
US$ Mln.       %    US$ Nln.78_ 2    US$ Mln979%X   1973-77    1977-78a/  1978-79b/
GNP at Market Prices              416.1     100.0      418.6  100.0      431.1  100.0   2.8           0.6        3.9
Gross Domestic Investment         123.5      29,7       84.1   20.1      117.3   27.2   3.8         -319        39.I
Gross National Saving              25.9       6,,2      69.2   16.5       73.5   17.0   7.2        167.3         6.2
Current Account Balance           -97.6     -23.5      -14.9   -3.6      -43.8  -10.2
Exports of Goods, NFS             275,7      66,3      316.2   75 5      354.5   82.2   2.7          14.7       12.1
Imports of Goods, NFS             347        83,5      289.8   69.2      319.2   74.0   5.8        -16.6        10.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE ANDI
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                   Labor Force                      V. A. Per Worker
US$ Nln.     %T                   Mln.       %                      S   
Agriculture                     106.0     23.8                   ..
Industry                         67.2     15.1                   ..
Services                        211.4     61.1
Unallocated                       .
Total/Average          -r'.6    100.0                                                                 100.0
0OV3RN)ENT FINANCE
Consolidated Public Sector                           Central Government
G$ Mln.J )       %Of fGDP                     (  G_ Mln.)         % of GDP
1977     1978      1977     1978                1977     1978 a  1977      1978 a
Current Receipts                    406.9    512.7    36.4        40.5               355.4    363.8   31.8      28.7
Current Expenditure                 433.9    443.5    38.8        35.0               415.0    424.0   37.1      33.5
Current Surplus                     -27.0      69.2    -2.4        5.5              -59.6      60.2   -5.3      -
Capital Expenditures                299.0    251.0    26.8        19.8               128.6    109.0   11.5       8.6
External Assistance (net)            90.0    101.0      8.1        8.0                23.0     52.0    2.1       4.1
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1972          1973         1974        1975         1976         1977     1978
{iUllion G$ outstanding end periodT-
Money and Quasi Money                     227.5         258.1        299.8        384.7        417.3        538.1     59.0
Bank credit to Public Sector               96.5         169.7        139.3        155.5        412.7        603.0    661.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector               97.5        117.8        125.6       117.4         120.0        113.0    121.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           38.4         40.0         31.6         32.3          36.8        48.2      44.6
General Price Index (1963 - 100)           106.7        117.2        140.3        148.7        161.7        179.1
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          4. 9         9.8         19.7          6.0          8.7         10.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                30.2         75.9        -17.9         11.6        165.4         46.1       9.6
Bank credit to Private Sector                0.El        20.8          6.6         -6.5          2.2         -5.8       7.1
a/ Preliminary
b/ Projected
not available
not applicable



- 40 -
ANNEX I
GUYANA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Page 17
TRADE PADINTS AND CAPITAL FLOPg
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAV  E 1976-78)
1977    1978 a/ 1979b/                                          US $ Min    Z
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS                 275.7   313.7   358.8           Sugar                                88.9    32.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                 347.5   312.2   375.8           Bauxite and alumina                 124.2    44.7
Resource GaP (deficit = _)            -71.8      1.5   -17.0          Rice                                 31.0    11.1
Interest Payments (net)               -14.8   -16.9   -25.9
Other Factor Payments (net)            -1.1    -6.1    -5.1
Net Transfers                          -3.9    -6.0    -5.0
Balances on Current Account           -97.6  -27.5  -53.0             All other commodities                340    12.2
Total                         278.1  100.0
Direct Foreign Investment                                           EXTENAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Net Public Disbursements                                            EXTERNAL_DEBT,_DECEMBER_31__1978
Disbursements                       59.2   100.4   122.4                                                    US $ Mln
Amortization                       -23.9   -60.8   -71.4
Subtotal                            35.3    39.6    51.0           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                420.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                    -.
Other Capital (net)                     0.4      7.9     5.1          Total outstanding & Disbursed                42=
Capital Account Balance                35.7    47.5    56.1
Overall Balance                        61.9   -20.0    -3.1         DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978 c/
Change in Reserves                     22.3  -12.2       8.2                                                      %
Arrears                                 32.5   -10.2   -11.3
Government Funds                        7.1      2.4     -            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             24.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed             g4.8
Imports                              62.9    66.7   88.8
of which: Petroleum
ERports
of which: Petroleum                  -        -       -  IBRD/IDA LENDING, (July 31. 1979) (Million US $):
131W        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Since - October 1975                                             Outstanding & Disbursed               32.16        15.63
Undisbursed                           20.93     3_ 00
US$1.00 -  G$2.55                                                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          53.09      .18.63
G$1.00 - US$0.392
a/  Preliminary
b/   Projected
c/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable



- 41 -                             NNOLX I
Pager I
JAMAICA   ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977, 1978 and 1979 C1974 prices & exchange rate)
1977             1978-/            1979b-      ANNUAL l':,    ,ROW1'h (E, constant prices)
US$Mln    %       US$Mln   %        US$Mlin     %      1977   -979
GNP at Market Prices          2,140.3   100.0  2,122.2  100.0   2,175.3  100.0        n0.,                    2.5
Gross Domestic Investment       278.0    13.0    279.0   13.1       307.0   14.1      39.5                  10.0
Gross National Savings          233.0    10.9    189.0    8,9       211,0    9.7      17.       -.          11.6
Current Account Balance         -45.0    -2.1    -90.0   -4.2       -96.0    4.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           647.0    30.2    731.0   34.4       799.0   36.7      -1.7       13.0        9.3
Imports of Goods, NFS           719.0    33.6    739.0   34.8       776.0   35.7    -23.5         2*8        5.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Employed
Value Added                    Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    __                    Hln.        >                    U $f
Agriculture                    262.4        8.9                0.246       35.2                  1066.7      25.4
Industry                       307.9       10.5                0.007        1.0                 43985.7    1045.5
Manufacturing                  558.4       19.0                0.075       10.7                  7445.3     177.0
Other                         1807.9       61.6                0.370       53.1                  4886.2     116.1
Total/Average          Z936.6        .75                0.698     10T75                  4207.2      100.0
GOVERNNENT FINANCE
Consolidated Non-Financial Public Sector                     Central Government
(JMln) _           % of GDP                          (J$                 % of GDP
1977/78   1978T79d/ 1977/78    1978/79              1977/78 , 1978/79V 1977/78   197R/7Q
Current Receipts              1,270.6   2,009.2      39.6         ..                640.4    1,040.8       20.0
Current Expenditure           1,382.3   1,971.8      43.2         ..                832.8    1,152.6       26.0
Current Surplus                -111.7       37.4     -3.6         ..               -192.4      -111.8      -0.6       ..
Capital Expenditures            459.3      577.7     14.3         ..                332.6       410.4      10.4
External Assistance (net)          7.9     252.6       0.2        ..                 21.1       280.0       0.7
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                                              1970        1972         1974         1977
(J$ Mln outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                                 389.7       565.6        664.6       1016.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                                           42.9       101.4        169.2        855.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                         278.6       433.7        535.8        516.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                                      35.0        39.4         29.3          34.3
General Price Index (1975 - 100)-C/                                    52.8        63.1         96.6        137.9
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                                                     7.4         9.4         20.6         14.1
Bank credit to Public Sector                                             -         47.8         15.2         37.3
Bank credit to Private Sector                                            -         30.2         17.2        -13.4
a/Estimated
b/Projected
S/End of period hasis,
d/Provisional
not a-ailable
not applicable



- 42 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 19
JAMAICA:  ECONOMIC INDICATORS
TRADE PADM4ITS AND CAPITAL FLOWB
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1977     1978a/   1979-/                                                 US $ Mln    %
Exports (incl. NFS)               921.5   1005.6   1115.0                Bauxite/Alumina                     514.1      69.1
Imports (incl. NFS)               889.4   1006.1   1151.9                Sugar                                92.6      12.5
Resource Balance(deficit   -)    32.1        -0.5    -36.9               Bananas                              14.5       1.9
Net Interest                      -64.0    -63.6    -70.9                All other commodities               122.2      16.5
Workers' Remittance                35.1      36.0      38.0                  Total                           743.4    10-0.0
Other Factor Services (net)       -91.3   -135.6    -88.2
Current Transfers                  20.0      22.0     23.0
Balance on Current Account       -68.1   -141.7   -135.0
Direct Foreign Investment          -7.0    -11.0    -11.0
Public M&IT Loans (net)            14.2    159.2       99.5
(Gross Disbursements)          (96.8)  (269.0)  (232.8)
(Amortization)                 (82.6)  (109.8)  (133.3)             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECENBER 31, 1977
IMF Drawings (net)                 27.0      73.0    132.0
Capital Transactions n.e.iA.l    -2.2    -99.4    -17.8                                                              US $ Mln
Change in Reserves (tincrease)  -36.1    -19.9        67.7
Gross Official Reserves            48.8      54.5    100.0                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               1005.0
Fuel and Related Materials                                                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                1005.0
of which:  Petroleum         293.3    207.1
Exports                         -         -         -               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978&c/
of which:  Petroleum           -         -         -                                                             %
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              17.1
RATE OF EXCHANGt
Since May 1979                                              IBRD/IDA LENDING. (July 31, 1979)   (US$ million)
US$1.00O  J$1.78
J$1.ClO     US$0,562                                                                                  IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed               117,22         -
Usdisburecd                            -90.05
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         207.27
a/ Estimated.
b/ Projected.
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
.   not available
. not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 20
- 43 -
BELIZE: ECONOMIC INDTCATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977,1978 and 1979 C1977 Prices &             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrI (%. constant prices)
Exchange Rate)  -                       1
1977                  1978-      1979-          1977      1978       1979
US$ X1n.    X     US$ Mln.  x  US$ Mn. I
GNP at Market Prices         98.6    100.0      105.2 100.0  109-8 100.0      3.0        6.4       4.3
Gross Domestic Investment  31.5        31.9      40.7  38.8   52.0  47.5       ..       29.2      27.8
Gross National Savings        9.7       9.8      12.2  11.6    6.7   6.1       ..       25.8    -45.1
Current Account Balance    -21.8    -22.1       -28.5 -27.2  -45.3 -41.4
Exports of Goods, NFS        72.4      73.4      86,9  82.8   79.2  72.4    29.6        20.0      -8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS        93.4     94.7      112.6 107.3  122.2 111.7       ..       20.6       8.5
POPULATION AND GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977
Population (mid-year, thousands) .  129.8
GNP Per Capita (US$, Atlas methodology): 810.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY 'IN 1977
Value Added                   Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
US   ln.                       M %1l=.nU  $ - 
Agriculture                     20.8       23.1                  ..
Industry                        20.4       22.7                  ..
Services                        48.7       54.2                  ..
Unallocated
TotalJAverage
89. i~                            .. = O.
89.9  TOO.0           100.0                             ~~~~~~~~~~100.0
GOVERNTET FINANCE
Consolidated Public Sector                            Central Government
51L mi.)            % of GDF                     ( BZ$ Mln.)         %oODP
1977     1978 a/       1977     1978 a/                1977      1978 a/ 1977      1978 a/
Current Receipta             ..       ..                                            44.0      53.2    21.5      23.5
Current Expenditure                                          ..                     38.3      46.0    18.7      20.3
Current Surplus             1.8       3.5           0.9      1.5                     5.7       7.2     2.8       3.2
Capital Expenditures        26.4     48.7          12.9     21.5                    23.4      35.9    11.4      15.8
Zxternal Assistance (net) 13.2       34.1           6.4     15.0                    13.3       ..      6.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1973          1974        1975         1976         1977         1978
Tiillion Bi3$ outstanding end periodT)
Money and Quasi Money                      43.4           58.1         67.2        69.6         73.9
Bank crecdit to Public Sector              -1.8           -3.2         -3.4         1.8          5.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector              49.2           60.3         71.7        85.9         86.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           37.8          36.6         34.8         37.5        36.1
General Price Index (1963 - 100)             .       .            ..          ..
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          *-                                                  *-           *-
Bank credit to Pablic Sector (net)         10.0          -77.8         -6.3          *         216.7
Bank credit to Private Sector               4.0           22.6         18.9        19.8          0.5
a/  Estimate
b/ Projectedt
not available
not applicable



- 44 -
ANNEX I
BELIZE;  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                               Page 21
TRADE PAD492Ts AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALAICE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1977     1978 a/ 1979i/                                        US $ M1n     .
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS                     72.4      89.8    91.7      Sugar                               26.9       46.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                     93.4    120.0   142.5       Garments                             6.5       11.1
Resource Gap (deficit   -)               -21.0    -30.2   -50.8       Citrus Products                      2.6        4.5
Fish Products                        3.0        5.1
Other Factor Payments (net)               -3.8     -5.0    -5.7
Net Transfers                              3.0       3.4     3.7       All other commodities                         33
Balance on Current Account               -21.8    -31.8   -52.8              Total                        58.3    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing                          2.6      8.6    32,3
Disbursements                           3.8      9,9    33.2 E/                                               US $ Mln
Amortization                           -1.2      .3    -0.9
Public Debt,  incl. guaranteed               17.4
Capital Grants                             4.2      8.4                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                       17.7     20.1    19.7        Total outstanding & Disbursed
increase in Reserves (+)                   2.7      5.3    -0.8      DEBT SERVICE RATIO forlg77 dI
Gross Reserves (end year)                 14.3      .
Net Reserves   (end year)                  7.7      ..       ..        Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              2.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                                11.7
of which:  Petroleum
Exports                                  -
of which:  Petroleum                  -         -        -IBRD/IDA LENDING,(July 31. 1979) (Million US $):
1BRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                        _
Since May 1976                                                  Outstanding & Disbursed--
US$ 1.00 - BZ$2.00                                               Outstanding ic. Undisbursed
BZ$ 1.0O - US$0.50
a/ Estimate
b/ Projected
c/ Grants included
d/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable



- 45 -
ANN   I
Pame 22
EASTERN CARIBBEAN COMNOU FlK1   ECONOMTC INDICATORS
ECOUMC lNmcATORS
GROSS NATOL PRODUCT IN 1'777, 1978 angd71977             78 /         1979 9    A AL RATE OF GR.OWTH ( e, eonstant priees)
ZS$ Mln.    1    YS Mln   %   !S$ !lr               1976^77    1977-78  1J 1978-79 b/
GNP at Market Prices           282.7     100.0  298.4   100.0  311.1   100,0        ..          5.6         4.3
Gross Domestic: Investment      75.8      26.8   79.6   26.7   95.4    30.7                     5.0        19.8
Gross National Saving           28.8      10.2    36.9   12.4   44.7    14.4         ..        28.1        21.1
Current Account Balance        -47.0    -16.6  -42.7  -14.3  -50.7    16.3
Exports of Goods, NFS          150.2      53.1  160.4   53.8  173.5   55.8          ..          6.8         8.2
Imports of Goods, NFS          225.2      79.7   236.8   79.4  253.3   81.4         ..         5.2          7.0
POPULATION AND GNP PER CUPITA IN 1977
PocuLatioin (mid-year, thousands): 537,5
GNP Per Capita (US$, Atlas methodology):  54.0.
OUTP1U, LARoR FORCM  AND
PRODUCTTIVTY IN 1977
Value Added                   Labor For ceV                            Worker
Agriculture                     48.3      19.6                  ..
Industry                        44.4      18.1
Services                       153.0      62.3
Unallocated
Total/Average          245.7     100.0                            0                      ..        100.0
GOV1RUNEIT FIIUNCE
-   General Government                            Central Goveyzuent
L 2 EC -In.                                    (RCf ~0)ln. )       I of GDP
1977   1978      1977    1978                   1977   1978 !/ 1977      1978 a/
CLurrant Receipjts                 ..    ..         ..      ..                    214.4  255.3    28.1      31.6
Current Expenditure                ..               ..                            219.7  272.3   28.8       33.7
Current Surplus                                                                   219:3  770 07             - 2.
Capital Expenditures                                 ..                            61.1   71.6     8.1       8.9
External Aseistance (net)          ..    ..          .       .                     S3.2   ..        7.0
Y. CREDIT and PRICES                      1973         1974        l175         l&76         1977        1978
Milion EC$ outstanding end periodF
Mony  and Quasi Money                      ..            ..         403.6       468.2       501.0
Bank credit to Public Sector               ..           ..           64.1        72.3        80.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector              ..           ..          252.1       270.9       331.5
(Psrcentages or Index Nuubere)
Money and Quasi Money ae % of GOP          -             ..           .          59.6        63.4
General Price Index (1963 - 100)
A-nnal percentags changes int
General Price Index
Bank credit to Public Sector               ..           ..            ..         12.8        10.6
Bank credit to Private Sector               .         *         -                 7.5        22.4
Ea Rstimated
b/ Projecred
rnobt axailable
not applicable



- 46 -
ANNEX I
EASTERN CARIBBEAN COMMON MARKET: ECONOMIC INDICATORS                           Page 23
MMAD PAIHINTS AND CAPITAL FIDWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    NERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1977     1978 A/  1979 blUS $ Min  _
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS                    150.2     174.4    206.3   Bananas                               22.8       27.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                    225.2     255.4    297.3   Mineral Fuel and Related materials 9.8           11.6
Resource Gap (deficit - _)               -75.0     -81.0    -91.0   Cocoa                                  3.6        4.3
Coconnt Prnefiits                    3.7        4.4
Citrus                               1.7        2.0
Sugar and Molasses                  11.1       13.2
Other Factor Payments (net)                0.3       -0.2     -1.7
Net Transfers                             27.8      35.3      34.0    All other co.modities               2L.t       37.4
Balance on Current Account               -46.9      -45.9    -58.7          Total                         84.2    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMHER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing                          5,6        6.9     18.8
Disbursements                           7,9       9.1      20.5                                               US $ Mln
Amortization                           -2.3      -2.2      -1.7
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               43.2
Grants                                    11.2       18.0      22.9    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                       31.4       20.1     17.3    Total outstanding & Disbursed
Increase in Reserves t+)                   1.3       -0.9      0.3
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (July 31, 1979) (Million US $):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Since May 1976                                                   Outstanding & Disbursed                 -            -
US $ 1.00 = EC$ 2.7                                              utstad
EC$  1.00 - US $0.37                                             outstanding  i. Undisbursed
al Estimated
b/ Projected
not available
not applicable



-47 -                                      AMR=E I
Page 24
ANTIGUA: ECONOMTC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977. 1978 and 19-79 (1977 Prices & Exchange ate)AENUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
1977            197 8-a         1~9709-'        /       __
us$1 O7   %     us$i~ffM   2   US$M1n          %    1975f77    1977/78,I   1978179k!
GNP at Market Prices            62.1  100.0      65.2   100.0   68.3  100.0    -1.3           5.0          4.7
Gross Domestic Investmnt        11.0   17.7      11.4    17.5   13.8    20.2   -21.9          3.6         21.1
Gross 'National Saving           3.0    4.8       4.n     6.1    6.9    10.1  -.24.5         33.3         72.5
Current Account Balance         -8.0  -12.9      47.4   -11.3   -6.9    10.1
Excports of Goods, NFS          33.1   5.3.3     34.8    53.4   40.1    58.7    18.1          5.1         15.2
IMports of Goods, NFS           44.1   71.0      46.6    71.5   51.0    74.7   -17.9          5.7          9.4
POPULATION AND GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977
Population (mid-year, thousands):  72.5
GNP Per Capita (US$, Atlas methodology): 890.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                    Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
USS ~~~~~~~~Mln.%/.    s                     U      S       L$          %
lgriculture                      2.5        4.5                  2.3       11.5                 1,087         39.4
Industry                        12.3       22.3                  3.8       19.0                 3,236        117.2
Services                        40.4       73.2                 13.9       69.5                 2,906        105.3
Unallocated
Total/Average           55.2       100.0                 20.0      100.0                 2,760       luu.O
OOVERTMDT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Oovernment
MC  %Lo X                of GOP                   EC $  MIn.)        S of GP
1977     1978      1977   1978                  1977      1978     1977   1978
Current Receipts                 50.4      62.6     29.9   32.5                   29.6     37.2      17.5   19.3
Current Expenditure              56.0      69.2     33.2   35.9                   39.2     48.7      23.2   25.3
Current Surplus                  -5.6     -6.6      -3.3  -3.4                   -9.6    -11. 5      -5.7   -6.0
Capital Expenditures             12.4      15.6      7.3    8.1                   13.1     15.2       7.8    7.9
External Assistance (net)         9.3      11.1      5.5    5.8                    9.5     10.6       5.6    5.5
HONEL. CREDIT and PRICES                   19 73         19 74        1975        1976         1977         1978 a)
(illion EC$ outstanding end periodT
Honey and Quasi Honey                       65.3        88.0          96.6        104.8       100.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                14.5        16.8          18.7         24.1        29.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector               56.3        61.6          62.7         75.5        79.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            ..           ..          67.4         72.9        59.6
General Price Index (1963 - 100)           172.2       194.6         211.3        244.3       265.0
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         21.7        13.0           8.6         15.6          8.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                 *-         15.9          11.3         28.9        22.8
Bank credit to Private Sector                *-          9.4           1.8         20.4         5.3
a Estimate
b )Pro Jected
c/Figares- for 1976
not available
not applicable



- 48 -
ANNEX I
ANTIGUA:  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                              Tage 25
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FW1B
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1977  1978a)  1979b)                                                   Us $ Min    7
(Millions US $)
Mineral Fuel Lubricants
Exports of Goods, NFS              33.1  37.8    48.2                 and related materials                  9.8      70.0
Imports of Goods, NFS             44.1  50.6    61 2                Machinery & Transport Equipment          1.5      10.7
Resource Gap (deficit = -)       -11.0 -12 8   -13.0               'Reverages and Tobacco                    0.6       4.3
Other Factor Payments(net)        -0.3  -0.4    -0.8
Net Transfers                       3.4   5.2-   5.6
All other conmodities                2.1     15.0
Balance on Current Account        -7.9  -8.0    -8.2                         Total                          14.0    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing                  1.9   2.5      2.4
Disbursements                    2.0   2.7      2.7                                                              US $ Mln
Amortization                    -0.1  -0.2    -0.3
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               18.1
Capital Grants                     1.5   1.6      4.4                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                4.5   3.6      1.6                   Total outstanding & Disbursed
Increase in Reserves (+)            -   -0.3      0.2                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977C/
Public Debt, inl. guaranteed               1.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports
of which: Petroleum
Exports
of which: Petroleum                                         IBRD/IA LEUDING, (July 31, 1979)  (Million US$
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                         IBRD         IDA
Since Mav 1976                                                  Outstanding & Disbursed
US $1.00 -EC2.7                                                 Uedisbursd-
EC$ 1.00 - Us$0.37                                             Outstanding incl. Undisbursed
a) Estimate
b) Projected
c) Ratio of Debt service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
not awailable
not aplicable



A
ANNEX I
Page 26
- 49 -
DOMINICA:   ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PROIJCT IN 1977, 1978 and9Z9 (1977 Prices & Exchange Pate) ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% constant prices)
1977      ~~197& S        1979ibf
US$ Mln.   %    US$Mln    %    US$Mln    %       1977          1978 El      1979h'
GNP at Market Prices            32.9  100.0    34.5  100.0    35.1  100.0        0.4          4.9          1.7
Gross Domestic Investment        7.1    21.6     8.1   23.5     9.1   25.9       ..          14.1         12.3
Gross National Saving           2.0      6.1     3.3    Q.6     4.1   11.7       ..          50.0          24.2
Current Account Balance         5.2    15.8   -4.8  -13.9   -5.0  -14.2
Exports of Goods, NFS           14.9    45.3    17.9   51.9    17.4   49.6                   20.1         -2.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          21.9   66.6    25.5   73.9    23.5   66.9        ..           16.4         -7.9
POPULATION AND GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977
Population (mid-year, thousands):   76.7
GNP Per Capita (US$, Atlas methodology):  410.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Valuei Added                  Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      ,Mln.                                              US $r
Agriculture                    12.3       36.6                 8.0       36.3                 1,532        100.9
Industry                        3.5       10.6                 2.3       10.5                 1,530        100.7
Servic3s                       17.7       52.8                11.7       53.2                 1,505         99.1
Unallocated
Total/Aiverage          335                            22.0      1                     1,519       100.0
WOVERN1XIT FIIIANCE
Consolidated Public Sector                         Central Government
(__________________I_of       _                (EcS MEC.') N        of  GDP
19'~i  1978aiI97   1978> a1977/78 1978/79  1977/78 1978/79
78..1977   1978 ..  .31.9    35.9a/  35.2    39.5.a/
Current Receipts                    ..
Current Expenditure                __    -                                        35.2    37.0      38.9   40_7
Current Surplus                    -3.4   2.5  -3.8       2.8                     -3.3   -1.1       -3.6   -1.2
Capital Expenditures               13.7  18.4  15.2    20.2                         8.2    15.1      9.1    16.6
External Assistance (net)          17.7  26.3  19.6    28.9                        15.3    ..       16.9
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1973         1974         1975        1976         1977        19 78
TMillion EC$ outstanding end periodc
Money and Quasi Money                     29.5          32.5        37.1        40.5         44.1
Bank credit to Public Sector               4.1           5.7         4.2         6.7          6.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector             32.9          33.3        36.9        36.7         43.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money md Quasi Money as % of GDP          60.0          57.1        61.2        55.9         48.8
General Price Index (1964 - 100)         180.0         235.4       269.0       291.0        315.8
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                       24.0          30.8        14.3         8.2          8.5
Bank credit to Pablic Sector              -6.8          39.0       -26.3        59.5       -10.4
Bank credit to Private Sector             19.2          1.2         10.8        -0.5         19.3
a/ Estimated
b/ Projected
not available
not applicable



-50 -                                         ANNEX I
DOMINICA:  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                       Page 27
TRAIE PAINTS AND CAPITAL FrOUB
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MEECHADISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE1975-77)
197 7   1978a/  1979__                                       US $Min    %
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods, NFS                    14.9     19.4      20.2
imports of Goods, NFS                    21.9     28.3      27.4
Resource Gap (deficit - -)               7Th    *FB9        -7.2
Bananas                           6.7      58.3
Coconut Products                  1.5      13.0
Citrus Products                   1.7      14.8
Other Factor Payments                    -0.6      -0.7      -0.7
Net Transfers                             2.4      4.4        2.0    All other commdities               1.6      13.9
Balance on Current Account               -5.2     -5.2      -5.9           Total                       11.5    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1972
Net MLLT Borrowing                        2.7    -0.1        2.2
Disbursements                          2.7      G.1       2.4                                              US $ Mm
Amortization                            -      -0.2      -0.2
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             9.7
Capital Grants                            2.2      6.2       6.2    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                       0.1    <0g        -2.5    Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i-                                 -C
Increase in Reserves *)                 -0.2        -         -   DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-' 
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             4.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
F'el and Related MateriAls                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed
biorts                                  1.9
of which: Petrol.                               . 
Of which: Patrol&um                                      lwlm  =  =MD in G.(Julv 31. 1979) (Million US $):
IBD         IDA
RATE C  EXCHANE
Since May 1976                                                 Ostandiag & Disbursed
"    1.00  ' EC-$2.7                                           Outstalieg incl. Udisburiabr-d
ECS  1.00 - US *D.37
a/ Estimate
b/ Projected
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports and Non-Factor Services
.   not available
. not Wplicable



A
'ANNEX I
- 51 -
Page 28
GRENADA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977,1978 and 1979 (1977 Prices & Exchange Rate)  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% constant prices)
1977             1978 a           1979 b
US$Mln    Z      US$Mln    X      US$Mln    X      1975-77      1977-78 a/    1978-79
GNP at Market Prices            49.4   100.0    51.4   100.0    54.3   100.0          ..           4.0           5.6
Gross Domestic Investment        7,8    15.8      6.4    12.5       8.9    16.4      66.2       -18.0           39.1
Gross National Saving            4.5      9.1     6.3    12.2       6.7    12.3       7.3         40.0           6.3
Current Account Balance         -3.3      6.7    -0.1    -0.3    -2.2    -4.1
Exports of Goods, NFS           26.3    53.2    28.0    54.5    30.4    56.0         16.2          6.5           8.6
Imports of Goods, NFS           32.5    65.8    33.0    64.2    37.1    68.3         22.6          1.5          12.4
POPULATION AND GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977
Population (mid-year, thousands).  105.2
GNP Per Capita (US$, Atlas methodology): 480.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AID
PODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                    Labor Force                      V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                          MM tln      %                     XM$           %
Agriculture                      13.6       33.1                 11.0       31.2                1,236.4        105.9
Industry                          3.1        7.5                  2.1        6.0                1,476.2        126.4
services                         24.4       59.4                 22.1       62.8                1,104.1         94.6
Unallocated                        .         _                      .     _
Total/Average                 41.1     100.0                  35.2     100.0                 1,167.6        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                 Central Governesnt
( EC$ Mln. )            of GDP                   ( EC$ Mln.)          % ofG DP
1977     1978 a    11977 1978  a/                 1977      1978 A/  1977      1978 a/
Current Receipts                     ..       ..        ..       2,                   33.2     46.0      24.7      32.9
Current Expenditure                                                                   33.6     51.6      25.0      36.9
Current Surplus                     ..        ..        ..       ..                   -0.4     -5.6      -0.3     -4.0
Capital Expenditures                ..        ..        ..       ..                    6.3      6.8       4.7       4.9
External Assistance (net)           ..        ..        ..       ..                    6.1      6.1       4.5       4.4
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    19 73         1974         1975         1976         1977         1978 a/
1illion  EC$ outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                         ..          55.0         70.1         81.3         90.1
Bank credit to Public Sector                  ..          15.3         15.6         17.0         17.0         21.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                ..           46.4         44.5         41.8         51.3         60.6
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GD              ..           ..          72.9         70.0         67.1
General Price Index (1963 - 100)
Annual percentage changes in,
General Price Index
Bank credit to Public Sector                              26.4          2.0          9.0          -           25.3
Bank credit to Private Sector                ..           -9.4         -4.1         -6.1         22.7         18.1
at Wetimated
b/ Projected
not available
not applicable



- 52 -
ANNEX I
GRENADA:  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                             Page 29
TRADE PATnTSM AND CAPITAL FIOIB
BALANCE OF PAY1MENTS                                                    MlHItISE   PORTS (AVUAGE 1973-78)
1977    1978 a/   1979 b/                                         USSNMn    %
Exports of Goods, NFS                   26.3    32.3        38.4
Imports of Goods, NFS                   32.5    36.3        45.3      Bananas                                 2.6     22.2
Resource Gap (deficit - -)              -6.2    -4.0        -6.9      Cocoa                                  3.6      30.8
Mace                                   0.8       6.8
Nutmeg                                 4.1     35.0
Other Factor Payments (net)             -0.3    -0.3       -0.3
Net Transfers                            3.2      4.2        4.6        All other commodities                 0.6      5.2
Balance on Current Account              -3.3    -0.1        -2.6              Total                         11.7    100 7
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net 1LT Borrowing                        1.5    -0.1         2.0
Disbursements                         1.7     1.2        2.4                                                    US $ Nlf
Amortization                         -0.2    -1.3       -0.4
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 5.8
Capital Grants                           0.6      1.0        1.1        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                      1.5    -1.5       -0. 1        Total outstanding & Disbursed
Increase in Reserves (+)                 0.3    -0.7        0.4       DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 2c/
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed               1.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                                3.0      3.3        3.7
of which:  Petroleum
Exports
of which: Petroleum                            -           IBRD/IDA LENDING, (July 31, 1979) (Million US $)
IBRD         IDA,
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed
Undisbursed
US |  1  " EC6$ 2.7           ~                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 
EC$ 1.00 - US $ 0.37
a/ Estimated
b/ Projected
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable



- 53 -
A                                                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 30
ST. KITTS-NEVIS-ANGUILLA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAI PRODUCT IN 1977, 1978 anid 1979 (1977 Prices & Exchange Rate)ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% of constant prices)
1977            197  a/          .921 D/
US$MIn    %     US$Mln    Z      US$Mln    %       1976-77     1977-78 a/  1977-78
GNP at Market Prices             30.1   100.0    30.5   100.0    30.8  100.0        0.0           1.3        1.0
Gross Domestic Investment         5.1    16.9      4.4    14.4      6.4   20.8    13.2         -13.8        45.4
Gross National Saving            -0.7    -2.0      0.1     0.3      1.4    4.5  -148.7             .      1400.0
Current Account Balance          -5.8   -18.9    -4.3   -14.4    -5.0  -16 .3
Exports of Goods, NFS            16.7    55.5    16.0    58.0    16.4   64.9   -17.7            -4.2         2.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            24.4    81.1    22.9    81.0    24.4   92.5    -5.4             6.2         6.6
POPULATION AND GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977
Population (mid-year, thousands): 49.7
GNP Per Capita (US$, Atlas methodology): 650.0
OUTPlUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                    Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln. *                        Mln         %                      v
Agriculture                      5.5       21.8                  3.6       44.4                   1,528        49.1
Industry                         8.6       34.1                   1.8      22.2                   4,778       153.6
Services                        11.1       44.1                  2.7       33.4                   4,111       132.1
Unallocated
Total/,Averase         25.2     TIo.m                    8.1     100.0                    3,111      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
C General Government                             Central Government
_{Ln.)   -                                  (OfGDP  (EC$ Mln.)  % of GDI?
1977    1978 _/  1977      1978 a/                a 77    1978 a/   1977      1978 A/
Current Receipts                    ..       ..       ..        ..                   27.7    29.8       33.9     36.1
Current Expenditure                         ..        ..        .                   26.6    30.8        32.6     37.3
Current Surplus                     66      ..                 ..                     1.1    -1.0        1.3     -1.2
Capital Expenditures                8.1     ..        9.2       ..                    7.0     7.2        8.6      8.7
External Assistance (net)           1.0      ..       1.2       ..                    2.1     4.3        2.6      5.2
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                   1973          1974         1975         19 76        1977         1978 A/
(Million ECFOutstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      30.0          35.7         42.3        55.0          64.6         77.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                3.6           7.3          9.7        11.6          12.3         14.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector              20.5          23.8         20.9        25.6          34.6         41.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           ..            ..           ..          72.9         79.1         93.5
General Price Index (1963 - 100)          166.4         216.0        236.7        266.0        317.5        329.1
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        15.6          29.8          9.6        12.4          19.4          3.6 Sc/
Bank credit to Public Sector                *-          102.8         32.9        19.6           6.0         19.5
Bank credit to Private Sector               *-           16.1        -12.2        22.5          35.2         20.5
a/ Estimate
b/ Projected
c/ Aueust 1978
not available
not applicable



- 54 -
ANNEX I
ST. KITTS-NEVIS-ANGUILLA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS                    Page 31
TRADE PArDEITS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MBRCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1977     1978 a/   1979                                       US $ Mln    %
tMillions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS                    16.7     17.7       20.0      Sugar                             10.7      58.8
Imports of Goods, NFS                    24.4     24.7       28.5      Molasses                           0.4       2.2
Resource Gap (deficit - -)               -                    -
-7.7     -7.0       -8.5      Beer and Ale                       0.1      0.5
Net Factor Service Pavments              -0.1     -0.1       -0 1                                         7 0
Net Transfers                             2.1      2.4        2.7     All other commodities                        38.5
Balance on Current Account               -5.7     -4.7      7777           Total                         18.2    100,0
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31  1977
Net MLT Borrowing                        -0.6     -0.3        3.9
Disbursements                         0.4        -        4.3                                               US $ Mln
Amortization                         -1.0      -0.3      -0.4
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               4.8
Capital Grants                            1.0      1.9       1.3      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                      5.8       3.2       0.4      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Increase in Reserves *)                  0.5       0.1       0.3   DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 c/
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              6.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                                1.9
of which: Petroleum
Exports
of which:  Petroleum                                      I _  laRD/IDA LENDING.  (July 31. 1979)(Million US $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                        IBRD         IDA
i_ncp May, 1976                                                Outstanding & Disbursed                 -           -
US $ 1.00 = EC$ 2.70                                            OUndisbursed      _U    b
EC$  1 O        $037                                            Outstanding inl  Undisbursed            -           -
a/ Estimate
b/ Prolected
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable



ANNE% I
- 55 -                                              Page 32
MONTS'ERRAT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977, 1978 and 1979 (1977 Prices & Exchange Rate) ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
1.977         1.97 t 5.         1979 1
US$Mln    %      USSNln    %      US$Mln    X        1975-77      1977-78 a/  1978-79 bl
GNP at Market Prices              9.3   100.0      9.7   100.0    10.0   100.0         -0.5          4.3          3.1
Gross Domestic Investment         3.6    :8.7      3.8    39.2       3.8    38.0       -8.5          5.6          0.0
Gross National Saving             0.9     9.7      0.7      7.2      0.3     3.0       -4.5        -22.2        -57.2
Current Account Balance          -2.7   -29.0    -3.1   -32.0    -3.5   -35.0
Enports of Goods, NFS             3.4    36.0      4.0    41.2       4.5    45.0        3.4         17.6         12.5
imports of Goods, NFS             7.1    76.3      8.3    85.6      9.2    92.0        -2.0         16.9         10.8
POPULATION AND GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977
Population (mid-year, thousands):  12.7
GNP Per Capita (US$, Atlas methodology): 745.0
OUTPT,J LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197 7
Value Added                    Labor Force                      V. A. Per Worker
S$l.Nl  %            Us           A 
Agriculture                        0.5       6.0
Industry                           0.3       3.6
services                           7.5      90.4
Unallocated                        7        90.4
Total/Average
8.3     100.0                    .                                 -10
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverruent                                 Central Goverenmt
( EC .n.1_t)    .I_ f GDP                   (EC$ fln.)   __S of _      DP_-
1977   1978       1977    1978                    1977    1978       1977    1978
Current Receipts                   10.3    ,.         40.9      ..                     7.3      8.6      28.9    32.8
Current Expenditure                 8.9    ..         35.3      ..                     8.3      9.5      32.9    36.2
Current Surplus                     1.4    .;                   ..                    -        -0       =
Capital Expenditures                3.4    ..         13.5      ..                     3.4      5.5      13.5    20.9
External Assistance (net)            9.0    ..        35.7      ..                     8.9      4.1      35.3    15.6
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1973          19 74         1975         19 76        1977         1978 a/
(Million E(rtstanding end periodT-
Money and Quasi Money                       14.5           15.4        16.8          18.5        19.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                 0.9            0.5         0.1          -0.5        -1.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                8.3            9.9        11.0          11.3        11.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Honey and Quasi Honey as % of GDP            .-             .-         78.9          76.8        77.4
General Price Index (19 74- 100)
Annual percentage changes ins              .-           100.0       125.4         136.2       158.6          171.5
General Price Index                                                    25.4           8.6        16.4            8.1
Bank credit to Public Sector               -43-7          -44.4       -80.0        -150.0      -200.0
Bank credit to Private Sector               36.1           19.3        11.1           2.7         0.9
I/ Estimate
b/ Projected
- not available
. not applicable



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 33
MONTSERRAT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
7RADE PAIMONTs AND CAPITAL FWBE
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1977     1978 al   1979                                        US s min    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS                     3.4       4.0        4.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                     7.1       8.3        9.2             Cotton                      .057      9.6
Resource Gap (deficit - -)               _3*7      -4.3      -4.7              Cattle                      .042      7.1
Tomatoes                    .018      3.0
Retread Tires               .017      2.9
Other Factor Payments (net)             -0.03    -0.03      -0.03
Net Transfers                             1,1       1,0        0.8     All other commodities               .459     72.4
Balance on Current Account               -2.6       3.3          5          Total                          .       100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 197
Net HLT Borrowing                         0.2       0.1        0.1
Disbursements                          0.2       0.1       0.1                                                US $ Mln
Amortization                            -         -
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               0.8
Capital Grants                            2.3       1.9       1.9      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                       1.0       1.3       2.0      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Increase in Reserves (+)                  0.9        -         -    DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             1.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Tmporta
of which: Petroleum
Exports
of which:  Petrole                      -         -       IBRD/IMD LENDING. (July 31, 1979) (Million US $):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Si.nce MAY 1926                                                  outstanding & Disbursed
Undisbursed
US $ 1.00 - EC$2.7                                               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed
EC$ 1.00 - US $0.37
a/ Estimate
b/ Projected
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable



-57-
ANNEX I
Page 34
ST. LUCIA:   ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977, 1978 and 1979 (1977 Prices & Exchange Rate)   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X constant prices)
1977            1978  -         1979 -/
US$Mln    '      US$Mln    X     US$Mln    %       1975-77     1977-78 at    1978-79 bt
GNP at Market Prices             65.4   100.0    70.2   100.0    75.2   100.0         9.4          7.3           7.1
Gross Domestic Investment        32.5    49.7    37.3    53.1    40.4    53.7        13.6         14.8           8.3
Gross National Saving            18.2    27.8    20.1    28.6    22.9    30.5        41.0         10.4          13.9
Current Account Balance         -14.3   -21.9   -17.2   -24.5   -17.5   -236.3
Exports of Gooda, NFS            40.4    61.8    43.6    62.1    46.1    61.6        45.3          7.9           5.7
Imports of Goods, NFS            62.3    95.3    67.4    96.0    69.6    92.6        20.7         8.2            3.3
POPULATION AND C4NP PER CAPITA IN 1977
Population (nid-year, thousands):   117.6
GNP Per Capit:a (US$, Atlas methodology): 580.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                    Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln-.      %                  MLn.        %
Agricu2ture                       7.8      13.4                  ..
Industry                         13.2      22.7                   ..
Services                         37.1      63.9
Unallocated                    .__..__
Total/Average               58.1      100.0                  ..       100.0                    ..         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
GOneral Government                               Central Government
r'Ebs  _KLn.          of GDP            b/           EJn. )          %  f  D
1977/78    1978/79      1977/ 78    1978/79-     1977/78    1978179 V    1977/78    1978/79k.'
Current Receipts                  60.0       65.4          34.1        32.1          49.0      53.6          27.8         26.2
Current Expenditure               52.4       59.9          29.8        29.3          46.9      53.5          26.6         26.2
Current Surplus                    7.6        5.5           4.3         2.8           2.1       0.1           1.2          0.0
Capital Expenditures              21.0       20.6          11.9        10.1          16.7       8.3           9.5          4.1
External Assistance (net)          7.8       10.8            4.4        5.3           7.7        6.2          4.4          3.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1973          1974         1975         1976         19 77        1978 a/
-TMlion EC$ outstanding end pariodT
Money and Quasi Money                       57.2          71.0        83.7         98.6         104.3
Bank credit to Public Sector                11.7         14.2         15.9         15.2          15.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector               47.3         54.9         64.9         74.5          96.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             *-            *-        67.9         64.7          59.2
General Price Index ( 1964. 100)           201.7         253.2       290.1        320.0         332.5
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         24.4          25.5        14.6         10.3           3.9
Bank credit tc Public Sector                 *-           21.4        12.0         -4.4          -1.3
Bank credit to Private Sector                *-           16.1        18.2         14.8          29.4
hI Projected
not available
not applicable



- 58 -
ANNEX I
ST. LUCIA:  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                             Page 35
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCBHADISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1977    1978 a/   1979 bl                                          US $ min    X
Exports of Goods, NFS                40.4    45.8       54.1         Bananas                                8.5     44.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                62.3   -71.4      -81.8
Resource Gap (deficit  --) - 7 19   -25.6              -27.7         Coconut Products                       2.2     11.5
Cardboard Boxes                       3.0      15.6
Other Factor Payments (net)           0.2    -0.2       -0.2
Net Transfers                         7.4      7.4     7_3             All other coinodities                5.5     28.6
Balance on Current Account           -14.3  -19.4      -20.6                Total                          19.2    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing                     0.8      3.4       4.2
Disbursements                      0.8     3.4        4.3                                                     US $ Mln
Amortization                        -        -       -0.1
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 2.0
Capital Grants                        2.1      2.5       2.2           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                    ..
Other Capital (net)                  11.2    12.5       14.2           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Increase in Reserves (+)             -0.2      -          -
DE]BT SERVICE RATIO for 1976 -/
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              0.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                             4.6
of which:  Petroleum
Exports                              -        -         -
of which:  Petroleum               -        -         -   IBRD/IDA LENDING. (July 31. 1979)  (Million US S):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed                 -           -
Since May 19762
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Undisbursed--
US $ 1.00        .7                                              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed            -          -
EC$ 1.00 - US $0.37
a/ Estimated
b! "rojected
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable



- 59 -
A                                                                                                       ASN    I
Page 36
ST. VINCENT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977, 1978 ancd 1979 (1977 Prices & Exchange Rate)   ANNUAL RATE 0? GROWTH (X constant prices)
1977             1978 a/          1979 b/
USSMln   %       US$Mln    %      USSMln    %            1975-77      1977-78a'   197B-79 bt
GNP at Market Prices            33.5   100.0    37.0   100.0    37.8   100.0                2.0         10.4          2.2
Gross Domestic Investment        8.7    26.0       8.2    22.1    13.0    34,4             24.3         -5,7         57,8
Gross National. Saving           0.)      2.5      2.4     6.5      2.3      6.1                       166*7
Current Account Balance         -7.9   -23.6    -5.8   -15.7   -10.7   -28.3
Exports of Goods, NFS           15.4    45.9    16.1    43.5    18.6    49.                26.3          4.5         15.5
'Imports of Godis, NFS          32.9    98.1    33.1    89.5    3B.5   101.9                9.9          0.6         16.3
POPULATION AND GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977
Population (mid-year, thousands):   103.1
GNP Per Capita (US$, Atlas methodology):  330.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITI IN 1977
Value Added                   Labor Force                      V. A. Per Worker
Agriculture                      6.1         25,2
Industry                         3.4         14.0
Services                        14.8         60.8
Unallocated
Total/Average              24.3       100.0                            100.0                               100.0
GOVERN94IT FINANCE
General Oovernment                                Central Goverrewnt
1987 -_ ny                                    EC$ Aoln.)        S _____ ____ ___
1977/78    _978/79    1977/78    1978/79          1977/78    1978f79    1977/78    1978/79
Current Receipts                                                                   235.7        44.2        41.2       42.6
Current Expenditure                                          ~~~~~~~~29.9  41.2        341.2       39.7
Current Surplus 5.                                                                                          34.5        397
Capital ExPenditures                        2;                                       7 5      *3W            8          29
7.0       13.5         8.1        13.0
External Assistance (net)        ..          ..           ..          ..             3.6        17.4         4.2       16.8
PVNEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1973           1974         1975         1976         1977         1978!a
TMlion  EcTatstandinrg  nd periodT
Money and Quasi Money                        *-             .           57.0         69.5         77.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                 *-             *-          -0.1         -1.8          1.6          1.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                *-             *-          11.2          5.5         14.5          9.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDp M                         .*          98.1         93.0         89.8
General Price Index ( 1974. 100)             ..            100         112.0        125.7        135.0
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                                                     12.0         12.2          7.4        -31.3
Bank credit t,o Phblic Sector
Bank credit to Private Sector                .                                      -50.9        163.6        -35.2
a/ Estimated
b/ Projected
not available
not applicable



-60 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 37
ST. VINCENT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
TRADE PAIMENTS AND CAPITAL FWBe
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISZ  XPORTS C&VBRAAE 1975-77)
1977    1978 A/   1979                                            US $ min    Z
Exports of Goods, NFS                  15.4    17.4       20.9        Bananas                               5.0      55.6
Imports of Goods, NFS                  32.9    35.8       43.9       Arrowroot                              0.4       4.4
Resource GaD (deficit - -)            -17.5   -18.4      -23.0        ST-eet "otatoes                       0.3       3.3
Other Factor Payments (net)             1.4     1.5        0.4
Net Transfers                           8.2    10.7       11,1         All other commodities               3.3      36.7
Balance on Current Account             -7.9    -6.2     -11.5               Total                          9.0    100,0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net HLT Borrowing                      -0.9     1,4        4.0
Disbursements                        0.1     1.6        4.3                                                   US $ Mn
Amortization                       -1.0    -0.2        -0.3
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                2.0
Capital Grants                          1.5     2,9        5.8         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                     7.3     1.9        1.7         Total outstanding & Disbursed
Increase in Reserves (+)                 _                  -        DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-/
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               6.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                               2.1     2.3        2.4
of which:  Petroleum
Erports
of which:  Petroleum                -        -          - IBRD/IDA LENDING. (Julv 31, 1979) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                          IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                  -          -
9"'                                   ~~~~~~~Undisbursed--
ECS  1.00 - US $ 0.37                                            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           -           -
a/   Estimated
b/   Projected
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
.   not available
. not applicable



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE BAHAMAS
STATEMEINT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.   Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1979
US$ Million
Loan    Fiscal                                        Amount (less cancellatioa)
No.     Year      Borrower             Purpose          Bank  IDA    Undisbursed
1320      1976    Water and Sewerage  Water and
Corporation          Sewerage        10.0   -          9.0
Total                                  10.0   -          9.0
Of which 'has been repaid                _    -           -
Total now outstanding                  10.0              9.0
B.   Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1979
None.



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
BARBADOS
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.   Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1979
US$ million
Loan     Fiscal                                               Amount (less cancellation)
No.      Year       Borrower           Purpose               Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1642      1979      Barbados           Education              9.0       -       9.0
1685      1979      Barbados           Tourism                8.0       -       8.0
Total                                    17.0       -      17.0
of which has been repaid               __ --
Total now outstanding                    17.0       -      17.0
B.   Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1979
None.



- 63 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
CARIBBEAN REGIONAL
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.   Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1979
US$ Million
Loan  Fiscal                                            Amount (less cancellation)
No.   Year   Borrower              Purpose               Bank  IDA    Undisbursed
1233   1976  Caribbean Develop-  Relending in the
ment Bank          region for small
development projects  17.0   -          11.0
1234-T 1976    same as above                               3.0   -          3.0
Total                                  20.0   -         14.0
Of which has been repaid                 -    -           -
Total now outstanding                  20.0   -          14.0
B.   Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1979
None.
C.   Projects in Execution
Ln. No. 1233         Caribbean Development Bank; US$17 Million Loan of
April 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Despite severe economic problems in the region, this loan
was fully committed about one year later than was originally expected. Sub-
loans uncler this loan will finance nine projects in six countries--four are to
DFC's, three are for transportation projects and one each is for tourism and
industrial estates. Where applicable, economic rates of return range from 10%
to 65%.
Ln. No.  [234-T      Caribbean Development Bank; US$3.0 Million Loan of
April 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This Third Window Loan processed and signed at the same
time as the traditional I]BRD loan above (1233-CRG) was also fully committed
as of JuLy 31, 1979. Four subloans in four LDC's will finance projects in
electricity generation, ports, sugar development and mortgage finance. The
economic rates of return are expected to range from 8% to 19%.



ANNEX II
- 64 -                           Page 4 of 6
GUYANA
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1979
Loan or                                                            US$ Million
Credit   Fiscal                                           Amount (less cancellation)
No.     Year      Borrower        Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Six loans and two credits fully disbursed
(Loans 285, 559, 583, 765, 875 and 1622
and Credits 139 and 853                               24.9      7.9
221         1970    Guyana          Livestock                       2.2           0.1
301         1972    Guyana          Highway                         4.4           0.1
1016        1974    Guyana          Irrigation            12.9                    2.8
1106/544   1975    Guyana           Education II           8.0      4.0          10.7
1623        1979    Guyana          Forestry              10.0       -           10.0
820         1979    Guyana          Irrigation             _       10.0          10.0
Total (net of cancellations)         55.8    28.5           33.7
of which has been repaid              2.8       -
Total now outstanding                53.0    28.5
Amount sold                     0.8
of which has been repaid        0.8  _
Total now held by Bank
and IDA a/                         53.0    28.5
Total undisbursed                    20.9    12.8           33.7
a!   Prior to exchange rate adjustments
B.   Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1979
Type of        -------US$ Million-------
Year             Obligor                    Business       Loan      Equity      Total
1978     Industrial Domestic and         Manufacturing    2.0           -         2.0
Electrical Appliances Ltd.   of Domestic
(IDEAL)                        Appliances



ANNEX II
- 65 -                           Page 5 of 6
JAMAICA
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.   Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1979
Loan    Fiscal                                                      US$ million
No.     Year      Borrower                 Purpose         Amount (less cancellation)
Bank      Undisbursed
8 loans fu:Lly disbursed a/                                  76.3
727     1971    Jamaica                Education            13.5           2.0
899     1973    Jamaica                Highways              9.3            .2
1003     1974    Jamaica                 Sites & Services   15.0            6.0
1004     1974    Jamaica Development
Bank                Agriculture           5.5           1.2
1032     1975    Jamaica                Highways             13.5           6.5
1043     1975    Jamaica                Airports             12.5           1.7
1146     1975    The Water 'Commission Sewerage/Water        15.0          10.8
1284     1976    Jamaica                Population            6.8           4.8
1464     1977    Jamaica                Rural Development  15.0            14.1
1516     1978    Jamaica Public
Service Company
Ltd.                Power                20.0          19.8
1517     ].978    Sugar Industry
Authority           Agriculture          18.0          13.3
1609     1979    Jamaica                 Small
Scale Industry       7.0           6.5
1715     L979    Jamaica                Program Loan         31.5          31.4
1716     1979    Jamaica                Forestry             12.0          12.0 b/
1740     1979    Jamaica                Highways             16.0          16.0
Total (net cancellations)                       286.9
of which has been repaid                         20.8
Total now outstanding                           266.1
Amount sold                     1.6
of which has been repaid        1.5               0.1
Total now held 'by Bank                         266.0
Total undisbursed                                             146.3
a/   Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican Telephone
Company and cancelled in the same year.
b/   Not yet effective.



- 66 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1979
Type of         ----US$ million----
Year                  Obligor                   Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1961  Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.                 Pre-mix concrete    0.2         -    0.2
1968  Pegasus Hotel of Jamaica Ltd.        Tourism               2.2    0.7    2.9
Total gross commitments                                    2.4    0.7    3.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
participations, sales and repayments                      1.3       -    1.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                           1.1    0.7    1.8
Total undisbursed                                             -       -       -



- 67 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
PROJECT LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  E'roject Preparation:              February 1979
(b)  Appraisal Mission:                 April 1979
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:        September 1979
(d)  Planned date of Effectiveness:  February 1980
Section II: Special Bank Imlplementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower has agreed:
(a)  to relend the proposed loan and credits in sectors approved by the
Bank (para. 33) and to direct the emphasis of its lending toward
sectors which wil:L make a maximum contribution to the economic
development of the region. The Bank will review CDB's lending
sectoral priorities annually (para. 50);
(b) to establish sector policies in consultation with the Bank by
April 30, 1980 (para. 50);
(c) to onlend the proceeds of the loan and credits to CDB's members in
the Commonwealth Caribbean which are also members of the Bank or IDA
or are UK Associated States and Dependencies and which are deemed
by the Bank to be eligible borrowers (paras. 55 and 56);
(d) to send to the Bank a project description and appraisal report at
an early stage for all projects expected to be financed from the
loan/credits and for all projects which cost US$3.0 million
equivalent or more (para. 58);
(e) not to use more than 35% of the proceeds of the loan and IDA
credit in any one of its member countries (para. 58);
(f) to obtain IDA's prior approval for project financed from the
credits (para. 59);



- 68 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) to relend the loan at interest rates in conformity with its "Statement
of Policy" (para. 57) and to relend IDA resources to the governments
of eligible countries at IDA terms (para. 59);
(h) to assign to the Association its rights under each of the subloans
through which the credits will be relent to the eligible countries
(para. 59);
(i) to receive in current prices $548,000 reimbursement from IDA in five
annual payments for relending IDA resources to the governments of
eligible countries at IDA terms (para. 59);
(j) to relend the proceeds of the proposed loan/credits in accordance
with criteria set out in its project procedures, particularly
concerning the minimum economic and financial rate of return
of 12% (para. 60);
(k) not to use funds from the proposed loan/credits to cofinance
Bank/IDA projects unless the Bank otherwise agrees (para. 61);
(1) that eligible countries that wish to borrow IBRD resources would
provide to the Bank a blanket guarantee which would cover their
borrowings of Bank resources through the CDB. Each guarantee
will have a ceiling in terms of amount (US$20.0 million for
each MDC and US$10.0 million for each LDC) and will cover
borrowings from the proposed loan and also from future Bank
loans to CDB (para. 60);
(m)  that a guarantee satisfactory to the Bank from each eligible
country will be a condition of first disbursement of the first
subloan in each country (para. 63);
(n) that the commitment fee will only be charged on the undisbursed
amounts of subloans for which disbursement of Bank funds can be
made (para. 64);



I B R D 1061IR
90                                         C                                                              6                                                                         MA3CH- 1979
i /                                                                   THE CARI BBEAN AE
IP   T~~~~~GREAT ~~~~CARICOM   Memnbers                                                           A        E
GIlL    F  OF  MEXICO                                       PROVTE7ENCE    ELEIJTHERAI.      -                      ______NE  Caribbeon  Development Bank Members
CAT                       ~~~~~.-International Boundaries
ANDROS 1,            93~    .SLAO 
LONOI.                              ~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~100 50  0  100  200  300  400
fMILtE$
c                            ~~~~~~~~RO tSD
GREAT SNAG       YAGUANA 
--   ~~~~~~    U       K'-.~~~~~~~~~~~ACKGLINS                                                               KI sm  LOMETE#
or                                                                                        A  T  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A  N TI
CAYMANISS<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 HA ITI)~D  OMIN.1C ICAN                                       VIRGIN IS. (U.K.)      0     C    E   A    Nl
~~~~~~~f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLC                    2S ANG UILLA
~~, r--*---*-i f                             ~~l-                                                                          ~ST. MARTI7$o                               BARBPUDA
,    (                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~IAMAICA                                                                         , T  IT~ AN IIGGA
~~'   *\.   I ~~~~~BELZEMONTSERRAT
GUATMAL                                                                                                                                                                            DOMINICA
HONDURAS                    7ATIIE
~~~~~~          .- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  AR                                 8E   A   N                        5   t  A
V4        /                   (ST. VINCENiTI'Q                                                                                                                            C'~SAIADOS
1<'--'NICARAGUA.                                                                                       A URAgA
P  ACIFIC                                     '9<                                                                                   UA9O                                        GRNEADA
'S ONAIRE
OCE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGARITA                                                                                      ~     TR0
SM                                                                         -'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ (~~~~__TRINIDAD
@PANAMA
CANS                                     /
CARirTA/CARICOM4 DISTANCES IN AIR ROUTE MILES'   jI       p      .
ANTIGUGA    4$4 2153  232  63  3599 351  61 3$51 135 27491 325 -01                                                                                                                          (
SARSADO    214 116  135 383  357 1036  5 73  156~ 2541 37761
5151 2171 1859 1647 1716 1742 7 5 3 520 2333311117            h,~ asP ha. h.s pssP..adby thC 
3OI5A 358 1791 97 176  150 13155 715 2W                        a,s,ss frsooo
GRENADA  -.113  74! 120 423  391 1373  466                        6ab= *N- o.oohis'p 
GUYANA      353 534 $87  595 657 11706                            WWrd Bask sd it fihssay
JAA  i 413 111 q6 58 584                                    ,ud555t ..th U ea 155 f , 
]ST. LUCIA  1230 54                                                                                                                     r-                       ~                           Z     I     
rT ____-_cT_-_T1E                                                                                                                                                  6.ol                 _j~~~~~~~~~~~~~70  ~___ .***30



